party 30 Strategy Annual report & accounts 2011 Act responsibly Being responsible is a prerequisite for success.
However, to sustain our business model we choose to go beyond the requirements prescribed by regulation and 5 statute with the objective of providing the worlds safest and most innovative gaming platform founded upon operational excellence and scientific research.
Since 2005 we have been working commended as part of the independent withthe Division on Addiction DOA, assessment of our working practices Cambridge Health Alliance, a Harvard byGoodCorporation see page 60.
In Medical School teaching affiliate in Europe, we helped to establish a Europeorder to both expand our knowledge wide agreement on responsible remote ofgambling-related problems and also gambling measures.
The European to help us develop a multi-layered Committee of Standardisation CEN responsible gaming tool that can be adopted the agreement in February tailored to an individuals requirements.
2011, outlining 134 practical measures aimed at safeguarding a high level of Good Citizen However, our approach to consumer protection and ensuring that FTSE4Good again  beyond our recognised the Groupas remote gambling operators behave coregaming business and includes all aresponsible company responsibly in the European Union.
In ofour corestakeholders including the 2011, together with some of the worlds communities where we have a physical largest corporations including Google presence.
For more details regarding and Vodafone, bwin.
party became a our approach to stakeholder founding member of the ICT Coalition management please see the for a Safer Internet for Children and Sustainability section of our corporate Young People details of the coalition website: www.
2011 achievements Aswell as these corporate initiatives, We continued our pioneering our employees have also been playing collaboration with the DOA that theirpart in acting responsibly by published three more peer-reviewed participating in pro bono activities for academic papers into gambling-related worthy causes in local communities.
As well as being widely Inrecognition of our efforts during the acclaimed in the academic world, year we were again entered into the ourcollaboration with the DOA was FTSE4Good Index Series.
com safer mobile ICT Principles.
party 31 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Measures of success 5 Received certification from CEN for our responsible gambling measures Re-accredited as a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series Re-certificated by GamCare as a responsible operator Voted Socially Responsible Operator of the Year, 2011 at eGaming Awards In 2011 our staff participated in 120 Setting EU standards separate pro bono projects We passed our audit of 134 CEN standards in 2011 A further three papers published by the Division on Addiction Our approach The graphic below summarises ourapproach to responsible and sustainable business practice Plans for 2012 We will continue to build on our research programme with the DOA aswe seek to improve our knowledge and understanding and work towards amodel of consumer protection tools that can be tailored to individual customers.
Our investment in research is not limited to the DOA, we are also committed to supporting the GREaT Foundation in the UK and other responsible gaming charities around the world.
We will support local communities through our pro bono scheme that we intend to expand across former bwin offices, as well asthrough charitable donations.
