party 24 Strategy Annual report & accounts 2011 Invest in our core assets technology, product, brands and people To attract and retain real money players we have to provide the very best online gaming experience, which is why we continue to invest in our technology, products and 2 brands as well as the people that make it all happen.
Through targeted allocation of our capital we enhance our reputation for trust and quality, driving revenue and cashflow.
2011 achievements into a single liquidity pool with bigger prizes and higher jackpots thereby Our live betting offer has improved making our offering more attractive significantly with a new interface and and this is beginning to feed through increased coverage by our live-betting into our financial performance.
traders through greater automation, allowing us to redeploy bookmakers The challenge of merging two working tocover additional events.
In casino cultures across multiple locations has welaunched into Italy and added 21 been met through the implementation new casino games of which 14 were of several people-related initiatives developed in-house.
We also launched including a new Leadership our own no-download casino product Development Programme spanning all onto the existing bwin technology levels of our management structure as platform in October 2011 and the early well as the introduction of a unified results have been very encouraging.
In approach to training across the Group.
If you can stand the heat... poker, we changed to a weighted We have also put in place a new identity Satsumo is one of the characters from contribution rake calculation that and market positioning for IVY Enter the Kitchen, one of our 28 new benefited more recreational players Comptech, our subsidiary that provides games that will launch in 2012 and helped us secure the clear number software development and IT-enabled two position behind PokerStars in the business process outsourcing.
IVY has dotcom liquidity pool, a position that also relocated to a brand new, state-of- 2 has been sustained into 2012.
In bingo the-art facility and has put in place an we consolidated our UK bingo networks improved incentive scheme to attract and retain the very best talent in Hyderabad, India.
party 25 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Sports betting Amount wagered and gross win margin Measures of success Improved live betting margins on m % alllabels with 9% more live events 1000 10 onbwin and 57% more on PartyBets 8 800 and Gamebookers 6 Launched 21 new casino games 600 in2011 Bet amount m Gross win margin % 400 4 Poker Operator of the Year 200 2 0 0 International Gaming Awards 0 0 First ever spread betting app for the 200 2 iPad launched by InterTrader.
com 400 4 Bet amount m Gross win margin % Spread Betting Operator of the Year 600 6 EGR Awards 800 8 Innovation in Payment Solutions 2011 EGR B2B Awards 1000 10 m % Launch of MegaGames on bwin.
com Sports betting Amount wagered and gross win margin 3 Plans for 2012 sports betting, poker, casino as well as a brand new Spanish bingo brand, As mentioned above, while completing allof which will be running on the new the integration of our products and integrated back-office platform.
platforms is a key priority we will Toimprove our appeal as an employer alsocontinue to deliver a number we are launching a new total rewards ofoperational and product package and flexible benefits scheme developments in 2012. for staff in our key locations.
These will include expanding the Market on the move number of live events covered in InterTraders spread betting iPad oursports offer, repositioning the app was an industry first PartyPoker product and brand and completing the sale of Ongame.
Incasino we will launch a download casino for bwin.
com and add 28 new casino games developed by our in-house production team.
