party 64 Responsibility Annual report & accounts 2011 and relationships Suppliers Shareholders and other providers of capital Just a few months after the completion Our approach to investor relations is to ofthe Merger, our procurement systems beas transparent as possible through a became fully integrated using a single regular programme of investor relations Enterprise Resource Planning system to activities supported by transparent govern each stage of the supply chain.
Our procurement team in Gibraltar oversees the entire The Merger combined two shareholder registers with Groups supply chain, adhering to policies and procedures different balances of institutional, retail and founder that have been put in place to reduce risk, develop mutually investors.
Following completion there was some beneficial long-term business relationships, and deliver best readjustment of the enlarged shareholder register, in part value from our suppliers on a long-term basis.
because a number ofEU-based institutions were unable tohold sterling-denominated investments.
We have a large and diverse supplier base.
Our affiliate network, which markets our online gaming brands, contains We aim to build and maintain strong and long-term more than 11,200 unique active suppliers.
In 2011 we used relationships with our investors and providers of capital 2,500 other suppliers for a diverse range of goods and services through direct access to our senior management, a high level including: broadband and telephony services, advertising of financial and operational transparency, and regular andmarketing, computer hardware and software and media investor road shows led by Jim Ryan and Norbert Teufelberger, buyers.
We conducted 10.5m of trade with our largest Co-CEOs of bwin.
party, supported by Martin Weigold, CFO and supplier and there were 33 other companies that were paid Peter Reynolds, Director of Communications.
We raised the bar further with regards to our disclosure in Our procurement policy includes a Supplier Acknowledgement 2011, largely reflecting the demands to compare and contrast and Self-Certification Checklist, which requests information historic data and also to provide greater insight into our relating to: business strategy as a new company.
Financial strength, to ensure long-term reliability: Keeping analysts and investors informed about our tradingperformance and operational developments is Ability to deliver enduring quality and value: alsosupplemented by a comprehensive investor section Commitment to innovation and their ability to help us ontheGroups website where investors can access the develop new products, processes and ways of working that latestconsensus of analysts forecasts as prepared by will give the Group a commercial advantage: and anindependent third-party, presentations and webcasts, share price tools and regulatory news announcements.
Commitment to a wider corporate responsibility agenda We know there is always room for improvement and we will relating to the environment, labour employment standards, aim to progress this year through the continued development equal opportunities and employee rights.
of our corporate website www.
For further In return, we seek to operate to the highest professional information about our significant shareholders see page 98. standards and treat our suppliers in a fair and reasonable manner and aim to settle invoices promptly.
party 65 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Environment and community tackling gambling addiction and PartyGamings bias towards As an online business we believe that greater community engagement through pro bono schemes weare a low-impact company from an and charitable donations to responsible gaming organisations and other worthy causes.
environmental perspective, but we are After assessing the merits of these differences, we decided notcomplacent.
While we are a relatively tocarry on with all of them.
We have made some small company in terms of numbers refinements, but we now house all of the elements under a single corporate responsibility roof.
As highlighted in the ofemployees versus many other Customers and responsible gaming section on pages 61 corporations and produce little in the and62, our industry-leading research into gambling addiction wayof corporate waste, we do consume willcontinue.
So too will our philanthropy and community engagement we plan that a greater allocation of our electricity and other basic utilities.
contribution to charities and good causes will be made Asaninternational business we also available to the pro bono scheme that we plan to roll-out toformer bwin offices in 2012.
In aggregate we target spendmoney on travel and recognise approximately 0.2% to 0.25% of the prior years Clean EBITDA thatwecan continue to try and reduce to be allocated for charitable and responsible gaming causes.
At least 60% of which is earmarked for gambling-related ourenvironmental impact.
charities such as the Gambling Research Education and Treatment Foundation in the UK and the establishment of the We aim to minimise energy and resource usage: support the international healthcare network referred to above.
reduction and recycling of materials: and ensure the legal disposal of all waste arising from the activities of the business The pro bono scheme enables employees to spend throughout the Group.
Wherever possible, product and 4-8hoursof Company time on charitable, community or materials purchased will be from sustainable sources with environmental projects so that they can enhance their anemphasis on using recycled materials.
personal development whilst returning something to Measures undertaken in our offices to reduce electricity ourlocal communities.
Whilst only former PartyGaming consumption include switching off air-conditioning outside employees participated in pro bono initiatives in 2011, we ofnormal office hours, using energy efficient light sources areproud to say that a third of them took time out from and ensuring computer and electrical equipment is switched workto provide help and support for the less fortunate in off when not in use.
We plan to extend the pro bono scheme to all ofour main offices by the end of 2012.
We maintain tight control on employee travel.
All flights by employees have to be approved by executive management.
Greater use of video conferencing facilities between offices benefits the environment, our finances and also productivity by reducing travel time.
We do not have a company car scheme and staff use public transport whenever possible.
As referenced above, we assess our suppliers commitment toa wider corporate responsibility agenda relating to the environment this alignment of interests means that we can try and make a bigger difference with regards to our impact on the environment.
Our approach to reducing our environmental impact is not anew one it was a common denominator for both bwin andPartyGaming.
However, both companies differed in their approach to community engagement, with bwin heavily focused on advancing research in responsible gaming and
