JPM Mercantile pp01 17 JPM Mercantile pp01 17 31 03 2011 07:53 Page 17 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 17 Board of Directors Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman A Director since 1996 and Chairman since September 2003.
He is Chairman of the Investment Banking Committee at The Royal Bank of Scotland, and was formerly Managing Director of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, and Chairman or a Director of a number of UK listed companies.
Sir Richard Beckett A Director since September 2009.
Sir Richard was called to the bar in 1965 and took silk in 1987.
He was one of the pre-eminent practitioners in regulatory and licensing matters.
He is also a non-executive director of JD Wetherspoon Plc.
The Earl of Halifax A Director since December 2007.
Formerly Vice-Chairman of Christie, Manson & Woods, the European Division of Christies International Fine Arts Auctioneers, and a non-executive director of Hambros Bank.
He is Deputy Lieutenant of The East Riding of Yorkshire, High Steward of York Minster and a JP.
Sandy Nairn A Director since December 2003.
He is Chief Executive of Edinburgh Partners Ltd.
Previously, he served on the boards of Vebnet Holdings plc, Vebnet Ltd, Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, Hill Samuel Asset Management International Limited, Waverley General Private Equity Limited and Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited.
Charles Peel A Director since October 2005.
A founding director of Peel Hunt and Co. Limited in 1989.
He is actively involved with a number of private companies.
Previously, he was a director of Ingenious Music VCT plc, and held senior positions with Fielding Newson-Smith & Co. and Morgan Grenfell Securities.
Ian Russell A Director since January 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since May 2007.
He is Chairman of Johnston Press plc, Advanced Power AG, Remploy Limited and the University of Edinburghs Campaign Board.
He is also a director of British Assets Trust plc and an advisor to the Clyde Bergemann Power Group.
Previously, he held senior positions with Scottish Power, Tomkins and HSBC.
All Directors were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year, with the exception of Hamish Leslie Melville.
All Directors were members of the Nomination Committee throughout the year.
All Directors are considered independent of the Manager.
