JPM Mercantile pp01 17 JPM Mercantile pp01 17 31 03 2011 07:53 Page 5 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 5 Investment Managers Report Market Background Performance attribution for the The stockmarket continued to recover during the year ended 31st January year ended 31st January 2011 2011.
With interest rates remaining low and most companies continuing 1 Year %% to see recovery in demand, the attraction of equities continued to grow.
Contributions to total returns After a positive start to the year the stockmarket was hit in May by the prospect of a European Sovereign debt crisis but it recovered strongly Benchmark total return 26.6 Allocation effect -4.9 from September in anticipation of the US Federal Reserve announcing Selection effect 6.3 a further round of Quantitative Easing.
In November the Fed announced Gearing cash effect 0.5 its intention to purchase $600 billion of Treasuries to reflate the US economy.
Meanwhile in the UK the new Government announced Portfolio total return 1.9 its austerity measures to address the budget deficit.
Fees expenses -0.6 Share buybacks 0.4 Proposed dividend -0.9 Performance Small and mid sized UK companies continued to recover more strongly Net asset value total return 27.4 than the stockmarket as a whole as three themes predominated: Effect of decreases corporate activity especially takeovers: growth from emerging markets: in discount 6.4 and re-rating of those stocks where confidence in earnings growth was Share price total return 33.8 increasing.
Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Morningstar.
The net asset value total return for the year ended 31st January 2011 The table provides a breakdown, was 27.4% which was ahead of the Companys benchmark index, the relative to the benchmark, of the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment contributions to total return.
This compares with a return of A glossary of terms and definitions is 18.1% for the broader FTSE All-Share Index.
The contributors to provided on page 55. performance are analysed in the table to the left.
The bar chart shows the relative contributions to performance for the year for the five best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The dark green bars to the right show the positive contributors relative to the benchmark index and reflect both sector weightings and stock selection.
The light blue bars to the left show the negative relative contributors.
Year to 31st January 2011 Top 5 0% Oil and Gas Producers 4.3% Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 1.2% Software and Computer Services 0.9% Media 0.8% Electronic & Electrical Equipment 0.8% Bottom 5 Chemicals 0.5% 0.7% Financial Services 0.9% Household Goods and Home Construction 1.1% Mining Industrial Engineering 1.3% Relative Contribution Source: Factset JPM Mercantile pp01 17 JPM Mercantile pp01 17 31 03 2011 07:53 Page 6 6 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Investment Managers Report continued This shows that the biggest contributor to performance was the Oil and Gas Producers sector, where we benefited from Cove Energy making four big gas discoveries in offshore Mozambique and from Dana Petroleum agreeing to a takeover bid from Korea National Oil Corporation.
The portfolio also gained substantially from agreed takeovers for Chloride Group, Tomkins and BSS Group.
Some of the cash proceeds from the takeover bids was invested in a range of smaller biotechnology companies such as Renovo, Vectura and Biocompatibles which performed strongly during the year, although Renovo has had a disappointing result on its lead drug since our year end.
The new issue market got underway during the year and we had a strong contribution from our investment in Supergroup, the designer and retailer of Superdry clothing.
In terms of emerging market exposure, our holdings in palm oil plantations performed well, with New Britain Palm Oil in particular being a strong performer.
Turning to the third investment theme of last year, the rerating of stocks with strong earnings momentum, we lost relative performance in Industrial Engineering and Chemicals by not holding stocks such as Weir Group and Croda which benefited from profits forecast upgrades but which we wrongly judged to be too expensive.
The mining sector cost us relative performance: despite a strong gold price African Barrick Gold and Petropavlovsk underperformed when they disappointed the stockmarket by missing production targets.
Activity The investment managers have the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 90% to 120% invested and a more specific tactical range is agreed regularly with the Board.
Gearing was reduced in the first part of the year reflecting macroeconomic uncertainty after a strong recovery in stock markets and as cash was received from agreed takeover bids, for example, for Dana Petroleum, Chloride Group, Tomkins, Arriva and Dimension Data.
As the stockmarket steadied during September, gearing was gradually increased again, ending the year at 108.9%.
The new investments were generally biased towards smaller, growth companies and mid sized companies with value characteristics.
Value stocks have underperformed since the credit crisis took hold in 2007.
Value stocks are those companies which are valued at a lower than average multiple of profits or assets.
Growth stocks are those companies growing profits or assets at a higher than average rate and associated momentum stocks are those where the share price is showing strength usually in response to profit forecasts continually being upgraded.
Over the long term value stocks generally outperform growth stocks and, as a class, we now see them offering opportunities as the market turns its attention back to the fundamentals of companies.
The portfolio retains its style of broad diversification across all sectors, holding about 150 stocks of which 90 are mid-sized and 60 are smaller companies.
By value, approximately 75% of the portfolio is invested in mid sized stocks and 25% in smaller companies.
The table below shows that our holdings in companies which are larger than 1 billion in market capitalisation account for more than half of the JPM Mercantile pp01 17 JPM Mercantile pp01 17 31 03 2011 07:53 Page 7 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7 portfolio.
We focus on those successful large companies which are progressing towards promotion into the FTSE 100 index and also newer holdings in a number of those out of favour companies which have recently fallen out of the FTSE 100 Index but which have good recovery prospects.
The portfolio is also overweight in the very smallest companies including those capitalised at less than 100 million, which can present outstanding growth opportunities.
Portfolio Size Distribution Benchmark index Fund Relative Market weighting weighting weighting capitalisation %% % More than 1.5bn 37.2 30.6 6.6 1.0bn to 1.5bn 22.4 24.7 2.3 500m to 1.0bn 22.3 19.7 2.6 300m to 500m 8.6 7.2 1.4 100m to 300m 8.5 12.0 3.5 50m to 100m 0.9 3.8 2.9 Less than 50m 0.1 2.0 1.9 Total 100.0 100.0 0.0 As at 31st January 2011 Of the ten largest holdings at the year end only two, ITV and Pennon, were in the top ten a year ago.
The largest holding, Cove Energy, had just been bought a year ago, and was an exceptionally strong performer last year after making major gas discoveries.
Cable and Wireless Worldwide, Cable and Wireless Communications and London Stock Exchange are examples of value companies which were bought following their demotion from the FTSE 100.
The remaining four top ten holdings, Jardine Lloyd Thompson, Persimmon, Hiscox and Tate & Lyle were all held within the portfolio a year ago and the size of those holdings was increased during the year.
Of those no longer in the top ten of a year ago, GKN was sold on its promotion into the FTSE 100, Premier Oil was reduced following its strong performance in sympathy with takeover target Dana, Misys is still held having returned substantial funds to shareholders following the disposal of its US healthcare software business and the positions in Imagination Technologies, Drax, First Group and Songbird Estates have all been reduced.
At the sector level the portfolio is overweight in basic materials and consumer goods because of our exposure to gold miners and to palm oil plantations.
It is underweight in consumer services such as retailers and travel & leisure because of the economic headwinds the consumer is facing but offsetting this we have increased our exposure to housebuilders which are very cheaply rated.
The portfolio is overweight in healthcare for its growth characteristics and overweight in telecommunications and utilities for their value bias.
The largest underweight position is in the large industrials grouping where we are underweight in aerospace & defence, construction and support services JPM Mercantile pp01 17 JPM Mercantile pp01 17 31 03 2011 07:53 Page 8 8 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Investment Managers Report continued which are all facing Government cutbacks and also in industrial engineering which we believe is generally too highly rated following a trend of strong profit growth.
During the year we met or visited more than 250 companies and this remains an important component in our process of evaluating companies.
We believe that properly targeted company meetings can help us to analyse smaller companies that are often overlooked by the mainstream, evaluate managers and resolve issues.
Our fundamental analysis of companies is aided by JPMorgans in-house proprietary screening process which helps us to identify companies that exhibit the best value and growth characteristics.
Outlook The macroeconomic fears are many and varied as a result of public finances having become so strained in the developed world.
The problems of Greece and Ireland remind us that Sovereign debt will remain an issue, the US is continuing to grapple with its unsustainable fiscal trajectory by printing money but unemployment there is remaining high and growth low, China is dealing with the problems of overheating and an asset price bubble in the property market and there are fears that currency wars may erupt and spill over into protectionism.
All that was the case before the eyes of the world focussed on North Africa and the Middle East.
The ramifications of the current unrest will be felt globally.
Oil prices have already risen in response to the disruption to supply.
Continued uncertainty or more political change in the region could produce a further spike in the oil price which would act as a headwind to the fragile global economic recovery.
We therefore expect markets to be volatile in 2011.
In the UK the consumer is facing a difficult year as public sector cuts and tax increases are implemented and the threat of inflation has increased the likelihood of interest rates rising this year.
Food prices, vehicle tax and insurance, rail fares and petrol prices have all been rising strongly since 2009 and the offsetting deflationary influence of falling mortgage interest payments and clothing prices have now started to reverse.
Of course some inflation helps to make the debt burden more manageable and makes real assets such as equities more attractive.
In fact UK companies have been benefiting in many cases from being able to pass on raw material price increases to their customers but have not been experiencing wage inflation as there is plenty of spare capacity in the economy.
This has helped profit margins to recover strongly and together with the stockmarket equity issuance of last year means that, generally, small and mid sized quoted company balance sheets have been repaired.
As order books and sales have grown there is a real sense of companies having recovered confidence and that they are returning to businesses as usual.
This is being reflected in an increase in capital expenditure from the minimal levels of the last two years.
As confidence returns we expect corporate activity to increase and that the targets will be strong well managed companies with substantial market shares or assets: just the sort of companies we invest in and which are plentiful in the small and mid sized market.
Despite the strong recovery JPM Mercantile pp01 17 JPM Mercantile pp01 17 31 03 2011 07:53 Page 9 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 9 of the last two years, stockmarket valuations in terms of yield and price to earnings ratios still remain below the medium term average and our small and mid cap benchmark index is currently valued on a forward price to earnings ratio of 12.5x.
Reflecting a modest value bias, the price to earnings ratio of Mercantiles underlying portfolio is 10.9x.
Therefore, whilst for macroeconomic reasons we expect to see some stockmarket volatility returning during the course of the year, we believe that the environment is still positive for equities.
That belief is reflected in your Companys gearing level which is currently 109%.
Martin Hudson Jane Lennard Investment Managers 31st March 2011
