The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review to sell at the strike price, provided that the premium income received is sufficiently attractive.
The options written are typically short dated with most under 4 months duration.
The total exposure typically runs at under 10% of the overall portfolio.
Future Policy Rising share prices and relatively low bond yields in the major economies suggest that a sustainable economic recovery is starting to take root.
Indeed there are many reasons for optimism.
The financial system is functioning well with the major Western banks significantly recapitalised, economic growth has rebounded, corporate profitability and balance sheets have recovered rapidly, surveys of industrial confidence are very positive and unemployment trends have improved in many countries.
However major risks remain due to unprecedented debt levels and severe global imbalances.
The problems vary from one region to another and the policy choices are often diametrically opposed.
In the USA, the authorities remain fully committed to stimulating growth to create jobs and breathe life into the moribund housing market.
So far global investors have held their faith in US dollar denominated assets and allowed this policy to continue but a loss of confidence and sharply rising bond yields pose a potential risk.
In the Eurozone, confidence has already been lost in a number of peripheral economies which are now being supported by their stronger single currency neighbours.
Differential growth rates, large deficits, high debt levels and fragile political support for many incumbent politicians are creating an unpredictable and unstable outlook.
In China, the engine of growth for the world in recent years, the main problem is rising commodity price inflation, particularly in energy and food prices, which risks causing social unrest.
As we have seen in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East social pressures can lead to rapid change to the status quo, particularly with the availability of information in the internet age.
Chinese authorities are raising interest rates and taking other action to contain inflation.
However if economic growth slows too rapidly the consequences will be felt well beyond their borders, not least in the buoyant commodities markets.
The recent tragic earthquake, and tsunami in Japan raise further uncertainties for Asian growth, with the nuclear reactor incidents potentially having significant and lasting ramifications for energy markets.
The oil price has continued to rise this year on Middle Eastern concerns and any reduced appetite for nuclear power station construction can only cause further important pressure to this critical commodity.
The UK is facing a difficult squeeze between rising inflation and low growth as government spending is cut back, increasing the risks of stagflation.
A key debate remains around whether inflation is largely transitory, due to commodity prices and increased VAT, where the effects will wash out, or more structural, potentially leading to rising wage pressures.
Monetary policy so far remains accommodative but there is increasing risk of either a double-dip recession or high inflation.
Fortunately for investors in UK companies, particularly within the FTSE 100 index, global conditions are more important than those in the UK.
Overall our central view has not changed significantly.
We anticipate a prolonged period of positive but muted economic growth for most Western economies as high debt levels are addressed, with higher growth in emerging markets.
However, at the very least, there are likely to be periods of volatility when less benign outcomes seem more likely.
Equity valuations, particularly in the UK, are close enough to long term averages to have little predictive power.
With corporate profitability having already recovered significantly, there is less scope for significant positive surprises in the future but there is also little sign of investor overconfidence, which would be a concern.
Money flows seem to be starting to come back into equities from bond markets, after a 30 year bond market rally, but it could be premature to rely on this encouraging trend continuing.
In short, the equity market direction is as hard as ever to predict, although we have a strong preference for equities over fixed income investments.
We see many attractive investment opportunities within the equity market and our focus remains on identifying and exploiting these situations.
Many of the biggest companies in the market trade on modest valuations and we continue to favour large, well financed, globally spread businesses with strong cashflows and high dividend yields.
Stocks like Royal Dutch Shell, GlaxoSmithKline, Unilever and Vodafone continue to form the bedrock of the portfolio and are well suited to uncertain economic circumstances.
Given our central view of only modest economic growth we believe that companies capable of higher sustained growth should demand above average valuations.
We like reasonably priced companies that operate in growth industries, for example Inmarsat, Hays, IG Group and Man Group, or those exposed to the superior growth of emerging markets, such as Ashmore, United Business Media and British American Tobacco.
Within this latter theme, global food and household products companies like Unilever and Reckitt Benckiser, look particularly attractive after a recent sell-off on commodity cost pressures and we have built up positions further.
Another theme in the portfolio is owning businesses exposed to public sector spending as in many cases the stock market has more than discounted the likely impact of spending cuts, leaving significant potential upside.
Examples in the defence sector include BAE Systems and Cobham and within construction and support services, Balfour Beatty and Interserve.
Despite the obvious linkage of mining and other commodity companies to the growth in emerging market spending, the portfolio only contains BHP Billiton within the mining sector and only the large diversified oil majors, BP and Royal Dutch Shell, within the oil & gas sector.
As well as the limited dividend yields available from most commodity related stocks, we remain concerned about the sustainability of high commodity prices given some of the risks to world growth.
There is also the risk of a reversal to the apparently high level of speculative money and financial 11
