The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review brought the shares down to an unusually low valuation.
Whilst growth in defence spending is likely to be slower than in recent years, Cobham is exposed to many attractive areas with future potential, such as the huge Joint Strike Fighter programme and the replacement of the US in-flight refuelling tanker fleet.
The final new holding added was Greene King, the brewer and pub company.
Greene King has a well invested freehold estate of pubs with a significant bias to the more prosperous South East of England as well as the strong Belhaven portfolio in Scotland.
The management have successfully managed the business through the disruption of the smoking ban and the recession with a consistent strategy of focusing on delivering value, improving the food offering and widening the appeal to families.
Whilst the short term outlook for the industry is uncertain, the company is growing profits and it stands to benefit from problems at weaker peers.
We believe the low valuation is attractive given that the longer term trend to eating out should continue and Greene King has significant value in its freehold property portfolio.
Other notable investments included significant additions to life assurer Resolution, particularly around the time of its rights issues when the shares were trading at depressed levels.
We added to BP, after the shares fell in response to their explosion and oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico.
We also made significant additions to HSBC as the shares fell back to a more attractive level.
There were four complete disposals in the portfolio in the first half of the year, detailed at the interim stage.
These were Arriva that was taken over by Deutsche Bahn, Rexam, Halfords and Informa.
In the second half we sold three further holdings completely: International Power, Inchcape and International Personal Finance.
Although Inchcape and International Personal Finance are very different businesses, they share a similar history as investments for the Trust.
Both companies suffered in the global recession and their share prices fell heavily, partly due to strained financial positions.
After considerable analysis, we backed our conviction in the strength of their business franchises with significant further investments at depressed levels, including supporting the Inchcape rights issue which transformed its balance sheet.
Both companies subsequently rose several fold in price and made a major contribution to performance.
We gradually reduced the holdings and finally sold out completely as the shares approached our assessment of fair value.
International Power, a builder and operator of power generating plants, attracted interest from GDF Suez and agreed a merger on favourable terms for International Powers shareholders.
We decided to sell the shares at a reasonable valuation rather than to maintain a holding, partly due to the effective control by the French Government going forwards.
Partial sales from the portfolio included many opportunities for profit taking in more cyclical companies which had performed well coming out of the recession and thus offered less upside.
Examples here included BHP Billiton, Melrose, Premier Farnell and Legal & General.
Among the top ten net sales there were also several large defensive companies.
Although many defensives performed relatively poorly, there were notable exceptions.
Vodafone was re-rated from low levels on hopes that it might rationalise its international portfolio of activities as well as on slightly more optimism about trading prospects.
We made several reductions to the Trusts large holding into rising prices.
Similarly Royal Dutch Shell and Centrica outperformed their sectors materially and offered less upside potential prompting us to reallocate money from these positions into other stocks.
The reduction in the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca was partly in response to a strong share price early in the year.
However there was also a sale later on to reflect a lowering in our conviction on their longer term prospects following disappointing news on a key drug in their thin pipeline.
Derivative Strategy This is the first full year that the Trust has been running a covered call overwriting strategy on a limited proportion of the portfolio to generate additional income.
In writing or selling an option, the Trust gives the purchaser the right to buy a specific number of shares in a company at an agreed strike price within a fixed period.
In exchange the Trust receives an option premium which is taken to the income account.
The Trust gets the full benefit of any move in the share price up to the strike price but not beyond.
If the share price rises above the strike price, there is a potential opportunity cost but not cash cost to the Trust as the option holder can exercise their option to buy the shares at the strike price.
The total exposure to call options is closely monitored and limited to 20% of the portfolio value with all option positions covered by shares held within the portfolio.
Over the year, the call overwriting strategy generated over 2m of additional income and a net profit of around 480,000 taking into account the opportunity cost associated with any exercised options.
Our approach to option writing is very selective and driven by the investment fundamentals on each stock rather than by a separate derivatives rationale.
We write calls on portions of share holdings that we would be happy 10
