The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Directors present the annual financial report of the Company and give their report for the year ended 31 January 2011. Business Review Business and Status of the Company The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 for the year ended 31 January 2010.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 each year.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Regulatory Environment The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is subject to UK company law, financial reporting standards, listing rules, tax law and its own Articles of Association.
In addition to annual and half yearly financial reports published under these rules, the Company announces net asset values per share on a daily basis for the information of investors.
It provides more detailed information on a monthly basis to the Association of Investment Companies, of which the Company is a member, in order for brokers and investors to compare its performance with its peer group.
The Board of Directors is charged with ensuring that the Company complies with its own objectives as well as these rules.
The Board has appointed RCM UK Limited to carry out investment management, accounting, secretarial and administration services on behalf of the Company.
The Company has no employees or premises of its own.
Investment Objective and Policies The Companys objective is to provide an above average level of income and income growth together with long term growth of capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK FTSE 100 companies.
The Companys investment performance is assessed by comparison with other investment trusts within the UK Growth and Income sector.
In addition, it is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index, reflecting the emphasis within the portfolio, as well as the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, reflecting the Companys higher yield objective.
The Company pays quarterly dividends and the Board has a policy of making these progressive from year to year, in keeping with the Companys stated objective to provide an above average level of income and income growth.
The dividend has increased every year for the past twenty nine years and details of historic dividend payments are set out on page 5.
Performance In the year to 31 January 2011 the NAV per Share rose by 14.6%.
This compares with the capital return on the Companys benchmark indices of 13.0% FTSE 100 and 7.2% FTSE 350 Higher Yield.
At 31 January 2011 the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 543.2m.
The Investment Managers review on pages 6 to 12 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses certain financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Performance against the benchmark indices The Companys performance is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
These are the most important KPIs by which performance is judged.
Performance against the Companys peers The Board also monitors the Companys performance with reference to its investment trust peer group.
Performance Attribution The performance attribution is considered at each Board Meeting and enables the Directors to judge how the Company achieved its performance relative to the benchmark index and to see the impact on the Companys relative performance of factors including stock and sector allocation.
A Performance Attribution Analysis for the year ended 31 January 2011 is given on page 5.
Discount to net asset value NAV The Board has a share buy back programme which has a role to play in enhancing the NAV for existing shareholders, as shares are bought back at a discount, and in minimising the volatility of movements in the discount.
In the year to 31 January 2011 the shares traded between a discount of -7.7% and a premium of 6.9% with debt at fair value.
17 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Total expense ratio TER The most significant expense for the Company is the cost of the management fee and the costs of interest on the Companys borrowings.
Other expenses include the costs of investment transactions, directors fees and insurance, professional advice and regulatory fees and the costs of production of the reports to shareholders.
The TER is calculated by dividing operating expenses, that is, the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses including tax relief where allowable, but excluding interest payments and investment management fee VAT refund as a percentage of total assets less current liabilities at the year end.
Revenue The return attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the year amounted to 21,900,146 2010 19,498,068.
Revenue return per ordinary dividend amounted to 21.22p.
The first and second interim dividends of 5.7p and 5.7p respectively have been paid during the year.
Since the year end the third interim dividend of 5.7p has been paid.
The final proposed dividend of 5.7p is payable on 13 May 2011.
In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the third dividend and final dividend are not recognised as liabilities within the financial statements on the basis that they have not been paid and approved, respectively, by the shareholders.
Historical Record The distribution of total assets is shown on page 15, and the historical record of the Companys revenue, capital and invested funds over the past ten years is shown on page 5.
Graphs appear on page 7 showing the performance on a total return basis over the past ten years of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary Shares against the Companys benchmark indices, the growth in net ordinary distributions made by the Company against the Retail Price Index, and the Companys discount to Net Asset Value over the same period.
Invested Funds Sales of investments during the year resulted in net gains based on historical costs of 25,156,875 2010 losses of 54,672,814.
Provisions contained in the Finance Act 1980 exempt approved Investment Trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Investment Activity and Strategy: An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and peer group companies, and also in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and on which the Board receives reports.
RCM UK Limited RCM provides the Directors with management information including performance data and reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment manager, who attends all board meetings, and reviews data which show risk factors and how they affect the portfolio.
The Board reviews investment strategy at each board meeting.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158, and details are given above under the heading Business of the Company.
A breach of Section 1158 could result in the Company losing investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains in the Companys portfolio would be subject to Corporation Tax.
The Section 1158 criteria are monitored by RCM and results are reported to the Board at each Board Meeting.
The Company must comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, and, as the Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company must comply with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or becoming the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares which would in turn lead to a breach of Section 1158.
The Board relies on its company secretary and seeks advice from professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Companies Act and UKLA Rules.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Shareholder discontent could arise if there is weak adherence to best practice in corporate governance and which could result in potential reputational damage to the Company.
The Board receives reports on shareholder activity and on shareholder sentiment on a regular basis and contact is maintained with major shareholders.
Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 21 to 25.
18 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, RCMs accounting, dealing or payment systems or the custodians records may prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
RCM has contracted operational functions, principally relating to trade processing and investment administration, to The Bank of New York Mellon London Branch.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by RCM and other suppliers and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are included within the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 23 and 24.
Financial: The financial risks associated with the Company include market risk price and yield, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further analysis of these risks can be found in Note17 on pages 44 to 49.
Future Development The future development of the Company is dependent on the success of the Companys investment strategy against the economic environment and market developments.
The investment manager discusses his view of the outlook for the Companys portfolio in his report beginning on page 6.
Going Concern The Directors have considered the Companys investment objective and capital structure and, having noted that the portfolio consists mainly of securities which are readily realisable, have concluded that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Net Asset Value The Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares of 25p at the year end was 427.1p as compared with a value of 372.8p at 31 January 2010.
Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is our policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end 2010 nil.
Donations and Subscriptions There were no charitable donations and subscriptions in respect of the year 2010 nil.
No political donations were made during the year.
Final Dividend Subject to the final dividend being approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, payment will be made on 13 May 2011 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 15 April 2011 at the rate of 5.7p per Ordinary Share.
Further details are provided in Note 6 on page 39.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 43.
The details of the 4% Perpetual Debenture Stock and the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock are provided in Notes 10 iv and 10 v respectively on page 42.
Voting Rights in the Companys Shares The voting rights at 31 March 2011 were: Number of Voting rights Total Share class shares issued per share Voting Rights Ordinary Shares of 25p 103,213,4641 103,213,464 3.65% Cumulative Preference stock of 1 1,178,000 1 1,178,000 Total 104,391,464 104,391,464 The voting rights of the Ordinary Shares on a poll are one vote for every share held.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys share capital and there are no shares which carry specific rights with regard to control of the Company.
19 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Interests in the Companys Share Capital As at4 April 2011 the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys issued share capital: Ordinary Shares: Number Percentage of Name of Shares Voting Rights Legal & General Group PLC 4,099,823 3.9 Lloyds Banking Group PLC 4,086,614 3.9 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Group Limited 4,017,845 3.9 AXA S. A.
3,664,667 3.5 The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Directors and Management All Directors listed in the table on page 22, except where noted, served throughout the financial year under review.
The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting AGM are Mike McKeon and Henry Staunton and each offers himself for re-election and both have the full support of the Board in doing so.
In addition, Paul Yates, having been appointed since the last AGM, is standing for election at this years AGM.
The Board used an external recruitment consultant in the appointment of Mr Yates.
Dick Barfield is retiring from the Board and so does not offer himself for re-election.
The Board confirms that, since the year end, the performances of all of the Directors have been subject to a formal evaluation and that each continues to be effective and committed to his role.
Biographical details of the current Directors are on page 16.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the Company.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, deeds of indemnity have been entered into with the Directors.
The current Directors and their beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company as at 31 January 2011 and 31 January 2010 are listed below: Ordinary Shares of 25p 2011 2010 S. J. Fraser 20,000 20,000 R. A. Barfield 2,440 2,440 M. J. E. McKeon 450 450 H. E. Staunton 10,000 10,000 There have been no changes to directors interests since the year end.
Paul Yates, appointed to the Board on 21 March 2011, has a holding of 1,000 shares.
No contracts of significance in which Directors are deemed to have been interested have subsisted during the year under review.
