The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Investment Performance The Merchants Trust portfolio delivered a total return ahead of the FTSE 100 Index and thus well ahead of the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
This is noteworthy in a period when returns were high as the portfolio has typically had a significantly lower volatility and beta the expected gearing to market moves than the wider market.
The strong equity performance helped The Merchants Trust to deliver one of the highest investment trust returns in the UK Growth & Income Sector.
No one sector dominated performance but, as in the previous year, strong stock selection amongst medium sized companies made a big impact benefitting from their greater linkage to recovering economic prospects.
Despite the portfolio being heavily biased to larger companies, seven of the top ten contributors to outperformance compared to the FTSE 100 Index were mid-caps, with returns ranging between Meggitts 42% and Melroses 96%.
This included two companies, Arriva and Brit Insurance, which received takeover bids.
Among the larger companies contributing to performance, the operational recovery in BT continued and they also benefitted from a shrinking pension fund deficit.
Having less than an index position in HSBC and Tesco was also beneficial as their shares significantly lagged the market.
The largest negative performance factor was not owning three large mining companies, Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Xstrata.
The portfolio had a low exposure to the mining sector due to unattractive dividend yields and concern over the sustainability of commodity prices.
Elsewhere a number of relatively defensive companies lagged behind the strong market with stocks like GlaxoSmithKline, BAE Systems and Unilever returning close to zero.
Not owning ARM shares which rallied by 164% was also a factor.
Finally Resolution and Home Retail Group were both poor performers.
Contribution to Investment Performance relative to FTSE 100 Index Positive Contributions % Negative Contributions % Premier Farnell 0.6% Rio Tinto 0.9% Arriva 0.5% GlaxoSmithKline 0.6% Brit Insurance 0.4% BAE Systems 0.5% Melrose 0.4% Unilever 0.4% BT 0.4% Anglo American 0.4% Meggitt 0.4% Xstrata 0.3% International Personal Finance 0.4% Scottish & Southern Energy 0.3% Tesco 0.3% Arm 0.3% HSBC 0.3% Resolution 0.2% United Business Media 0.3% Home Retail 0.2% The Trusts derivatives strategy, described later in this report, made a positive contribution both to the income generation and the performance of the portfolio.
Over the twelve months the performance contribution was approximately 480,000 or 0.1% of the average portfolio value.
Portfolio Changes As reported at the interim stage, activity in the first half of the year was quieter than the high levels in the previous two years due to a less extreme level of economic and market volatility creating fewer compelling reasons to switch investments.
However as the year progressed into the autumn, the bull market recovery continued well into its second year and this created many more opportunities.
In particular there were several companies that had recovered from the recession whose share prices approached our estimate of full valuation.
These holdings were either reduced or sold entirely depending on their future prospects.
Conversely there were many companies left behind in the stock market recovery, often in less cyclical industries, leaving valuations more compelling on an absolute and relative basis.
We increased investment in several of these that were already in the portfolio and we added a number of new positions.
In total there were nine new companies added to the portfolio, seven in the second half of the year, and seven sold completely, leaving a portfolio with forty eight stocks at the year end.
The portfolio concentration has continued to decline with the top four holdings now representing under 29% of total equity assets.
The table below lists the ten largest net purchases and sales and includes most of the new holdings and complete sales.
