The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Investment Performance The Merchants Trust portfolio delivered a total return ahead of the FTSE 100 Index and thus well ahead of the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
This is noteworthy in a period when returns were high as the portfolio has typically had a significantly lower volatility and beta the expected gearing to market moves than the wider market.
The strong equity performance helped The Merchants Trust to deliver one of the highest investment trust returns in the UK Growth & Income Sector.
No one sector dominated performance but, as in the previous year, strong stock selection amongst medium sized companies made a big impact benefitting from their greater linkage to recovering economic prospects.
Despite the portfolio being heavily biased to larger companies, seven of the top ten contributors to outperformance compared to the FTSE 100 Index were mid-caps, with returns ranging between Meggitts 42% and Melroses 96%.
This included two companies, Arriva and Brit Insurance, which received takeover bids.
Among the larger companies contributing to performance, the operational recovery in BT continued and they also benefitted from a shrinking pension fund deficit.
Having less than an index position in HSBC and Tesco was also beneficial as their shares significantly lagged the market.
The largest negative performance factor was not owning three large mining companies, Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Xstrata.
The portfolio had a low exposure to the mining sector due to unattractive dividend yields and concern over the sustainability of commodity prices.
Elsewhere a number of relatively defensive companies lagged behind the strong market with stocks like GlaxoSmithKline, BAE Systems and Unilever returning close to zero.
Not owning ARM shares which rallied by 164% was also a factor.
Finally Resolution and Home Retail Group were both poor performers.
Contribution to Investment Performance relative to FTSE 100 Index Positive Contributions % Negative Contributions % Premier Farnell 0.6% Rio Tinto 0.9% Arriva 0.5% GlaxoSmithKline 0.6% Brit Insurance 0.4% BAE Systems 0.5% Melrose 0.4% Unilever 0.4% BT 0.4% Anglo American 0.4% Meggitt 0.4% Xstrata 0.3% International Personal Finance 0.4% Scottish & Southern Energy 0.3% Tesco 0.3% Arm 0.3% HSBC 0.3% Resolution 0.2% United Business Media 0.3% Home Retail 0.2% The Trusts derivatives strategy, described later in this report, made a positive contribution both to the income generation and the performance of the portfolio.
Over the twelve months the performance contribution was approximately 480,000 or 0.1% of the average portfolio value.
Portfolio Changes As reported at the interim stage, activity in the first half of the year was quieter than the high levels in the previous two years due to a less extreme level of economic and market volatility creating fewer compelling reasons to switch investments.
However as the year progressed into the autumn, the bull market recovery continued well into its second year and this created many more opportunities.
In particular there were several companies that had recovered from the recession whose share prices approached our estimate of full valuation.
These holdings were either reduced or sold entirely depending on their future prospects.
Conversely there were many companies left behind in the stock market recovery, often in less cyclical industries, leaving valuations more compelling on an absolute and relative basis.
We increased investment in several of these that were already in the portfolio and we added a number of new positions.
In total there were nine new companies added to the portfolio, seven in the second half of the year, and seven sold completely, leaving a portfolio with forty eight stocks at the year end.
The portfolio concentration has continued to decline with the top four holdings now representing under 29% of total equity assets.
The table below lists the ten largest net purchases and sales and includes most of the new holdings and complete sales.
8 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Largest Net Purchases Largest Net Sales m m Resolution 10.9 Vodafone 16.7 HSBC 10.8 Centrica 12.1 Imperial Tobacco 9.7 International Personal Finance 8.3 Daily Mail & General Trust 6.6 AstraZeneca 6.7 United Business Media 6.1 International Power 6.4 Inmarsat 5.6 Royal Dutch Shell B 5.8 Hays 5.5 Arriva 5.5 Cobham 5.4 Inchcape 4.8 BP 5.4 Halfords 4.6 Tesco 5.2 Rexam 4.1 As explained at the interim stage we added two new companies within the media sector, United Business Media and Daily Mail & General Trust.
The media sector is well positioned to benefit from a recovery amongst its corporate customer base where, unlike in the consumer and government sectors, debt levels are generally comfortable.
As businesses look to grow in a testing economic environment they are spending more on advertising, trade shows, exhibitions and other services provided by media companies.
The two stocks we purchased were both lowly rated and had strong fundamental attractions.
Another cyclical company exposed to a similar theme that we bought is Hays, the temporary and permanent staff recruitment company.
Hays is well placed to benefit from recovery amongst its business customers.
The companys UK operations have been under pressure, in particular in the public sector, which has suffered from a severe decline in government recruitment.
However, whilst this issue dominated investor sentiment, the UK public sector represents under 10% of sales and such concerns left the shares significantly undervalued.
There is a strong recovery coming through amongst corporate customers especially in Hays large and fast growing international operations.
In most overseas countries outsourced recruitment is a relatively immature business with rapid, albeit cyclical growth in much of Europe and Asia.
The other new investments were split between defensive, or less cyclical businesses, and companies that we believe offer good long term growth prospects yet still have an attractive dividend yield.
There were numerous opportunities amongst defensive shares as the market favoured businesses with greater leverage to the improving economic cycle.
We bought Imperial Tobacco, which had significantly underperformed both the market and its industry peer British American Tobacco BATS.
We had previously preferred BATS far greater exposure to emerging markets, where there is more potential for consumers to trade up to higher priced Western brands, compared with Imperials higher exposure to mature Western European markets.
However the gap between the two stocks became compelling with Imperial offering exceptional value and robust cashflow.
We reduced the BATS position as its shares performed well, partly to finance these purchases.
Food retailer Tesco was also added in the second half of the year.
Tesco shares had languished on general concerns over the outlook for UK consumer spending, the level of competitive intensity and some signs of a loss of momentum in their own UK operations.
However whilst we share many of the markets concerns we also see significant potential in Tescos substantial overseas operations, their nascent financial services business and their immature non-food offering.
Considering the low valuation of the shares in absolute terms and relative to their own history, we decided to make an initial investment.
Elsewhere amongst defensives, we made numerous additions to existing holdings including the food and household products companies Unilever and Reckitt Benckiser, and utility National Grid, mainly around the time of its rights issue.
In the Lloyds-of-London Insurance sub-sector we introduced Hiscox, a broadly based insurer with a strong record of achieving high returns on capital, and we added to Catlin.
Both these positions will broadly replace Brit Insurance which has been taken over by a private equity house.
The Lloyds insurers are attractive as they generate high returns and have good dividend yields, low valuations and a risk profile that is largely uncorrelated to the wider market.
Among higher growth companies we purchased Inmarsat and Cobham.
Inmarsat is a leading satellite communications company with a particularly strong position in maritime communications but also in land based and increasingly aircraft based activities.
The satellite industry has significant barriers to competitive entry, including licenses, spectrum, an expensive satellite fleet and a large customer base with dedicated equipment.
Inmarsat offers above average growth with a high yield backed by strong underlying cashflow.
We took advantage of a share sale by their largest shareholder, a private equity company in need of cash, to buy at an attractive valuation.
Cobham is a defence equipment company with particular strengths in communications technology as well as cyber-security and flight refuelling.
It has historically grown fast but has recently suffered order delays and deferrals, especially in the USA which is its dominant market.
