The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Economic Background In 2010, the major Western economies continued to recover from the deep recession of 2008-9, but they had to navigate through a challenging environment.
Recovery was aided by stimulative central bank policies of almost zero interest rates and quantitative easing, coupled with supportive fiscal policies.
However, with extremely high government and consumer debt levels, the strains on the system were enormous.
Certain smaller economies, like Ireland and Greece, had to employ severe fiscal austerity measures in order to restore their finances whilst being supported by the international financial community.
The correct policy response in this environment has been widely debated.
Should governments rein in spending to reduce their budget deficits or should they stimulate the economy to drive stronger economic growth and thus greater tax revenues and lower benefits costs?
This debate took centre stage in the UK general election.
The winning Conservative-Liberal coalition announced major spending cuts in order to bring the countrys finances under control.
Economic growth slowed in late 2010 with a fourth quarter contraction of -0.6%, influenced by heavy December snowfalls, arguably painting a worse picture than reality.
However, the modest rate of economic growth does highlight the fragility of the economic situation.
In contrast to the UK and much of Europe, the USA has kept its foot firmly on the pedal, with further tax cuts and extra spending initiatives as well a second round of quantitative easing.
US economic growth picked up in response to the stimulus but aggregate debt levels continued to rise.
Government bond yields rose sharply in the latter few months of the period, potentially making matters increasingly difficult for policymakers.
Tensions were high within the single currency Eurozone with divergent growth rates between stronger economies like Germany and weaker EU members like Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain.
The European Financial Stability Facility was established with 440bn to support the weaker economies and reassure government bond holders.
Emerging markets generally delivered strong growth rates with superior fiscal positions, led by the surging Chinese economy, undergoing an investment boom.
This resource heavy growth, coupled with a recovering worldwide economy led to resurgent commodity prices with the oil price touching $100 at the end of January.
Food and other agricultural commodities also saw price spikes, exacerbated by unusual weather patterns.
Together these commodity prices started to raise inflation concerns and, in some cases, social unrest.
At home inflation also remained stubbornly high with Januarys UK CPI recording a 4.0% gain, twice the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committees target of 2.0%.
However interest rates were held at 0.5% throughout the period as there was little sign of higher inflation feeding through into wage settlements, whilst growth concerns generally took precedence over inflation fears.
Market Trends Despite significant volatility in the first six months on fears over the health of peripheral European economies in particular, stock markets posted strong gains over the year.
A sharp rally from July until mid January was driven by improving investor confidence in the sustainability of the economic recovery and a second round of US quantitative easing.
The FTSE 100 Index produced a total return of 16.8% in the period.
The market was led, as in the previous year, by more cyclical sectors such as technology, mining, general financials, oil services and media, although telecoms also performed well.
Conversely many of the more defensive sectors lagged the market with food retail, pharmaceuticals, tobacco and food producers only managing to deliver single digit returns.
Medium sized companies which tend to be more economically sensitive once again significantly outperformed the FTSE 100 Index.
Higher yielding shares lagged behind materially with the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index producing a total return of only 12.2%.
This index was particularly affected by BP whose shares halved between April and July after the accident in their Macondo oil well in the Gulf of Mexico.
By the end of the year, BP had recovered much of its loss to post a total return of -17%, taking about 3% off the Higher Yield Index in the year.
