Business review Women across Panamas communities can now get regular mammograms thanks to the telemammography service provided by Cable & Wireless Panama.
Mobile Fixed line Broadband Entertainment Data centres Managed & hosting services Panama 10 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review We have launched the first telemammography network in Latin America, building upon our teleradiology network.
This will reduce the time it takes to diagnose patients and ensure more women receive preventative testing.
Weare proud to have developed this service.
Jorge Nicolau Chief Executive Officer, Panama 1 0% 3 0% The percentage of women aged The percentage of women over 40 the most at risk group over40 who now have access for breast cancer who were toscreenings as a result of the scanned prior to the launch of telemammography network the telemammography network Our Panama business is the market leader in mobile, fixed line and broadband in this growing country of3.5 million people.
We are also a major provider ofservices to companies and governments.
Our new pay TV service can be bundled with broadband and fixed line services, providing atripleplay offer for customers.
Cable & Wireless Communications 11 2010 11 at a glance: Business review Panama Maintained mobile market share above 50% Achieved 16% market share for pay TV 69% of postpaid customers now using mobile data Enterprise revenue increased by 10% Enterprise and social telecoms projects continue to drivegrowth Panama is one of the most advanced countries in Central America in the use of data services.
Mobile data usage drove mobile revenue growth last year.
Prepaid customers embraced initiatives such as new mobile data plans, whilst two-thirds of postpaid customers now use mobile data.
Jorge Nicolau Chief Executive Officer, Panama Our brands 12 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review increases its drive to be the regions Performance overview business and travel hub exploiting the 2010 11 2009 10 Panama Canals position as a centre of commerce and services.
Revenue US$623m US$621m Panama has vigorous competition Gross margin 68% 70% in both mobile and fixed telecoms.
Mobile EBITDA US$276m US$283m competition is expected to remain challenging next year with four operators competing and Capital expenditure US$ 106 m US$ 94 m the possible introduction of mobile number Mobile customers 2.53m 2.46m portability.
However, the growth of mobile Mobile ARPU US$11.0 US$12.4 data in 2010 11 points to strong potential for further growth in 2011 12.
We expect customers to continue signing up for Performance Together, broadband and pay TV revenue smartphones and data plans.
Our Panama business, which trades as Cable grew by 21% the second consecutive We will continue extending our pay TV & Wireless Panama, competed strongly in year of double digit growth.
network next year focusing on reaching 2010 11, maintaining market leadership Another strong area of growth was in the more districts of Panama City and key across our key products of mobile, fixed line provision of services for enterprises, with locations nationwide.
Simultaneously, we and broadband, expanding our pay TV business revenue increasing by 10% after a slower are restructuring our sales and marketing and further broadening our social telecoms year in 2009 10. structure to focus on increasing the number telecoms-enabled public services platform.
of customers taking triple play packages.
Our Panama business is a leader in both Despite intense mobile competition, our our Group and its region in providing social Our social telecoms services will continue Movil business held market share above telecoms.
Adding to the services we already to be an important driver of growth.
Mobile revenue grew, supported by provide in healthcare telemedicine, law and have recently been selected to provide increased data revenue.
In particular, prepaid order CCTV surveillance and education, we El Salvadors police service with a 911 customers embraced initiatives such as new signed a contract last year to help modernise emergency response system, our first mobile data plans.
Two-thirds of postpaid the technology used in Panamas court opportunity to roll out the platform we customers now use mobile data.
use in Panama to another market.
Our pay TV business, branded TV Digital, We were also recognised again for our grew to 44,200 customers, a 16% market high level of colleague engagement.
The share an excellent achievement given it consultancy group Gallup awarded us its launched in December 2009.
A third of Gallup Great Workplace award based subscribers now have a triple play package, entirely on employee feedback for the including broadband and fixed voice.
We are one of only 29 businesses We launched a fibre broadband service last in the world to receive the accolade this year.
year, increasing the maximum download speed available in parts of the country up to Outlook Increase in total 25 megabits per second Mbps.
Less than a Panamas economy continues to grow rapidly active mobile quarter of homes in Panama have broadband with GDP increasing at a rate of 7.5% in 2010. customers from at present, providing a strong opportunity to It is expected to continue growing strongly 2.46million to grow this service.
for the next five years as the country 2.53million Increase in broadband and payTV revenue toUS$57m 03 The development of had annual screenings: appointments process, Strategy a telemammography sharing x-ray plates reducing waiting lists, inaction: network by our Panama between doctors was and working on a service business is an example cumbersome and the to visit women living in Improving of how telecoms limited number of rural areas.
cancer technology can enhance specialists was causing The telemammography treatment public services and backlogs in diagnosis.
network is expected to standards of living.
Now digital help around 100,000 Early diagnosis is vital to mammograms can be Panamanian women to reducing breast cancer shared securely between access better medical deaths.
In Panama, only hospital departments, care and will lead to one in ten women aged and with specialists in the early detection of over 40 the most at hospitals overseas.
We problems which will risk group for this disease have also automated the save lives.
