Our strategy comprises three key priorities Our strategy do it better, service growth, and building regional hubs.
We pursue these across each of our four business units, taking account of the local conditions and competitive landscape.
Strategic priorities Strategy in action Key growth areas Do it better Upgraded Panama networks Caribbean customer experience Mobile data Upgraded and expanded our mobile network Customer satisfaction surveys indicate Mobile data demand is reaching 01 Do it better is about continual improvement in Panama, increasing capacity and coverage a strong improvement in the customer a critical mass in several of our to handle the growing demand for mobile service delivered by our teams in our businesses.
Smartphone proliferation of our existing operations.
Our focus is on data services.
contact centres and retail shops.
Innovative and mobile broadband dongles, coupled growing margins through better management customer experience programmes are with increased network capacity have of processes and costs and through building Macau e-services portal being undertaken including Eleanors substantially increased the services Launched an online portal for customers, Shoes, in which staff step into the available on mobile devices.
Industry a culture of constant improvement amongst available 24 hours a day, reducing operating shoes of a customer.
estimates show mobile data traffic more our colleagues.
Examples of do it better costs and improving customer experience.
Traffic is predicted include improvement of our networks, our The portal provides customers with up to date to grow 26-fold between 2010 and 2015. customer service and promotional activities, billing information, payment facilities and the ability to change services or select new ones.
Managed Services & Social Telecoms as well as more transformational changes Demand for managed services where such as mobile tower sharing.
telecoms operators install and manage O ur strategy is designed telecoms systems is increasing as the to ensure each of our communication needs of large companies grow.
Strong local knowledge and business units captures capability in our markets, coupled with Social telecoms Service growth Maldives broadband cable our growing expertise in providing these emerging growth Selected by Panamas 2nd Judicial District New cable system commissioned to run 02 services, position us strongly to win more Introducing new products and services to Cocl province to provide a new IT and from north to south of the Maldives, opportunities in their business.
In the public sector, governments communications platform, which will improve increasing access to high speed meet customer demand is fundamental to are also seeking to improve services and the transparency and efficiency of the district broadband and social telecoms services respective markets.
We are introducing value added reduce budgets by introducing the social criminal justice system.
The 1,017km telecoms services we specialise in.
There products to our existing services such as Tony Rice cable will provide service across 100 of are clear opportunities for our successful Chief Executive Mobile data in Macau the countrys inhabited islands.
mobile data, as well as competing in new social telecoms services in Panama to be Introduced new data packages and markets, for example pay TV, enterprise adapted across the rest of the portfolio.
smartphones particularly Apples iPhone 4 Jamaica mobile TV services and social telecoms.
Expanding prompting a surge in customer demand.
Breakthrough mobile service launched in Carrier Services our services creates new areas of growth, Smartphones now account for more than Jamaica, allowing customers to watch TV Demand for faster, higher bandwidth 80% of new handset sales, and data usage programmes on their mobile see case and helps to consolidate our position in telecoms capacity is creating leapt over the 2010 11 year.
opportunities for our business to build subsea cable infrastructure in existing and new territories.
We have extensive cable systems in the worlds fastest growing subsea cable market between the US and Building regional hubs The Bahamas Africa relaunch Latin America.
The size of this regional In April 2011, we acquired 51% of the Rebranded and reorganised two African market is forecast to grow substantially 03 Our strategy is to expand the business in Bahamas Telecommunications Company businesses, Connecteo and Divona, in the years to come.
into a single entity, named Afinis areas where we have strength and scale, BTC became the 14th operation of our Communications.
Afinis focus is to target developing hubs.
In a broad portfolio of Caribbean business, and will benefit from enterprise business across Africa, utilising businesses, we can also take advantage our scale in the region.
ofopportunities to realise value from Bermuda disposal El Salvador operations where we are no longer the Bermuda business sold for US$70 million, We are set to extend our services beyond bestlong-term owner.
We are committed as it could not be developed into a Panamas borders, having been selected toreshaping our Group to generate best full service operation.
to provide a 911 emergency service platform for the Government of El valuefor our shareholders.
The El Salvador service will be similar to the successful 911 emergency services platform we Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data installed and manage in Panama.
Traffic forecast update, 2010-2015 08 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Introduction Strategic priorities Strategy in action Key growth areas Do it better Upgraded Panama networks Caribbean customer experience Mobile data Upgraded and expanded our mobile network Customer satisfaction surveys indicate Mobile data demand is reaching Do it better is about continual improvement in Panama, increasing capacity and coverage a strong improvement in the customer a critical mass in several of our to handle the growing demand for mobile service delivered by our teams in our businesses.
telecoms operators install and manage telecoms systems is increasing as the communication needs of large companies grow.
Strong local knowledge and capability in our markets, coupled with Social telecoms Service growth Maldives broadband cable our growing expertise in providing these Selected by Panamas 2nd Judicial District New cable system commissioned to run services, position us strongly to win more Introducing new products and services to Cocl province to provide a new IT and from north to south of the Maldives, business.
In the public sector, governments communications platform, which will improve increasing access to high speed meet customer demand is fundamental to are also seeking to improve services and the transparency and efficiency of the district broadband and social telecoms services our success.
There products to our existing services such as cable will provide service across 100 of are clear opportunities for our successful Mobile data in Macau the countrys inhabited islands.
The size of this regional In April 2011, we acquired 51% of the Rebranded and reorganised two African market is forecast to grow substantially Our strategy is to expand the business in Bahamas Telecommunications Company businesses, Connecteo and Divona, in the years to come.
Traffic forecast update, 2010-2015 Cable & Wireless Communications 09
