Tim Pennington Board of Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Nomination Tony Rice is Chief Executive of the Tim Pennington is Chief Financial Directors Committee Company and has been so since Officer of the Company.
He previously Sir Richard Lapthorne is Chairman demerger in March 2010, having served as the Group Finance Director of the Company having been previously served as CEO of the for Cable and Wireless plc and as Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc predecessor Cable & Wireless Chief Financial Officer for the Cable since January 2003.
He is also the Communications business since & Wireless Communications business.
Chairman of the Nomination November 2008.
He was Group Tim also served as an Investor Committee.
In September 2010 he Finance Director of Cable and Director on the Cable & Wireless was appointed as a member of the Wireless plc, from March 2006 Worldwide Operating Board from PwC Public Interest Body, and in onwards, having been a NonNovember 2008 to January 2010.
executive Director since January Previously, Tim was CFO and an Between June 2009 and April 2010, 2003.
Tony was at British Aerospace Executive Director of Hutchison he was Chairman of the McLaren and its successor company BAE Telecommunications International Group.
From 1996 to May 2003 Systems for 16 years as Group Ltd, a company listed in Hong Kong Richard was Chairman of Amersham Treasurer and ultimately Group and New York.
Tim was also Finance plc now GE Healthcare having joined Managing Director, Commercial Director of Hutchison 3G UK its Board as a Non-executive Director Aircraft responsible for its Airbus Hutchison Whampoas UK mobile in 1989.
He was Finance Director of and Regional Aircraft business units.
business and has corporate finance British Aerospace plc from July 1992 From 2002 he was CEO of Tunstall experience with HSBC Investment and Vice Chairman from April 1998 Holdings Ltd, Europes leading telecare Bank and Samuel Montagu & Co. until his retirement in 1999.
Richard company until its sale in September is a trustee of Tommys Campaign, 2005.
Tony is the Senior Independent 4.
Nick Cooper the charity researching still and Director of Punch Taverns plc and Corporate Services Director premature birth.
He was Nonwas appointed as Chairman of Nick Cooper is an Executive Director executive Chairman of New Look Alexander Mann Solutions on of the Company, having served as Group and Morse plc until November 28 July 2008, subsequently Corporate Services Director for the 2007 and February 2008 reverting to a non-executive role Cable & Wireless Communications respectively and Her Majesty the on 1 September 2009. business since December 2008 and Queens Trustee at The Royal Botanic Group General Counsel and Company Gardens, Kew until his retirement in Secretary for Cable and Wireless plc September 2009.
A D enotes membership of 1 2 3 4 Audit Committee.
N D enotes membership of Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee.
36 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Governance from January 2006 to demerger.
Director, Chairman of the Audit previously been a Non-executive School at Cambridge University and He has Board level responsibility Committee and a member of the Director of the Bank of England, a member of the advisory council of for Human Resources, Brand, PR & Remuneration and Nomination of Alliance & Leicester plc and of the Institute of Business Ethics.
She Communications, Legal & Regulatory Committees.
Simon has also been St Modwen Properties plc.
Mary was also a Non-executive Director Affairs, Insurance and Corporate a Non-executive Director of Tribal has held a number of positions in the of HBOS plc until 16 January 2009 Social Responsibility.
He also served Group plc since 1 June 2010.
UK Civil Service including Financial and was a Non-executive Director as an Investor Director on the Cable Simon was Group Finance Director Counsellor at the British Embassy in of Shire plc until July 2010.
& Wireless Worldwide Operating for 3i Group plc until November Washington DC, Private Secretary Board from April 2006 until 2008, having served on its main to the Prime Minister and Deputy ANR 8.
Nick qualified board since April 2005.
Prior to this, Private Secretary to the Queen.
From Non-executive Director as a solicitor with London law firm Simon held a series of senior finance 1999 to 2005, Mary was Director Ian Tyler has been a Non-executive Herbert Smith.
He has held in-house and operational roles at Dresdner General of the Association of British Director of the Company since his positions as company solicitor with Kleinwort Benson, served as Group Insurers, and currently is a senior appointment on 1 January 2011, Asda and George Clothing and as Finance Director for the Robert adviser to Chatham House.
and is also a member of the Audit, General Counsel and Company Fleming Group and was Director Remuneration and Nomination Secretary of The Sage Group Plc and General, Finance for the Department ANR 7.
Ian is a chartered JD Wetherspoon Plc.
In September for Constitutional Affairs.
Non-executive Director accountant and has been Chief 2002, Nick was appointed Company Kate Nealon is a Non-executive Executive of Balfour Beatty plc since Secretary and was part of the ANR 6.
Mary Francis, CBE Director of the Company, having January 2005, having joined the Executive Management Board of Chair of the Remuneration previously served as a Non-executive company in 1996 as Finance Director Energis until its acquisition by Cable Committee Director of Cable and Wireless plc and having become Chief Operating and Wireless plc.
Mary Francis is a Non-executive since January 2005.
Kate is also a Officer in August 2002.
From 1993 Director of the Company, having member of the Audit, Remuneration to 1996 Ian was Finance Director ANR 5.
Simon Ball previously served as a Non-executive and Nomination Committees.
Kate of ARC Limited, one of the principal Deputy Chairman, Director of Cable and Wireless plc was appointed to the board of subsidiaries of Hanson Plc, having Senior Independent Director, since July 2009.
Mary became directors of Argo Group International previously been Hansons Group Chairman of the Audit Committee the Chair of the Remuneration Holdings, Ltd in February 2011.
Simon Ball is a Non-executive Committee in March 2010.
Mary Kate was Group Head of Legal and Prior to that, from 1988, he held Director of the Company, having is also a member of the Audit and Compliance at Standard Chartered the positions of Group Treasurer and previously served as a Non-executive Nomination Committees.
Mary is plc until 2004, having previously Financial Controller at Storehouse Director of Cable and Wireless plc Senior Independent Director of practised international banking and Plc, the retailing group.
He is also the Deputy Centrica plc and a Non-executive regulatory law in New York.
Kate is a President of CRASH, the charity Chairman, Senior Independent Director of Aviva plc.
She has senior associate of the Judge Business for homeless people around the UK.
