Business review Increased demand for capacity from people across the Caribbean will be met by our continued investment in undersea cable systems.
Mobile Fixed line Broadband Entertainment Data centres Managed & hosting services Caribbean 18 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review I n February, we completed the installation of our new East-West undersea cable system linking Jamaica, the British Virgin Islands and the Dominican Republic.
The East-West cable is a valuable addition to our carrier network, increasing the capability and service LIME provides to our carrier customers throughout the Americas and the Caribbean.
David Shaw Chief Executive Officer, Caribbean x3 2 5 years The East-West cable more than LIME signed a 25-year tripled the available capacity agreement to act as the strategic into the Dominican Republic landing partner in Jamaica for acable also linking Cuba and Venezuela Our business in the Caribbean operating under thebrand LIME is a full service telecoms provider serving communities across 14 countries.
In April 2011 we expanded our business via an acquisition in TheBahamas, where we offer fixed, mobile and broadband services.
Cable & Wireless Communications 19 2010 11 at a glance: Business review Caribbean Launched Caribbeans first mobile TVservice Enterprise, data and other revenue grew 11% Economic conditions remain challenging Acquired 51% of Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC inApril2011 4G mobile networks to be launched in region in 2011 12 O ur acquisition of a 51% shareholding in BTC will diversify our business.
BTC is a fullservice operator which has exclusivity onmobile services until at least 2014.
We willbegin the process of restructuring the business to ensure it can expand and grow.
David Shaw Chief Executive Officer, Caribbean Anguilla LIME is also licensed to provide Our Caribbean business Our brand Antigua and Barbuda services to telecom operators in unit includes operations Barbados theDominican Republic and is the The Bahamas strategic landing partner in Jamaica in 14 islands: British Virgin Islands for a cable linking Venezuela and Cayman Islands Cuba.
As part of that agreement our Dominica Group transits data for the cables owners between Cuba and Europe.
Grenada Jamaica Montserrat St Kitts and Nevis St Lucia St Vincent and theGrenadines Turks and Caicos 20 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review We will begin the process of restructuring Performance overview BTC and integrating it into our regional 2010 11 2009 10 business.
We plan to upgrade BTCs networks and introduce new services for customers.
Revenue US$850m US$873m We will incur some restructuring and integration costs expected to be Gross margin 72% 74% approximately US$60 million - but will EBITDA US$229m US$270m move the business to a more efficient Capital expenditure US$ 140 m US$ 114 m footing longer term.
Mobile customers 1.29m 1.27m We will be pushing hard for a change to Mobile ARPU US$19.3 US$21.3 the regulatory environment in Jamaica, our largest market.
We plan to expand our network to increase access to our mobile Performance Mobile revenue increased in the second TV and 3G services, but without a significant Our Caribbean business, which trades as half of the year, reflecting growth in data change to the regulatory environment LIME, made operational progress in a very usage.
This was aided by the expansion conditions will remain difficult.
We expect tough economic environment last year and, of our Jamaican 3G network.
Overall, mobile competition will remain intense.
in April 2011, expanded into The Bahamas.
mobile revenue declined in the year by In order to maintain market and technology 6%, reflecting the economic conditions.
The economic climate in the Caribbean leadership, we plan to introduce 4G mobile remained difficult.
Tourism is the main We undertook a high-profile refresh of our services over the next 18 months in all industry for most of our territories and while LIME brand, accompanied in Jamaica by a markets except Jamaica, which already has tourist numbers increased in some islands, strategy to recapture market share, and the a 3G mobile network.
there has not been a broad based recovery.
launch of mobile TV see case study below.
We will also continue to upgrade broadband This contributed to a decline in revenue of There was increased competition in the sale networks and make preparations to launch 3% and in EBITDA of 15%.
of broadband services, particularly in Jamaica, pay TV services.
but we continued investing to improve our Our acquisition of a 51% shareholding in networks and increase overall broadband Our focus remains on winning in our markets, BTC will diversify our business.
We upgraded Jamaicas broadband and driving for better financial performance full service operator which has exclusivity network to offer higher speeds and better as economic growth returns.
We are confident on mobile services until at least 2014. performance and launched a next generation we have the right strategy, but economic Our carrier business also helped us reach network in St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
challenges mean that financial progress will different markets.
We completed the take time.
Enterprise, data and other revenues grew 11%.
East-West cable connecting Jamaica in the We won a number of significant contracts, west to the British Virgin Islands in the east, including an agreement to supply mobile with a landing in the Dominican Republic, a services to 21,000 members of Jamaicas new market for LIME.
We also became the National Council of Taxi Associations.
official landing partner in Jamaica for a cable between Cuba and Venezuela, providing Outlook a crucial telecoms link for Cuba to our While some economies in the region are Increase in enterprise, international subsea cable network.
improving, we do not expect market conditions data andother to be significantly better in 2011 12. revenue in2010 11 03 The launch of a mobile handset is needed to events leading to Strategy TV service in Jamaica has access the service.
queues outside our inaction: revitalised our LIME brand Jamaican stores.
Mobile The service enables and won the hearts of TV has created a strong Television customers to watch their customers.
buzz in Jamaica, which favourite programmes revolution!
Developed in partnership wherever they are as well with a local Jamaican as being adaptable to a company, LIME Mobile TV home TV via a plug-in.
provides customers with The service was launched access to several popular in December 2010 with free-to-air channels as a series of exclusive well as pay per view broadcasts of music content.
A mobile TV concerts and sporting Cable & Wireless Communications 21
