Business review Our customers are no longer tied to their desks thanks to investments in mobile broadband services across M&Is business.
Mobile Fixed line Broadband Entertainment Data centres Managed & hosting services Monaco & Islands 22 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review M onaco Telecom helped to play a vital role inthe principalitys digital switchover.
Our new TV and broadband services will ensure Monacos residents receive the highest  services available.
Denis Martin Chief Executive Officer, Monaco & Islands 1 0,700 18,600 Number of pay TV Number of mobile broadband subscribersin Monaco customers in the Maldives at 31 March 2011.
We have launched similar services across the Monaco & Islands business Monaco & Islands M&I is a portfolio business FREE operating in territories within Europe, the Middle calls and East, Africa and the Indian and Atlantic oceans.
We texts 24 7 Sign up to Sure Friends and you can call and text are the market leader in most of the markets where 3 Sure numbers for FREE whenever you like for as long as you like.
we operate and in most of the services we provide.
Switching is easy and you can keep your number Visit www.
com friends T m eo rm bilse a cn ud s tc oo m nd er it si o on ns t a hp ep Slu y rs ee n e e w tw wo w r. k s. u M reic nw im.
cu om m t fo or p d ue p t a i5 ls p. F er re w e e ce ak ll s fo a rn p d a y te a xs t sy a or u e g o o n c ly u s to to S m ue re rs.
Cable & Wireless Communications 23 2010 11 at a glance: Business review Monaco & Islands 6% like-for-like growth in mobile revenue Bermuda business divested Relaunched our African operations asAfinis Communications Launched IPTV service in Monaco Monaco Telecom will focus on selling quad-play bundles in 2012 Monaco & Islands remains adiverse business, with a mix of mature, strongly performing businesses and high energy start-ups.
We are well positioned forfuture growth.
Denis Martin Chief Executive Officer, Monaco & Islands Monaco Monaco Indian Ocean The Monaco & Islands Our brands Telecom and Monaco the Maldives and business unit operates Telecom International, Seychelles which invests in and through four regional South Atlantic provides services &Diego Garcia businesses: totelecoms operators theFalkland Islands, inmarkets including St Helena, Ascension Afghanistan Roshan, and Diego Garcia Africa Afinis and Kosovo PTK Within this portfolio, Monaco, the Maldives CIIM the Channel and Guernsey Islands Guernsey and together account for Jersey and Isle of Man approximately 84% of EBITDA.
24 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Business review Our Maldives business is operating in a Performance overview growing economy, driven by high end 2010 11 2009 10 tourism.
We are currently laying a new undersea cable across the country which will Revenue US$605m US$552m help us to improve provision of high speed internet access and launch social telecoms Gross margin 70% 64% services.
We expect more competition next EBITDA US$207m US$174m year following the award of a fixed line licence Capital expenditure US$ 77 m US$ 64 m to our mobile competitor.
The results of the business will also be affected by the Mobile customers 5.39m 4.08m decision of the Government of the Maldives Mobile ARPU US$36.8 US$49.5 to float the local currency, the Rufiyaa, in a Includes mobile subscribers of Roshan, our Afghan joint venture limited range.
Performance MTs International division MTI relaunched Our Monaco business is trialling 4G mobile Our Monaco & Islands M&I business our African operations under the Afinis services ahead of a planned commercial delivered strong performance in 2010 11, Communications brand, combining the launch in 2013.
This will assist us to focus further building its reputation as a reliable businesses previously known as Connecteo on continued growth of mobile data revenue.
Afinis business model is to supply We will also be offering quad play bundles connectivity services to large enterprises mobile, fixed line, broadband and pay TV Revenue and EBITDA increased, thanks to a through both satellite and IP delivery in 2012. full year of contribution from our Maldives networks.
MTIs joint venture in Afghanistan, business which we consolidated in October The Guernsey business will continue to be Roshan, also enjoyed a successful year, 2009.
On a like-for-like basis, EBITDA was challenged by strong mobile competition.
increasing its mobile subscribers by 35%.
in line with the prior year, while revenue was We have already seen the impact of heavy down 1%.
Across the portfolio our mobile Our Guernsey business maintained mobile discounting by competitors on our revenue.
revenue rose by 6% on a like-for-like basis, market share, despite aggressive competition Nevertheless, we are well positioned to although mobile ARPU fell as a result of the from its two competitors.
We also completed maintain market share, whilst continuing consolidation of the Maldives business which a data centre complex which now houses to increase mobile data revenue and grow has a relatively lower ARPU.
nine units and hosts data for a number of our data centre and hosting business.
Our Jersey Our Maldives business made a significant M&I remains a diverse business, but and Isle of Man businesses grew mobile contribution to earnings, increasing mobile with a mix of mature, strongly performing market share to 27% and 28% respectively.
data revenue following the launch of a mobile companies and high energy start-ups, it is broadband service see case study below and Our Bermuda business was divested in March well positioned for future growth.
launching a mobile entertainment download for US$70 million to The Bragg Group of portal.
The business could not be developed into a full service operation, so we sold it, We upgraded Monaco Telecoms MT receiving a good price.
broadband network in 2010 to provide 30 Mbps download speeds and launched Outlook a video on demand IPTV service.
That The outlook across the portfolio is positive, service now has more than 10,000 with our key territories in Monaco, Guernsey Increase in mobile The MT mobile business also customers.
revenue on a and the Maldives all expecting favourable grew subscribers, particularly through economic conditions.
like-for-like basis smartphone and tablet sales.
Increase in Broadband and TV revenue on a like-for-like basis 03 In the Maldives We introduced a 3G many hotels, ensuring Strategy we launched mobile mobile broadband service that customers can stay inaction: broadband services branded TouchNet online whether on the last year to benefit both in May 2010, providing move or on the beach.
Mobile local customers and download speeds of up Over 18,600 customers broadband visiting tourists.
signed up for 3G mobile The Maldives is one Mobile broadband broadband services of the worlds most enables Maldivians last year, a clear geographically dispersed and tourists to access demonstration of how nations, attracting high the internet wherever we are supplying the end tourist visitors who they are.
TouchNet right technology to meet want to maintain access complements the fixed demand for data services to the internet and emails and wireless internet by our customers.
available in homes and Cable & Wireless Communications 25
