This report focuses on the year ended During the course of the year, the Board has Independent held four Board meetings overseas, one in 31 March 2011 which was the Companys first full year as an independent separately each of the Groups four business units.
In Directors report addition to the formal business of the Board, listed entity following the demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc from the these visits have included presentations and meetings with local management and the Group in March 2010. attendance of the regional Chief Executive at the Board meeting as well as meetings with The Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Board was appointed at demerger as were local Government and other stakeholders, all of which have enabled the Board to have first the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
A key part of the demerger hand exposure to the local operations.
The frequency of the overseas visits has been preparation work was to ensure that effective governance arrangements were in place to high as this was the first year post demerger and has required a greater than normal time enable a smooth transition and to reflect the new levels of materiality.
Upon demerger, the commitment for the Non-executive governance structure moved to a simpler Directors.
Nevertheless, the visits have model than that which had applied at Cable provided a very valuable insight into the and Wireless plc.
The new Board, Committee and governance The Executive Directors attend quarterly processes have been implemented and deep dive meetings with each of the four embedded during the year.
An external business units to review performance Board evaluation has been undertaken by and analyse the future opportunities and Independent Audit Limited Independent challenges of the regional operations.
The Audit at the end of this first year to consider Executive Directors are also Directors on a whether the Board and Committee processes number of the Groups material subsidiary are working effectively.
Together, these provide a high level consider that high performing boards share a of visibility of the business unit operations number of common characteristics: a strong and form an important part of the overall and effective chairman, an executive team governance control framework.
which is open and receptive to challenge, and The Board has reviewed corporate with trusting but questioning relationships governance developments during the course within the board.
The Company scored well of the year including compliance with the new on all of these, especially when the newness UK Corporate Governance Code.
Significant of the Board was taken into account.
focus has been given to the impact of the Since demerger, the relationship between Bribery Act 2010 and an enhanced policy the Chairman and the Chief Executive has and procedures has been developed transitioned to a more traditional role, and implemented.
whereby the Chairmans key focus is now the leadership of the Board to ensure that the effective operation of the Board and its committees is in conformity with the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership of the business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
42 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Governance Turning now to the four questions posed 3 What is the visibility of the checks annually as part of Cable & Wireless and balances between the Executive Communications approach to measuring Directors?
effective corporate governance: The visibility of checks and balances between the Executive Directors is high.
The Executive 1 What is the quality of the relationship Directors show a willingness to openly debate between the Chairman and the Executive and stimulate different perspectives in Board Directors?
meetings enabling the Non-executive The relationship between the Chairman Directors to obtain a rounded view of the and Chief Executive has made an effective Executive Directors views.
In addition, the transition to a more traditional form.
Prior Board have met with the Regional Chief to demerger, the Chairman had four direct Executives, both formally and informally, reports: post demerger, it is solely the enabling a supplementary view to that of Chief Executive who reports directly to the Executive Directors.
As a consequence, the other 4 Have questions asked by the Executive Directors have less frequent formal interaction with the Chairman but Independent Directors in Board and relationships remain strong and enable Committee meetings been appropriately direct communication where necessary.
Questions asked by the Independent The Chairman has regular one-to-one Directors have been appropriately addressed meetings with the Chief Executive to review throughout the year.
The Independent issues, opportunities and challenges in Directors also meet separately during the the Group.
year to discuss any relevant governance Notwithstanding the challenge of moving to a matters.
The Independent Directors are different operating model post demerger, the satisfied that the corporate governance relationship between the Chairman and the controls of Cable & Wireless Communications Executive Directors has been consistently Plc are effective.
The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc firmly believe in the 2 How open are the Executive Directors principles of behavioural governance and with the Board?
consider that this report continues to be an The Executive Directors are very open with appropriate way to embody the principles the Board.
They are also very receptive to set out in the new UK Corporate Governance challenge.
This view was reinforced in the Code and have confirmed that they will publish findings of the external Board evaluation.
an Independent Directors report for the year The flow of information to the Board is ended 31 March 2012. supplemented by meetings with the regional Simon Ball Chief Executives and local management Senior Independent Director teams as part of the overseas Board visits.
The overseas Board visits require a 24 May 2011 significant time commitment but also create opportunities for informative discussion and debate to enhance openness between the Executive Directors and the Board.
The understanding and trust engendered underpin a very positive, open atmosphere in which debate and challenge flourish.
