The Directors present their report subsidiaries as applicable.
These indemnities Directors are qualifying third party indemnity provisions together with the audited financial statements for the year ended for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 report the 2006 Act.
They were granted on 31 March 2011. appointment of the Directors and are still in force.
Officers of wholly-owned subsidiary Principal activities, business review and results companies within the Group have also been granted indemnities.
The Groups principal activities are detailed on pages 2 and 3.
Through this Annual Report, Dividends including the Chairmans review and the Business review sections pages 2 to 35 The Directors recommend a final dividend of US5.33 cents per ordinary share payable on that precede this report and the Corporate governance report that follows pages 44 to 12 August 2011 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 June 46, the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups activities, 2011.
This final dividend, together with the interim dividend of US2.67 cents per share position and prospects.
Each of these sections is incorporated by reference into this paid by the Company on 13 January 2011, Directors report.
The Groups results for the makes a total dividend payment to financial year are shown in the consolidated shareholders of the Company of US8 cents income statement on page 63. per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Share capital and treasury shares Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37.
The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details of shares allotted during The Board has determined to adopt the new the year, are shown in note 9 to the Company provisions in the UK Corporate Governance financial statements.
At the 2010 AGM, the Code specifying that all directors of FTSE 350 Company was authorised by shareholders to companies should be subject to annual purchase up to 262 million of its own ordinary election by shareholders at this years Annual shares, representing approximately 10% of General Meeting AGM.
its issued share capital as at 1 June 2010.
On Therefore, at the 2011 AGM, all Directors will 23 February 2011, the Company announced stand for re-election with the exception of a buyback programme of shares up to a value Ian Tyler, who will stand for election as this of US$100 million in order to return capital to is the first AGM since his appointment to the shareholders.
During the period to 31 March Board on 1 January 2011, and Kate Nealon, 2011, the Company purchased 42,762,000 who will not stand for re-election as she has shares with a nominal value of US$0.05 each given notice to the Company that she will for an aggregate consideration of US$34 retire from the Board with effect from the million, and these are held as treasury shares conclusion of the AGM.
31 March 2010 nil shares in treasury.
The Company is not aware of any agreements The interests of the Directors and their between holders of securities that may result connected persons in the shares of Cable in restrictions on the transfer of securities or & Wireless Communications Plc, along with on voting rights.
details of their share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration report set The Board intends to seek shareholder out on pages 48 to 60. approval at the forthcoming AGM on 22 July 2011 to make market purchases of up to 10% No Director had a material interest in any of its issued share capital excluding shares significant contract with the Company or held in treasury.
Details of the proposed any of its subsidiaries during the year.
For resolution are included in the Notice further information, refer to note 39 of of Meeting.
Further details on the share capital of the The Company has granted indemnities in Company are set out in note 9 to the favour of its Directors against personal Company financial statements on pages 134 financial exposure that they may incur and 135 and are incorporated into this report in the course of their professional duties by reference.
as Directors of the Company and or any 38 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Governance Companys shareholders As at 31 March 2011 and the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at 31 March 2011 As at 24 May 2011 No.
of % of voting ordinary shares rights Nature of holding ordinary shares rights Nature of holding Newton Investment Management Limited 381,650,561 14.32% Indirect 364,741,582 13.99% Indirect Orbis Holdings Limited 342,539,483 13% Indirect 342,539,483 13% Indirect Franklin Mutual Advisers LLC 242,437,048 9.24% Indirect 242,437,048 9.24% Indirect Prudential Plc group of companies 138,064,794 5.24% Direct and indirect 138,064,794 5.24% Direct and indirect Legal & General Group Plc 98,421,834 3.75% Direct 98,421,834 3.75% Direct Ethics to make political donations and incur Exercise of rights of shares in employee The Company is committed to sound political expenditure.
share schemes business conduct in its relationships with The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless key stakeholders shareholders, employees, Supplier payment policy Communications Share Ownership Trust customers, business partners and suppliers, The Company did not enter into any purchase formerly the Cable and Wireless Employee governments and regulators, communities contracts with suppliers which required Share Ownership Trust exercise the voting and the environment.
The Groups ethics payment during the year to 31 March 2011. rights on shares held in the employee trust policy applies to all Group companies and It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate in accordance with their fiduciary duties as employees.
Where the Group operates in terms and conditions in advance with Trustees, which include the duty to act in the conjunction with business partners, third suppliers and to make payment in accordance best interests of the beneficiaries of the trust.
parties or in joint venture arrangements with those terms and conditions, provided without management control, it aims to the supplier has complied with them.
Annual General Meeting promote the application of this policy.
The The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday Group seeks to conduct its operations with Employee inclusion and diversity 22 July 2011 at The Queen Elizabeth II honesty, integrity and openness, and with The Group operates in many countries Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, respect for the human rights and interests with diverse employment practices.
The Group respects the respecting local circumstances, wherever of the resolutions to be proposed at the legitimate interests of all those with whom we operate we follow the principles of equal AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
During the year, a review opportunity in recruitment, development, of the Groups anti-bribery policy has been remuneration and advancement.
The Groups Auditor undertaken to ensure that our policies and employment policies also comply with local Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc procedures will meet the standards required requirements and meet relevant standards on as our external auditor and to authorise the by the Bribery Act 2010. employment of disabled people.
Full and fair Directors to set the auditors remuneration consideration is given to disabled applicants will be proposed at the AGM.
Charitable and political donations for employment and training, and career So far as the Directors are aware, there is During the year ended 31 March 2011, development is encouraged on the basis of no relevant audit information as defined in the Group gave US$1.07 million 2009 10 aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to retain Section 418 3 of the 2006 Act of which the US$1.7 million to charitable organisations employees who become disabled whilst in its auditors are unaware and the Directors have including US$95,207 60,000 2009 10 service and to provide specialist training taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any US$190,848 120,000 to the where appropriate.
relevant audit information and ensure the Porthcurno Trust, a charitable organisation auditors are aware of such information.
The Group actively Employee communication supports corporate social responsibility in The Group communicates with employees Change of control the communities in which it operates and in many ways, including regular briefings by The Group has a number of contracts that more information on these activities is set management, newsletters and intranet sites.
are subject to change of control clauses.
These communications help to achieve a These primarily relate to financing facilities, common awareness among employees of The Company does not make political bonds, licence and operating agreements.
the financial and operational performance donations and has no intention of making of the Group.
Under the Groups US$500 million revolving donations to what are generally regarded as credit facility agreement and US$100 million political parties within the European Union.
The Group is committed to ensuring that term loan agreement, on a change of control As a precautionary measure and in the light employees share in its success.
Employees the lenders are not obliged to fund any of the wide definitions of European Union are encouraged to participate in share further sums and, if the majority lenders political organisations for the purposes of purchase schemes and hold investments require, on not less than ten days notice, the the 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at in the Groups shares.
facility can be cancelled and all outstanding the 2010 AGM permitting the Company loans, together with related charges, become immediately due and payable.
Cable & Wireless Communications 39 The Directors may also pay interim dividends i the payment of any dividend shall be Directors withheld: ii the shareholder shall not be without shareholder approval if they consider that the financial position of the Company entitled to elect to receive shares in place report of dividends withheld: and iii the transfer justifies it.
The Directors may operate dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to of the shares held by such shareholder shall continued be restricted.
shareholder approval, operate scrip schemes or pay dividends by distributing assets.
No Certificated shares: The Company can dividend carries a right to interest from the sell any certificated shares at the best price Company.
If dividends remain unclaimed for reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale 12 years they are forfeited by the shareholder if: i in a period of 12 years at least three and revert to the Company.
dividends have become payable and no Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien dividends have been claimed: ii the Company on all partly paid shares and dividends, has published a notice after the 12 year period Under the terms of the US$500 million 7.75% which has priority over claims of others to stating that it intends to sell the shares: and such shares covering any money owed to the iii during the 12 year period and for three 2017 Senior Secured Notes the Bonds, if a change of control event occurs, each holder Company for the shares.
The Directors may months after the notice, the Company has sell all or any of such shares where: i the not heard from the shareholder or any person of the Bonds will have the right to require the repurchase of all or any part of their Bonds money owed by the shareholder is payable entitled to sell the shares.
immediately: ii the Directors have given at a redemption price equal to 101% of the The Directors may decline registration of principal amount of the Bonds purchased, notice demanding payment, stating the certificated shares if: i a share transfer amount due and that the shares will be together with accrued but unpaid interest.
form is used to transfer more than one class sold on non-payment: and iii the money A number of the Groups operating licences of shares: ii transfers are in favour of more has not been paid within 14 clear days of and shareholders agreements include change than four joint holders: or iii the share the service of the notice.
of control clauses which may be triggered by transfer form is not delivered to the office, or the sale of a business, or certain types of The Directors may make calls on shareholders such other place decided on by the Directors, restructuring.
to pay any money which has not yet been paid accompanied by the share certificate relating to the Company for their shares.
If a call is to the shares being transferred unless the In the event of a change of control, unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay transfer is by a person to whom the Company these clauses may require consideration interest and all expenses incurred by the was not required to, and did not, send a to determine their impact on the Group.
At Company as a result of non-payment if the certificate and any other evidence present, risks arising from a change of control call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the reasonably asked for by the Directors to are not considered to be significant.
In addition, failure to comply show entitlement to transfer the shares.
Group will take appropriate action to mitigate with any such notice may result in forfeiture any risks arising from these events should Uncertificated shares: The Directors may of any share which is the subject of the notice, decline registration of uncertificated shares if they occur.
Change of control provisions in including any unpaid dividends.
relation to the LTIP and Directors service the transfer is in favour of more than four joint The Directors may decline to register the holders or otherwise in accordance with the contracts are explained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 60. transfer of any shares that are not fully paid, Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. provided that such refusal does not prevent Interests in shares: Except where express Rights and obligations attaching to the dealings from taking place on an open and rights are given, the Company will only proper basis.
ordinary shares recognise a current and absolute right to The following section summarises the rights Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide whole shares.
The fact that any share, or any and obligations in the Companys Articles otherwise, a shareholder shall not be part of a share, may not be owned outright of Association the Articles relating to the entitled to vote at any general meeting of by the registered owner is not of any concern ordinary shares of the Company.
The full the Company or at any separate general to the Company.
Articles can be found on the Companys meeting of the holders of any class of shares US Holders: The Directors may require a website www.
in the Company or exercise any other right shareholder or other person appearing to be Amendment of Articles: The Articles may conferred by membership in relation to interested in shares, to disclose information be amended by a special resolution of the general meetings if the shareholder has not relating to the ownership of such shares or shareholders passed at a general meeting paid all amounts relating to those shares to show that such shares are not held by a of the Company.
which are due at the time of the meeting, or US Holder defined in the Articles as being: if the shareholder is given a notice following i persons resident in the US who hold shares Voting: Each share other than those held in a failure by that shareholder or someone treasury allows the holder to have one vote in the Company and ii persons who appear who appears to be interested in the shares to to the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph at general meetings of the Company on votes comply with a notice under section 793 of the taken on a poll.
i of the definition of a US Holder.
Further, if a shareholder holding Directors may require a US Holder to sell their Dividends: The Companys shareholders can 0.25% or more of the issued shares of a class shares to someone who is not a US Holder, declare dividends by passing an ordinary excluding treasury shares or interested failing which, the Company may effect a sale resolution, but the payment cannot exceed person is in default of a section 793 notice, of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
the amount recommended by the Directors.
the Directors may also state in the notice that: 40 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Governance Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Shareholders are also requested to renew the and the Company and or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles shall Directors power to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
Any shares purchased be exclusively and finally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration of the International may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time to time, in accordance with the Articles.
Conflicts of interest The Articles permit the Directors to authorise Appointment and replacement of conflicts and potential conflicts.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors The rules about the appointment and Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of these replacement of Directors are contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions to be elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate such persons.
The by the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from Going concern time to time.
The Groups business activities, together The Articles provide that Directors may be with the factors likely to affect its future appointed by an ordinary resolution of the development, performance and position are members or by a resolution of the Directors, set out in the Business reviews on pages 2 provided that, in the latter instance, a Director to 35 including the Financial review on pages appointed in this way retires at the first AGM 28 to 33.
The financial position of the Group, following his appointment.
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review The Articles also provide that at the first two Annual General Meetings of the Company, on pages 28 to 33.
Further, notes 34 and 43 to the consolidated financial statements one third of the Directors who are then in office shall retire, and detail the circumstances include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial in which and how they may be re-elected.
The Companys members may remove a Director risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: by passing an ordinary resolution for which special notice has been given.
Any Director and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
will automatically cease to be a Director if: The Directors believe that the Groups wide i they resign: ii they offer to resign and the geographic spread, robust monitoring and other Directors accept that offer: iii all the forecasting processes leave it well placed other Directors being at least three require to manage its business risks in the current it: iv they are suffering from mental ill health economic conditions.
In addition, the Groups and the Directors require them to cease to be forecasts and projections, taking into account a Director: v they have missed Directors possible changes in trading performance meetings for a continuous period of six which could be reasonably anticipated, months without permission and the other indicate that the Group is able to operate Directors resolve that they shall cease to within the level of its current available be a Director: vi a bankruptcy order is made facilities.
A formal process for monitoring against them, or they make an arrangement compliance with debt covenants is also in or composition with their creditors: vii they place.
Further information on debt can be are prohibited from being a Director by law: found in note 28 to the consolidated or viii they cease to be a Director under the financial statements.
legislation or are removed from office under the Articles.
After reviewing budgets and other longerterm plans and making enquiries, the Powers of Directors Directors have a reasonable expectation The powers of the Directors are determined that the Group has adequate resources to by UK legislation and the Articles.
As provided continue in operation for the foreseeable in the Articles, the Directors may exercise all future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the Companys powers provided that the the going concern basis in preparing the Articles or applicable legislation do not financial statements.
stipulate that any such powers must be By order of the Board exercised by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and allot Clare Underwood ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12.
Company Secretary The powers under Article 12 are referred 24 May 2011 Cable & Wireless Communications 41
