John Pluthero appointment on 9March 2009 until the 06.
Tim Weller Chairman and Chairman of demerger.
John is chairman of Next plc and Chief Financial Officer and the Nomination Committee is non-executive director of WH Smith PLC.
ExecutiveDirector John Pluthero was appointed as a Director He was formerly chairman of Brit Insurance Tim Weller was appointed as an Executive on25 January 2010 and became Chairman Holdings NV, Wellington Underwriting plc Director and Chief Financial Officer of the ondemerger.
John served as an executive and Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
Tim was director of Cable and Wireless plc from previously chief financial officer of United ANR 04.
Clive Butler November 2005 until the demerger and Utilities Group PLC and served on its main Non-Executive Director and Chairman served as executive chairman of the Cable board of directors since 2006.
Prior to ofthe Remuneration Committee &Wireless Worldwide Group from April 2006, joining United Utilities Group PLC in 2006, Clive Butler was appointed as a Director having previously been its executive director Timwas group finance director atRWE on25January 2010 and became a Nonsince November 2005.
During the period Thames Water and also group finance executive Director on demerger.
Clive from 12November 2007 to 11 November director at RWE npower Holdings PLC served as a non-executive director of Cable 2008, Johnwas also executive chairman formerly Innogy Holdings PLC, the FTSE and Wireless plc from his appointment ofthe Cable& Wireless Communications 100 company.
Timstarted his career at inMay 2005 until thedemerger.
He was Group priorto the appointment of a Cable KPMG, becoming apartner in 1997 before appointed as senior independent director &Wireless Communications Group chief joining the Granada Group PLC where he ofCable and Wireless plcin July 2006 and executive.
From September 2002 until its worked on the merger with Compass chairman of Cable and Wireless plcs acquisition by Cable and Wireless plc in GroupPLC and the subsequent demerger nominations committee in July 2007.
November 2005, John was chief executive of Granada Media plc, after which he Clivewas corporate development director of Energis.
He was founder and chief joinedInnogy Holdings PLC.
Tim has been at Unilever plc, serving on its main board executive officer of Freeserve Limited now anon-executive director of the Carbon ofdirectors from 1992 until his retirement part of Orange, leading it to its flotation, and Trustsince 2007.
He also undertook the roles of prior to this, John held various strategy and isanot-for-profit company with the mission personnel director and category director operations positions within the Dixons to accelerate the move to a low carbon forthe home and personal care division, Group Limited.
John is a director of Merville economy.
He was also appointed as an having worked in a variety of marketing Limited and is chairman of Essensys.
external non-executive director at BBC andgeneral management roles since Worldwide in May 2010.
From 1995-2003, Company on the date of theAnnual General Chief Executive Officer Clive was a non-executive director of Meeting on 21 July 2011. and Executive Director LloydsTSB Group.
Jim Marsh was appointed as a Director on 07.
Penny Hughes 25January 2010 and became Executive Chief Financial Officer and Non-Executive Director and ExecutiveDirector Director and Chief Executive Officer on Chairman ofthe Audit Committee demerger.
Jim was on the Cable and Ian Gibson will be appointed as an Penny Hughes was appointed as a Wireless plc board from 1 January 2010 Executive Director and Chief Financial Directoron 25 January 2010 and became a untilthe demerger.
Jim has also served as Officer on 21 July 2011, the day of the Non-executive Director on demerger.
Penny chief executive officer and a member of the AGM.
Ian joined the Cable&Wireless Group served as a non-executive director of Cable in 1995 and has held a number of senior operating board of the Cable & Wireless and Wireless plc from her appointment Worldwide Group since April 2006.
Prior financial management positions, including on1July 2009 until the demerger.
Penny toits acquisition by Cable and Wireless plc Deputy Chief Financial Officer since May is a non-executive director of Home Retail in November 2005, Jim was business 2010.
In 2009 he was appointed as Acting Group plc and Royal Bank of Scotland development director of Energis.
In this role, Chief Financial Officer and played a leading Group plc, and chairs the remuneration he oversaw the development and service role in the demerger and listing of Cable & committee at both companies, and ofall of Energis channels to market.
During the period WmMorrison Supermarkets PLC where joining Energis, Jim was chief operating 2006 to 2009, Ian held thepositions of chief shechairs the corporate compliance and officer at Atos KPMG Consulting, overseeing financial officer of thebroadband business responsibility committee: she was also a the consulting business across all its industry unit and financial controller for the non-executive director of Gap, Inc. until sectors.
Prior to becoming a partner at Cable&Wireless Europe, Asiaand US May2009.
Penny spent ten years with KPMG in 1997, he was head of strategic business.
Prior to that, heheld a number of Coca-Cola, initially as marketing director, planning at Boots the Chemists Limited.
other senior management positions including ending as president of Coca-Cola GB & director of group accounting services, head ANR 03.
John Barton Ireland, having started her career with of group reporting and head of internal audit.
Deputy Chairman and Procter & Gamble Limited and then The Milk Before joining the Cable&Wireless Group, Senior Independent Director Marketing Board.
Penny has held a number Ianspent 12 years at Deloitte working in John Barton was appointed as a Director of non-executive roles on the boards of both the London and Toronto offices within on25January 2010 and became Deputy international businesses, including Reuters theaudit and forensic accounting teams.
Chairman, Non-executive Director and Limited, Vodafone Limited, Trinity Mirror plc Senior Independent Director on demerger.
and Body Shop International plc.
She is John served as a non-executive director president of the Advertising Association A Denotes membership of Audit Committee ofCable and Wireless plc from his anda trustee of the British Museum.
N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee 18 01 02 03 04 05 06 01 JOhN pLUThERO 02 JIM MARSh 03 JOhN BARTON 04 CLIVE BUTLER 05 pENNy hUGhES 06 TIM WELLER 07 IAN GIBSON 07
