As a UK-Listed Company, Cable & Wireless TheCompany is required to make certain statements relating to the way it is governed Worldwide plc the Company is required to comply with Section 1 of the 2008 Combined andexplain where provisions of the Code have notbeen met.
A full version of the Code Codeon Corporate Governance the Code.
uk Compliance with the Combined Code C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the Board Throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, should satisfy itself that at least one the Company fully complied with the member of the Audit Committee has recent provisions set outin Section 1 of the Code and relevant financial experience.
The with the exceptions listed below: Board considers that there is a sufficient breadth of financial expertise across the A.
7.1 of the Code provides that all Directors Audit Committee and that, collectively, its should be subject to election by shareholders members have the requisite skills and at the first Annual General Meeting following attributes to discharge its responsibilities their appointment.
As a result, the Board has decided of Association the Articles provide that at not to identify any one member as having the first two Annual General Meetings such experience.
following the demerger, one-third of the Directors shall retire from office but shall An updated version of the Code, the UK beeligible for re-election.
This provision Corporate Governance Code, was introduced was included in the Articles to allow for an in May 2010.
This new code applies to even spread of Director re-appointments companies with accounting periods beginning following demerger.
In view of this, it is on or after 29 June 2010.
Cable & Wireless proposed that a further one-third of Directors Worldwide plc is therefore required to comply will seek re-election at the Companys with the new code from its accounting period second Annual General Meeting in 2011. beginning 1 April 2011.
The Company aims to fully comply with the provisions of the new code at the appropriate time.
Board of Directors The Companys Board governance structure The Board of Directors of Cable & Wireless isset outon page 21.
Further details of each of Worldwide plc the Board is collectively the Boards committees including membership responsible to the Companys shareholders and responsibilities are set out within their forthe success of the Groups business.
This termsof reference which are available on the responsibility includes matters of strategy, Companys website.
performance, resources, standards of conduct Internal Control and Risk Management and accountability.
The Board is responsible for the system of internal The names and biographical details of each of control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a the Directors are set out on pages 18 and 19. continual basis.
The system of internal control isdesigned to manage, rather than eliminate the Tim Weller, who was appointed to the Board risk offailure to achieve business objectives and asan Executive Director and Chief Financial can onlyprovide reasonable, but not absolute, Officeron 24May 2010, will leave the Company assurance against material misstatement or on 21 July 2011 as previously announced.
The concept ofreasonable assurance Atthistime, Ian Gibson will be appointed as an recognises that the cost of control procedures Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer should not exceed the expected benefits.
IanGibsons biographical details are also set out on page 18.
