A trend we believe represents a significant growth opportunity for Cable&Wireless Worldwide is the customer demand for integrated solutions, incorporating robust network connectivity, hosting and applications delivery and management, i. e. cloud-based services for hosting space and the movement to hosted service base offering.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide has a strong range of products, all based on forward-looking technology, and has developed Flexible Computing to support organisations growing communications demands.
We can deliver cloud on a virtualised platform, accessed over our Multi-Service Platform MSP network and store customers data across our multiple UK data centres.
Cloud computing allows customers to access on-demand computing resources which are integrated into a customers corporate or Cable&Wireless Worldwides wide area network WAN.
Adopting cloud services is an evolution, not a revolution.
Flexible Computing APPLICATION PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT BENEFITS Flexible Scalable CABLE&WIRELESS Cost efficient WORLDWIDES Accessible MSP Agile Secure Local Area Network Cable&Wireless Worldwide Standardised Services LAN Data Centres Wide Area Network WAN Devices Easy to manage INFRASTRUCTURE AS A SERVICE COMMUNICATIONS AS A SERVICE What does cloud computing offer?
FINDINgS FROM THE Enhances or replaces an organisations Drives value from an IT estate and ensures FORRESTER SuRVEy physical computing environment with a a quicker return on investment: secure, scalable, purpose-built and flexible Allows organisations to become more 2,803 IT decision-makers, 49% infrastructure for their hosted applications agile, able to respond to customer of North American companies and through a virtualised platform: demand faster, and rapidly scale their 45% of European companies report Organisations no longer need to invest ITorganisation to meet their business that pursuing a strategy of embracing in capital-intensive IT assets to cope needs: and cloud infrastructure services is a high withgrowing storage and processing As data is stored remotely, employees or critical priority during the next requirements through seasonal or canaccess it wherever they are which 12 months.
peakdemand: allows flexible working and stimulates Source: Q&A: Demystifying Cloud Security, Allows organisations to simply pay productivity.
Forrester Research Inc. 29 October 2010 for what they use: Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 05 SECURE ENVIRONMENT
