Induction, information and professional As part of the overall evaluation process, the Chairman met with each Director to evaluate their individual development All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a performance, and the Non-executive Directors, led bythe Senior Independent Director, met without the comprehensive induction briefing tailored to meet their individual needs.
Ongoing development and training is Chairman being present to evaluate the performance provided to Directors at Board meetings and, where ofthe Chairman.
During the year, Directors received regular updates and presentations The overall conclusion from the evaluations was that including the following: the Chairman, individual Directors, the Board and its principal Committees operate effectively.
The Board Developments within the business and the markets and its Committees will continue to review critically where the business operates: their respective effectiveness and development during Legal and regulatory matters: and the year ahead.
Other matters that were deemed beneficial.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Chairman, with assistance from the General 2010, the Company intends to undertake an external Counsel and Company Secretary, is responsible for assessment of the Board, its Committees and individual delivering an effective induction programme for newly Directors using an independent third-party every appointed Directors.
In addition, all Directors have threeyears.
fullaccess to the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible Directors indemnities and protections for advising the Board on all legal and governance The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability matters, and ensuring that the correct Board procedures Insurance which provides appropriate cover for any are followed.
Directors also have the option to seek legal action brought against its Directors and Officers.
independent professional advice at the Companys The Company has also granted indemnities to each of expense in respect of their duties as Directors.
its Directors to the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section Performance evaluation 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during An evaluation of the performance of the Board and each the year ended 31 March 2011, and remain in force, of its principal Committees was conducted during inrelation to certain losses and liabilities which the theyear using comprehensive tailored questionnaires.
Directors may incur to third parties in the course of The internal evaluation was facilitated by the acting as Directors or employees of the Company.
The Board Copies of the indemnities granted are available for questionnaire was completed by each Director and inspection at the Companys registered office in theprincipal Committee questionnaires were completed accordance with the Companies Act 2006. by the respective members of those Committees.
Board Committees The questionnaires focused on the following key themes: In order for the Board to operate effectively, and to Strategy: enable it to give the required amount of attention and Risk management: consideration to matters reserved to it, it has delegated Relations with shareholders: authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks as Board and Committee succession planning: defined in each of the Committees terms of reference.
Board and Committee composition: and The Board reviews the terms of reference of each of Training.
itsCommittees on an annual basis to ensure that they remain effective and are in line with best practice.
The The responses to the questionnaires formed the basis of written terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration separate reports which were considered at subsequent and Nomination Committees are available on the Board and Committee meetings.
The evaluation process Companys website.
The minutes of Committee highlighted a small number of areas for enhancement meetings are made available to the Board on a timely relating to Board and Committee composition and basis after each meeting.
In addition, the Chairmen succession planning, and these areas are being ofeach of the principal Committees provide updates activelyaddressed.
tothe Board at subsequent Board meetings.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 43 Board governance structure Shareholders Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Disclosure Committee The Companys Board governance structure is set Assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities to outabove.
Further details of each of the Boards create an effective system of internal control and Committees including membership and responsibilities compliance procedures, and risk management are set out within the following Committee reports: systems: Approve the internal audit programme and make any Audit Committee necessary recommendations to the Board: Membership of the Committee Consider the role and independence of the external The members of the Committee are the independent auditor, and make the appropriate recommendations Non-executive Directors listed below: to the Board on the appointment or the reappointment of the Groups external auditors: and Penny Hughes Chairman Review the Groups processes for detecting and John Barton addressing fraud, bribery, misconduct and control Clive Butler weaknesses and consider reports on any such occurrence.
Membership of the Committee is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Key issues considered by the Committee Committee.
Only the members of the Committee The Committee discharged its responsibilities through a havethe right to attend Committee meetings although series of meetings during the year.
The Committee met others including the Chief Financial Officer, the Risk four times during the year ended 31 March 2011 and Director, and the General Counsel and Company attendance at these meetings is set out on page 42.
Secretary along with representatives of the external The agenda for each meeting is prepared by the auditor are normally invited to each meeting.
Committee Chairman in conjunction with other members of the Committee and the Committee Rule 7.1.
1 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules Secretary as appropriate.
At each scheduled meeting requires at least one member of the Audit Committee to the Committee received reports from the Chief have competence in accounting and or auditing and the Financial Officer, the external auditors and the Risk Board is satisfied that the composition of the Audit Director along with twice-yearly litigation reports from Committee complies with that requirement.
the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
In addition, at each of the scheduled meetings, the Role and responsibilities of the Committee Committee met privately with the external auditors, and The Committee is principally responsible for reviewing separately with the Risk Director, who is responsible for the integrity of the Companys financial reporting internal audit within the Group.
andeffectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Inaddition, the Committee is responsible for the During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Committees Companys risk identification and management deliberations included the following key matters: procedures as well as monitoring auditor independence.
Consideration and ongoing review of the Companys The Committees terms of reference were reviewed financial performance including a review of the full during the year to ensure that they remained fit for and half-year results, assisting the Board in assuring purpose and were in line with the Institute of Chartered the integrity of the financial statements and related Secretaries and Administrators best practice guidelines.
disclosures: In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee Review of the Internal Audit function and has delegated authority from the Board to: effectiveness against the Internal Audit programme: Review of non-audit work carried out by the Groups Monitor the integrity and accuracy of the Groups external auditor and fees relating to this work in financial statements, including annual, half-year and accordance with the Audit and Non-Audit fees interim management statements, and any formal Policy, to ensure the auditors independence and announcement relating to the Companys financial objectivity: performance: Consideration and approval of the Groups Review significant reporting issues, the consistency compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate of accounting policies and disclosures, and any Governance and any explanations for nondecisions requiring a major element of judgement: compliance: 44 Governance Corporate governance Review of the Groups framework for the identification Audit and non-audit fees The allocation of non-audit work is considered in and control of major risks including risk policies and the Groups risk review process: accordance with the Groups Audit and Non-Audit FeesPolicy, which was approved by the Committee Review of litigation matters affecting the Company: Review of confidential reporting procedures and inMay 2010, and in line with National Association of fraud prevention arrangements within the Company, Pension Funds guidance which recommends that including the Companys policy relating to antinon-audit fees should not exceed 100% of audit fees.
bribery and corruption in readiness for the Bribery The Audit and Non-Audit Fees Policy sets out a Act 2010 coming into force on 1 July 2011, and any framework of pre-approved audit services and also instances of whistle-blowing during the year: services which are prohibited to be carried out by the Consideration of the effectiveness of the Committee auditor.
The Committee maintains anoverview of the and the appropriateness of its terms of reference: and ratio of audit fees to non-audit feescharged by the Review of the external auditor, including external auditor to ensure that itsobjectivity and performance, areas for improvement and level independence is not put at risk.
Asummary of all ofaudit fee.
non-audit fees is provided at each meeting of the AuditCommittee.
Having undertaken afull review of Internal audit thenon-audit services provided by theauditor during The internal audit function, led by the Risk Director, the year ended 31 March 2011, theCommittee is issupported by a team of internal auditors that is satisfied that these services were provided effectively augmented by specialists from PwC as required.
and did not prejudice the objectivity or independence Thisfunction has a formal charter approved by the ofthe auditor.
Board that describes its purpose, authority and responsibility.
Theinternal audit plan is approved For the year ended 31 March 2011, the Committee bytheCommittee on an annual basis.
Formal reports approved fees of 1.7 million to KPMG, for audit are submitted to Committee meetings, and views services.
Inaddition, the Committee approved fees arealso sought at private sessions between the of0.4 million to KPMG for non-audit related work.
Committee and the internal auditors.
The Committee Non-audit related work accounted for 24% of the total annually assesses theeffectiveness of the internal audit and audit related fees paid to the external auditor auditfunction using acomprehensive evaluation during the year.
A breakdown of fees paid to the questionnaire, which isfacilitated by the General auditoris set out in note 6 on page 76.
Nomination Committee External audit Membership of the Committee KPMG Audit plc KPMG has been the external auditor The members of the Committee are the independent of the Group since the demerger of Cable & Wireless Non-executive Directors listed below and the Chairman: Worldwide plc in March 2010 having previously been John Pluthero Chairman the external auditors of Cable and Wireless plc.
The Penny Hughes Committee manages the relationship with the external John Barton auditor on behalf of the Board and monitors their Clive Butler independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of the external audit on an annual basis.
Membership of the Committee is determined by the Board.
The Committee meets at appropriate times KPMG has expressed its willingness to be re-appointed during the year to discharge its responsibilities and as auditors of the Company.
The Committee does not metthree times during the year ended 31 March 2011. consider it necessary to re-tender for the audit work Attendance at these meetings is set out on page 42. and has recommended to the Board that KPMG be The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee re-appointed as the Companys auditors for a further Chairman in conjunction with other members of the year.
The Board has accepted this recommendation Committee, and the Committee Secretary, as and has proposed a resolution to shareholders at the appropriate.
2011 AGM for the re-appointment of KPMG as auditors.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee The external auditors are required to rotate the audit The Committee is responsible for making partners responsible for the Group audit every five recommendations to the Board, within its agreed terms years.
The current lead partner has been in place for of reference, on appointments to the Board.
The Company has not entered into a of reference of the Committee were reviewed during the limitation of liability agreement with itsauditors.
year to ensure that they remained fit for purpose and were in line with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries In accordance with International Standards on Auditing and Administrators best practice guidelines.
UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditors have confirmed theirindependence as auditors of the Company in aletter addressed to the Board.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 45
