There are a number of legal and regulatory Transfer of shares requirements with which Cable & Wireless Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of Worldwide plc must comply, such as the issue of any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules and all of his shares.
The Directors may decline to register Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This section the transfer of any shares in certificated form that are contains additional information, required by these not fully paid up or otherwise in accordance with the laws and regulations to be included by the Articles, provided that such refusal does not prevent Directors in the Annual Report and Accounts.
dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Principal activities, business review and results Branches Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, registered number Cable&Wireless Worldwide, through various subsidiaries, 7029206, is a global telecommunications company.
has established branches in a number of different TheGroups principal activities during the year are countries in which the business operates.
Through this annual report, including the Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Winding up statements, the Chief Financial Officers review, the If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may divide Business Review and Strategy sections that precede the whole or any part of the assets of the Company this report, the Board seeks to present a balanced and among the shareholders subject to the passing of a clear assessment of the Groups activities, position and resolution by a 75% majority vote of the shareholders.
The Groups results for the financial year are No shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares shown in the consolidated income statement on or other property which carries a liability.
Major acquisitions and disposals Share capital Full details of acquisitions and disposals are disclosed As at 31 March 2011, the issued share capital of the in note 10 on page 77.
Company was 2,678,782,250 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
Details of changes to ordinary shares issued Events after the balance sheet date andawards and options granted during the year are No other significant events occurred after the balance setout in notes 31 and 32 to the consolidated financial sheet date of 31 March 2011 that had a material effect statements.
No person holds securities in the Company on the Groups financial position, results of operations carrying special voting rights with regard to control or cash flows.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may Related party transactions result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on Related party transactions are set out in note 35 to the voting rights.
Each share other than treasury shares Financial Statements on page 93. entitles the holder to one vote at general meetings ofthe Company on votes taken on a poll.
The rights Essential contractual arrangements attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Given the scope and diversity of the Cable&Wireless Companys Articles, which are available on the Worldwide business activities, the Company does not Companys website.
consider there are persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements, which are Authority to purchase shares essential to the business of the Cable&Wireless The Company received authority from shareholders at Worldwide Group.
the 2010 AGM to purchase up to 262 million of its own shares, within certain limits as set out in the special Significant contracts change of control resolution.
The authority is due to expire at the 2011 The Group has a number of contracts that are subject AGM, where upon it is proposed that it will be renewed.
to change of control clauses.
These primarily relate Shares repurchased may be cancelled or retained tofinancing facilities, major customer contracts and astreasury shares.
No shares were purchased under licence agreements.
the authority granted at the 2010 AGM, nor did the Company acquire any of its shares by other means.
In particular, under the Groups 300 million revolving Currently the Company holds no treasury shares.
credit facility agreement, unless all the lenders agree otherwise, on a change of control the facility shall be cancelled in full and all outstanding amounts together with related charges become immediately due and payable.
56 Under the Companys 230 million 5.75% Convertible adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, they Bonds due in 2014, for a period of 60 days following achange of control of the Company or, if later, notice continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial accounts.
For further information please thereof the conversion price will be adjusted downwards in accordance with a formula resulting in straight-line refer to the Going Concern statement set out in note 2 of the accounts on page 65. amortisation of the conversion premium of the convertible bonds.
In addition, on a change of control Business ethics ofthe Company, each holder of convertible bonds may exercise their conversion rights or, instead, require the We place significant focus on Business Ethics and theassociated attitudes and practices it encourages.
Company to redeem any convertible bond held by such holder at its principal amount, together with accrued In2010 we launched Business Ethics into the organisation.
This included the creation of a worldwide and unpaid interest.
policy complimented by a mandatory e-learn course.
Todate 97% of colleagues have completed the course, Under a contingent funding agreement with Cable & Wireless Worldwide Pension Fund Trustee Limited, the and ourunique approach was covered in The Times in November 2010.
The Business Ethics policy is available pensions trustees of the Cable & Wireless Retirement Plan have the right on a change of control to procure on our website.
and call on a letter of credit up to 100 million or, if less, the value of any deficit in the plan at the date of the Employees The Group is committed to the fair and equitable change of control.
treatment of all its employees, irrespective of sex, race, age, religion or belief, disability, sexual orientation or At present, risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be significant.
For change of control marital status.
To this end, policies have been put in place to ensure that this commitment is implemented provisions in relation to Directors service contracts, refer to the Directors remuneration report onpages atrecruitment and continues throughout an individuals employment with the Group.
Full and fair consideration 48to 55. is given to applicants with disabilities for employment and training, and career development is encouraged on Creditor payment policy When entering into purchase contracts, the Company the basis of aptitude and ability.
It is the Groups policy to make all reasonable adjustments for employees and agrees payment terms with its suppliers and draws their attention to such terms.
The Company seeks to abide applicants with disabilities to enable them to maximise their potential.
by those terms on timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
During the year, the average number of days The Group communicates with employees in many between the invoice date and the date of payment within the Group was 61 days.
The Company does not ways, including: regular briefings by management, have any trade payables.
newsletters, intranet sites, mobile phone broadcasts, video conferences and consultation forums.
These Charitable and political donations communications help to achieve a common awareness During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group amongst colleagues of the financial and operational madecharitable donations totalling 300,762. performance of the Group.
The Company consults Furtherinformation relating to the Groups support employees on key matters affecting their interests forcommunities and social activities are set out in through a formalised employee consultation forum.
theCorporate Responsibility section on page 27.
The Group is committed to ensuring that employees It is not the Companys policy to incur political share in its success.
Colleagues are encouraged to expenditure or to make political donations.
In accordance participate in share purchase schemes and hold with this policy, no donations were made in any EU investments in the Companys shares.
member state for political purposes, as defined in Section 364 of the Companies Act 2006, during the Compensation for loss of office year ended 31 March 2011.
Information relating to Directors compensation for loss of office in the event of change of control is set out on Going concern page 51 of the Remuneration Report.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 57
