John Pluthero Cable and Wireless plc from his appointment Chief Financial Officer and Chairman and Chairman of on 9March 2009 until the demerger.
John is ExecutiveDirector the Nomination Committee chairman of Next plc and is non-executive Tim Weller was appointed as an Executive John Pluthero was appointed as a Director director of WH Smith PLC.
He was formerly Director and Chief Financial Officer of the on25 January 2010 and became Chairman chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings NV, Company on 24 May 2010.
John served as an Executive Wellington Underwriting plc and Jardine Lloyd chief financial officer of United Utilities Group Director of Cable and Wireless plc from Thompson Group plc.
PLC and served on its main board of directors November 2005 until the demerger and served ANR 04.
Prior to joining United Utilities as Executive Chairman of the Cable&Wireless Non-executive Director and Chairman Group PLC in 2006, Timwas group finance Worldwide Group from April 2006, having ofthe Remuneration Committee director atRWE Thames Water and also group previously been its Executive Director since Clive Butler was appointed as a Director on finance director at RWE npower Holdings PLC November 2005.
During the period from 25January 2010 and became a Non-executive formerly Innogy Holdings PLC, the FTSE 100 12November 2007 to 11 November 2008, Director on demerger.
Timstarted his career at KPMG, Johnwas also Executive Chairman of the non-executive director of Cable and Wireless becoming apartner in 1997 before joining the Cable& Wireless Communications Group plc from his appointment in May 2005 until Granada Group PLC where he worked on the priorto the appointment of a Cable & Wireless thedemerger.
He was appointed as senior merger with Compass Group PLC and the Communications Group chief executive.
From independent director of Cable and Wireless subsequent demerger of Granada Media plc, September 2002 until its acquisition by Cable plcin July 2006 and chairman of Cable and after which he joined Innogy Holdings PLC.
and Wireless plc in November 2005, John was Wireless plcs nominations committee in Tim has been a non-executive director of the chief executive of Energis.
Clive was corporate development Carbon Trust since 2007.
The Carbon Trust chief executive officer of Freeserve Limited director at Unilever plc, serving on its main isanot-for-profit company with the mission now part of Orange, leading it to its flotation, board of directors from 1992 until his retirement toaccelerate the move to a low carbon and prior to this, John held various strategy in 2005.
He also undertook the roles of economy.
He was also appointed as an and operations positions within the Dixons personnel director and category director for external non-executive director at BBC Group Limited.
John is a director of Merville the home and personal care division, having Worldwide in May 2010.
Tim will leave the Limited and is chairman of Essensys.
worked in a variety of marketing and general Company on the date of theAnnual General 02.
Jim Marsh management roles since joining Unilever in Meeting AGM on 21 July 2011.
Ian Gibson and Executive Director executive director of Lloyds TSB Group.
Chief Financial Officer and Jim Marsh was appointed as a Director on ANR 05.
Penny Hughes ExecutiveDirector 25January 2010 and became Executive Non-executive Director and Ian Gibson will be appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer on Chairman ofthe Audit Committee Director and Chief Financial Officer on 21 July demerger.
Jim was on the Cable and Wireless Penny Hughes was appointed as a Director on 2011, the day of the AGM.
Ian joined the plc board from 1 January 2010 until the 25 January 2010 and became a Non-executive Cable&Wireless Group in 1995 and has held demerger.
Jim has also served as Chief Director on demerger.
Penny served as a anumber of senior financial management Executive Officer and a member of the non-executive director of Cable and Wireless positions including Deputy Chief Financial operating board of the Cable&Wireless plc from her appointment on 1July 2009 Officer since May 2010.
In 2009 he was Worldwide Group since April 2006.
Prior to its untilthe demerger.
Penny is a non-executive appointed as Acting Chief Financial Officer acquisition by Cable and Wireless plc in director of Home Retail Group plc and Royal and played a leading role in the demerger and November 2005, Jimwas business Bank of Scotland Group plc, and chairs the listing of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
In this role, he remuneration committee at both companies, During the period 2006 to 2009, Ian held oversaw the development and service of all of and WmMorrison Supermarkets PLC where thepositions of chief financial officer of Energis channels to market.
Before joining she chairs the corporate compliance and thebroadband business unit and financial Energis, Jim was chief operating officer at Atos responsibility committee: she was also a controller for the Cable&Wireless Europe, KPMG Consulting, overseeing the consulting non-executive director of Gap, Inc. until May Asiaand US business.
Prior to that, heheld a business across all its industry sectors.
Penny spent ten years with Coca-Cola, number of other senior management positions to becoming a partner at KPMG in 1997, he initially as marketing director, ending as including director of group accounting services, was head of strategic planning at Boots the president of Coca-Cola GB & Ireland, having head of group reporting and head of internal Chemists Limited.
started her career with Procter & Gamble audit.
Before joining the Cable & Wireless ANR 03.
John Barton Limited and then The Milk Marketing Board.
Group, Ianspent 12 years at Deloitte working Deputy Chairman and Penny has held a number of non-executive in both the London and Toronto offices within Senior Independent Director roles on the boards of international businesses, theaudit and forensic accounting teams.
John Barton was appointed as a Director including Reuters Limited, Vodafone Limited, on25January 2010 and became Deputy Trinity Mirror plc and Body Shop International Chairman, Non-executive Director and plc.
She is president of the Advertising A Denotes membership of Audit Committee SeniorIndependent Director on demerger.
Association and a trustee of the British Museum.
N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee John served as a non-executive director of 38 01 02 03 04 05 06 01 JoHN PLuTHEro 02 JIM MArSH 03 JoHN BArToN 04 CLIVE BuTLEr 05 PENNY HuGHES 06 TIM WELLEr 07 IAN GIBSoN 07
