Board of Directors Composition of the Board The Board of Directors of Cable & Wireless Worldwide The Board is made up of the Chairman, two Executive plc the Board is collectively responsible to the Directors and three independent Non-executive Companys shareholders for the success of the Groups Directors.
The Board believes that this balance business.
This responsibility includes matters of allowsfor the promotion of high-quality discussion andconsideration of key issues affecting the Company.
strategy, performance, resources, standards of conduct and accountability.
The names and biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on page 38.
The powers of Directors are set out in the Companys Tim Weller, who was appointed to the Board as an Articles, which are available on the Companys website.
The Articles may be amended by way of a special Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 24May 2010, will leave the Company on 21 July 2011 as resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles previously announced.
Atthis time, Ian Gibson will be appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Financial and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
IanGibsons biographical details are also set out on page 38.
The Board has established a formal schedule of Appointment, removal and re-election of Directors mattersspecifically reserved for its approval, a summary of which is set out below.
The full schedule The Board has established a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the selection and subsequent ofmatters reserved for the Board is available on the Companys website.
The Board has delegated other appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This process is described in the Nomination Committee specific responsibilities to its Committees and these areclearly defined within the respective Committees section on page 45 of this Report.
The rules relating tothe appointment and replacement of Directors are terms of reference.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution The Board is specifically responsible for the following key matters: ofthe members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in that way retires and is submitted for election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM Matters reserved for the Board following their appointment.
Approve the Groups business strategy and ensure that an effective management team and The Articles provide that at each of the first two AGMs resources are in place to ensure the Group meets following the adoption of the Articles, one-third of the its objectives: Directors who are then in office or, if their number is Approve the Companys interim and final results, notthree or a multiple of three, the number nearest to the interim management statements, the annual one-third, shall retire from office but shall be eligible report and financial statements, and dividend for election or re-election.
Penny Hughes and John policy and payments: Pluthero retired from the Board and were elected at the Review, via the Audit Committee, the Groups 2010 AGM.
In accordance with the Articles, Jim Marsh internal controls and risk management systems, and John Barton will retire from the Board and submit and approve Group-wide governance policies: themselves for election at the 2011 AGM.
In addition, Approve major changes to the Groups Ian Gibson, will be appointed by the Board as a Director management or control structure: on 21 July 2011 as previously announced, and will Review and approve the Groups budgetary submit himself for election as a Director at the 2011 AGM.
requirements: Review the performance of the Board and the Company and ensure succession plans are in place for key individuals: Approve major press releases and documentation to be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting: Approve major contracts and expenditure: and Approve the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 41 Non-executive Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination The independent Non-executive Directors bring Board Committee Committee Committee external insight to the Board and its Committees Total meetings deliberations providing a wide range of knowledge held during the andbusiness experience from other sectors and period 1 April 2010 businesses.
They play an important role in the to 31 March 2011 14 4 8 3 formulation and progression of the Boards agreed strategy, and review and monitor the performance Chairman ofthe executive management in the implementation John Pluthero 14 3 ofthis strategy.
Executive Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial Jim Marsh 14 three year term, commencing with their election Tim Weller 13 byshareholders at the first AGM following their Non-executive appointment by the Board.
Subsequent re-appointment is subject to a rigorous review by the Nomination Directors John Barton 13 4 8 3 Committee.
As part of its annual review of corporate governance, the Board considered the independence of Clive Butler 13 4 8 3 Penny Hughes 13 4 8 3 each Non-executive Director against criteria specified in the Code and determined that each remained Director is not a Committee member.
independent in character and judgement.
The terms Tim Weller was appointed as a Director of the Company on 24 May and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive 2010 and was eligible to attend 13 Board meetings during the year.
Directors, together with the service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the Directors conflicts of interest Companys registered office during normal business Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations hours, and at the AGM.
During the year, the Nonwhere they have, or could have, a direct or indirect executive Directors, including the Chairman, met interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with independently of management.
The Companies Act 2006 andthe Companys Articles allow the Board to Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer authorise such conflicts of interest.
andSenior Independent Director The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and The Board has put in place effective procedures for theChief Executive Officer are separate, clearly managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts established, set out in writing, and have been approved or potential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, by the Board.
The division of responsibilities schedule Directors are required to declare all directorships or is available on the Companys website.
The Chairman other appointments to companies which are not part of isresponsible for the leadership and governance of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group, as well as other theBoard as a whole, and the Chief Executive Officer situations which could give rise to a potential conflict.
for the management of the Group, and the successful The Board will, where appropriate, authorise a conflict planning and implementation of Board strategy.
or potential conflict, and will impose all necessary restrictions and or conditions where it sees fit.
The John Barton, the Companys Deputy Chairman and Companys register of Directors conflicts of interest is Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels has either failed to resolve a matter, or is No Director had a material interest in any significant deemed inappropriate.
contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Board meetings The Board recognises the importance of holding regular External appointments scheduled meetings throughout the year.
All Directors The Board has approved an Executive Director External are expected to attend all Board and relevant Directorships Policy, which allows Executive Directors Committee meetings.
During the year, the Board met to accept one other non-executive director position in on14 separate occasions.
Each year at least one of the anon-conflicting FTSE listed company, and any other Boards meetings is held overseas to facilitate a better positions in non-listed companies at the discretion understanding of the Groups business functions within ofthe Board.
The Board firmly believes that such that area.
During the year, the Board held one of its appointments broaden the experience and knowledge meetings in Singapore, which included items of of the Executive Directors and are therefore beneficial business relating specifically to that area.
Details of to the Company.
The appointment of Executive Board and principal Committee meeting attendance Directors to such positions is subject to Board approval.
byDirectors are set out in the following table.
When determining whether to approve such a request, the Board will consider the likely time commitment involved.
Executive Directors are allowed to retain thefees from their external appointments.
External appointments held by Directors are set out in their biographies on page 38.
