Effectiveness of internal control The trustees of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Share The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Ownership Trust exercise the voting rights on Cable & internal control systems in operation during the Wireless Worldwide plc shares held in the employee Groupsfinancial year in accordance with the revised trust in accordance with their fiduciary duties as Turnbull guidance.
The processes as set out above trustees, which include the duty to act in the best have been in place for the period under review and up interests of the beneficiaries of the trust.
to the date of this Annual Report.
Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy Dividends any failings and weaknesses identified as significant The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by during this review.
passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within TheDirectors may also pay interim dividends without our joint ventures rests with the senior management shareholder approval if they consider that the financial ofthose operations.
We monitor our investments and position of the Company justifies it.
Subject to exert our influence through Board representation.
shareholder approval, the Directors may operate scrip or dividend reinvestment plans, or pay dividends by Relations with shareholders distributing assets.
No dividend carries a right to Shareholder engagement interest from the Company.
If dividends remain The Board places a great deal of importance on unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by the maintaining a good relationship with its shareholders shareholder and revert to the Company.
and has an ongoing active dialogue with shareholders through a programme of investor meetings.
These The Board has recommended a final dividend for the meetings include formal presentations from the Chief year ended 31 March 2011 of 3.0 pence per ordinary Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the share.
Subject to approval by shareholders at this Groups full and half-year results.
years AGM, the final dividend will be payable on 11August 2011 to ordinary shareholders on the register The Chairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders at the close of business on 10 June 2011.
If approved, on a variety of subjects including strategy, corporate this will equate to a total dividend of 4.5 pence per governance and Directors remuneration, and provides ordinary share for the year to 31 March 2011 when feedback to the Board on the topics raised in these added to the interim dividend of 1.5 pence per ordinary meetings.
Non-executive Directors are available to share paid on 27 January 2011. attend meetings with shareholders if requested to do so, and all Directors are expected to attend the AGM.
Significant shareholders The Board also receives reports of meetings with Notifications of the following material shareholdings had institutional shareholders together with regular market been received by the Company in accordance with the reports and brokers circulars to enable it to obtain the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 23 May 2011: required understanding of the views of shareholders.
of ordinary % of share John Barton, the Deputy Chairman and Senior Name shares capital Independent Director, is available to shareholders if Legal and General Investment they have concerns that contact through the normal Management Ltd 100,935,912 3.76% channels has either failed to resolve a matter or is BlackRock Inc. 145,568,734 5.43% deemed inappropriate.
Prudential plc 181,126,169 6.75% Newton Investment The AGM of the Company provides a good opportunity Management 203,610,016 7.59% for shareholder engagement and, in particular, for the Sky Investment Counsel Inc. 234,772,209 8.76% Chairman to explain how the Company has progressed Orbis Investment during the year.
It also provides shareholders with the Management Limited 387,781,951 14.46% opportunity to put questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and the Senior Independent American Depositary Receipts Director.
At the meeting, a poll is conducted on each During the year, the Company established a sponsored resolution although shareholders also have the Level I American Depositary Receipt ADR programme.
opportunity to cast their votes by proxy, either An ADR is a security which has been created to permit electronically or by post.
Following each general US investors to hold shares in non-US companies and meeting, the results of the poll are published on the trade them on the Over The Counter market in the Companys website.
Trading in ADRs, as opposed to ordinary shares, permits US residents to trade in US dollars in the US Exercise of rights of shares by Employee securities markets with US securities dealers, in the Share Trusts same way as they trade any US securities.
Establishing The trustee of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Share an ADR programme enables the Company to access Ownership Trust is required to abstain from voting any new pools of investor capital within the US and helps shares in which it holds the whole of the beneficial further build its North American shareholder base.
interest at any general meeting, unless the Company directs that the trustee may vote.
When the Company On behalf of the Board has directed the trustee to vote the shares in which the trustee holds the whole of the beneficial interest, the Philip Davis trustee may in its absolute discretion vote in any General Counsel and Company Secretary manner which it thinks fit or may abstain from voting.
23 May 2011 Cable&Wireless Worldwide 2010 11 Annual Report 47
