DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the results of Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted accordingly with the Company for the year to 30 April 2011. regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not be taken out if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to over 30% of Business Review shareholders funds.
Equity exposure will, on occasions, be below Business and Status 100% of shareholders funds.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Performance section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
In the performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving opinion of the Directors, the Company conducts its affairs so as to its objectives.
enable it to obtain approval by HM Revenue & Customs as an The key performance indicators used to measure the progress and investment trust under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act performance of the Company over time are established industry 2010 formerly section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes measures and are as follows: Act 1988.
The Company was approved as an investment trust for the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a total the year ended 30 April 2010, subject to matters that may arise return basis: from any subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into the Companys tax return.
The Company will continue to seek approval the movement in the share price on a total return basis: under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 each year.
the discount: and Objective the total expense ratio.
The Companys objective is to invest internationally to achieve The five year record for the net asset value and share price capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
performance compared to the FTSE World Index can be found on Investment Policy page 3 along with the five year record for the discount.
Details of Monks seeks to meet its objective of achieving capital growth the total expense ratio can be found in the ten year record on page through investment principally in a portfolio of international quoted 17 along with other financial highlights.
In addition to the above, equities.
Equities are selected for their inclusion within the portfolio the Board also considers peer group comparative performance.
solely on the basis of the strength of the investment case.
Results When investing, the Company is prepared to move freely between In the year to 30 April 2011 the net asset value total return with different markets as opportunities arise.
There are no limits to borrowings at fair value was 11.2% and the share price total return geographical or sector exposures, but these are reported to, and was 16.7%, compared to a return on the comparative index of monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate 9.3%.
The discount of the share price to net asset value decreased diversification is achieved.
The equity portfolio is relatively from 14.0% to 9.9%.
concentrated for a global fund and, as at the financial year end, it contained 121 equity holdings including 18 investments in funds.
Dividends The number of holdings in equities and funds will typically be The Board recommends a final dividend of 2.50p per ordinary between 70 and 200.
A portfolio review by the Managers is given share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total of on pages 6 to 8 and the investments held at the year end are listed 3.00p for the year.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended will be paid on 5 August 2011 to shareholders on the register at the including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum close of business on 8 July 2011.
The ex-dividend date is 6 July permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in aggregate 2011.
The Companys Registrar offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than equities will be see page 51 and the final date for elections for this dividend is 15 purchased from time to time including fixed interest holdings, July 2011. unquoted securities and derivatives.
The Company may use Borrowings derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management The Company has two debenture stocks in issue, details of which including reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its are given on pages 39 and 47.
During the year the Company took investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve out a new 40m three year fixed rate loan facility with Scotiabank capital growth.
Europe PLC and, on expiry, replaced its 40m one year floating While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring rate loan facility with Lloyds TSB with a similar one year floating rate performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index facility also with Scotiabank Europe PLC.
Since March 2010, the when constructing the portfolio and the composition of the portfolio is Company has had in place a 40m 30 year interest rate swap.
likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
A long term view is Further details of the Companys borrowings are set out in notes 11 taken and there may be periods when the net asset value per share and 12 and on pages 47 and 48. declines both in absolute terms and relative to the comparative Review of the Year and Future Trends index.
Payment of dividends is secondary to achieving capital A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in the growth.
The shares are not considered to be a suitable investment for Chairmans Statement and the Managers Portfolio Review on pages those seeking a regular or rising income.
Borrowings are invested in equity and other markets when this is considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by the Board and THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties Corporate Governance The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, principles of the June 2008 UK Corporate Governance Code the liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how Code and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC they are managed are contained in note 23 to the financial Code were applied throughout the financial year.
The AIC Code statements on pages 43 to 48. provides a framework of best practice for investment companies.
Other risks faced by the Company include the following: Compliance Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and The Company has complied throughout the year under review with the regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys relevant provisions of the Code and the recommendations of the AIC Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Code except that a Nomination Committee has not been established Breach of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 formerly and Mr JGD Ferguson, Chairman of the Board, is Chairman of the section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could Audit Committee.
lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
As the Board comprises only four non-executive Directors, all of The Managers monitor investment movements and the level of whom are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of section is considered unnecessary.
The appointment of new Directors is 1158 are not breached.
Baillie Giffords Heads of Business Risk & considered by the Board as a whole and the Board conducts an Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide regular reports to the Audit annual review of its composition having regard to the present and Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
future needs of the Company.
Major regulatory change could impose unnecessary compliance The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman burdens on the Company or threaten the viability of the investment of the Audit Committee as he is considered to be independent and company structure.
In such circumstances representation is made to there are no conflicts of interest.
ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
The Board Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, treasury matters, misappropriation of assets.
The Manager has a comprehensive business dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate strategy continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the business in session is held annually.
The Board also reviews the financial the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The Board reviews the statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and Managers Report on Internal Controls and the Reports by other third performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to party providers are reviewed by the Managers on behalf of the Board.
enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
The executive responsibility for investment management has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board purposes sometimes known as gearing.
If the investments fall in comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities page 18. that are readily realisable.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent Employees professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company has no employees.
Terms of Appointment Social and Community Issues The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request.
The Company however believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every three found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on page 22. years and Directors who are also directors of another investment trust managed by Baillie Gifford, or who have served for more than nine years, submit themselves for re-election annually.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT Independence of Directors Induction and Training All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is the Managers and free of any business or other relationship which tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Regular could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that could affect the Company and Directors.
Directors receive other The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning for relevant training as necessary.
company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed annually.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily Remuneration compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered by benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
the AIC Code that long serving directors should not be prevented The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors from being considered independent.
Mr McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co until he Internal Controls and Risk Management retired in 1999.
He is a director of Pacific Horizon Investment Trust The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys system PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. Mr McDougall of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of and Mr Ferguson have both served on the Board for more than nine internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of years and are both directors of The Independent Investment Trust failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable PLC.
Following a formal performance evaluation the Board has but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
concluded that, not withstanding the above, both Mr McDougall The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, and Mr Ferguson are independent in character and judgement.
Their evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company skills and experience add significantly to the strength of the Board.
in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Meetings Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment system and they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board year under review.
considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and Board and the Audit Committee meetings held during the year.
All of investment management, have been delegated to the Managers and the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Management Agreement.
Directors Attendance at Meetings The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and Audit maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard the Name Board Committee assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly, including Number of meetings 6 2 the maintenance of effective operational and compliance controls and risk management have also been delegated to Baillie Gifford & JGD Ferguson 6 2 Co.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and CC Ferguson 6 2 control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their EM Harley 6 2 obligations.
DCP McDougall 5 1 The Baillie Gifford & Co Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie Performance Evaluation Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance these departments are defined and formalised within a service level evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual review of their Committee was carried out during the year.
The performance of system of internal controls which is documented within an internal each Director was appraised by the Chairman and the Chairmans controls report which complies with Technical Release AAF 01 06 appraisal was led by Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations Director.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other made available to Third Parties.
This report is independently criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the contribution of reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a copy is submitted individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and to the Audit Committee.
Following this process it was concluded that The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie the performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and the Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of The Audit Committee continues to be effective and that each Director Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the and the Chairman remain committed to the Company.
the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are capable of devoting sufficient A detailed risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks time to the Company.
There were no significant changes to the faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage Chairmans other commitments during the year.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the making recommendations to the Board in relation to the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are appointment of the external auditors and approving the being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been remuneration and terms of their engagement: identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the whether further action is required to manage the risks identified.
The external auditors to supply non-audit services: Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the effectiveness of the external auditors: date of approval of this Report.
reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Internal Audit Co whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other internal audit function.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that matters insofar as they may affect the Company: the Managers compliance and internal control systems and internal audit function provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Agreement: and internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the considering whether there is a need for the Company to have its Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific own internal audit function.
to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
 LLP are engaged as the Companys Accountability and Audit Auditors.
Having considered the experience and tenure of the audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in partner and staff and the nature of services provided, the Committee connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 25 remains satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness.
The audit partners and 27 respectively.
responsible for the audit are rotated every 5 years and the current lead partner has been in place for 4 years.
There are no contractual Going Concern obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on Committee receives confirmation from the auditors that they have going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going requirements on independence.
Non-audit fees for the year to concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and 30 April 2011 were 9,000, comprising 1,000 in relation to the include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of certification of financial information for the debenture trustees and these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 23 to 8,000 in relation to taxation services.
The Committee does not the financial statements.
believe that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in Relations with Shareholders quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities The Board places great importance on communication with significantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with The Board approves borrowing and gearing limits and reviews shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman regularly the amounts of any borrowing and gearing as well as is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders compliance with borrowing covenants.
Gearing levels and wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by compliance with borrowing covenants are reviewed by the Board on writing to them at the Secretaries address on the back cover.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for that the Company will continue in operational existence for the communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for foreseeable future.
each resolution is announced at the AGM and is published on the Companys page of the Managers website Audit Committee www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date reference which are available on request and on the Companys information on the Company from the Managers website.
page of the Managers website: www.
Corporate Governance and Stewardship Mr JGD Ferguson is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote Committee as he is considered to be independent and there are no against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders rights or conflicts of interest.
The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to year include: consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors when monitoring the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial selecting and retaining investments and has asked the Managers to statements and any formal announcements relating to the take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives Companys financial performance: are not compromised.
The Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG factors reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control and but adopt a positive engagement approach whereby matters are risk management systems: discussed with management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management systems and enabling the Managers to 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT consider how ESG factors could impact long term investment returns.
The Directors at the end of the year under review and their interests in The Managers Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship the Company are as shown in the following table.
There have been Code can be found on the Managers website at no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 9 June 2011. www.
The Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Directors Interests The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for Ordinary 5p Ordinary 5p Responsible Investment.
Nature shares held at shares held at Name of interest 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 Conflicts of Interest Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the JGD Ferguson Beneficial 220,000 220,000 Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, CC Ferguson Beneficial 50,000 50,000 taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if EM Harley Beneficial 200,000 200,000 considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one year.
DCP McDougall Beneficial 1,365,648 1,383,148 Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were no actual direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the Directors Indemnity and Insurance interests of the Company.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of each Investment Managers of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of Engagement Committee.
liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any costs An Investment Management Agreement between the Company and incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the Managers Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in have authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, and which judgement is given against him her.
In addition, the indemnity subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The notice period for does not apply to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from terminating the Management Agreement is six months.
consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis on which The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that insurance.
maintaining a relatively low total expense ratio is in the best interest of all shareholders.
The Board is also of the view that calculating the Share Capital fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert a Capital Structure positive influence over the long term performance.
Details of the fee The Companys capital structure consists of 260,764,859 ordinary arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are shown in note 3 on shares of 5p each at 30 April 2011.
There are no restrictions page 33. concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares The Board considers the Companys investment management and and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review Dividends is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results achieved to date: investment performance: the administrative final dividend requires shareholder approval.
services provided by the Secretaries: and the marketing efforts Capital entitlement undertaken by the Managers.
Following the most recent review it is On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the the opinion of the Directors that the continuing appointment of Baillie surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion to Gifford & Co as Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the interests their shareholdings.
Voting Directors Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is entitled Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote for can be found on page 18. every share held.
Mr Ferguson, having served for more than 9 years, retires and offers Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found himself for re-election.
Mr McDougall, being a director of another on page 50. investment trust managed by Baillie Gifford and having served for more than nine years, retires and offers himself for re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board considers that the performance of Mr Ferguson and Mr McDougall continues to be effective and that they remain committed to the Company.
The Board therefore recommends their re-election to shareholders.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 5p Major Interests in the Companys Shares per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does not Ordinary 5p have any warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is drawn to shares held at Resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This authority, Name 30 April 2011 % of issue if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would result in an U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.9 increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the remaining Rensburg Sheppards Investment shareholders and if it is the best interests of shareholders generally.
Management Limited 10,505,532 4.0 Creditor Payment Policy Legal and General Group Plc 9,975,424 3.8 It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best terms for all There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms shares intimated up to 9 June 2011. on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at either 30 April Purchase of Own Shares 2010 or 30 April 2011.
During the year to 30 April 2011 the Company bought back 250,000 ordinary shares nominal value 12,500 on the London Disclosure of Information to Auditors Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total consideration for these The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware shares was 807,000.
As at 9 June 2011, the Company had not there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys bought back any shares since the year end.
auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that The principal reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset they might reasonably be expected to have taken as Directors in value for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information to the prevailing net asset value.
and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The shares were purchased at a price after allowing for costs below the net asset value and subsequently cancelled, thereby Independent Auditors reducing the issued share capital see note 14 on page 40.
As a Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as independent result of such purchases since April 1999, the net asset value of the auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Company is approximately 6% higher now than it would otherwise their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
have been, other things being equal.
Recommendation The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of shareholders Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending as a whole.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the By order of the Board maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the JGD FERGUSON exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: Chairman i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London 13 June 2011 Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
