COMPANY SUMMARY Company Summary Monks objective is to invest internationally to achieve capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
Investment Policy Capital Structure Monks invests principally in a portfolio of international quoted At the year end the Companys share capital consisted of equities.
The Company is prepared to move freely between different 260,764,859 fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each.
The Company markets as opportunities arise.
Asset classes other than equities may has been granted authority to buy back a limited number of its own be purchased from time to time including fixed interest holdings, ordinary shares for cancellation.
Long term gearing has been unquoted securities and derivatives.
The equity portfolio may be secured by the issue of 80 million nominal value of debenture relatively concentrated for a global fund.
stocks together with a 40 million one year variable rate loan facility and a 30 year interest rate swap.
The Company also has a 40 Further details of the Companys investment policy are given in the million 3 year fixed rate loan.
AIC Comparative Index The Company is a member of the Association of Investment The principal index against which performance is measured is the Companies.
FTSE World Index in sterling terms.
The composition of the portfolio is likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
Savings Vehicles Monks shares can be held through a variety of savings vehicles see Management Details page 52 for details.
Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
The management contract can be Notes terminated on 6 months notice.
None of the views expressed in this document should be construed as advice to buy or sell a particular investment.
Management Fee Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.45% of total assets Investment trusts are UK public listed companies and as such comply less current liabilities, calculated on a quarterly basis.
with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
They are not authorised or regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1
