DIRECTORS REPORT Directors and Management Directors Directors Service Details JGD Ferguson Date of Due date for James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became Name appointment re-election Chairman in 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is chairman of Value and Income Trust plc, The Scottish Oriental JGD Ferguson 03 01 02 AGM 2011 Smaller Companies Trust Plc, Edinburgh U. S. Tracker Trust, Amati CC Ferguson 01 09 03 AGM 2013 Global Investors and Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He is a director of The EM Harley 03 06 03 AGM 2012 Independent Investment Trust PLC and Audax Properties PLC.
He DCP McDougall 30 11 99 AGM 2011 joined Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming chairman and chief executive in 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is a former deputy chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Managers and Secretaries CC Ferguson Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment Carol Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2003.
A qualified management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Chartered Accountant, she began her investment career with Ivory & Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment management Sime, an Edinburgh fund management group.
Baillie Gifford are one of the largest investment trust to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, becoming a partner in 1984. managers in the UK and currently manage eight investment trusts.
Her most recent position was as Finance Director for Timney Fowler, Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment a textiles company.
She is a non-executive director and chairs the Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension audit committees of BlackRock Greater Europe Investment Trust plc funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and and Vernalis plc.
She is a director of Invesco Asia Trust plc, Standard overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of Baillie Gifford Life UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC, the Chartered total around 74 billion as at 9 June 2011.
Based in Edinburgh, Accountants Compensation Scheme and is a director and former they are one of the leading privately owned investment management chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
firms in the UK, with 35 partners and a staff of around 670.
EM Harley The manager of Monks portfolio is Gerald Smith.
Gerald is a Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He joined partner of Baillie Gifford and is the head of Baillie Giffords Global Cazenove & Co in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He is also Baillie Giffords Chief Investment considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in New Officer, is a member of their Investment Advisory Group and York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in Latin Chairman of their Emerging Markets Investment Policy Committee.
America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director at Cazenove Capital Management and is president of the Historic Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by the Financial Houses Association and is also involved with the charitable sector Services Authority.
both as a trustee and as a member of investment committees.
DCP McDougall Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust plc, The Law Debenture Corporation plc, The Independent Investment Trust PLC and The European Investment Trust plc.
He is a director of Stramongate Assets PLC, Herald Investment Trust plc and Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC and is a member of the University of Cambridge Investment Board.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Managers Association and the Association of Investment Companies.
All Directors are members of the Audit Committee.
