MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Managers Portfolio Review Among the changes made to the portfolio during the Companys Returns From Markets year was the complete sale of the holding in the Baillie Gifford for the year ended 30 April 2011 Pacific Fund and its replacement with a number of new direct holdings in Chinese companies, most of which are listed in Hong Geographical performance against FTSE World Index in Kong.
This completed a process of moving to direct holdings within sterling terms the Asia-Pacific region that had been underway for some years.
We also reduced our exposure to the markets of the Middle East and 30% sold our holding in a fund investing in Vietnam.
Taken together with 25% reductions and sales in Turkey and Brazil, these sales more than 20% offset new purchases of holdings in Emerging Markets.
We still have 15% a very significant exposure to these markets and continue to believe 10% that this will prove rewarding in the long run despite the short-term 5% headwind created by the need to tighten monetary and fiscal policy in response to rising inflation.
0% 5% Our increased investment in Japan is slightly more opportunistic in nature and reflects a view that the Japanese market is out of favour 10% UK CONTINENTAL NORTH JAPAN ASIA OTHER and cheap despite the fact that it contains many companies that EUROPE AMERICA PACIFIC EMERGING MARKETS should benefit from rising global demand.
The longer term outlook Source: Baillie Gifford & Co for Japan is, however, extremely challenging given its poor Monks portfolio demographics and large stock of government debt.
Part of the FTSE World Index exposure to Japan is through call options on the Nikkei 225 index, some of which expire in December 2011 and the rest in 2012 with All figures are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
strike prices ranging from 9,500 to 11,000.
The initial position was bought in November 2010 and added to in March 2011 following Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
We are relatively optimistic about economic developments in the large countries of the eurozone, notably Germany which seems to be enjoying something of a boom.
This success greatly complicates The ten largest positive and negative individual stock contributors to the work of the European Central Bank as it strives to contain performance are described below.
In aggregate the positives inflation while supporting a banking system that has heavy exposure outweighed the negatives by a comfortable margin.
Four of the to the small troubled nations of the periphery.
It also adds to existing largest positive contributors to performance, Aggreko, Seadrill, OGX concerns about the future profitability of banks in an environment of and the Athena Debt Opportunities Fund were, also in the top ten increasing regulation and has led us to sell a number of holdings positives last year and OGX was also in the top ten positives two such as Banco Santander while at the same time looking for more years ago.
Of this years largest negative contributors, Petrobras was opportunities in core Europe such as the German housing company in the top positives last year whereas Allied Irish Banks and OSX Deutsche Wohnen.
were among last years top ten negative contributors.
With the additional funds raised by new borrowings we have Largest positive contributions to performance: added to holdings of higher yielding stocks and our positions include Healthspring is a US provider of Medicare Advantage healthcare companies in a number of sectors and countries ranging from plans.
We bought it in late 2009, at the height of concerns over US telephone companies in the United States, Europe and Asia to the healthcare reforms.
We felt that the fears were overdone, and that bus and train group Go-Ahead in the United Kingdom and out of Healthsprings more efficient operating model would allow it to favour technology stocks in Taiwan.
The one thing they have in exploit an environment of tighter costs in which weaker players would common is that we believe that the market is underestimating their exit.
Our hypothesis has played out.
Healthcare reforms were less ability to maintain or increase their dividends.
This additional revolutionary than was feared and Healthspring has been able to investment was hedged through the sale of index futures on the FTSE grow fast, gaining market share and picking up some good value 100, S&P 500 and Euro Stoxx 50 indices in approximately equal acquisitions.
Alongside rapid earnings growth, the stock has re-rated.
By hedging our equity exposure in this way exposure to market movements in the United Kingdom, the United States and the Aggreko is a global provider of temporary power systems.
It is eurozone has been reduced but no hedging has been applied to benefitting from strong growth due to increasing demand for our holdings in Japan or Emerging Markets.
In the second half of the electricity supply, especially in emerging markets, and this looks set Companys year this was unhelpful for performance.
to continue over the long term.
Management continue to execute well in terms of expansion.
When the sale of futures and the purchase of call options are taken into account the geographical exposures are somewhat different to those shown for the distribution of assets in the pie chart on page 9.
In particular, the exposure to Japan rises to 13% from 5% while exposures to the UK, European and US markets fall to 14%, 13% and 15% from 17%, 16% and 17% respectively.
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Odontoprev is a Brazilian dental plan company that is consolidating Athena Debt Opportunities Fund is a fund that we commissioned to an immature market.
It has acquired its main large but ineffectual try to exploit the revulsion markets were showing towards securitised competitors, owned by two of Brazils biggest banks, and should now mortgage backed securities of various types.
The premise was be able to grow both rapidly and profitably.
Average monthly charges simply that these had become significantly undervalued and that, by for its plans are very modest at present and there is scope to increase buying senior tranches at a large discount, we might hope to recover profitability by raising prices.
Financial characteristics are exceptional most of our book cost from cash flows relatively rapidly.
This would and we expect nearly all of the profits to be paid out as dividends.
leave a potentially very cheap option on further recoveries within widely diverse residential and commercial property portfolios.
Cetip is a depositary and registrar that lies at the heart of the Brazilian financial system, and it is a legal requirement that it Largest negative contributions to performance: participates in all financial transactions.
The number of such Mediatek designs and sells semiconductor chipsets predominantly transactions is growing and likely to increase further as credit for mobile phone handsets.
We bought it to benefit from growth in expands, corporate bonds are more widely issued and over the the quantity and sophistication of mobile phones and Mediateks counter derivatives evolve from the present very low level.
We strong market position, especially in China.
While its position is very expect to see both rapid growth and substantial cash generation.
strong in 2G phones, this market is now declining, having been Digital Garage is a Japanese internet incubator company.
Its main superseded by 3G and smart phones.
It is finding these new markets assets are cash and quoted investments, including a large stake in more competitive but we believe that the market is underestimating Japans leading price comparison website, plus stakes in Twitter the ability of Mediatek to develop new product lines.
Japan and its US unquoted parent company, Twitter Inc.
The Vision Opportunity China is a closed-end fund listed in London but company participated in early stage funding rounds for Twitter Inc, which invests in a clearly defined range of Chinese growth the worlds leading micro-blogging service, which at the time we businesses.
Typically, these are family owned and unquoted, require acquired our holding, appeared to contribute nothing to Digital funding to assist them to exploit an immature opportunity and offer Garages share price as its market capitalisation was exceeded by VOC the chance to negotiate attractive investment terms prior to other public and liquid assets.
From this point, following some share listing the businesses, mainly in the US.
Unfortunately, some of these price appreciation, the debate revolves more around the potential businesses have encountered significant problems and major worth of Twitter.
questions have arisen over capital allocation, business practices and Seadrill is the owner of the worlds largest modern fleet of cash flows.
Despite investing at what appeared to be a large deepwater drilling rigs and vessels.
John Fredriksen timed his entry discount, subsequent events have led to large falls in net asset into this market with great skill during the last big downturn and now values.
Much work remains to be done here to bring about has both a peerless fleet and an unrivalled set of contracts with the improvement but, with a substantial proportion of its market value best funded major global oil companies.
We expect there to be held in the form of cash, we believe there is the potential to recover some further consolidation in the market, with Seadrill playing some more of the value of the investment through active engagement than part in that, and for capital allocation to distinguish Seadrill through selling in the market.
significantly and favourably from its competitors.
Seadrill is a Allied Irish Banks operates retail and business banking franchises in beneficiary of the increasingly hard work that has to go into finding Ireland and the UK.
When we bought it, we recognised that it was and recovering oil as global exploration moves further offshore.
a high risk investment that could either go up several times or go to SINA is a Chinese language social networking and gaming website zero.
Unfortunately Irelands woes and AIBs exposure to them that has attracted a large and loyal following worldwide.
The shares appear to be worse than feared, so we have sold out.
appreciated dramatically and, eventually, to a point where we felt Marfin Investment Group is a Greek holding company.
Its main that prospects were over represented and so sold our holding.
businesses are in food, healthcare and transport and are heavily OGX obtained very valuable offshore exploration licences in key exposed to the Greek economy.
With Greeces economy continuing Brazilian basins before most other bidders were aware of their to go through a severe recession, all of the core businesses have potential worth.
The shares did extremely well subsequently and we struggled and their valuations have been written down sharply.
The steadily cut back our position.
We maintain a holding, albeit a management have failed to explain their strategy and this has also smaller one.
hurt sentiment towards the company.
In spite of this we have continued to hang on as the businesses appear to be stabilising and National Oilwell Varco is the leading global supplier to the oil look well positioned should things improve.
A long industry drought spread over two decades or more afforded the group the chance to put together, by acquisition, a uniquely strong portfolio of businesses and build unrivalled global distribution and customer support.
As the industry now enjoys benign conditions and a strong oil price, the group is able to exploit its carefully constructed strengths.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW LG Electronics is a manufacturer of consumer electronics, most Sevan Marine owns an innovative technology that allows for greater notably mobile phones and TVs.
Its products looked well designed stability and improved uptime in the oil rig industry.
Unfortunately, and good value, and the company seemed to be building a decent their attempts to capitalise upon this technology have led the brand.
Unfortunately, LG missed out on the growth in smart phones company to excessive leverage from a base of what now looks like and has fallen badly behind as a result.
With the mobile division the naive optimism.
We have sold out of our holdings as any value largest contributor to sales, the loss of position and collapse in creation from here will most likely accrue to bondholders and not profitability severely dented the investment case.
The holding was equity owners.
Petrobras is the Brazilian national oil company.
Following many Renhe operates a unique and highly profitable business model years of exciting and favourable news flow as discoveries multiplied developing and operating underground shopping centres in Chinese upon one another, the Brazilian government has changed local oil cities.
Over the past year, the company has continued to expand laws and altered the terms on which Petrobras will be able to exploit rapidly, building up a strong development pipeline for the future, and their reserves and potential reserves.
The groups capital expenditure selling on some of its completed developments at high prices.
In programme will be of a size never previously undertaken even in the spite of solid progress, Renhes shares have performed poorly due to oil industry and doubts relate to the rate of return that will ultimately concerns of a bubble in Chinese real estate.
We think these emerge from this.
We sold our remaining holdings in a group that concerns are overdone, with tightening measures directed at has made the Company a good deal of money over the years.
residential real estate, while commercial property looks more OSX is a related company to OGX, being the shipyard that intends sensibly priced.
We also take comfort from the large management to build the equipment required by OGX to exploit its considerable ownership of the shares, the dividend and recent buybacks and reserves.
OSX has run into a series of problems with planning added to the holding.
Time is important for the business model, too, as a Aldar Properties is a state-backed property development company good deal of leverage is intended to be applied.
Following the financial crisis and problems in unpredictability of timing and funding with regard to OGXs drilling neighbouring Dubai, the property market has remained weak.
Aldar campaigns, therefore, has led to share price weakness.
was heavily indebted and while there was little doubt that the government of Abu Dhabi has both the means and the will to assist Gerald Smith the company with its forthcoming refinancing requirements, we Baillie Gifford & Co decided to sell out near the end of 2010 as we were concerned 13 June 2011 that the terms might well be unfavourable to minority shareholders.
