Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Net asset value total return relative to the Companys Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 30 benchmark June 2011.
Share price total return Discount to net asset value Performance attribution Review of the Business Earnings and dividends per share.
A review of the Companys activities is given in the Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans A historical record of these measures except performance Statement on pages 4 to 5 and in the Managers Review on attribution is disclosed on pages 9 and 10.
This includes a review of the business of the performance with the Companys benchmark and selected Company and its principal activities, and likely future peer companies.
A range of comparator groups are used, developments of the business.
including the AIC UK Growth & Income peer group and the Open-Ended UK Equity Income peer group.
Investment Objective and Policies The Boards objective is to achieve a high and growing Management of Risk income combined with capital growth through investment in The Board regularly reviews the major strategic risks that the a concentrated selection of principally UK equities.
The Board and the Manager have identified, and against these the shares that make up the portfolio are selected from UK and Board sets out the delegated controls designed to manage overseas companies that have potential for real earnings and those risks.
The principal risks facing the Company relate to dividend growth, while at the same time providing an abovethe Companys investment activities and include market average portfolio yield.
The emphasis is on the management price, interest rate, liquidity and credit risk.
An explanation of of risk and on the absolute return from the portfolio, which is these risks and how they are managed is contained in note achieved by ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks 17 to the financial statements on pages 48 to 51.
Such key and sectors, with a high proportion of its assets in strong, risks relating to investment and strategy as, for example, well-known companies.
The portfolio at the year end is set inappropriate asset allocation or gearing, are managed out on pages 13 and 14, and its analysis on page 15.
The through investment policy guidelines and restrictions, and by Company makes use of low-cost, flexible borrowing facilities the process of oversight at each Board meeting outlined to enhance shareholder returns when appropriate, and the above.
Operational disruption, accounting and legal risks are Board regularly reviews gearing, which was 9.2% of net also covered annually, and regulatory compliance is reviewed assets at 30 June 2011 2010 9.9%.
The major risks associated with the Company are: Investments are not formally limited as to market capitalisation or sector weightings within the UK.
It is the Resource risk like most other investment trusts, the Companys policy to have a focused portfolio.
There were 44 Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies holdings at 30 June 2011. on services provided by third parties, including, in particular, the Manager, to whom responsibility for the management It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per of the Company has been delegated under an investment cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies management agreement the Agreement further details including listed investment trusts.
The Companys of which are set out on page 24.
The terms of the investment policy is set out in full in the Corporate Summary Agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions on page 2. expected of the Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager on a regular basis, and their Oversight and Review of Performance compliance with the Agreement formally on an annual The Board meets at least five times a year to review basis.
As well as carrying out the Investment objective the objective of the Company is to matters set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance achieve a high and growing income combined with capital pages 26 to 31, the Board receives, for each meeting, a growth.
As a consequence, the investment portfolio may detailed portfolio report and an analysis of economic not always match that of the stock market as a whole, with indicators, and discusses performance and strategy, a consequential impact on shareholder returns.
The Boards considering perceived risks and economic conditions.
It uses aim is to maximise absolute returns to shareholders while measures such as attribution analysis against the benchmark, managing risk by ensuring an appropriate diversification of active weights and valuation matrices to assess the stocks and sectors.
Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key Investment policy and gearing a major risk affecting the performance indicators are established industry measures, Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection and are as follows: leading to under-performance relative to the Companys Murray Income Trust PLC 21 Directors Report continued benchmark index and peer group.
In addition, the use of in respect of the final dividend will be proposed at the borrowing facilities to invest in markets may have a forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
negative impact if markets fall.
To mitigate these risks, the Manager operates within investment guidelines and agreed Dividends are paid by means of three interim dividends, levels of borrowing.
Performance against the benchmark normally in January, April, July, and a final, after the Annual index and the peer group is regularly monitored.
General Meeting in October or November.
Further Discount volatility - investment trust shares tend to trade information on dividends is contained in the Chairmans at discounts to their underlying net asset values, although Statement on pages 4 to 5. they can also trade at premia.
Discounts and premia can fluctuate considerably.
In order to seek to minimise the Principal Activity and Status impact of such fluctuations, where the shares are trading at The Company is an investment company within the meaning a discount, the Company has operated a share buy-back of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and carries on programme for a number of years.
If the shares trade at a business as an investment trust.
The Directors do not premium, the Company has the authority to issue new envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
shares or re-issue shares from treasury.
Whilst these measures seek to minimise volatility, it cannot be In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs guaranteed that they will do so.
have been conducted in a manner as to satisfy the conditions Foreign currency risk a proportion of the Companys which enable it to continue to obtain approval as an investment portfolio is invested in overseas securities and investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax the value of the Companys investments and the income Act 2010.
HM Revenue & Customs will grant Section 1158 derived from them can, therefore, be affected by status, if requested, provided that the Companys affairs have movements in foreign exchange rates.
In addition, the been conducted in such a manner as to satisfy the conditions earnings of the Company's other investments may also be of that section, although approval for the period would be affected by currency movements which, indirectly, could subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the have an impact on the Company's performance.
Corporation Tax Self Assessment regime.
HM Revenue & Regulatory risk - the Company operates in a complex Customs approval for such status under Section 1158 of the regulatory environment and faces a number of related risks.
Corporation Tax Act 2010 has been given for the year ended A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 30 June 2010. could result in the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of its investments.
Serious breach of other The Company intends to manage its affairs so that the regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companys shares will be qualifying investments for the Companies Act, could lead to suspension from the Stock stocks and shares component of an ISA.
The Board receives monthly compliance reports from the Manager to monitor Share Capital compliance with regulations.
There have been no changes to the Companys issued share capital during the year.
The issued Ordinary share capital at Results and Dividends 30 June 2011 consisted of 64,689,458 Ordinary shares of The total return attributable to equity shareholders for the 25p and 1,727,000 Ordinary shares of 25p held in treasury.
At 9 September 2011, these numbers were unchanged.
A third interim dividend of 5.5p per Ordinary share was paid Each Ordinary share of the Company carries one vote at on 16 July 2010, and the final dividend for the year ended 30 general meetings of the Company.
June 2010 of 11.50p per Ordinary share was paid on 27 October 2010.
The first and second interim dividends for the Special Business at Annual General Meeting year ended 30 June 2011 of 5.5p per Ordinary share each Issue of New Shares and Sale of Treasury Shares were paid on 14 January 2011 and 15 April 2011 Ordinary Resolution No.
11 in the Notice of Annual General respectively, making a total distribution to Ordinary Meeting will renew the authority to allot the unissued share shareholders of 18,101,000 as shown in note 6 on page 43. capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 808,618 The third interim dividend of 5.5p per Ordinary share was equivalent to 3,234,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of paid on 15 July 2011. the Companys existing issued share capital on 9 September 2011 excluding treasury shares.
Such authority will expire The Directors now recommend a final dividend of 12.25p per on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 31 Ordinary share payable on 26 October 2011 to holders of December 2012, whichever is earlier.
This means that the Ordinary shares on the register on 23 September 2011.
The relevant ex-dividend date is 21 September 2011.
A resolution 22 Murray Income Trust PLC authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Share Repurchases Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 October 2010, shareholders approved the renewal of the authority When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shares must be offered first to such shareholders in shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to net Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to asset value, as and when the Directors consider this to be existing shareholders.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at passed, give the Directors power to allot for cash equity a discount to net asset value per share, should result in an securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 808,618 increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining equivalent to 3,234,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be the Companys existing issued share capital on 9 September exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the net 2011, as if Section 561 of the Act does not apply.
This is the asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it same nominal amount of share capital which the Directors is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established 11.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek Annual General Meeting or on 31 December 2012, whichever shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year is earlier.
This authority will not be used in connection with a at the Annual General Meeting.
rights issue by the Company.
Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may The Directors intend to use the authority given by be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the Resolutions 11 and 12 to allot shares and disapply prehigher of i 105% of the average of the middle market emption rights only in circumstances where this will be quotations for the shares over the five business days clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the proceeds would be available for investment in line with the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is made which would effectively alter the control of the carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per Company without the prior approval of shareholders in share.
Shares which are purchased under this authority will general meeting.
The Company may buy back and hold either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, rather than cancelling them.
Such sales are required to be on Special Resolution No.
13 in the Notice of Annual General a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to existing shareholders unless Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply such premaximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of signing emption rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the this Report amounting to 9,696,949 Ordinary shares.
Such Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary share capital on a authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General non pre-emptive basis, Resolution No.
12, if passed, will give Meeting, or on 31 December 2012, whichever is earlier.
This the Directors authority to sell Ordinary shares held in means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at treasury on a non pre-emptive basis.
No dividends may be the next Annual General Meeting, or earlier, if the authority paid on any shares held in treasury and no voting rights will has been exhausted.
The Directors recommend that attach to such shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold shareholders vote in favour of Resolution No.
13. treasury shares is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its share Increase in Aggregate Fees Payable to Directors capital, and improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention Ordinary Resolution No.
14 will be proposed to increase the of the Board that any re-sale of treasury shares would only current cap on the aggregate amount of fees payable to take place at a price greater than 0.5% above the net asset Directors in any year to 200,000.
The Board believes that value per share prevailing at the date of sale.
It is also the to enable the ongoing refreshment of the Boards intention of the Board that sales from treasury would only membership, and in particular to recruit new Directors from take place when the Board believes that to do so would assist time to time, it is prudent to keep remuneration at or around in the provision of liquidity to the market.
Your Board is therefore proposing to increase recommend that shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions the cap from 150,000 to 200,000.
The cap was last 11 and 12. increased, from 100,000 to the present limit, in 2006.
The increase will also enable succession periods for retiring Murray Income Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued Directors by ensuring that an overlap of Directors services remains in force.
Directors' and Officers' liability insurance does not breach the aggregate fees the Company is cover has been maintained throughout the year at the permitted to pay.
The Directors Remuneration Report on expense of the Company.
pages 33 and 34 contains further details of Directors remuneration.
Manager and Company Secretary Investment management services are provided to the Directors Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company The Directors, who held office throughout the year under secretarial, accounting and administrative services are review, are shown on pages 19 and 20 of the Annual Report, provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
and their share interests are shown below.
The Articles of Association provide that Directors retire and are subject to For the year ended 30 June 2011, the management and election at the first Annual General Meeting following their secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and appointment and thereafter must offer themselves for recharged on the following basis: appointment at least once every three years.
In a change to this practice and in order to meet the requirements of A monthly fee at the rate of one-twelfth of 0.55% on the section B.
7.1 of the new UK Corporate Governance Code first 400 million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 published in June 2010, all of the Directors of the Company million of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 will stand for re-appointment.
The value of any investments managed within the which relate the re-appointment of each of the Directors, will Aberdeen Asset Group is deducted from net assets.
The be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
investment management fee is chargeable 50% to revenue and 50% against capital reserves.
A secretarial fee of 75,000 No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys per annum is also payable, which is chargeable 100% to business and in which any of the Directors is interested has revenue.
The management and administration contracts may be A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages terminated by either the Company or the Manager on the 33 and 34. expiry of three months written notice.
On termination, the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would Directors Interests otherwise have been due to that date.
The interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year in the Ordinary share capital of the Company were as The management and secretarial fees paid during the year follows: ended 30 June 2011 are shown in notes 3 and 4 on page 42.
At 30 June 2011 At 1 July 2010 In monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board Ordinary shares Ordinary shares considers the investment record of the Company over the P A F Gifford 31,011 27,725 short term and longer term, taking into account both its M Glen 3,056 3,022 performance against the benchmark index and peer group N A Honebon 20,000 20,000 investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the management H van der 7,500 7,500 processes, risk control mechanisms and marketing activities Klugt of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board D E Woods 3,000 - considers the continuing appointment of the Manager to be in the interests of shareholders because the Aberdeen Asset Mr Giffords interest in the Companys shares increased to Management Group has the investment management, 31,599 Ordinary shares by the acquisition of 271 Ordinary marketing and associated secretarial and administrative skills shares on 15 July 2011, 151 Ordinary shares on 22 July 2011 required for the effective operation of the Company.
The and 166 Ordinary shares on 22 August 2011.
As at 9 Board continues to keep this matter under review.
September 2011, there have been no other changes in the above holdings.
Corporate Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance is contained on Directors' Insurance and Indemnities pages 26 to 31 and forms part of the Directors Report.
The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles.
The Directors of the Company have, during the year ended 30 June 2011, been granted a qualifying third party indemnity provision, which 24 Murray Income Trust PLC the auditor over the past nine years have been in respect of Audit Committee audit services.
The Directors who held office at the date of Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far as they Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of Audit Committee on page 28. which the Company's auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the reasonable steps that he or she ought to Political and Charitable Donations have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any The Company has not made any political or charitable relevant audit information, and to establish that the donations in the year 2010 - nil.
Company's auditor is aware of that information.
Going Concern Additional Information In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Report, the guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in following provides the additional information required to be October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous disclosed by Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006: review of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in of listed equity shares which in most circumstances are the Company other than certain restrictions which may from realisable within a very short timescale.
The Directors are time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading mindful of the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed on law.
page 3 and have reviewed forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities and they believe that the Company has adequate The Company is not aware of any agreements between financial resources to continue its operational existence for shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer the foreseeable future and at least 12 months from the date of securities and or voting rights.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis The rules governing the appointment of Directors are set out in preparing the Financial Statements.
Borrowing facilities of in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 26 to 60 million are committed to the Company until 29 31.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be September 2011.
As part of the going concern review the amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Directors noted that the Company has opened negotiations shareholders.
for a loan facility to follow on from the expiry of the 60 million loan facility, but at this stage has not finalised terms, The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to although it expects to receive acceptable terms from its which it is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a existing bankers or an alternative.
If acceptable terms are not change of control of the Company following a takeover.
forthcoming, any outstanding amounts will be repaid Other than the management and administration contracts through the proceeds of equity sales.
with the Manager, further details of which are set out on page 24, the Company is not aware of any contractual or Creditor Payment Policy other agreements essential to its business which ought to be The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment disclosed in the Directors Report.
before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
Company Registration Number The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year Registered in Scotland Company Number SC012725 end 2010 - nil.
By order of the Board Annual General Meeting Aberdeen Asset Management PLC The Annual General Meeting will be held on 25 October Secretary 2011.
The Notice of Meeting is at pages 56 to 59.
Bow Bells House 1 Bread Street Auditor London, EC4M 9HH The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has expressed their 9 September 2011 willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 9, to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor, will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting along with Resolution 10, to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
It should be noted that the only fees paid to Murray Income Trust PLC 25
