Managers Review number of countries, including China, to counter rising asset Background price and consumer inflation.
The UK equity market performed very strongly during the year to the end of June 2011, despite the ever-present Performance influence of a series of dark clouds on the economic The Company generated a positive net asset value per share landscape.
The FTSE All-Share Index rose by 25.6% on a total total return of 28.1% in the year ended 30 June 2011, return basis, building on the significant gain of 21.1% during compared to a rise in the FTSE All-Share Index of 25.6%, an the prior year.
The majority of returns were generated during encouraging result on an absolute and relative basis.
On a the first half of the period.
Improving economic conditions total return basis, the Companys share price increased by and additional stimulus in the United States, coupled with 29.4%, which reflected a small narrowing of the discount to robust company results benefiting from improved operating Net Asset Value at which the shares traded over the year.
leverage, helped to drive the market forward.
Progress was slower and the market more volatile in the second half as On a gross assets basis, the portfolio outperformed the European sovereign debt risk, the Japanese earthquake and benchmark, with the gearing effect adding to this tsunami, a faltering US economy and policy tightening in outperformance on a net asset basis.
During the autumn, the China focused investors attention on the significant hurdles Company increased its borrowings to 45m from 35m but still facing the global economy.
subsequently reduced this to 40m in February given the policy to provide cover for potential put option assignments The UK economy continued its slow passage of rebalancing with a committed facility rather than holding cash.
The towards net exports and away from consumption.
From an actual level of gearing was maintained in a range between economic growth perspective, the UK maintained its 5%-10% for the majority of the year.
recovery in the third quarter of 2010, with GDP growth ahead of expectations.
However, the underlying pace of Companies exposed to global growth and in particular, growth subsequently deteriorated over the remainder of the Emerging Markets growth tended to perform well.
As a period as momentum faded, leading to expectations for GDP consequence, across the market, the Engineering, Mining and growth in 2011 and 2012 to be downgraded by the IMF to General Industrials sectors outperformed.
In contrast, the 1.5% and 2.3% respectively.
As a touchstone for the period more defensive areas, such as Pharmaceuticals and Food of fiscal consolidation and pressure on household budgets, Retailers underperformed.
Oil and Gas Producers performed consumer confidence deteriorated and housing data very strongly due mostly to the recovery in the share price of remained weak, with little sign of an improvement in BP as it brought the Macondo well under control and mortgage approvals.
Unhelpfully, inflation remained liabilities arising from the disaster proved to be lower than stubbornly above the Bank of Englands target level of 2.0% originally feared.
reaching a high point of 4.5% in April and May, as measured by CPI.
The Monetary Policy Committee MPC remains From a size perspective, the Mid Cap Index outperformed relatively sanguine that the level of spare capacity in the both the Small Cap and FTSE 100 Indices, a function of economy will return inflation to its target.
This is to some elevated risk appetite and many of the Mid Cap Indexs constituents exposure to growth overseas.
extent validated by wage settlements and average earnings increasing in a muted manner.
As a consequence interest The Company benefited, in asset allocation terms, from its rates, that remained unchanged throughout the year at 0.5%, underweight position in Financials, Oil and Gas, and its are likely to be kept on hold into 2012. overweight position in Consumer Goods.
Stock selection was generally positive, but particularly so in Financials.
Economic growth outside the UK was generally encouraging, albeit regionally uneven over the second half of 2010.
In the Financials sector we continued to benefit from being However, 2011 heralded a more difficult period.
GDP growth underweight in banks given our concerns regarding the in the United States slowed and expectations were regulatory backdrop, prospects for growth and asset quality, downgraded following a series of weak data releases.
In the coupled with the miserly dividends available.
We also Euro area, Greece, Portugal and Ireland all required rescue benefited from an overweight position in life insurance as packages with Germany, in particular, helping to offset the both Aviva and Prudential performed strongly over the year.
weakness in these peripheral nations.
The Japanese economy For the second year in a row, our underweight position in was derailed by the tragic earthquake and tsunami and Mining was the most significant detractor of performance although the recovery has begun it is still too early to from an asset allocation viewpoint.
We remain underweight determine the pace of reconstruction.
Emerging markets, for three key reasons: we have concerns about the quality of which now account for around two thirds of global growth various companies within the sector: the dividend yields continued to perform relatively well, although the pace of available are comparatively poor: and, finally, we believe that growth was tempered by monetary policy tightening in a many of the companies do not at present represent attractive value given the challenging backdrop.
6 Murray Income Trust PLC Performance Attribution for the year to 30 June From a stock-specific standpoint, our holdings in Wood 2011 Group, Weir and GKN all more than doubled during the year.
The rebound in oil and gas exploration and production 2011 investment benefited Weir and Wood Group which also sold % its Well Support Services division to General Electric.
GKNs Net asset value total return for year per 28.1 performance was driven by strong demand for cars in Ordinary share Emerging Markets and good progress on margins.
On the FTSE All-Share Index total return 25.6 other hand, there were a number of holdings that detracted Relative return 2.5 from performance.
Most notably, Mothercare suffered from the weakness in domestic consumer spending which led to a Relative return % series of earnings disappointments.
However, we continue to Stock selection equities maintain faith in the company given its strong balance sheet Oil & Gas 0.4 and attractive, low capital intensive international growth Basic Materials 0.3 plans.
Industrials 0.2 Consumer Goods 0.2 Portfolio Activity and Structure Health Care 0.2 As in previous periods, we continued to add to high-quality, Consumer Services generally larger companies, with strong cash flows and Telecommunications 0.1 robust balance sheets, which we believe will be able to Utilities 0.4 prosper in an environment where economic growth is likely to be uneven and the prospect of future shocks remain a Technology possibility.
This included additions to Unilever, Roche, Financials 0.7 Pearson and Tesco.
These were funded mostly through the Total stock selection equities 1.3 reduction of cyclical holdings that had performed well and Asset allocation equities looked relatively expensive, together with an increase in Oil & Gas 0.2 gearing.
Reductions to holdings were mostly achieved Basic Materials 1.1 through the assignment of put options and included Amec, Industrials 0.6 BBA, Weir, GKN, Millennium & Copthorne and Whitbread.
Consumer Goods 0.5 Health Care There were no complete sales during the period.
However, Consumer Services 0.4 we did introduce three new holdings.
Two of these new Telecommunications 0.1 holdings are non-UK companies, chosen for their ability to diversify risk, improve the quality of the portfolio, as well as Utilities 0.2 enhance the revenue account.
The first new holding, GDF Technology 0.1 Suez, is the international utility formed from the merger of Financials 2.0 Gaz fide France and Suez in 2008.
The company offers an Total asset allocation equities 0.2 attractive and efficient mix of upstream and downstream Fixed Income & Options 0.6 activities with good international growth prospects.
The Cash 1.9 balance sheet is strong and the shares provide a dividend Gearing 2.6 yield above 6%.
The second new holding was Nordea, a Administrative expenses 0.2 Scandinavian bank that benefits from the robust macroManagement fees 0.7 economic footing of its Nordic end-markets, high market Recoverable VAT 0.9 shares, a strong capital base and a conservative management Tax charge 0.1 style.
Finally, we initiated a new holding in Compass, a global food service and contract catering company.
It provides a Residual effect 0.2 reliable earnings stream with the prospect of structural Total 2.5 growth as outsourcing continues to gather pace.
The Sources : Aberdeen Asset Management, Mellon & Factset company has a strong balance sheet and a healthy dividend Notes: Stock Selection measures the effect of equity selection relative to the benchmark.
Asset Allocation measures the impact of over or underweighting yield, and should deliver attractive earnings growth aided by each industry basket in the equity portfolio, relative to the benchmark weights.
Nonequity Investments & Options effect measures the impact on relative returns of the two asset categories.
Gearing & cash effect measures the impact on relative returns of net borrowings.
Management fees & other From an income-oriented perspective, we decided against expenses these reduce total assets and therefore reduce performance.
The effect is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average rolling over our reverse convertibles which expired during total assets less current liabilities.
Residual effect this arises as a result of the the period as their benefits can now be replicated more different methodologies for calculating performance between the NAV total return, the benchmark provider Factset and the performance attribution system.
The income from writing Murray Income Trust PLC 7 Managers Review continued options accounted for just under 10% of total income.
opaque policy response heightening the general level of Although we are very wary of becoming overly dependent on uncertainty.
This uncertainty and muted growth outlook option income, we feel that the strategy has been of benefit have been manifested in significant market falls and to the Company by increasing the level of income generated increased volatility as it becomes clear that the challenges and providing a good discipline for managing our exposure to ahead remain considerable.
For companies, the outlook is less gloomy, and the corporate The actions above have marginally altered the sector world at least retains an air of confidence with, in many positioning of the Company.
The weighting in the Oil and cases, strong balance sheets, a slow return to capital Gas sector has increased slightly over the year as the BP investment projects and the remaining benefits from costshare price recovered and our oil services companies cutting programmes over the last couple of years feeding performed well.
The lower exposure to Industrials is through to rising profitability.
In addition, despite the principally due to the reduction in Weir and GKN despite the deterioration in the macro economic growth outlook, strong relative performance of the sector.
The weight in the valuations do not look particularly stretched at all on an Healthcare sector increased as we added to our holding in absolute or relative basis.
Volatility is likely to remain a Roche.
Finally, the exposure to Financials decreased over the feature of the markets, as investors overreact to both good year, a function of the underperformance of the sector and bad news.
However, although growth is likely to remain despite the addition of Nordea to the portfolio.
considerably weaker than we might like, the portfolio maintains its exposure to good-quality companies.
Indeed, we remain clear in our focus on those companies supported Income by robust financing and with competitive positions that help For the financial year ended 30 June 2011, the Company has protect against the challenges ahead.
We continue to believe witnessed a significant rise in the level of income generated, that these company attributes are the best way to ensure with the revenue return per share increasing from 25.4p to good long-term performance and sound dividend growth.
This is due to the increase in option income, the VAT interest rebate, a rise in gearing and good underlying dividend growth from the holdings.
As the VAT Charles Luke interest rebate income will not be repeated during the Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited current year, it is likely that dividend cover will fall.
We Investment Manager continue to keep a very close watch on the revenue account 9 September 2011 and are relatively comfortable with the income generating characteristics of the underlying portfolio as we remain focused on those companies that will be able to grow their dividends over the longer term.
The outlook for income generation has improved considerably over the last couple of years.
Although we remain concerned about the prospect for negative earnings shocks and hence dividend disappointments, we are reassured that corporate balance sheets are generally strong and payout ratios low which bode well for dividend delivery.
It is worth noting that dividends, in aggregate, as reflected by the FTSE All-Share Index, are at present expected to increase by over 10% per annum in both the financial years 2012 and 2013.
Outlook The two months since the period end have witnessed a broad recognition that the rebound in growth has disappointed.
Thus the concerns regarding the sustainability of elevated developed market debt, and the resulting structural adjustments necessary to address this, have become even more important.
This has been compounded by fears that in both Europe and the US, the political process and will to provide a credible solution to these issues is lacking, with this 8 Murray Income Trust PLC
