Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Murray Income Trust PLC and represent the interests of shareholders.
Humphrey van der Klugt BSC Patrick Gifford BA Marian Glen MA LLB Hons, FCA Status: Chairman and Independent Status: Non-Executive Director Status: Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Length of Service: 8 years 4 months Director, Chairman of Audit Length of Service: 11 years 11 months Experience and other public Committee, Chairman of Remuneration Experience and other public company directorships: Marian Glen is Committee and Senior Independent company directorships: Patrick General Counsel for AEGON UK.
She Director Gifford was previously a director of was formerly head of Funds and Length of Service: 7 years 2 months Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd and Financial Services at Shepherd Experience and other public chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Wedderburn Solicitors.
company directorships: Humphrey Management Ltd.
He is chairman of Employment by Manager: None van der Klugt was previously a director Invesco Perpetual Select Trust PLC and Other connections with the Trust or of Schroder Investment Management Martin Currie Pacific Trust PLC.
He is Manager: None Limited.
In a twentytwo year career at also a director of AlphaGen Aldebaran Shared Directorships with any other Schroders, he was a member of the Fund Ltd and JPMorgan Russian Trust Directors: None Group Investment and Asset Allocation Securities.
Shareholding in Company: 3,056 Committees: and as a UK equity Employment by Manager: None Ordinary shares manager, he was directly responsible Other connections with the Trust or Remuneration: Year ended 30 June for 3 billion of funds under Manager: None 2011 20,000 management, including the Schroder Shared Directorships with any other UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
Trust Directors: None He is currently chairman of Fidelity Shareholding in Company: 31,599 European Values PLC, and a nonOrdinary shares executive director of BlackRock Remuneration: Year ended 30 June Commodities Income Investment Trust 2011 30,000 plc and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust PLC.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 7,500 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2011 24,000 Murray Income Trust PLC 19 Your Board of Directors continued Neil Honebon MA David Woods MA, MSC, FIA Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Length of Service: 5 years 11 months Length of Service: 2 years 6 months Experience and other public Experience and other public company directorships: Neil Honebon company directorships: David is is a director of AlphaGen Volantis and currently a non-executive director and AlphaGen Octanis.
He was formerly a chairman of the risk committee of director of Fleming Family and Partners Phoenix Group Holdings plc, and a nonAsset Management, and has 30 years executive director of Standard Life UK experience in investment analysis and Smaller Companies Trust plc and of The research.
While previously at Flemings, Moller Centre for Continuing Education.
he was Head of Global Research and He is also Chairman of the Pension deputy chair of the asset allocation Fund Trustees for all of the UK committee.
companies in the Steria Group and a Employment by Manager: None trustee of the Scottish Provident Other connections with the Trust or Pension Fund.
He was previously nonManager: None executive Chairman of Royal Liver Shared Directorships with any other Assurance.
Trust Directors: None Employment by Manager: None Shareholding in Company: 20,000 Other connections with the Trust or Ordinary shares Manager: None Remuneration: Year ended 30 June Shared Directorships with any other 2011 20,000 Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 3,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2011 20,000 20 Murray Income Trust PLC
