Corporate Summary Asset Value at the time of draw down.
Gearing is used Investment Objective selectively to leverage the Companys portfolio in order to The Companys investment objective is to achieve a high and enhance returns where and to the extent this is considered growing income combined with capital growth through appropriate to do so.
Particular care is taken to ensure that investment in a portfolio principally of UK equities.
any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility of investment policy.
Significant changes to gearing levels will Benchmark be communicated to shareholders.
The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Directors are responsible for determining the investment Investment Policy policy and the investment objective of the Company, while In pursuit of the Companys objective, the Companys day-to-day management of the Companys assets has been investment policy is to invest in the shares of companies that delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited the have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, while at Manager.
The Manager invests in a diversified range of UK the same time providing an above-average portfolio yield.
and overseas companies, following a bottom-up investment The emphasis is on the management of risk and on the process based on a disciplined evaluation of companies absolute return from the portfolio, which is achieved by through direct visits by its fund managers.
Stock selection is ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors, the major source of added value, concentrating on quality with a high proportion of its assets in strong, well-known first, then price.
Top-down investment factors are secondary companies.
The Company makes use of low-cost, flexible in the Managers portfolio construction, with diversification borrowing facilities to enhance shareholder returns when rather than formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
The Manager is authorised to invest up to 15% of the Companys gross assets in any single stock.
Currently, the top The Company maintains a highly-diversified portfolio of five holdings may not exceed 40% of the total value of the investments, typically comprising between 30 and 70 portfolio, and the top three sectors represented in the holdings but without restricting the Company from holding portfolio may not exceed 50%.
The Manager is permitted to a more or less concentrated portfolio from time to time.
The invest in options and in structured products, provided that Company is unconstrained as to the market sectors in which any structured product issued in the form of a note or bond it may invest.
"has a minimum credit rating of ""A""."
The Company may invest up to 100% of its gross assets in A detailed description of the investment process and risk UK-listed equities and other securities and is permitted to controls employed by the Manager is set out on page 18.
The invest up to 20% of its gross assets in other overseas listed portfolio at the year end is set out on pages 13 and 14, and equities and securities.
The Company invests primarily in the its analysis on page 15.
At the year end the Companys equity securities of large, well-known UK and overseas portfolio consisted of 44 holdings including one fixedcompanies with an emphasis on investing in quality interest security.
companies with good management, strong cash flow and a sound balance sheet, and which are generating a reliable Capital Structure earnings stream.
The Companys issued share capital as at 30 June 2011 consisted of 64,689,458 Ordinary shares of 25p and The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of 1,727,000 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 9 September enhancing portfolio returns and for hedging purposes in a 2011, these numbers were unchanged.
manner consistent with the Companys broader investment policy.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value At 30 June 2011, the Company had Total Assets see It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per definition on page 55 of 474.4m and a Net Asset Value per cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies Ordinary share of 671.5p.
The Company complies with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and does not Borrowings and Borrowing Covenants invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares of any one company.
The borrowings at 30 June 2011 of 40 million represent 9.2% of Net Assets.
Borrowing facilities of 60 million are The Board is responsible for setting the gearing policy of the committed to the Company until 29 September 2011.
Company and for the limits on gearing.
The Manager is Financial covenants contained within the loan agreement responsible for gearing within the limits set by the Board.
The provide, inter alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed Board has set its gearing limit at a maximum of 25% of Net 30% of Net Assets, and that the Net Assets must exceed 2 Murray Income Trust PLC 225 million.
The Net Assets were 434.4 million at 30 June Company Secretary 2011.
If any of the financial covenants are breached, the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, lender is entitled, following the serving of notice to the 40 Princes Street, Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, fees Edinburgh, EH2 2BY and other sums owed under the agreements to be Email: company.
co. uk immediately due and repayable.
Please refer also to the statement of Going Concern on page 25.
Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 Duration open Monday Friday 9am 5pm The Company does not have a fixed life.
com Risk Equity markets are volatile, and short-term movements may therefore be greater than justified by longer-term trends.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to an increase in the volatility of the Companys Net Asset Value.
Currently, 50% of the investment management fees and interest costs are charged to capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense of capital growth, which will be reduced to the same extent.
The policy of investing in higher-yielding shares may also diminish capital growth.
There is no guarantee that the market price of investment trust shares will accurately reflect their underlying Net Asset Value or move in line with it.
More detailed information is available in note 17 to the financial statements.
Share Dealing Shares in Murray Income Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through the Aberdeen savings schemes, and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 53.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of investment management and other services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 24 and in note 3 on page 42.
AIC Murray Income Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
com Murray Income Trust PLC 3
