Corporate Summary The Company Company's own shares.
Total gearing is not in normal circumstances to exceed 30% of Net Assets with cash Murray International Trust PLC the Company is an investment trust traded on the London Stock Exchange and is deposits netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Some end there was net asset gearing of 13.9% with cash deposits 25,000 of its shareholders are private investors.
Murray netted against borrowings and particular care is taken to International Trust PLC offers the advantages of exposure to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility world markets.
The Company is invested in a diversified of investment policy.
portfolio of international equities and fixed income securities.
Changes to Investment Policy Benchmark Any material change to the investment policy will require the The Companys benchmark is a composite index made up as approval of the shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution to 40% of the FTSE World UK Index and 60% of the FTSE at a general meeting.
The Company will promptly issue an World ex-UK Index.
announcement to inform the shareholders and the public of any change of its investment policy.
Investment Objective The primary aim of the Company is to achieve a total return Delivering the Investment Policy greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in The Directors are responsible for determining the investment equities worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager will seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to policy and the investment objective of the Company.
Day to maintain an above average dividend yield.
"day management of the Companys assets has been delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""AAM"" or Investment Policy the ""Manager""."
The Manager invests in a diversified range of Asset Allocation international companies in accordance with the investment The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio objective.
of international equities and fixed income securities spread across a range of industries and economies.
The Company's The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for investment policy is flexible and it may, from time to time, portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working hold other securities including but not limited to indexclosely with the relevant underlying fund management linked securities, convertible securities, preference shares, teams in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive unlisted securities, depositary receipts and other equityprocess.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List related securities.
The Company may invest in derivatives for which is constructed by each of the specialist country the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
This list contains all buy and hold Companys investment policy does not impose any recommendations for each management team, which are geographical, sectoral or industrial constraints upon the then used as the investment universe.
Stock selection is the Manager.
major source of added value.
It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment portfolio construction, with diversification rather than formal companies including listed investment trusts.
The Company controls guiding stock and sector weights.
currently does not have any investments in other investment companies.
Market capitalisation is not a primary concern.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value Risk Diversification in any single stock at the time of purchase.
The Manager actively monitors the Companys portfolio and attempts to mitigate risk primarily through diversification.
A detailed description of the investment process and risk The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 22.
A investments by value in any single stock at the time of comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is purchase.
disclosed on pages 15 to 21 including a description of the twenty largest investments, the Portfolio of Investments by Gearing value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and The Board considers that returns to shareholders can be distribution of equity investments.
enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 53 reviews the position on a regular basis.
Any borrowing, equity and 12 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by except for short-term liquidity purposes, is used for the Board to hold between 50 and 150 stocks in the investment purposes or to fund the purchase of the portfolio.
2 Murray International Trust PLC History million or 13.9% of Net Assets with cash deposits netted against the borrowings.
The Company currently hedges Murray International Trust PLC started its life in 1907 as The most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of the Scottish Western Investment Company Limited.
The Scottish liabilities attached to its borrowings.
The Companys Western of the early days was very highly geared but it was borrowing facilities are further detailed in note 13.
Financial mainly invested in bonds, though the international spread covenants contained within the relevant loan agreements resembled todays, with countries such as Argentina, China, provide, inter alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed Japan, Canada and many others appearing in the portfolio.
40% of Net Assets and that the Net Assets must exceed Although the range of currencies was much smaller, multi 400 million.
The Net Assets were 999.3 million at 31 currency or even gold-backed bonds were commonplace, as December 2011. many of the eras bond certificates show.
If any of the financial covenants were to be breached, the The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, lenders would be entitled, following the serving of notice to when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, equities to fund the costs of the Companys gearing.
The fees and other sums owed under the agreement to be Managers were not slow to spot an opportunity, but it immediately due and repayable.
started as Hobsons choice, and was only later hailed as brilliant foresight.
Duration In 1929 just under 20% of the assets were in equities, in The Company does not have a fixed life.
1940 38%, in 1948 51% of the assets, which were still only 2.65 million.
After deducting the preference shares which Principal Risks and Uncertainties were repaid in 1999 and debentures, the Company was General effectively over 100% geared into equities by the start of the An investment in the shares is only suitable for investors who great post war boom.
are capable of evaluating the merits and risks of such an investment and who have sufficient resources to be able to After a number of amalgamations, the Company emerged as bear any losses which may arise therefrom which may be a generalist investment trust.
However, there was an excess equal to the whole amount invested.
Such an investment of trusts with a similar broad remit, so towards the end of should be seen as long term in nature and complementary to the 1970s the Board defined the investment brief more narrowly as the achievement of growth in income and capital existing investments in a range of other financial assets.
Changes in economic conditions including, for example, Symbolised by the name change from Murray Western to interest rates and rates of inflation, industry conditions, Murray International Trust PLC in 1984, the focus has since competition, changes in the law, political and diplomatic been on a relatively high yielding portfolio of equities in a events and trends, tax laws and other factors can well diversified mix of world markets.
substantially and adversely affect the value of investments and therefore the Company's performance and prospects.
In 2008 the Board circulated to all shareholders a short booklet to commemorate the centenary of the incorporation Past performance of the Company, and of investments of the Company on 18 December 1907.
Further copies are managed by the Manager, is not necessarily indicative of available on the website or from the Company Secretary.
Capital Structure The Shares The Companys issued share capital as at 28 February 2012 consisted of 112,761,628 Ordinary shares of 25p 99.2% of The market value of, and the income derived from, the shares the total share capital and 875,295 B Ordinary shares of 25p can fluctuate and, notwithstanding the Board's discount and 0.8% of the total share capital.
The difference between the premium control policy, may not always reflect the Net rights of the B Ordinary shareholders and those of the Asset Value per share.
There can be no guarantee that any Ordinary shareholders is contained in the glossary on page appreciation in the value of the Company's investments will 64. occur and investors may not get back the full value of their investment.
No assurance can be given that any sale of the Total Assets and Net Asset Value Company's investments would realise proceeds which would At 31 December 2011, the Company had Total Assets of be sufficient to repay any borrowings or provide funds for 1,176.6 million and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B any capital repayment to shareholders.
Shareholders will bear Ordinary share of 892.2p.
See definition on page 64 the rewards and risks of the success or otherwise of the Borrowings Company's investments.
The borrowings are all drawn down in Japanese Yen and at 31 December 2011 represented the equivalent of 171.8 Murray International Trust PLC 3 Corporate Summary continued The market value of the shares, as well as being affected by of an issuer of bonds or in general economic conditions may their Net Asset Value, also takes into account their dividend impair the ability of the issuer to make payments of principal yield and prevailing interest rates, supply and demand for the and interest or may cause the liquidation or insolvency of an shares, market conditions and general investor sentiment.
There can be no assurance as to the levels of default and or recoveries that may be experienced with respect to Borrowings bonds.
Debt instruments held by the Company may be The Company may incur borrowings for investment affected by changes in market sentiment or changes in purposes.
Whilst the use of borrowings should enhance the interest rates that will, in turn, result in increases and total return on the shares where the return on the decreases in the market value of those instruments.
When Company's underlying assets is rising and exceeds the cost of interest rates decline, the value of the Company's borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the investments in fixed rate debt obligations can be expected to underlying return is falling, further reducing the total return rise and, when interest rates rise or are expected to rise, the on the shares.
As a result, the use of borrowings by the value of those investments can be expected to decline.
Company may increase the volatility of the Net Asset Value and market price per share.
To the extent that the Company invests in sub-investment grade securities, the Company may realise a higher yield than There is no guarantee that any borrowings of the Company the yield offered by investment grade securities, but would be refinanced on their maturity either at all or on investment in such securities involves a greater volatility of terms that are acceptable to the Company.
price and a greater risk of default by the issuers of such securities, with potential loss of interest payment and Dividends principal.
Sub-investment grade securities will be subject, in The Company will only pay dividends on the Ordinary shares the judgment of a ratings agency, to uncertainties in terms of and a capitalisation issue for B Ordinary shares to the their performance in adverse conditions and will be extent that it has profits including available reserves speculative with respect to an issuer's capacity to meet available for that purpose, which will largely depend on the interest payments and repay principal in accordance with its amount of income which the Company receives on its obligations.
There can be no assurance that an issuer will not investments and the timing of such receipt.
The amount of default or that the Company will be able to recover its dividends payable by the Company may fluctuate.
investments in defaulted fixed interest debt instruments.
If under UK law or accounting rules and standards applicable As bond investments of the Company mature, it may be to the Company, there were to be a change to the basis on difficult for the Company to obtain replacement investments which dividends could be paid by companies, this could have having similar financial characteristics.
a negative effect on the Company's ability to pay dividends.
Market Price Risk Investment Objective and Strategy The fair value of equity and other financial securities held in There is no guarantee that the Company's investment the Company's portfolio fluctuates with changes in market objective will be achieved.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in currencies and interest rates and by other financial issues The Company may from time to time invest in other listed including the market perception of future risks.
As a consequence of these investments, the Company may itself be indirectly exposed Foreign Currency Risks to gearing through the borrowings from time to time of The Company's investments are principally in overseas these other investment companies.
The Company accounts for its activities and policy of not investing more than 15% of its gross assets in reports its results in pounds sterling.
The Company currently other listed investment companies.
The Net Asset Value, hedges most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of which is a factor in determining the market value of the the liabilities attached to its borrowings.
Where the shares, will be linked to the underlying share price Company does not hedge its currency exposure, which is performance of any such other investment companies.
currently the case with the investment portfolio, the movement of exchange rates may have a favourable or Debt Instruments unfavourable effect on the gains and losses experienced on The Company invests in fixed interest investments issued by investments which are made or realised in currencies other corporate bodies and sovereign issuers.
Bonds are subject to than pounds sterling.
credit, liquidity and interest rate risks and in the event of a default there is a risk that the Net Asset Value may be adversely affected.
Adverse changes in the financial position 4 Murray International Trust PLC Charges to Capital taxation on its capital gains.
Any breach of the tests that a The Company currently deducts part of the management company must meet to obtain approval as an investment charge from capital.
This increases distributable income at trust company could lead to the Company being subject to the expense of capital growth, which will either be eroded or tax on capital gains.
The maintenance of a high level of dividend may also diminish capital values.
Tax and Accounting Any change in the Company's tax status or in taxation Discount and Premium Control Policy legislation or accounting practice could affect the value of The Company operates a discount and premium control the investments held by the Company, affect the Company's policy.
The operation of the discount control element of this ability to provide returns to shareholders or alter the post-tax policy could lead to a significant reduction in the size of the returns to shareholders.
Representations in this document Company over time, which would increase the Company's concerning the taxation of investors are based upon current total expense ratio and prejudice the ability of the Company tax law and practice which are subject to change.
to pay satisfactory levels of dividend to shareholders.
While the Company intends to issue new shares and to resell shares Any change in accounting standards may adversely affect the held in treasury at a small premium to the Net Asset Value value of the Company's assets in its books of account or per share where demand exceeds supply, this will be restrict the ability of the Company to pay dividends.
dependent upon the Company being able to issue new shares and to resell shares held in treasury at a premium, on market Regulatory conditions generally at the relevant time, upon shareholders It is expected that the Alternative Investment Fund Managers in general meeting conferring appropriate authorities on the Directive will enter into force in 2013.
The Directive may Board to issue further shares and, where required under the have significant consequences for the Company and all Prospectus Rules, upon a prospectus having been approved similar investment companies which might materially by the Financial Services Authority and published.
The ability increase compliance and regulatory costs.
The Directive is of the Company to operate the discount control policy will subject to further implementation measures, and the Board depend on the Company being able to purchase its own will continue to monitor the progress and likely implications shares, which will be dependent upon shareholders in general of the Directive.
meeting conferring authority on the Board to purchase its own shares.
The Directors will seek renewal of this authority Reliance Upon The Manager from shareholders annually and at other times should this The ability of the Company to successfully pursue its prove necessary.
However, there can be no guarantee that investment policy is significantly dependent upon the requisite shareholder approvals will be obtained.
expertise of the Manager and the principal members of its management team.
The Company does not currently have In accordance with the Listing Rules, the extent of each buyemployees or own any facilities and depends on the Manager back authority which will be sought by the Company from for the day to day management and operation of its shareholders in general meeting will be limited to 14.99%, of business.
The loss of any of the Manager's management the Company's issued share capital as at the date on which team could reduce the Company's ability to pursue such authority is granted.
In order to continue purchasing its successfully its planned investment policy.
own shares once any such authority has been exhausted, the Company would be required to seek a renewal of such Reliance Upon Third Party Service Providers authority from shareholders in general meeting.
The Company has no employees and the Directors have all been appointed on a non executive basis.
The Company is The ability of the Company to purchase its own shares will therefore reliant upon the performance of third party service be subject to the Act and all other applicable legislation, rules providers for its executive function.
In particular, the and regulations of any government, regulatory body or Manager and the Secretary will be performing services which market applicable to the Directors or the Company and, in are integral to the operation of the Company.
The failure by particular, will be dependent on the availability of any service provider to carry out its obligations to the distributable reserves.
Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation Cessation of Investment Trust Status of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company The Company attempts to conduct its business so as to to pursue successfully its investment policy.
satisfy the conditions for approval as an investment trust under Part 24 Chapter 4 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
In Fluctuations In Operating Results respect of each accounting period for which approval is The Company may experience fluctuations in its operating granted, the Company will be exempt from United Kingdom results from period to period due to a number of factors, Murray International Trust PLC 5 Corporate Summary continued including changes in the values of investments made by the Company, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments in the portfolio, changes in the Company's operating expenses, and general economic and market conditions.
Such variability may lead to volatility in the market price of the shares and cause the Company's results for a particular period not to be indicative of its performance in a future period.
Share Dealing and ISA Status Shares in Murray International Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through Aberdeen savings schemes and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 63.
Management Agreement Summary The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of management services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 28 and in note 3 on page 46.
AIC Murray International Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
com The maintenance and integrity of the Murray International Trust PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Furthermore, legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm Email: inv.
com 6 Murray International Trust PLC
