Managers Review Unfortunately, against a backdrop of prevailing uncertainties, no-one wanted to know.
Burdened by insecurities and fragile sentiment, returns from stock markets were predominantly negative.
Regionally, Latin America recorded the largest decline in Sterling terms as local currency weakness compounded negative market returns.
The region was down 19.6% over the period.
Total returns from Asia and Japan were marginally less negative, Bruce Stout coincidentally both declining by 12.9%.
As usual, returns Senior Investment Manager from within the Asian region were extremely varied, ranging from -36.8% in India and -21.5% in Taiwan to 10.1% in Background Indonesia and 3.3% in Malaysia.
Such total return diversity Cant pay, wont pay.
Four small words that struck fear into once again highlighted the difficulties associated with the heart of global financial markets throughout 2011.
For generalising returns of global financial markets.
As if to without doubt, the crisis of public sector indebtedness in the emphasise the point, Europes decline of -14.7% arguably developed world proved to be the single most powerful was much less than expected, or indeed justified, given its factor influencing financial returns.
The spectre of debt prominent role in fuelling international debt concerns.
The defaults, bankruptcies and insolvency cast dark shadows UK market scraped out a respectable -2.3% total return across the economic landscape, as the Western worlds fifty based on perceived defensive characteristics.
Somewhat year love affair with credit finally died from exhaustion.
ironically, given the severity and magnitude of prevailing Intensification of financial gangrene spreading throughout negative fundamentals, the United States was the only major public finances and excessively leveraged banking systems market to record positive returns.
Consequently, North even ended the constant denial of policymakers.
Realism America produced a total return in Sterling terms of 1.2%, prevailed and perceptions changed.
The reality of Europes the first time the region has topped the list of regional unsustainable debt dynamics, muted growth, high returns since 1996 and only the fourth time over the past unemployment and a future dominated by the need for debt twenty five years.
Solvency concerns of various nations ebbed and flowed and attitudes towards Performance funding future liabilities hardened.
Perceptions changed The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 markedly as traditional economic relationships broke down.
December 2011 with net dividends reinvested was -0.1% The notion of a risk free rate of return, so long associated compared with a return on the benchmark of -4.6%.
A full with short-term sovereign debt, was constantly questioned.
attribution analysis is given on page 19 which details the At times, even bank deposit accounts failed to provide various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary of comfort for investors suffering from increasing mistrust and the 587 basis points before expenses of performance above acute insecurity.
In time honoured fashion, financial assets the benchmark, asset allocation deleted 432 basis points and gravitated towards perceived safe havens.
Bond markets in stock selection contributed 1029 basis points.
Structural the United States and the UK received enormous cash effects relating to the fixed income portfolio, net of inflows, driving yields down towards historical lows.
Scant borrowing and hedging costs deleted a further 10 basis attention was paid to precarious fiscal fundamentals also points of positive relative performance.
Superior stock prevailing in both these nations.
Somewhat ironically, such selection in all six regional areas was the over-riding reason capital flows became popularly portrayed as a flight to for relative outperformance.
It seemed what mattered most in an environment of systemic financial fragility was perceived security, not USA necessarily economic facts.
Given the retreat to financial Pushing on a string usually conjures up images of fruitless comfort zones, it was not surprising that economic stability endeavour.
When used to describe the efforts of US and fiscal prudence in the developing world went largely policymakers in 2011, it accurately depicts exactly the same unnoticed.
Harshly labelled as high risk economies, many picture.
Despite monetary directives of effectively zero countries in Asia and Latin America refuted such interest rates and roughly $2 trillion of additional liquidity unwarranted status and made solid progress.
Responsible through quantitative easing since August 2008, US economic fiscal and monetary policies delivered budget surpluses, activity remained extremely subdued.
The economy savings growth and declining inflation.
These were essentially remained hostage to powerful deflationary impressive achievements by any account and more than a forces.
Contracting real incomes and stubbornly high crumb of comfort in a world of crumbling confidence.
unemployment intensified the pressure on household Murray International Trust PLC 9 Managers Review continued balance sheets.
Property prices declined, consumer recession: in the real world of negative income growth, confidence evaporated and existing debt obligations negative retail sales and numerous bankruptcies of major intensified.
Both orthodox and unorthodox policy initiatives high street stores, the evidence suggested otherwise.
Consequently, the public and the UK embarking on the largest fiscal contraction in private debt dynamics of the United States moved into memory there appears no respite in sight.
Over twenty five per cent of all outstanding structural reform of the nations debt problems cannot be private sector mortgages reflected negative equity for avoided.
Neither can the pain that will accompany it.
The arithmetic of compounding interest and probability of prolonged sub trend growth in the UK failure to repay principal caused outstanding levels of credit increases, investment opportunities may increasingly diverge.
card and personal debt to escalate further.
For a consumer It is difficult to envisage domestically focused companies based society such as the United States, this proved prospering against a backdrop of anaemic demand and particularly problematic.
In response, at least consumers intense competition.
Thankfully, numerous high quality tried to tighten their belts.
In the public sector, no such businesses with expanding international presence remain attempt at prudence was forthcoming.
As politicians played domiciled in the UK.
Prospects for Weir Group, Standard political brinkmanship with the nations debt ceiling and Chartered and British American Tobacco remain very outstanding fiscal obligations surged towards 100% of GDP, encouraging and are likely to remain core holdings within the the inevitable happened.
US debt was downgraded by the portfolio.
rating agencies, citing grave concerns over fiscal management.
This should have been taken as a real wake-up Europe call for policymakers.
Unfortunately, it went largely ignored.
A toxic mixture of excessive sovereign indebtedness and Indeed, with the eyes of the world fixed firmly on rapidly escalating banking problems festered effervescently changing events in Europe, very little changed.
A presidential throughout the Eurozone over the period.
Investor sentiment election in 2012 and the unrealistic economic promises that oscillated constantly between hope and fear, but neither typically accompany this event, suggests that such fiscal offered supportive fundamentals for financial returns.
Policy inertia will likely continue.
Fortunately many US companies remained focused on monetary aid through enormous rescue continue to thrive in international markets, largely immune packages and enforced fiscal austerity: essentially layering from domestic difficulties.
A new position in Pepsico, a more debt on top of existing debt and buying time through worldwide operator of beverage, snack and food businesses stretching liabilities out into the future.
European was initiated during the period.
Existing positions in Johnson government budget deficits threatened, at times, to spiral & Johnson and Philip Morris, leading global consumer out of control.
Understandable reluctance by bond investors products companies, were also added to on weakness.
to purchase government debt of heavily indebted countries elevated bond yields towards breaking point.
While the UK Greek government debt market crossed the point of no Bereft of fiscal and monetary policy options, UK politicians return, numerous emergency measures were required to keep and policymakers experienced a rough ride throughout 2011.
Italy and Spain from suffering the same fate.
By year end, Constant attempts were made to divert public attention the European Central Bank had virtually no choice but to away from domestic fragilities towards Europes precarious aggressively expand its balance sheet in order to ease predicament.
Condemnation of Europes monetary growing solvency concerns surrounding European banks.
For inflexibility, fiscal irresponsibility and bureaucratic the second consecutive year, the continent remained the rigidity poured from the mouths of self-righteous epicentre of global systemic financial risk.
What is it that is said about throwing stones for end to the European debt crisis proved elusive as political and glass houses?
For beneath the veneer of Euro-bashing, influence stayed divided over future policy direction.
the UK economy stagnated with many similar degenerative Currently, the unsustainable combination of monetary union economic symptoms caused by over-indebtedness.
Growth without fiscal union prevails, which suggests Europe will remained scarce as Government spending cuts and soaring remain mired in uncertainty.
The enormous task of food and energy prices eroded household spending power.
restructuring debt obligations to manageable levels whilst Unemployment reached a seventeen year high as service and simultaneously implementing pragmatic austerity measures, manufacturing industries felt the full brunt of economic that wont cause economic depression, is a balancing act of headwinds.
Credit contracted, consumer spending declined immense proportions.
Achieving it under the full glare of and the chronic imbalance between demand for money and extremely nervous bond and equity markets only adds to the supply of money was harshly exposed.
Broad money supply degree of difficulty.
Hopefully, as the year progresses, turned negative for the first time since records began in Eurozone nations can move towards greater fiscal integration 1983.
Saving and debt reduction became over-riding or fiscal union which would permit greater flexibility in future household priorities.
Statistics argued that in the absence of monetary policies and debt repayments.
The process will consecutive negative GDP growth, the UK was not in likely be prolonged, painful and precarious, but does present 10 Murray International Trust PLC a viable solution to the Eurozones woes.
Against such a Japan and Asia difficult economic environment, exposure to European It feels extremely uncomfortable analysing the investment companies remained very defensive.
Despite widespread backdrop in Japan given the scale of human tragedy that market weakness, capital was preserved and dividend flows unfolded following the earthquake and tsunami in March.
remain solid from holdings such as Nestle, Novartis and But putting emotion aside some observations are worth Roche in Switzerland.
Such focus on defensive businesses airing.
Unfortunately, as the largest debtor nation in the will continue within the European portfolio.
world, Japan couldnt fiscally afford the money required to rebuild.
In the event, more debt was issued, placing greater Latin America concerns on future solvency.
Economic growth contracted The dominant economic issues confronting Latin Americas for three quarters, but just managed to turn positive by year two largest economies, Mexico and Brazil, differed greatly end.
Companies worked hard to recover lost output from the from those prevailing elsewhere in the world.
Flush with disaster but were continually hindered by shortages of power savings, well-funded pension schemes, plentiful resources of and components.
As the Yen traded upwards towards postcapital and commodities plus competitive manufacturing World War II highs and demand from Europe softened, exports, the economic backdrop remained structurally sound.
export orientated manufacturers struggled to maintain profit Policy directives, unburdened by debt or capital dependency, margins.
Deflationary pressures, which have blighted the were free to address domestic priorities.
Brazilian economy for close to twenty years, showed no signs of technocrats focused on engineering a slowdown in economic abating, compounding an already treacherous business growth from the breakneck speed of 2010.
Unfortunately there appears no respite in sight.
prudent interest rate management combined with fiscal Seventeen years of zero interest rates and numerous tightening delivered the desired results by year end.
expensive fiscal packages have failed to turn the deflationary Inflationary pressures subsided, Brazils primary fiscal surplus tide, leaving Japan structurally weaker than ever.
Where it surged to record highs and the nations net debt to GDP fell goes from here remains as opaque as ever.
to thirty six per cent, its lowest level for fifteen years.
Mexicos on-going economic decoupling from the United Elsewhere in Asia, policy objectives for 2011 were relatively States became increasingly evident as its northern straightforward too.
Dampen inflationary pressures and neighbours woes failed to derail economic progress.
simultaneously slow economic growth to sustainable levels.
Policymakers enjoyed a relatively inactive year as stable Given double digit growth rates and inflation scares which growth, inflation and fiscal finances continued to match were so pronounced across the region this time last year, conservative projections.
With export orientated labour central bankers generally achieved success.
Economic costs now lower than China, Mexicos international activity decelerated and inflation moderated in response to competitiveness has never been stronger.
Currencies slightly declined against the commendable macro-economic management, global US dollar, reinforcing structural competitiveness, and real concerns over the developed worlds debt crisis unsettled incomes savings continued to expand.
The one notable financial markets in Latin America over the period.
Rising risk exception to the general trend was India where stubbornly aversion devalued Mexican and Brazilian currencies against high inflation persisted.
Investors may have to wait longer Sterling by 12% and 13% respectively and equity market before the tightening bias can be relaxed there, but returns were negative.
Such contagion from external elsewhere the outlook is encouraging.
The potential for financial shocks is not uncommon in Latin America, but interest rate cuts and more manageable levels of growth are history suggests domestic corporate fundamentals are positive for the region and are reflected in current holdings of unlikely to be materially affected.
Generally, balance sheets Asian financials, consumer goods and telecommunications remain pristine, growth tends to be financed from free cash companies in the portfolio.
flows and returning cash to shareholders through higher dividends is very much entrenched in corporate culture.
Outlook Currency and equity market weakness provided excellent It is impossible to perpetually avoid the unavoidable as the opportunities to add to existing holdings in tissue paper debt infested developed world has finally discovered.
manufacturer Kimberly Clark fide Mexico and seamless-pipe Western central bankers may intellectually defend the manufacturer Tenaris.
A new holding was also initiated in rationale for near zero interest rates, pleading impotence Femsa, a leading beverage producer and convenience store towards the liquidity trap they created, but for the real world operator based in Mexico.
Following a tough year for the economic consequences remain extremely harsh.
financial returns in the region, valuations remain attractive Lenders wont lend for fear of credit risk: borrowers cant for longer term capital and income growth.
borrow because of punitive existing debts and low confidence: and savers can only watch as existing real wealth is eroded by inflation.
What sort of financial landscape is Murray International Trust PLC 11 Managers Review continued this evolving before our very eyes?
Economic maxims have been inverted.
Credits became viewed as debts, assets became viewed as liabilities and illiquidity became viewed as insolvency.
This interpretation became the reality that dominated economic life, but arguably just reflected the inevitable.
Presidents or Prime Ministers can resign: governments, such as Greece or Italy, can tumble: austerity packages can be passed from here to eternity: and trillions of dollars can be promised.
Unfortunately, none of this means the developed worlds debt problems are over.
Without competence, co-operation, credibility and belief, the crisis cannot even be properly addressed, never mind resolved.
As denial finally succumbs to realism, at last progress can be made.
Assuming there is no collective will to orchestrate systemic financial collapse throughout the world, the painful healing process may begin.
From an investment perspective, this backdrop will likely present many challenges, none more so than preserving and growing capital, plus securing sustainable dividend growth.
Prevailing low interest rates threaten the real value of savings at a time when sovereign bond quality remains poor and bank deposits yield very little.
Whilst corporate earnings risk is always heightened during periods of macro-economic uncertainty, the compelling argument for favouring equities over bonds still exists.
A globally diversified company with a strong balance sheet, above average yield plus sustainable earnings and dividend growth remains inherently attractive, especially relative to bonds.
Providing such exposure can be secured at attractive prices and at present it can, we will continue to focus on investment opportunities associated with such companies.
Bruce Stout Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 28 February 2012 12 Murray International Trust PLC
