Information about the Manager tightly constructed to provide the greatest scope for Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited outperformance within the agreed risk parameters.
The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, For Murray International Trust PLC, regional allocation of whose group companies as at 31 December 2011 had funds in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment approximately 173.9bn of assets under management.
It Strategy Committee is the first stage of the portfolio manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients including construction process.
At this stage, house views on specific 40 investment companies and other closed-ended funds, global sectors are also taken into account.
which had combined total assets of over 8.6bn.
Established themes and trends are considered within the The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests process of country allocation, which is also influenced by globally, operating from 31 offices in 26 countries.
Its analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary investment teams are generally based in the markets or factors, value and performance.
regions in which they invest: in the UK its main investment centres are in London and Edinburgh.
Country selection is driven overall by short and medium term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, and the Bruce Stout, Senior Investment Manager market implications of those.
Bruce Stout is a senior investment manager on the Global equities team.
Bruce joined Aberdeen Asset Managers Stock Selection Limited or acquired companies in 1987 and has held a The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for number of roles including investment manager on the portfolio construction across all regional segments.
closely with the relevant underlying desks in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group and hold recommendations for each desk, which are then AAM has as its primary objective in managing Murray used as the investment universe.
If a stock no longer meets International Trust PLC the delivery of consistent the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is sold within 30 outperformance against the benchmark based on the days.
This process enables the investment manager to better concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
reflect top down themes that emerge from the global equity strategy and investment themes meetings that take place To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been monthly.
However, to meet the different performance objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in Risk Controls flexibility.
Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to Key decisions are implemented consistently across all funds ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their and portfolio risk limits are set and closely monitored.
continuous watch is kept over critical factors that influence investment decisions, so that when views change, action is As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio taken swiftly and decisively to reposition portfolios.
investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in Asset Allocation interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by strict Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The Committee, and after consultation with relevant AAM area foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of specialists, the investment manager of Murray International forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the Trust PLC, Bruce Stout, recommends asset allocation to the portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call Board.
There is a top down influence to establish the deposits.
Additionally, the Company has entered into an economic overview and to identify potential investment interest rate swap agreement to fix Yen 8.225 billion.
The approach is highly focused and portfolios are detailed risk profile of the Company is given in note 19 to the financial statements.
