Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Final and special dividends for the year ended 31 December financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 2010 of 11.6p and 2.5p per Ordinary share were paid on 16 December 2011.
Interim dividends of 8.0p each were paid on 16 August 2011, 15 November 2011 and 17 February 2012 making a total distribution to Ordinary shareholders of 40.8 Business Review million.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for A review of the Companys operations is given in the the year ended 31 December 2011 of 13.0p per Ordinary Corporate Summary on pages 2 to 6, the Chairmans share payable on 16 May 2012 to holders of Ordinary shares Statement on pages 7 and 8 and the Managers Review on on the register at close of business on 10 April 2012. pages 9 to 12.
This includes a review of the business of the Company and its principal activities, likely future Whenever a cash dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a developments of the business, recommended final dividend bonus issue of B Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B and details of the issue of new shares during the year by the Ordinary shares.
In connection with the final dividend the Company.
The major risks associated with the Company are Directors will make a corresponding capitalisation issue of B detailed in the Corporate Summary on pages 3 to 6 and in Ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
This capitalisation note 19 to the financial statements.
Details of the risk issue will be equivalent in asset value to the final dividend management objectives and policies are provided in the now recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any Corporate Governance Statement internal controls report on tax credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of shareholders of page 34.
Further details on how the portfolio is managed to the final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the achieve the risk management policies and objectives are capitalisation issue will be posted on 16 May 2012. disclosed in The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of B on page 22.
The Key Performance Indicators for the Ordinary shareholders.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank Company including NAV and share price information are equally with the existing B Ordinary shares.
10 to approve the final dividend will be The current Directors are K J Carter, J D Best, P W proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Dunscombe, A C Shedden and Lady Balfour of Burleigh and along with Ms Ella Brown who was appointed to the Board The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 on 29 April 2011 and resigned on 17 June 2011 and Mr J F H December 2011 was 892.2p 2010 930.5p.
Trott who retired from the Board on 28 April 2011 these were the only Directors who served during the year.
Annual General Meeting The Company does not make political donations or The Notice of Annual General Meeting is contained on pages expenditures and has not made any donations for charitable 65 to 69 of the Annual Report.
purposes during the year and, in common with most investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
Discount Management Policy and Special Business at Annual General Meeting Principal Activity and Status Share Buybacks The Company is an investment company in accordance with At the Annual General Meeting held on 28 April 2011, Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on shareholders approved the renewal of the authority business as an investment trust.
The Company is registered in permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in The Directors wish to renew the authority given by a manner to satisfy the conditions to enable it to continue to shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The obtain approval as an investment trust under s1158 of the principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance Corporation Tax Act 2010.
HM Revenue & Customs will shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net grant s1158 status, if requested, provided that the Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be Companys affairs have been conducted in such a manner as appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at to satisfy the conditions of that section.
Approval for such a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an status has been given by HM Revenue & Customs for the increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining year ended 31 December 2010. shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net Results and Dividends Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any The total loss attributable to equity shareholders for the year purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established amounted to 1.8 million.
Murray International Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,840,923 shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year equivalent to 11,276,162 Ordinary shares and 87,529 B at the Annual General Meeting.
Ordinary shares or 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital at 28 February 2012, the latest practicable Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid date prior to the publication of this Annual Report.
Such on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the Meeting or on 30 June 2013, whichever is earlier.
This means middle market quotations for a share taken from the London that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days Annual General Meeting.
immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the and the current highest independent bid on the trading Companies Act 2006 provides that existing shareholders venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price have pre-emption rights and that the new shares must be which may be paid is 25p per share.
offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by It is currently proposed that the purchase of shares by the special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares Company will be made from the realised capital reserve of otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
The purchase price will normally be paid out Special Resolution No.
12 will, if passed, also give the of the cash balances held by the Company from time to Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up to an time.
aggregate nominal amount of 2,840,923 equivalent to 11,276,162 Ordinary shares and 87,529 B Ordinary shares or Special Resolution No.
13 will permit the Company to buy 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital at 28 back shares and to hold the shares bought back as treasury February 2012, the latest practicable date prior to the shares rather than cancel them immediately.
The benefit of publication of this Annual Report, as if Section 561 of the the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be Companies Act 2006 does not apply.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a This authority will also expire on the date of the 2013 Annual premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in General Meeting or on 30 June 2013, whichever is earlier.
treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution This authority will not be used in connection with a rights either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is issue by the Company.
permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought The Directors intend to use the authority given by back, such shares would be cancelled.
11 and 12 to allot shares and disapply preemption rights only in circumstances where this will be Special Resolution No.
13 in the Notice of Annual General clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the of 0.5% or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, shares are Annual General Meeting amounting to 16,902,968 Ordinary available under the savings plans operated by the Manager.
shares and 131,206 B Ordinary shares as at 28 February In circumstances where the share price of the Company 2012.
Such authority will expire on the date of the 2013 stands at a premium of 0.5% or more to Net Asset Value, it Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2013, whichever is may be advantageous for the Company to allot new shares earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be directly to participants in the savings plans or to other renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the prospective purchasers.
Such issues would only be made at authority has been exhausted.
prices greater than Net Asset Value, and would involve no dilution for existing shareholders.
The issue proceeds would During the year ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date be available for investment in line with the Companys of this Report no share repurchases have taken place.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without Issue of Shares the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
In terms of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the Resolution 12 will also disapply pre-emption rights on the Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised sale of treasury shares as envisaged above.
Once again, the by the shareholders.
11 in the Notice of pre-emption rights would only be disapplied where the Annual General Meeting, if passed, will therefore give the treasury shares were sold at a premium to Net Asset Value Directors the necessary authority to allot the unissued share of not less than 0.5%.
26 Murray International Trust PLC B Ordinary % of Increase in Articles Limit on Directors Fees shares of B Ordinary Ordinary Resolution No.
14 will be proposed to increase the 25p capital current cap on the aggregate amount of fees payable to Speirs & Jeffrey 230,825 26.6 Directors in any year, contained in the Articles of Association, to 225,000.
The Board believes that to enable There have been no significant changes to the above flexibility in respect of succession planning, and in particular information notified between 31 December 2011 and 28 to recruit new Directors from time to time, it is prudent to February 2012. keep remuneration at or around market levels.
The Board is therefore proposing to increase the Articles cap from Directors 150,000 to 225,000.
The cap was last increased, from 100,000 to the present limit, in 2006.
The increase will also The Directors who held office during the year under review enable succession periods for retiring Directors by ensuring together with their interests are shown below.
With the that any overlap of Directors services does not breach the exception of Messrs Trott and Dunscombe and Ms Brown all aggregate fees the Company is permitted to pay.
The the Directors held office throughout the year under review.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38 contains further details of Directors remuneration.
In accordance with the recommendations of Principle 3 of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance that the Directors The Directors consider that i the authorities granted above of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual reand ii the increased limit for Directors fees are in the best election by shareholders.
All the members of the Board will interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a whole retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the offer themselves for re-election with the exception of Mr resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own Dunscombe.
Mr P W Dunscombe was appointed during the beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in year and he retires in accordance with the Articles of aggregate to 68,822 shares, representing approximately Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting 0.06% of the Companys issued share capital as at 28 and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Appropriate February 2012. will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Share Capital No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys business and in which any of the Directors is interested has The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2011 subsisted during the year.
amounted to 111,131,628 Ordinary and 866,687 B Ordinary shares.
Details of the changes in share capital during the year The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the are provided in note 14 to the financial statements.
On 17 Company were as follows: February 2012 the issued B Ordinary share capital increased to 875,295 B Ordinary shares following the capitalisation 31 December 2011 1 January 2011 issue of 8,608 B Ordinary shares in lieu of the third interim Beneficial Beneficial dividend.
Between 31 December 2011 and the date of this K J Carter 10,000 3,000 report, a further 1.6 million new Ordinary shares were issued Lady Balfour of Burleigh 1,300 1,300 for cash at a premium to the prevailing net asset value.
J D Best 47,500 47,500 P W Dunscombe 1,350 - Share Interests A C Shedden 8,576 8,052 At 31 December 2011 the following share interests in the Ella Brown n a - Company above 3% had been notified: J F H Trott n a 35,000 Or subsequent date of appointment Ordinary % of Appointed 29 April 2011 shares of Ordinary Appointed 29 April 2011 and resigned 17 June 2011 25p capital Retired 28 April 2011 Brewin Dolphin 10,632,113 9.6 Mr A C Sheddens beneficial holding increased to 8,672 Speirs & Jeffrey 8,188,439 7.4 Ordinary shares by the acquisitions of 21, 55 and 20 Aberdeen Asset Managers 7,498,599 6.8 Ordinary shares on 23 January 2012, 21 February 2012 and Savings Plans non disretionary 22 February 2012 respectively.
With the exception of these Rathbones 6,390,648 5.8 further disclosures, the above holdings were unchanged at 28 Legal & General 3,705,343 3.3 February 2012, being the nearest practicable date prior to D C Thomson & Company 3,699,600 3.3 the signing of this Annual Report.
Limited Murray International Trust PLC 27 Directors Report continued secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for Directors Fees the effective operation of the Company.
A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 37 and 38.
Corporate Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of this Manager and Company Secretary Directors Report and covers the Companys compliance with Investment management services are provided to the The UK Corporate Governance Code and is shown on pages Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company 30 to 35. secretarial, accounting and administrative services are provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Audit Committee For the year ended 31 December 2011, the management and Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit charged on the following basis: Committee on page 32. an investment management fee payable to the Manager, Directors and Officers Insurance Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
The current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any six previous quarters.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged liability incurred in defending proceedings or in connection on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment with any application to the Court in which relief is granted.
management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and 70% against realised capital reserves: and ISA Status included in the charge of 0.5% above is a secretarial fee of The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully 100,000 per annum which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
qualifying investment for the stocks and shares component of an ISA.
In addition, the Manager was entitled to a performance fee on the following basis: Going Concern a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Companys net asset total return over that of its guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in benchmark: October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the review of the Companys ability to continue as a going benchmark.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio of listed equity shares and bonds which in most The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any circumstances are realisable within a very short timescale.
one year comprising the basic management fee and the The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of uncertainties disclosed on pages 3 to 6 and have reviewed the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities and the Directors performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year believe that the Company has adequate financial resources period with any future underperformance offset against the to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable fee payable.
future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the No fees are charged in the case of investments managed or going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The management agreement may be terminated by either party Creditor Payment Policy on the expiry of one years written notice.
On termination The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware otherwise have been due up to that date.
of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year The Board considers the continued appointment of the end 2010 - none.
Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset Management Group has the investment management, 28 Murray International Trust PLC Financial Instruments Independent Auditor The Companys financial instruments comprise its The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has expressed its willingness investment portfolio, cash balances, loans and debtors and to continue in office.
8 to appoint Ernst & creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Resolution main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial No.
9 to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
instruments are disclosed in note 19 to the financial During the year the auditor received 53,000 VAT in statements.
relation to non-audit services, being the review of the B Ordinary share capitalisation issue calculations, agreed upon procedures in respect of the Half-Yearly Report and advice in Accountability and Audit connection with overseas withholding tax reclaims.
Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and he or she has taken all By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Aberdeen Asset Management PLC information.
Secretary 40 Princes Street, Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs Edinburgh EH2 2BY The following further information is disclosed in accordance 28 February 2012 with the Companies Act and DTR 7.2.
6: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised in note 14: Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 27: The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are summarised on page 33: Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares requires a special resolution to be passed by shareholders: There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Directors Conflicts of Interests The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director of the Company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
In the event that a conflict should arise the other Board members would consider that conflict and recommend whether or not each potential conflict should be authorised.
The Board confirms that, as at the date of this Report, the Directors do not have any conflicts of interest which might require to be approved by the Board or otherwise recorded in the Companys Register of Conflicts.
