Marketing Strategy direction of AAMs Group Head of Marketing who has Murray International Trust PLC contributes to the Marketing extensive experience in the marketing and communications Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited of investment products.
He is supported by a team of AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under marketing professionals.
The Companys contribution which is matched by AAM is 579,000 plus VAT for the year ending 31 August 2012.
The marketing arrangements are reviewed Internet on an annual basis by the Board.
Murray International Trust PLC has a dedicated website: www.
This allows web users to access The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively information on the Companys share price performance, with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also improvement.
shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits through packaged products, whether Investors in the Share Plan and ISA can now use AAMs singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can secure system to view their valuations and transact on their be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
The Marketing Programme includes the following: The Board is committed to a close monitoring of the Marketing Programme.
The Aberdeen Group Head of Investor Relations Programme Marketing provides a written summary quarterly to the Board.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager month, institutional investors and prospects receive a or performance, please telephone our Investor Services Managers report on your Company that includes detailed Department on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users performance analysis.
com or write to us at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
Direct Response Advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of The information on pages 62 and 63 has been approved for the the Company in selected national press as well as the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets specialist financial titles.
Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority Direct Mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM is distributed free of charge.
Public Relations The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder Services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the 62 Murray International Trust PLC How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of Direct capital gains tax.
Investors can buy and sell shares in Murray International Trust PLC directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through ISA Transfer a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens us which can be invested in Murray International Trust PLC Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
while retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an Investment Note Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of investment companies under its management Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the including Murray International Trust PLC.
Stock market and currency movements may cause in the Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well family friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on as rise and investors may not get back the amount they the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer originally invested.
the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the 0.5% on entry.
There is no market makers spread.
restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the common with other schemes of this type, all investments are investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax held in nominee accounts.
treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan Keeping You Informed AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in For internet users, detailed data on Murray International Murray International Trust PLC can be purchased.
There are Trust PLC, including price, performance information and a no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although monthly fact sheet is available from the Trusts website investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website occasions, be a significant amount.
Alternatively you can call start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per 0500 00 00 40 for trust information.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There Literature Request Service is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a For literature and application forms for the Managers Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by investment trust products, please contact: instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights Email: aam@lit-request.
For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share Stocks and Shares ISA Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: An investment of up to 10,680 can be made in the tax year 2011 2012 and 11,280 in the tax year 2012 2013.
Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration PO Box 11020 There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although Chelmsford investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a Essex, CM99 2DB significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, Details are also available on www.
co. uk calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under Murray International Trust PLC 63
