Discover Cairn How We Work OUR VISION OUR FOCUS O U R E D g E 2 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn OUR VISION OUR FOCUS O U R E D g E Cairn is a dynamic, entrepreneurial company.
Our agility and ability to forge strong, open and lasting relationships are essential to our success.
e aim to be pioneers within a balanced Our Values portfolio.
We are partners: we work At Cairn, we believe in doing things the right Wwith Governments, joint venture way.
Our values of building respect, nurturing associates, communities and suppliers to relationships and acting responsibly are at the deliver value for all our stakeholders.
core of all that we do and inform how we work.
We are passionate, driven and determined.
h Building Respect We act with respect for We embrace change and encourage collaboration people, their communities, the environment, and teamwork in all that we do.
It is these human rights and the law.
qualities, along with skill, stamina and our ability h Nurturing Relationships We act honestly, to combine technical and commercial expertise, transparently and with integrity to develop that are essential to the business.
strong, lasting relationships with all our stakeholders.
h Acting Responsibly We behave fairly, ethically and are accountable for our actions.
We believe in, and act on, our responsibility to care for people, society and the environment.
uu Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 3 Discover Cairn How We Work Continued OUR FOCUS IS ON LO Ng TERm V ALUE CREA TION VA VA L LU E C R EA TI O N Our aim is to discover, develop and deliver value in our assets and people for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
We are passionate about enriching peoples lives through energy exploration and development.
For us, this includes nurturing the talent of our staff, developing safe and healthy work places, protecting the environment and supporting strong, vibrant communities.
4 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn OUR FOCUS IS ON LO Ng TERm V ALUE CREA TION VA VA L LU E C R EA TI O N Our Approach People are our most important asset and Wherever we work, we aim to develop helping them develop their skills and abilities long-term partnerships with local communities ensures we continue to work towards our and work with them where possible to develop goals.
We encourage them to realise their sustainable economic, social and environmental potential and provide them with a supportive initiatives.
We encourage local people to workplace in which diversity and equality are contribute to, and benefit from, our projects respected and valued.
and believe that by working together we The health and safety of our people can succeed together.
The benefits our and the environment is also vitally important operations can include energy, infrastructure, to us.
Throughout our global activities we employment and trade with local enterprises.
ensure our people have a healthy, safe and secure workplace.
Before operating in any new area, we assess the potential social and environmental impacts of our activities and identify ways to mitigate against these and design our plans accordingly.
Simon Thomson Chief Executive Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 5
