Discover Cairn Our Track Record of Delivering Value Cairn has a proven track record of creating transformational growth and delivering significant value through exploration and development.
hroughout Cairns time in South Asia, Cairns success stems from being pioneers the Company has made more than and partners.
We focus on identifying assets T 40 oil and gas discoveries onshore that are capable of providing significant and and offshore in its assets in Rajasthan, sustainable growth, capturing as high an equity the Cambay Basin and the Bay of Bengal.
position as possible in frontier areas, using our The three largest Rajasthan fields alone strong technical and commercial expertise and Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya MBA working with our partners to take our assets from have gross recoverable reserves of one billion discovery to development safely.
Cairns quick barrels of oil equivalent and the potential to decision making, agility and the ability to form produce more than 30% of Indias domestic strong and lasting relationships has benefitted oil production.
not only the business but all stakeholders.
10 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 A RECORD OF CREATINg gROwTH AND DELIVERINg VALUE Discover Cairn Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 11 Discover Cairn Our Track Record of Delivering Value Continued 12 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn The Mangala Processing Terminal MPT Delivering Value currently processes oil from the Mangala and Through Development Bhagyam fields.
It covers an area equivalent Cairns projects in South Asia in both India and to 200 football pitches and contains more than Bangladesh have helped meet both countries 80km of roads, comparable with the distance energy demands.
These developments from London to Brighton.
The MPT was planned, demonstrate Cairns ability to safely, rapidly built and completed in a little over two years.
and successfully deliver complex, large-scale Constructing the worlds longest continuously oil and gas developments.
The Rajasthan heated pipeline, currently some 590km long development in particular emphasises Cairns with an additional 80km being built, has given capacity for managing unique operational the joint venture partners access to more than challenges such as working in an environment 75% of Indias refining capacity.
The success with extreme temperatures and operating in of Cairns operations in India has enabled the a remote location with limited infrastructure.
Company to return approximately $4.5 billion to shareholders over the last five years.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 13
