leadership and Governance Board of Directors Name and Title Simon Dr Mike Jann Sir Bill Thomson Watts Brown Gammell Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Managing Director and Non-Executive Chairman 47 56 Chief Financial Officer 56 59 Simon Thomson joined Dr Mike Watts is Deputy Jann Brown holds an MA Sir Bill Gammell holds Biography Cairn in 1995 as a lawyer.
Chief Executive and has from Edinburgh University a BA in Economics and He was appointed as Chief more than 32 years and a diploma in accounting Accountancy from Stirling Executive in July 2011 experience in the oil industry.
University and was awarded having been Legal and He was formerly CEO and Jann joined Cairn in 1998 a knighthood in 2006 for Commercial Director since Managing Director of the after a career in the services to industry in 2006.
Simon holds an LLB Amsterdam listed Holland accountancy profession, Scotland.
Sir Bill has more Hons from Aberdeen Sea Search, which was mainly with KPMG.
Jann than 30 years experience University and a Diploma acquired by Cairn in 1995, is Vice President Elect of in the international oil and in Legal Practice from and where he was the Institute of Chartered gas industry.
the architect of the South Accountants of Scotland Asia strategy.
Mike has ICAS until mid-April 2012, held senior technical and at which point she will management roles with become Vice President Premier, Burmah and Shell.
She is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Simon was originally Mike was appointed to the Jann was appointed to the Sir Bill founded Cairn and Term of Office appointed to the Board in Board in 1999 and became Board in November 2006 was appointed to the Board November 2006 as Legal Deputy Chief Executive in as Finance Director and as Chief Executive on its and Commercial Director March 2009. became Managing Director initial listing in 1988.
In July before becoming Chief and Chief Financial Officer 2011 he stood down from Executive in July 2011. in July 2011. that role and took over as Non-Executive Chairman.
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable No Independent Simon is a Non-Executive Mike is a Non-Executive Jann was the Senior Sir Bill is a member of the External Director of Grahams The Director of SOCO Independent Director of Asia Task Force and the UK Appointments Family Dairy Limited and is International PLC.
Hansen Transmissions India Business Council.
Sir a Director of the Winning International NV until the Bill, who is an ex-Scotland Scotland Foundation.
company was taken over rugby internationalist, is also in December 2011. a director of the Winning Scotland Foundation, a director of Glasgow 2014 Limited and a member of the British Olympic Advisory Board.
On 1 March 2012, Sir Bill was also appointed the Non-Executive Chairman of Genius Foods Limited.
Committee Simon chairs the Group Mike is a member of the Jann is a member of the Sir Bill has been a member Membership Risk Management Group Risk Management Group Risk Management of the Corporate Governance 1 Committee and attends Committee.
Committee and of the and Nomination Committee the Remuneration Corporate Governance and since February 2003.
1 Committee and Corporate Nomination Committee.
Governance and Nomination 1 Committee by invitation.
1 As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68, the Nomination Committee has been expanded to include a corporate governance function and has now been renamed the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee.
54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information leadership and Governance Board of Directors Continued Todd Iain Dr James M. Jacqueline Alexander Hunt McLaren Buckee Sheppard qC Berger Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 59 61 66 56 46 Todd Hunt is President Iain McLaren was formerly Dr James Buckee has more M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger is and joint owner of Atropos Senior Partner for KPMG in than 40 years experience was previously Executive Chief Executive Officer of Exploration Company Scotland and has significant in the oil and gas industry Vice President, Corporate Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. and Atropos Production experience in the oil and having gained extensive and Legal at Talisman Energy a private Dutch exploration Company based in Dallas, gas sector.
international experience Inc. a post she held for 15 and production company Texas.
He has more than with Shell, Burmah Oil years from 1993 to 2008. based in Amsterdam.
30 years experience in and BP.
Dr Buckee was Ms Sheppard holds a BA Alexander holds a Masters the oil and gas industry.
appointed President of from the Memorial University degree in Petroleum Talisman Energy Inc in of Newfoundland, BA and Engineering from Delft 1991 and CEO in 1993 and MA in Jurisprudence from University and an MBA held both posts until retiring Oxford University and LLB from Rotterdam School from Talisman in 2007. from McGill University.
was admitted to the Law Society of Alberta, Canada in 1982 and was appointed Queens Counsel for the Province of Alberta in 2008.
Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an Dr Buckee was appointed Ms Sheppard was appointed Alexander was appointed independent Non-Executive independent Non-Executive as an independent as an independent Nonas an independent Director in May 2003.
Non-Executive Director Executive Director in May Non-Executive Director in January 2009.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes President and joint owner Iain is Chairman of Investors Dr Buckee is Non-Executive Ms Sheppard is a Director Alexander is Chief Executive of Atropos Exploration Capital Trust and a Director Chairman of EnQuest PLC of Emera Inc. and NWest Officer of Oranje-Nassau Company and Atropos of Baillie Gifford Shin and a Non-Executive Energy Inc. both public Energie B. V. Production Company.
Nippon Trust and Scottish Director of Rodinia Oil Corp. corporations and she is Enterprise.
He is also the and PetroFrontier Corp. Chairperson of the Research President of the Institute and Development of Chartered Accountants Corporation of Newfoundland of Scotland.
Todd has been a member Iain is the Chairman of Dr Buckee is a member Ms Sheppard is chair of Alexander has been a of the Remuneration the Audit Committee and of the Remuneration both the Remuneration member of the Corporate Committee since June a member of the Corporate Committee and has been Committee and the Governance and Nomination 1 2005 and the Corporate Governance and Nomination a member of the Audit Corporate Governance and Committee since October 1 1 Governance and Nomination Committee.
He has also Committee since January Nomination Committee.
2011 and a member of the 1 Committee since May been a member of the 2009.
Remuneration Committee March 2012. since May 2010 and is a member of the Group Risk Management Committee.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 55
