Business Review Uncertain Prospects The signs of an economic recovery were muted industry overview through 2011, with global growth dropping to 3.8% last year after having registered in 1 excess of 5% in 2010.
GDP growth rates in the advanced economies halved to 1.6% as a result of slower than anticipated recovery in investment and private sector demand.
Even the emerging economies cooled to 6.2% High oil prices continued to support growth, from 7.3% in 2010, partially due to exploration activity, reversing the government macro-economic tightening.
trend of falling expenditure since Global growth in demand for oil products slowed the onset of the financial crisis.
as a result: having bounced back more than 3% in 2010 it grew by less than 1% over 2011, to 2 89.1 million barrels of oil per day mmbopd.
Resilient demand growth, driven by energyintensive industrial development and demand for transport services, in non-OECD economies such as China and India continued to push consumption of oil products higher, in the same direction as the wider economy.
However economic uncertainty in the advanced economies, particularly Europe, meant that despite positive economic growth their overall demand for oil products fell.
Even in the presence of these downward pressures, the price for Brent crude averaged DR Julian Fennema $111.4 barrel bbl in 2011, up 40% on the energy aCademy, 2010 average of $79.5 bbl.
A major reason for heriot-Watt university this increase was the supply side disruptions through the second quarter of 2011 as a result Heriot-Watt University is one of the UKs leading universities 3 of the Arab Spring, although overall OPEC for business and industry and has a reputation for innovative supply and delivery increased over the year.
education, enterprise and leading edge research.
Energy research Indeed the majority of the expansion in world is a core activity and through the pan-university Energy Academy, oil supply, from 87.4 mmbopd in 2010 to 88.5 research excellence ranges from solar energy and energy-focused mmbopd in 2011, was met by OPEC, where materials through to energy economics, use, policy and logistics.
non-OPEC supply expanded year-on-year by only 0.1 mmbopd.
26 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The most prolific area for additions was Brazil Gas Markets in Evolution UK a Barrel of Contrasts 4 5.3 billion boe, where the deepwater resources The unconventional gas revolution that In the North Sea the story was more mixed, already discovered off its east coast are forecast drove the US gas price down in 2010, opposing where exploration activity in the UK sector to propel the country into the top five producers the trend of rising prices elsewhere, continued continued to fall to levels not seen in more in the world over the next decade.
Two frontier into 2011 as the price fell below $4 per thousand than a decade.
This drop is in part attributable areas, however, came increasingly to the fore in cubic feet.
This has developed into a more to the surprise supplementary tax increase on 2011: East Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean.
complicated dynamic, with the same drilling oil production in the 2011 Budget, used to fund These influenced the balance between newly infrastructure also able to exploit unconventional a decrease in fuel duty, as well as ongoing discovered reserves that are subject to political oil reservoirs and switching between the two concerns about the costs of abandonment in 5 and economic constraints and those open to to exploit price differences.
These two factors also buoyed collaboration with independent oil companies, the resurgent M&A market in the North Sea, shifting it in favour of the latter over 2011.
These price differences also influenced the supplied by companies who consider the European markets, but for a different reason.
area as not core to their strategy putting their Large deepwater gas discoveries by The price at which gas is traded in long-term, assets up for sale in order to raise revenue international oil companies off Mozambique pipeline-based, contracts is usually indexed to to invest elsewhere.
meant that this area was ranked third globally the price of oil when one rises so does the 3.4 billion boe in terms of overall additions to other and is a main factor as to why European Although this casts doubt on the potential reserves, with extensive further operations gas prices are two to three times higher than of the UK Continental Shelf oil production to 8 planned into 2012.
The Eastern Mediterranean those in the US.
reverse its decline, falling by 17% over 2011 area had provided the largest find by an due to production shutdowns and long-term independent in 2010: Noble continued this The fide-coupling of the two prices within depletion, the overall picture was one of success discovering similar volumes again the US, experiencing a fall in the gas price increasing capital investment, with firms in the basin.
despite increases in the price of oil, and weak choosing to develop existing fields further demand in Europe due to economic uncertainty rather than invest in new ones.
Investment M&A Wavering and weather conditions, have increased the in new fields did occur, however, such as the The significant rise in M&A activity in the pressures on the main suppliers, Russia and high-profile announcement in October 2011 upstream sector in 2010 also faltered through Norway, to alter the flexibility of their pricing by BP and partners to invest almost 10 billion 2011, as although the overall volume of structure.
This downward pressure may not, in the UK continental shelf over the next transactions remained stable the total value however, be maintained as the current glut in five years.
The global Liquefied Natural Gas LNG supply is not major driver of this was a decline in large assets anticipated to last, with increases in demand, Shareholder Value changing hands, where both previous years had in particular from Asia and a post-Fukushima In the light of conflicting macro-economic seen deals in excess of $40 bn occurring.
Japan, outstripping growth in supply.
signals, the FTSE 100 index lost more than 5% of value over 2011 but the oil and gas Given the earlier comments on the changing Exploration in 2011 producers outperformed, generating more game in North America, coupled with its more High oil prices continued to support exploration than 6% growth.
Whilst this aggregates over liquid capital markets, it is not surprising that activity, reversing the trend of falling expenditure divergent individual performances, it also the largest area for deals in 2011 was the US.
since the onset of the financial crisis.
Although demonstrates the continued attraction of Almost 60% of announced transactions related total reported volumes were lower than in 2010, the sector for investors especially in the to this arena, particularly associated with the highest year in a decade, estimates suggest light of indications of a sustained high production acreage in shale gas.
the discovery of in excess of 26 billion barrels oil price relative to the historic average.
of oil equivalent boe with the potential for 6 The main difference with respect to the previous upwards revision.
year was the relative decline in acquisitions by the National Oil Companies NOCs, albeit that the Chinese NOCs continued their aggressive international expansion.
These accounted for more than 50% of the total value of transactions, albeit against a level of 18% of transaction value.
IMF World Economic Outlook Update, January 2012 2.
IEA Oil Market Report, February 2012 3.
Libya, for example, produced more than 2% of world oil prior to the political upheaval of 2011.
Its subsequent recovery has surprised analysts and optimistic forecasts suggest that these levels can be reached again by mid-2012.
Gas extracted from shale, tight sands or coalbeds.
The sustained high oil price has, therefore, increased the value of this second proposition, with an associated expansion in US supply.
This effect, coupled with reductions in demand brought about both by policy changes and price impacts, is expected to reduce reliance on oil imports in the USA over the next decade, as well as offering the potential for becoming a significant exporter of natural gas once again.
A boe is the quantity of gas with the same energy content as one barrel of oil, allowing direct comparison of the size of oil and gas fields.
Ernst & Young Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2011 8.
UK Energy Statistics 2011 Provisional Data, DECC, February 2012 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 27
