leadership and Governance Directors Report The Directors of Cairn Energy PLC registered in Scotland with Directors Company No.
SC226712 present their Annual Report for the year ended The names and biographical details of the current directors of the 31 December 2011 together with the financial statements of the Group Company are given in the Board of Directors section on pages 54 and 55. and Company for the year.
These will be laid before the shareholders The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the at the AGM to be held on Thursday 17 May 2012.
Company are shown below: As at As at As at Results and Dividend 31 December 2010 31 December 2011 23 March 2012 The Group made a profit after tax and exceptional items of $4,565.2 Sir Bill Gammell 2,766,935 3,317,473 1,247,004 million 2010: $1.1 billion.
Dr Mike Watts 2,444,424 2,864,926 1,141,973 Subsequent events that have occurred after the Balance Sheet date Jann Brown 398,030 665,873 281,409 as at 31 December 2011 are included in Notes 7.1 and 7.2 of the Notes Simon Thomson 599,963 900,841 364,424 to the Financial Statements.
Todd Hunt 182,800 182,800 72,012 Iain McLaren 20,000 20,000 7,878 Principal Activities and Business Review Dr James Buckee 43,306 58,314 24,462 The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 0 0 0 is the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas.
Alexander Berger 0 0 0 Details of the development of the Groups business during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Discover Cairn and Business Review sections on pages Former directors 1 to 53 of this document, which are deemed to form part of this report Malcolm Thoms 502,185 by reference.
Phil Tracy 469,938 Norman Murray 200,000 Details of Cairns offices are given on page 136 of this report and details of Cairns advisers are given on page 133.
The shareholding figures set out above as at 23 March 2012 take account of the share capital consolidation of 13 for 33 ordinary shares which took place on 6 Change of Control February 2012.
As set out in the Companys Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68, All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy stood down as directors of the Company on 30 June to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in 2011 and Norman Murray stood down as chairman of the Board and as a the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87.
Generally, Non-Executive Director of the Company on the same date.
outstanding options and awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company conditions, if applicable, at that time.
held by the directors or any members of their families are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the Executive Directors is also None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a entitled, pursuant to their service contracts, to compensation of a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
sum equal to their annual basic salary as at the date of termination Details of the directors service contracts are set out in the Directors of employment.
There are no agreements providing for compensation Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87. to employees on a change of control.
Share Capital There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 6.1 of the that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control Notes to the Financial Statements.
231 169 ordinary shares of pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights attaching to Corporate Governance the ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares 59 to 68 and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Voting Rights The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
However, the Company recognises that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder resolutions.
Therefore, it is the Companys current practice to hold a poll and it is committed to doing so going forward.
56 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information leadership and Governance Directors Report Continued Voting Rights Continued Transfer of Shares Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to instrument in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person acceptable to the directors of the Company.
The instrument of transfer or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in by him her.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior the case of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, the transferee.
The member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares concerned accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the of the Company.
names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general a fully paid share unless such share is listed on the Official List of the meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy market for listed securities.
The directors may also refuse to register a is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares transfer of a share in uncertificated form where the Company is entitled held by that member.
A corporation which is a member of the Company to refuse or is excepted from the requirement under the Uncertificated may authorise one or more individuals to act as its representative or Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The directors meeting of the holders of any class of shares.
A person so authorised may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such has a lien.
corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated Restrictions on Voting form unless the relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to attend to stamp duty, is lodged at the transfer office or at such other place as or vote at a general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably respect of shares in the Company remains unpaid.
Further, if a member require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in has been served with a notice by the Company under the Companies favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the directors refuse Act 2006 requesting information concerning interests in shares and has to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any event failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, within 14 days within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company may the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such which the operator-instruction as defined in the Uncertificated Securities shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general Regulations 2001 was received by the Company in the case of a share meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that in uncertificated form or in either case such longer or shorter period if class of shares.
Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours or any as the Listing Rules may from time to time permit or require, send such shorter time as the Board may determine excluding, at the Boards to the transferee notice of the refusal.
discretion, any part of any day that is not a working day before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Variation of Rights Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions also apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes.
The rights attached to any class of shares shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 57 leadership and Governance Directors Report Continued Major Interests in Share Capital Powers of the Directors As at 31 December 2011 and 23 March 2012, the Company had received Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and notification that shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company table below.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying back of the Companys shares and Charitable and Political Donations are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM.
The Company has a Charities Committee which is responsible for distributing the Companys charitable donations to selected charities Articles of Association within an overall annual budget.
There are currently ten members of Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Companys the Charities Committee with alternates comprising a broad range Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of of employees from across the organisation.
The Chief Executive is the Companys shareholders.
The Company adopted new Articles of not a member of the Charities Committee.
Association following approval of these by shareholders at the General Meeting of the Company held on 30 January 2012.
There is a resolution During the year, the Company made various charitable contributions contained in the Notice of AGM which forms part of the Circular which in the UK totalling $756,148 2010: $698,864.
Contributions in the has been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report, which UK are made to a variety of charitable organisations whose areas of proposes certain amendments to the Companys Articles of Association, operation and activities are aligned with Cairns.
In addition, the Group a full explanation of which is contained in the Circular.
provides funding to various charitable initiatives outwith the UK.
Further details of these can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report, Disclosure of Information to Auditors which is available on the Companys website.
The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2011 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit No political donations were made and no political expenditure was information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making incurred during the year.
this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant audit information and that the Creditor Payment Policy and Practice Companys auditors are aware of this information.
It is Cairns payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers services in accordance with the terms of the applicable contracts.
In most AGM 2012 circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking The AGM of the Company will be held in the Sir Walter Scott Suite place.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2011 were of the Balmoral Hotel, 1 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EQ at 12 noon equivalent to 5.75 days purchases, based on the average daily UK time on Thursday, 17 May 2012.
The resolutions to be proposed amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during the year.
at the AGM are set out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which has been posted to shareholders together Financial Instruments with this Annual Report.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are detailed in Appendix 2 of the Financial Statements.
Recommendation The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at Appointment and Replacement of Directors the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the all of the proposed resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their 1 Board.
The Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee makes own beneficial shareholdings.
recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules governing the appointment By order of the Board and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68 and in the Companys Articles of Association.
Duncan Wood Company Secretary 23 March 2012 As at As at Major Interests in Share Capital 31 December 2011 % Share Capital 23 March 2012 % Share Capital BlackRock Investment Management 131,858,007 9.37 39,804,509 7.18 HSBC Global Asset Management 125,153,674 8.89 54,196,318 9.77 MFS Investment Management 74,367,246 5.28 32,524,901 5.86 Capital Group International 69,517,058 4.94 14,751,661 2.66 Legal & General Investment Management 68,540,241 4.87 24,306,177 4.38 Walter Scott & Partners 64,169,216 4.56 0 0 Scottish Widows 57,403,108 4.08 18,408,462 3.32 The shareholding figures set out above as at 23 March 2012 take account of the share capital consolidation of 13 for 33 ordinary shares which took place on 6 February 2012.
As at 23 March 2012, these shareholders no longer hold a notifiable interest in the Company.
1 As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68, the Nomination Committee has been expanded to include a corporate governance function and has now been renamed the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee.
58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
