BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS Return on equity RoE APE sales Key financial highlights % m 20 1,207 2011 2011 2010 20 2010 1,290 NCCF MCEV covered business Adjusted operating profit bn m pre-tax 2011 3.2 2011 5,713 793m 2010 4.3 2010 5,913 2010: 787m Non-covered sales Value creation VNB experience Funds under management m variance MCEV % 108.5bn 2010: 117.9bn 2011 12,836 2011 5.2 2010 11,492 2010 3.9 Number of employees Our brands 22,851 2010: 21,729 Long-Term Savings CEO and new members of the LTS Executive Committee 1 Paul Hanratty CEO Long-Term Savings and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa 2 Ralph Mupita Chief Executive officer, Emerging Markets, LTS 1 23 3 Rose Keanly Director LTS Customer Services andAdministration 4 Paul Feeney Chief Executive officer, Asset Management, LTS 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 56 5.
Carlton Hood LTS Strategic Marketing Director 6.
Bryce Johns LTS Products & Proposition Director 24 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Q Retail Mass: customers with limited income, who need The Long-Term Savings LTS a broad range of financial services including protection and savings products associated with critical life events division offers life assurance, and, in time, their retirement.
This group of customers needs simple, affordable and value-for-money solutions pensions and investment and also financial education.
It is a large and fastgrowing market in South Africa, sub-Saharan Africa and our other emerging markets.
products and operates in Q Retail Affluent: customers with middle to high incomes, who need flexible and tax-efficient investment southern Africa, Europe, products, together with protection products, to achieve their financial goals and protect and grow their wealth.
While these customers are financially literate, they do need access to advice and tools that will help them make informed investment choices.
This market is Overview relatively mature in South Africa, but there are good In each of our LTS markets, our vision is to be our growth opportunities in Europe, China and India.
customers most trusted partner, passionate about Q International Affluent: customers with significant helpingthem achieve their lifetime financial goals.
We investible assets, who need flexible, tax-efficient continue to develop LTS-wide management roles to ensure solutions that build or protect their wealth.
The main we exploit synergies and establish centres of excellence.
markets for these customers are Europe, the Middle These roles covering IT, product, LEAN methodology, and Far East, Latin America and South Africa.
asset management and strategic marketing are helping Q Institutional: customers who are looking for usto gain competitive advantage by delivering appropriate differentiated, active asset management and employers products and services efficiently.
During 2011 we made who are looking for solutions for the pensions they continued progress in implementing this strategy, creating manage on behalf of their employees.
a centralised LTS Asset Management team and an LTS Strategic Marketing team.
To help us put the customer at the heart of everything we do we are structuring the business around these customer The customer at the heart of everything we do segments.
In future annual reports we will also review the Successful financial services businesses are those that LTS results using these customer segments.
understand their customers and put them at the very heart of the business.
We aim to help them achieve their lifetime Our current customer segments are split across the financial goals by providing these services through our life business units for which we disclose results in this report: assurance, pensions and investment products: Emerging Markets, Nordic, Retail Europe and Wealth Management.
But following the corporate actions in Q Advice financial planning and investment Nordicand in Retail Europe referred to in the Group Chief Q Savings solutions for shorter-term goals Executives review for 2011, we will operate LTS in two main Q Investments for long-term goals including retirement business units in future, serving their own distinct territories: Q Decumulation post-retirement Q Emerging Markets will serve South Africa, sub-Saharan Q Protection life assurance and personal lines.
Africa and new emerging markets As highlighted in the Group Chief Executives review we Q Wealth Management will serve the UK, International and offer these services to four customer segments.
provided more detail of these segments opposite: These are described in more detail on the following page.
Find further details of the operational results of the business within the Financial Disclosure Supplements on: www.
com ir Old Mutual plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED LTS provides high returns combined with high growth High RoE and cash generation High revenue growth potential Opportunities to grow Q South Africa Retail Affluent Q Wealth Management Q Rest of Africa Q South Africa Corporate Q South Africa Mass Foundation Q Asia Q Namibia Q Mexico Q Colombia Q Slower growth Q Lower profit generation relative to Q Require funding, at least until enterprise value break-even Q Large market share Q Higher cost bases Q Rapid sales growth Q Generate high cash returns that fund new business, allow for acquisitions Q Potential for rapid profit growth on Q New business tends to be capitaland support Group dividend restructuring efficiency gains intensive Q New business and growth largely Q Potential to grow embedded enterprise self-funded value rapidly Q New business tends to be cashQ Cash generation in the intensive where we pay for distribution medium term Emerging Markets: Old Mutual South Africa OMSA is Strategy oneof the largest and longest-established financial Our strategy aims to: servicesproviders in South Africa providing individuals, businesses, corporates and institutions with long-term Q Complement our strong, highly profitable and mature savings, protection and investment solutions.
Because we South African business by leveraging its capabilities to are now leveraging the business into other high-growth grow and develop our businesses in selected African, economies, we have combined it with our Latin American, Latin American and Asian markets Asian and African businesses.
In Latin America we operate Q Operate capital-efficient, fast-growth businesses in in Mexico and Colombia.
In sub-Saharan Africa we operate selected UK and European markets across a broad range of countries including Swaziland, Q Exploit capital, cost and revenue synergies between the Namibia, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Kenya and Nigeria.
weoperate joint ventures with Kotak Mahindra in India andGuodian Corporation in China.
It is underpinned by building a culture of customer focus and value creation internationally.
Wealth Management: Operating mainly under the Skandiabrand we serve customers in the UK, across For the next three years we have five strategic priorities: ouroffshore International bases and in selected European markets.
Our offer is based on open and guided architecture Q Build stronger relationships with our end customers accessed through unit-linked life insurance, pensions and across LTS mutual funds.
Q Invest to build leading businesses in each of our chosen geographical areas During 2011 we made continued progress in streamlining Q Invest in core competencies to strengthen business our structure announcing the sale of our US Life, Nordic performance and Finnish business units and the closure to new business Q Standardise and industrialise core systems and of Skandia Switzerland.
In the results disclosed in this processes report, Nordic has been treated as a discontinued business.
Q Build a single LTS organisation and culture.
In early 2012, we announced that we would be consolidating our Retail Europe business with Skandia France and Skandia Italy into Wealth Management Europe, within ourWealth Management business and alongside the UK and International businesses.
This will allow us to serve our customer segments better in these countries, while giving shareholders an improved RoE.
26 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Achieving our LTS targets Implementation Measures Driving revenue growth Q Exploit growth opportunities in Q VNB experience variance MCEV emerging markets Q NCCF FUM Q Position to those product areas and geographies that have optimal long-term growth rates such as pensions and structured investment solutions Q Specific efficiency programmes in each Q Administration expenses Reducing cost business Synergies Q Adopt LEAN methodology across all Q Expenses businesses Q APE Q Potential IT synergies, particularly in outsourcing Q Product lines extended to other markets Q Focus on capital-light products Q Equity Capital efficiency Q Diversification benefits These five core competencies will be key to our success as costsynergies lie primarily in IT and in outsourcing some an integrated division: work to South Africa.
The revenue opportunities lie in sharingproduct knowledge and ideas as well as what Q Advice-led distribution weknow about building distribution channels.
Q Insurance and investment solutions Achieving our targets Q Superior investment returns To create shareholder value by rationing capital in an Q Customer insight appropriate and sustainable way, we focus on four main Q Digital connectivity.
Each has associated measures to track performance, with targets clearly linked to management incentives: In South Africa we already have scale and exceptional levelsof quality, straight-through processing and low unit Q Driving revenue growth costs.
We are experienced in developing products for Q Reducing cost sophisticated markets as well as simple products for Q Synergies low-income markets, and we have experience in pricing diverse risks.
We run multiple distribution channels and Q Capital efficiency.
have a comprehensive understanding of different types Customer services and administration ofdistribution.
We already have experience in leveraging these capabilities into high-growth markets such as India Each LTS regional organisation currently has its own bysharing product experience, people and professional administration and IT structure, but these share many skills, systems and processes, and distribution knowledge.
common products, processes, IT platforms and customer intermediary interfaces.
In line with our aim of putting the Our Skandia businesses have built excellent market customer at the heart of everything we do, we have decided positions as capital-efficient businesses in the UK and to operate customer service and administration across LTS offshore providers in many other international markets.
in a more integrated manner in future.
In December 2011 Theyhave a history of innovation, and the customer value weannounced that Rose Keanly had been appointed that they deliver presents opportunities to take market share Director LTS Customer Services and Administration, with from more traditional, less customer-oriented competitors.
responsibility for customer service and administration in As our customers move online, we are investing in the ability South Africa and all other LTS businesses.
to provide world-class IT tailored for local markets while achieving international economies of scale.
We aim to grow Her immediate priorities are: revenues while constraining costs and ultimately driving up Q Improving customers service experience across the operating performance through LEAN methodology.
lifetime of their relationships with LTS As we leverage our capabilities in South Africa into emerging Q Driving down unit costs markets and improve the operational performance of our Q Reducing operational risks European businesses, we see opportunities to achieve Q Enabling faster entry into new markets, and launch of synergies between them.
Our businesses connect at a new products into existing markets, by maximising re-use capital level and are well placed tobenefit from the Q Leveraging our South African capability and other areas implementation of Solvency II expected in 2013.
There are of expertise more actively across the whole of LTS.
opportunities for both cost and revenue synergies.
The Old Mutual plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Front ofce of LTS IT focuses on local business to improve competitive advantage Emerging Wealth Nordic Retail Europe Markets Management Locally-based IT Departments IT Innovation Improve competitive advantage Back ofce of LTS IT focuses on improving IT efficiencies and effectiveness Application Development Infrastructure Architecture Governance & Maintenance efficiency through global delivery centres Improved effectiveness from global governance Information technology To underpin these priorities we will continue to exploit As our customers and their advisers conduct more of their theLEAN philosophy and practices that have been key to research and activity online, our IT services need to be transforming the South African service and administration highly responsive, cost-effective, and well governed without operation over the past five years.
We have now completed sacrificing the speed-to-market and innovation needed in our project to move processes and IT from Germany, our local markets.
Poland and Austria to South Africa, giving us a capability that we can exploit further.
Richard Boynett, LTS Chief Information Officer CIO, is now into the second year of a programme to enable business Strategic marketing and brand efficiency and innovation for both local and international In December 2011 we announced the creation of a new competitive advantage.
centralised LTS strategic marketing team, headed by Carlton Hood, who joins the LTS Executive Committee.
His change and consolidation agenda has exceeded expectations and the following changes have The strategic marketing function will be responsible for beenimplemented: co-ordinating five key initiatives across LTS, which together make up the core of our customer strategy: Q 18 IT departments have been consolidated into a cross-business unit IT function Q LTS strategy continued development of our business Q Local CIOs are part of the consolidated IT management strategy based on customers and core competencies structure, while remaining fully accountable for IT Q Customer culture and experience increased focus services into their locally regulated entities on improving our customer experience and creating a Q IT governance has improved sharply, with 300 million culture focused on serving customers better of annual spend under centralised control, audit items Q Marketing, brand and insight a single brand strategy reduced by 80% and a formal policy in place across for the Group and a shared customer insight capability all LTS business units.
and best practice in our marketing disciplines Q Project Connect shared approach, infrastructure and This base, established early in 2011, has allowed us to: capability for our e-commerce proposition across LTS Q Customer relationship management CRM shared Q Reduce annual IT costs by 15 million in 2011 approach, infrastructure and capability to leverage our compared with 2010 in addition to 15 million of CRM capabilities across LTS.
savings the previous year While existing business unit teams have many of the resources and capabilities that we need to deliver these projects, a team at the LTS level will support and co-ordinate efforts across LTS.
28 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Global Local Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Q Move from adversarial IT outsource contracts with poor Q Ensuring we are relentlessly driving innovation, service level agreements to a mutually-beneficial connectivity and more integrated planning across partnership model first with Dimension Data and theLTS product and proposition community.
We Vodacom for our network and communication services areaiming for a global talent pool which is able to in South Africa, and more recently with the renewal of leverage its scale, mobility and international mindset our relationship and infrastructure services outsource forlocal advantage contract with T-Systems Q Ensuring that we are building our delivery capacity Q Create the underlying international technology across line functions with a view to more effectively infrastructure that all our local operations now use delivering compelling customer experiences.
to work, collaborate and share information, products Asset Management and platforms In October 2011, we announced the appointment of Paul Q Deliver an ambitious portfolio of business investment Feeney as CEO of LTS Asset Management.
projects in local markets while maintaining international alignment.
Co-ordinating the asset management businesses across LTS is a key component of our strategy to deliver the best In 2012 we are continuing to transform IT into a world-class products, solutions and services to our customers.
Our priority areas are: Paul will be responsible for all the LTS asset management Q Reducing annual IT costs by further material amounts businesses in Skandia Investment Group and Old Mutual Q Deploying the hybrid local international operating model Investment Group South Africa.
He will provide a consistent into our development centres, and reconfiguring them focus on solid investment performance, the right asset into centres of excellence to support directly the quality management solutions for customers, and close coof customer experience ordination with LTS marketing and distribution.
He will build Q Finalising the partnership model across our our capabilities in Europe and leverage Old Mutual Asset  to improve employee Managements capabilities in co-ordination with the Groups productivity and remove any remaining technology US Asset Management business.
barriers between countries Q Further leveraging South Africa as our IT hub, sharing expertise and systems across LTS to enable rapid market entry and online capabilities.
This ambitious IT strategy will have transformed our IT costbase and effectiveness to world-class standards within24 months, leaving LTS and the Group in a solid position to exploit the potential of technology to help us beour customers most trusted partner.
Product and proposition In October 2011, Bryce Johns re-joined the Group to lead product capability across LTS.
He took over this role from Steven Levin, who was appointed CEO of Skandia International in 2011.
Bryce is a member of the LTS Executive Committee, with the following key focus areas: Q Supporting the product front line in Wealth Management as we expand the range of customer solutions to include insurance, retirement income and downside protection products Q Leading the product risk management function to ensure ongoing pricing and asset liability management rigour, improved economic capital efficiency in product design, and better leverage of our global balance sheet to local advantage Old Mutual plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Review of 2011 results On a reported basis the Emerging Markets business accounts for: 72% of the LTS IFRS AOP earnings, 46% of LTS FUM, 43% of LTS APE sales: 63% of LTS operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax : and 55% of LTS MCEV per share covered business.
The analysis below is presented on a constant currencybasis.
Continued operational delivery despite difficult markets Key performance statistics: m Emerging Wealth Retail 2011 Markets Management Europe Total AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 570 179 44 793 NCCF bn 0.4 2.5 0.3 3.2 FUM bn 49.9 54.4 4.2 108.5 Life assurance sales APE 524 611 72 1,207 1 PVNBP 3,295 5,269 549 9,113 2 Non-covered sales 8,147 4,669 20 12,836 1 Value of new business 99 70 8 177 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 349 184 19 552 Adjusted MCEV per share covered business 56.9p 35.2p 10.6p 102.7p 4 1 Return on embedded value 11.9% 9.3% 3.0% 9.3% 4 1 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 6.8% 5.0% 1.1% 5.2% m Emerging Wealth Retail 3 2010 constant currency Markets Management Europe Total AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 524 197 51 772 NCCF bn 3.9 0.4 4.3 FUM bn 46.6 55.9 4.8 107.3 Life assurance sales APE 473 734 70 1,277 1 PVNBP 3,175 6,380 519 10,074 2 Non-covered sales 6,762 4,507 23 11,292 1 Value of new business 83 66 7 156 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 333 112 67 512 1 Adjusted MCEV per share covered business 49.7p 36.2p 11.1p 97.0p 4 1 Return on embedded value 13.2% 6.1% 12.8% 10.8% 4 1 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 4.7% 3.1% 2.2% 3.9% m Emerging Wealth Retail 3 2010 as reported Markets Management Europe Total AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 539 197 51 787 NCCF bn 3.9 0.4 4.3 FUM bn 57.0 55.9 5.0 117.9 Life assurance sales APE 487 734 69 1,290 1 PVNBP 3,269 6,380 513 10,162 2 Non-covered sales 6,962 4,507 23 11,492 1 Value of new business 86 66 7 159 Operating MCEV earnings covered business, post-tax 344 112 66 522 1 Adjusted MCEV per share covered business 60.7p 36.2p 11.4p 108.3p 4 1 Return on embedded value 13.2% 6.1% 12.8% 10.8% 4 1 VNB experience variance MCEV covered business 4.7% 3.1% 2.2% 3.9% 1.
PVNBP and value of new business excluded Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi and Swaziland the other African countries in 2011 and 2010.
The other African countries were excluded from Adjusted MCEV per share in 2010.
Return on embedded value and VNB experience variance MCEV metrics for 2011 and 2010 excluded the other African countries from opening MCEV when calculated.
Includes unit trust mutual fund sales.
The year ended 31 December 2010 has been restated to reflect Nordic as discontinued.
Return on embedded value and VNB experience variance MCEV covered business were calculated in local currency, except for LTS where they were calculated on a reporting currency basis.
30 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Retail Europe closed slightly below 31 December 2010.
IFRS AOP results Decreases in the market value of investments were partially Overall LTS AOP increased 3% to 793 million.
offset by net client cash inflows.
Emerging Markets improved by 9% to 570 million, with Life sales summary strong profit growth in Retail Affluent and Mass Foundation Overall LTS APE sales decreased by 6% to 1,207 million.
The consolidation of Zimbabwe, Kenya, Malawi and Swaziland for the first time increased AOP In Emerging Markets, South African regular premium sales by 24 million.
Continued momentum in MFC sales delivered Wealth Management decreased by 18 million to 179 excellent growth of 28%.
Retail Affluent sales increased by 4%, with more advisers, improved sales productivity and million, with 2010 benefiting from policyholder tax prior yearsmoothing of 76 million compared to 32 million focused initiatives for the Greenlight protection product.
Excluding the impact of prior year policyholder South African single premium sales decreased by 10%, taxsmoothing, underlying AOP grew by 21%, driven by with lower sales in Retail Affluent and OMIGSA.
Retail higheraverage FUM balances and reduced absolute Affluent sales were muted as management focused on levelsof expenses.
product mix and completing training for the regulatory exams: sales volumes in 2010 were exceptional due to Retail Europe was down 7 million, impacted by nonrecurring costs associated with the transfer of some competitive Fixed Bond pricing.
OMIGSA sales declined by 32% due to clients delaying investment decisions and some ofthebusiness operations to South Africa and higher sales are now being reported as Corporate business.
commissions reflecting increased new business in Polandand Switzerland.
Rest of Africa sales more than doubled, with strong Namibian sales.
The consolidation of the other African Net client cash ow countries for the first time increased APE sales by Overall LTS NCCF decreased by 1.1 billion to 3.2 billion.
H2 flows were below H1, reflecting worsening investor sentiment in Europe.
Sales in Asia & Latin America increased by 9%, benefiting from an increase in financial planner numbers and improved Emerging Markets increased to 0.4 billion, with productivity in Mexico.
stronginflows in MFC and Retail Affluent and a large transaction in Colombia.
OMIGSA benefited from lower Sales at Emerging Markets Chinese joint venture, PICoutflows and there were improved flows across a Old Mutual-Guodian, increased by 77% due to strong number of its boutiques.
regular premium sales and continued growth in telemarketing sales.
Wealth Management decreased by 1.4 billion, with reduced inflows from Continental Europe following the end Wealth Management continued to grow its single premium of the Italian tax shield that generated a sales boost in 2010. business on the UK Platform.
Platform sales totalled UK Platform NCCF was 3.3 billion 2010: 3.6 billion, with 244million of the 312 million total UK sales.
continued strong positive contributions from both covered and non-covered business.
Sales in the UK Legacy market were 68 million, a decrease of 45 million reflecting the managed reduction in its Retail Europe saw a decrease of 0.1 billion as improved product range available in 2011. persistency was offset by higher surrender values.
In the offshore International market, sales decreased by Funds under management 8%to 208 million as Wealth Management reduced Overall LTS FUM at 31 December 2011 was up 1% to lowermargin regular premium business across its 108.5 billion.
Emerging Markets increased by 7% to 49.9 billion, due Sales in Wealth Managements Continental Europe mainly to consolidation of the other African countries for the business decreased by 43% to 91 million, reflecting first time.
Some 85% of total Emerging Markets FUM is in worsening investor sentiment in H2 2011 and the ending South Africa.
of the one-off tax shield in Italy in 2010.
Wealth Management was down 3% to 54.4 billion despite Retail Europe sales increased by 4% to 72 million, driven strong NCCF, with markets lower than at 31 December by increased regular premiums in the Polish business, 2010.
FUM included UK assets of 33.4 billion 2010: 33.9 which benefited from additional sales from new distribution billion.
Of the UK assets, UK Platform assets totalled 18.8 partners in the IFA and bank channels.
billion, a 13% rise from the 31 December 2010 level, further solidifying Wealth Managements position as one of the largest participants in this market.
As of 29 February 2012, UK Platform assets were 20.1 billion.
Old Mutual plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW LONG-TERM SAVINGS CONTINUED Non-covered sales, including unit trust and Operating MCEV earnings mutual fund sales Overall LTS operating MCEV earnings increased by 8% Overall LTS non-covered sales were up 14% to to 552 million.
In Emerging Markets operating MCEV earnings post-tax In Emerging Markets there was strong sales growth in increased by 5% to 349 million.
Operating experience Colombian voluntary and mandatory pension sales, variances increased due to improved persistency and including a large public sector transaction concluded in mortality experience, partially offset by expense assumption thethird quarter.
There was strong growth in new client changes and increased central provisions for project costs.
business in Acsis and OMIGSA in South Africa and the Adjusted MCEV per share was up 14% to 56.9p, benefiting inclusion of deposits at CABS in Zimbabwe in 2011. from a large positive impact from the replacement of STC with Dividends Tax and a positive impact from economic In Wealth Management, UK mutual fund sales grew variances.
Return on embedded value RoEV reduced strongly up 10%.
As in the prior year, Wealth Management from13.2% to 11.9%, reflecting the significant uplift in benefited from the seasonality of the tax year end along with MCEV during 2010. increased ISA allowances.
International unit trust sales were down as market volatility impacted customer sentiment.
In Wealth Management MCEV operating earnings posttaxincreased by 72 million to 184 million for the period, Margins and value of new business driven by improved new business value, positive experience variances and a number of net positive assumption Across LTS as a whole, new business APE margins improved to 15% 2010: 13% and present value of new changes.
Adjusted MCEV per share decreased to 35.2p 2010: 36.2p, with strong MCEV earnings more than offset business premiums PVNBP margin improved to 1.9% 2010: 1.6%.
The bulk of the improvement was in Wealth by high capital and dividend flows to Group and negative economic variances.
RoEV increased from 6.1% to 9.3% Management.
Value of new business VNB increased by 13% to 177 million, driven by a combination of due to increased MCEV operating earnings.
increased sales volumes and new business margins In Retail Europe operating MCEV earnings after tax inEmerging Markets.
On a comparable basis MCEV APE margins improved from 18% to 20% in Emerging earnings after tax were in line with 2010, which benefited Markets, mainly as a result of improved persistency rates, from positive assumption changes for rebates and favourable changes in economic assumptions, an improved persistency in 2010.
MCEV per share was down 0.5p to product mix and the positive impact of the new Dividends 10.6p, due to economic variances, foreign exchange and Tax replacing the current Secondary Tax on Companies dividend flows.
RoEV decreased to 3.0%, with increased STC.
Improved product mix and expense control in Retail opening MCEV and decreased operating MCEV earnings.
Affluent in H2 lifted margins from 3% in H1 to 10% for the full year.
Corporate margins reduced in 2011, mainly due to a change in product mix and a reduction in sales volumes.
We are structuring the The value of new business in Emerging Markets increased by 19% to 99 million, with increased sales volumes and business around improved new business margins.
The increase in margins in Wealth Management was driven customer segments.
largely by a more beneficial product mix in International with increased focus on higher-margin portfolio bond products and lower acquisition costs.
The International APE margin improved to 23% 2010: 19%.
The value of new business in Wealth Management increased by 4 million to 70 million and the APE margin and PVNBP margin increased to 11% 2010: 9% and 1.3% 2010: 1.0% respectively.
In Retail Europe the value of new business and APE margin were in line with 2010.
32 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The European government debt crisis diminished investor Value creation confidence, particularly in Q4 of 2011, reducing European A key metric by which we judge the performance of the investment market demand in the short-term.
There was business is Group value creation for the LTS covered a particularly strong impact in the weaker European business.
It measures the contribution to RoEV from economies such as Italy.
However, we expect steady management actions of writing profitable new business progress for 2012 as a whole.
andmanaging expenses, persistency, risk and other experience compared to what had been assumed.
This Our early and decisive management action in the UK metric improved from 3.9% to 5.2% in LTS excluding positioned us well to deal with the impending changes to Nordic, driven by strong sales of high margin protection the industry brought about by the Retail Distribution Review products inEmerging Markets MFC and favourable RDR.
With the potential ban on cash rebates and the persistency andrebate experience in Wealth Management.
development in operating margins for legacy businesses webelieve our plan for a fully unbundled charging structure, Outlook under which we will pass on rebates to customers, will give In January 2012, we announced that we planned to bring us an advantage over our peers.
We are actively developing together Wealth Managements Continental Europe new protection and asset management products in business France, Italy and Retail Europe Germany, anticipation of the new market structures.
We are also Austria, Poland, Switzerland to form one new business: testing new forms of interaction with customers that help Wealth Management Europe.
The combined business their advisers provide services more efficiently.
brings together 736,000 customers across Europe and over 11 billion of FUM.
Wealth Management Europe will Total gross sales on the UK Platform were 4.9 billion bereported under the Wealth Management business 2010:4.9 billion, reflecting challenging markets especially unitinfuture.
However, we believe our share of the Platform market continued to grow over the period.
Taxation uncertainty and We will proceed with the integration of the Retail Europe regulatory delays may impede our ability to act as swiftly as business during 2012.
The product portfolio and customer we wish, but we are confident that reform will be service offering will be improved and organisational implemented in line with our expectations.
UK sales growth structures amended accordingly.
may be constrained in 2012 by the lead-up to the RDR announcement and resulting investor uncertainty.
Job creation in South Africa, particularly in the public sector, is likely to see good growth in the medium term, We anticipate the completion of the sale of our Finnish underpinned by the Governments planned business in mid-2012.
Post-tax profits for the business .
were approximately 12 million and were included in WealthManagement for 2011.
In South Africa we anticipate that the full potential impacts of the FAIS regulatory exams will only emerge in 2012 and 2013.
We have implemented extensive training plans and other measures to help our representatives pass the exams ahead of the revised 30 June 2012 deadline.
Together with other companies in the Group, Emerging Markets will continue actively to explore means for organic and inorganic growth in Africa.
We are well positioned to grow into the rest of Africa by leveraging our established business bases in South Africa, Namibia and Zimbabwe.
Using our expertise in these businesses we are able to design and export relevant products and low-cost IT infrastructure into new markets.
Our distribution capacity and use of technology to increase customer reach and reduce costs will accelerate in 2012.
In particular we expect continued growth in our tied agency operations, with growth in the number of advisers and productivity.
Higher new business standards will be the additional drivers of expected premium growth and the quality of new business.
Old Mutual plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
