GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Patrick OSullivan joined the Board as Chairman in January 2010.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
From 2007 until 2009, he was Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial Services, where he had specific responsibility for its international businesses including those in South Africa.
He had previously held roles at Zurich as Group Finance Director and CEO, General Insurance and Banking, of its UKISA division.
Qualified as a chartered accountant, his prior experience includes positions at Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company a subsidiary of GE Capital, Barclays BZW and Eagle Star Insurance Company.
He is also Chairman of the Shareholder Executive and a non-executive director ofCOFRA Group in Switzerland and Man Group plc and Deputy Governor of the Bank of Ireland.
Mr OSullivan has a strong track record of leading financial services businesses through periods of challenge and of tackling strategic issues successfully.
His wide-ranging international experience and knowledge of the financial services 1.
Patrick OSullivan 62 industry, allied with excellent leadership ability, make him a highly effective Chairman M. Sc.
B. S. F. C. A. Ireland of the Board, as shown by feedback from this years Board effectiveness review.
Chairman Julian Roberts has been Group Chief Executive of Old Mutual plc since September 2008.
He is also a member of the Nomination Committee, as permitted by the UK Corporate Governance Code, and a non-executive director of Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited and Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited.
He joined Old Mutual in August 2000 as Group Finance Director, moving on to become CEO of Skandia following its purchase by Old Mutual in February 2006.
Prior to joining Old Mutual, he was Group Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc and, before that, Chief Financial Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Since becoming Group Chief Executive, Mr Roberts has steered the Group successfully through the aftermath of the 2008-9 financial crisis and set clear targets to be achieved by the end of 2012, which the Group is well placed to fulfil.
He has also taken steps to strengthen the quality of senior executive management and to improve the Groups governance model.
His knowledge of the Groups businesses and his depth of previous experience in the life sector make him a very strong 2.
Julian Roberts 54 contributor to the Board.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Group Chief Executive Philip Broadley has been Group Finance Director since November 2008.
He is also a member of the Board Risk Committee and a non-executive director of Old Mutual Asset Management.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Prudential plc from May 2000 until March 2008.
Prior to joining Prudential, he was a partner in Arthur Andersen from 1993 to 2000.
He has been Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors, was a founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance Company Finance Directors, and was a member of the IASBsInsurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of theTakeover Panel.
Mr Broadley has a deep understanding of, and experience in, the finances of insurance groups.
Since he became Group Finance Director, he has implemented significant improvements in the financial reporting and controls of the Group, while also making an important contribution to the Boards discussion of strategy and operational matters.
Group Finance Director 90 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Mike Arnold has been an independent non-executive director of the Company sinceSeptember 2009 and chairs the Board Risk Committee.
He is also a memberof the Group Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is aqualified actuary and was formerly Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life practice at the consulting actuarial firm Milliman from 2002 to 2009.
Prior to that, hehad been thesenior partner at the practice from 1995, having joined one of its predecessor organisations as a recently qualified actuary in 1971.
He is a past Member of Council and Vice Chairman of the Institute of Actuaries, past Chairman of the International Association of Consulting Actuaries and past member of the Board of Actuarial Standards.
He is also a non-executive director of Marine and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Financial Information Technology Limited and the Scottish Equitable Policyholders Trust.
Mr Arnold brings to the Board a detailed understanding of actuarial matters, which enables the Group Audit Committee of which he is a member and the Board Risk 4.
Mike Arnold 64 Committee which he chairs to provide technical challenge to the Groups reported B. Sc.
A. results, especially those of its life businesses.
Independent non-executive director Eva Castillo was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company in February 2011.
She is also a member of the Board Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She led the Global Wealth Management business of Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA from 2006 to 2009, having held a number of other senior positions in Merrill Lynch from 1997, including as Head of Global Markets and Investment Banking in Iberia and President of Merrill Lynch Spain and, before that, as Chief Operating Officer for Merrill Lynch EMEA Equity Markets.
Previously she had worked for the International Equities division of Goldman Sachs in London between 1992 and 1997.
She has been a non-executive director of Telefnica SA since the beginning of 2008.
Ms Castillo has a deep understanding of, and experience in, investment banking, wealth management and financial services, as well as a wide international perspective, which have enabled her to make an important contribution to theBoardover the past year.
A. s in Business and Law Independent non-executive director Russell Edey has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since June 2004.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee and is also a member of the Group Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is Chairman of Avocet Mining Plc, a member of the Conseil fide Surveillance of Paris-Orlans, SA and a non-executive director of a number of companies in the Rothschild Group.
He retired from the chair of Anglogold Ashanti Limited in May 2010, having served on its board for 12 years.
Previously he had also served on the boards of English China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods plc, Associated British Ports plc and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the Finance Division of the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
In the 1970s he was General Manager Corporate Finance of Capel Court Corporation in Melbourne.
He joined Rothschild in 1977 andwas Head of Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996.
Mr Edeys extensive range of executive and non-executive experience in both thecorporate finance and wider industrial field, including those with strong 6.
Russell Edey 69 SouthAfrican connections, have enabled him to make a valuable contribution F. C. A. to the Board over the nearly eight years that he has served.
If re-elected this year, Independent non-executive director MrEdey will retire at the AGM in May 2013.
Old Mutual plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alan Gillespie has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since November 2010 and became the Senior Independent Director in May 2011.
He is also a member of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
His banking career began at Citibank, where he spent 10 years from 1976 to 1986.
He joined Goldman Sachs in New York in 1986 and was made a partner of the firm in 1990, with responsibility for corporate finance and mergers andacquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly led the firms financial services practice in Europe and in 1996 established Goldman Sachs presence in South Africa.
After retiring from Goldman Sachs in 1999, he became Chief Executive of theCommonwealth Development Corporation in the UK.
In 2001 he became Chairman of Ulster Bank, a subsidiary of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
He is also currently Senior Independent Director of United Business Media plc and Chairman of the Economic & Social Research Council and of the International Finance Facility for Immunization IFFIm.
Alan Gillespie 61 Mr Gillespies background in investment banking and financial services has enabled CBE, B.
D. him to make a valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations during the past Senior Independent Director year, particularly in discussions of the Groups future strategic direction.
He has alsotaken on the role of Senior Independent Director effectively, participating when required in discussions with significant shareholders and ensuring that their views are made known to the Board.
Reuel Khoza has been a non-executive director of the Company since January 2006 and Chairman of Nedbank Group since May 2006.
He is also a member of theBoard Risk and Nomination Committees.
He is Chairman of Aka Capital, which is 25% owned by Old Mutual South Africa.
He is also a non-executive director of Nampak Limited, Protea Hospitality Holdings Limited and Corobrik Pty Limited.
Hisprevious appointments include Chairmanship of Eskom Holdings Limited and non-executive directorships of Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, Standard Bank Group and Liberty Life.
He is currently a Fellow and President ofthe Institute of Directors of South Africa.
Mr Khozas position as Chairman of Nedbank enables the Board to gain direct insight into matters relating to one of the Groups major businesses and serves as an important conduit for managing the relationship between the Company and its South African banking business.
More generally, his involvement in the South African business community provides the Board with valuable insights into 8.
Revel Khoza 61 developing issues in the country.
D. M. A. Non-executive director Roger Marshall was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee in August 2010.
He is also amember of the Board Risk and Nomination Committees.
He was formerly an auditpartner in , where he led the audit of a number of major groups, including Zurich Financial Services and Lloyds TSB.
Previous outside appointments included six years as a member of the Accounting Standards Board.
He is currently Interim Chairman of the Accounting Standards Board, a Director of the Financial Reporting Council and a non-executive director of Genworth Financials European insurance companies.
Mr Marshalls long experience of auditing major life companies gives him the ideal background to chair the Group Audit Committee and also enables him to make a valuable contribution to the Boards discussions, particularly in addressing the financial implications of alternative courses of action.
Independent non-executive director 92 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Bongani Nqwababa has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since April 2007.
He is also a member of the Group Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Committees.
He has been Finance Director of Anglo American Platinum Limited since 2009, having previously beenFinance Director of the SouthAfrican electricity utility group, Eskom Holdings Limited, from 2004.
Prior to joining Eskom, he had been Treasurer and CFO of ShellSouthern Africa.
He is currently Chairman of the South African Revenue Services Receiver of Revenue Audit Committee.
Mr Nqwababas practical knowledge of the South African business and operating environment and his insight into financial matters make him a valued member of theBoard and of the Group Audit Committee.
Independent non-executive director Nku Nyembezi-Heita was appointed as an independent non-executive director ofthe Company in 9 March 2012.
She has been the Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa, the largest steel producer on the African continent, sinceMarch 2008.
Prior to this, she served as the Chief Officer of Mergers & Acquisitionsfor the Vodacom Group and, before that, she was Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Capital which was at that time the local South African subsidiaryof the New York-based global investment management company forseven years.
She is also a non-executive director of the JSE Limited.
Having served as a non-executive director on the board of Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited since May 2010 a position she has relinquished upon taking up her role at plc level, Ms Nyembezi-Heita brings to the Board significant knowledge of one of the Groups major businesses, as well as more general insight into the South African business environment as a result of her currentand previous senior executive roles in that country.
Independent non-executive director Lars Otterbeck has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since November 2006.
He is also a member of the Board Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Prior to joining the Board, he had held various senior business positions in Sweden, including as President and CEO of the Swedish mutual pension insurance company, Alecta, from 2000 to 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of Skandia Liv and Chairman of Hakon Invest AB.
Mr Otterbeck has made a significant contribution to the Boards discussions during his period of engagement and brings both operational and strategic experience, together with detailed knowledge of the Groups operations in the Nordic region, where he was until recently a Director of Skandia Insurance Company Limited publ, as well as of Skandia Liv.
It is anticipated that, if re-elected at this years AGM, he willserve one further year on the Board and retire at next years AGM.
Independent non-executive director Old Mutual plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
