GOVERNANCE GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Julian Roberts has been Group Chief Executive of Old Mutual plc since September 2008.
He is also a non-executive director of Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited and Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited.
He joined Old Mutual in August 2000 as Group Finance Director, moving on to become CEO of Skandia following its purchase by Old Mutual in February 2006.
Prior to joining Old Mutual, he was Group Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc and, before that, Chief Financial Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Group Chief Executive Peter Bain is President and Chief Executive Officer of Old Mutual Asset Management, theUS-based global asset management business of Old Mutual plc.
He has morethan two decades of experience leading and advising firms in the investment management industry.
Previously he was a Senior Executive Vice President at LeggMason, Inc. where he held leadership positions from 2000 to 2009.
Most recently he served as Head of Affiliate Management and Corporate Strategy, withresponsibility for overseeing the firms investment managers.
Priortothat, hewas Chief Administrative Officer, responsible for the firms overall administrationand operations.
A. J. D. President and Chief Executive Officer, Old Mutual Asset Management US Philip Broadley has been Group Finance Director since November 2008.
He is also a non-executive director of Old Mutual Asset Management.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Prudential plc from May 2000 until March 2008.
Prior to joining Prudential, he was a partner in Arthur Andersen from 1993 to 2000.
He has been Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors, was a founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance Company Finance Directors, and was a member of the IASBs Insurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of the Takeover Panel.
Group Finance Director Mike Brown has been Chief Executive of Nedbank Group Limited since March 2010.
He was previously the Chief Financial Officer of Nedbank Group and Nedbank Limited from November 2004.
Prior to that, he headed Property Finance at Nedbank and before that he was an executive director of BoE Limited.
C. A. SA, A. M. P. Chief Executive, Nedbank Group 94 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Ian Gladman joined Old Mutual as Group Strategy Director in January 2012.
Hehadpreviously worked at UBS Investment Bank for 16 years, most recently asCo-Head of Financial Institutions, EMEA, covering a wide range of UK and Europeaninsurance companies, banks and asset managers.
He was previously Head of Corporate Finance, South Africa for UBS from 1998 to 2001, during which time he led the local UBS team advising Old Mutual on its demutualisation and original listing.
He also advised Nedbank on a number of assignments and BoE onits acquisition by Nedbank.
Prior to joining UBS, he worked at Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan.
Group Strategy Director Paul Hanratty has been CEO of Long-Term Savings since March 2009 and Chairman of Old Mutual South Africa since September 2009.
He has been with OldMutual South Africa OMSA since 1984.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and has held a number of roles at Old Mutual.
These have included Headof Product Development, General Manager Finance and Actuarial, and Headof the Retail business of OMSA.
He joined the Board of OMSAs life businessin 2003 and became Managing Director of OMSA in 2006.
Chief Executive Officer, Long-Term Savings and Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa Sue Kean has been Chief Risk Officer since January 2011, having joined Old Mutual in July 2010 as Head of Governance & Regulatory Compliance.
She has over 25 years experience in insurance and financial services.
She previously worked at Friends Provident and Aviva in a variety of risk and regulatory roles.
She also spent time at the Financial Services Authority, and held positions in relation to Solvency II on industry bodies such as the Chief Risk Officer Forum and the European insurance trade body, the Comit Europen des Assurances CEA.
Chief Risk Officer Don Schneider joined Old Mutual as Group HR Director in May 2009 from Merrill Lynch, where he was Senior Vice President and Head of Human Resources for theirGlobal Wealth Management Division.
Prior to that, he headed HR for their Global Markets and Investment Banking Division.
He originally joined Merrill Lynch in1997 as Head of International Human Resources, based in London, where he wasresponsible for all HR activities outside the US.
Prior to that, he worked for Morgan Stanley for 13 years and held a variety of senior HR roles in both New Yorkand London.
He started his career as a consultant in human resources.
Group Human Resources Director Old Mutual plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
