BUSINESS OVERVIEW MARKET REVIEW Old Mutual works across a wide range of markets, products and services.
But our offer is driven by ensuring our strategy fits with the wider macromarket place.
Here we give a high-level overview of the drivers in our key markets in South Africa, the UK and across the globe.
Demographics Government and public sector support In most developed markets, average life expectancy is Ageing populations and rising expectations of health are increasing.
For example, in the UK average life expectancy reducing the extent to which governments can afford to was 71 years in 1970, but had risen to 80 years in 2010 and meet their social commitments, specifically on pensions continues to rise.
In South Africa, average life expectancy and healthcare.
Increasingly, individuals will need to fund was 53 years in 1970, but had fallen to 52 years in 2009. their own provision.
At the same time, living standards and expectations have These three themes all provide opportunities for Old Mutual.
In general, people will spend longer in We are well positioned in our markets, have the products retirement and, as a result, will need a higher level of that consumers need, and have built effective distribution pension savings to fund their desired standard of living.
In emerging markets, growing economic empowerment Regulatory change isdriving demand for a broad range of protection, savings Within financial services, we have seen increased and investment products.
 over the past few years and weexpect this to continue.
Global macro-economics Emerging economies are experiencing higher GDP growth We have anticipated and prepared for many of the rates than developed economies.
Morgan Stanley forecast regulatory changes ahead, including Solvency II in that emerging markets will generate 80% of global GDP Europeand Solvency Assessment and Management growth in 2011 and 2012. inSouth Africa, and the changes in the UK arising fromtheRetail Distribution Review.
We believe As emerging markets develop, average incomes rise and thatsomeofour competitors are finding these the requirement for financial services evolves from simple developmentsmore challenging.
funding and transactional products to more sophisticated protection and savings products.
Our two biggest markets in terms of profits are Africa and Emerging Markets and the Affluent markets of the Wealth Management business.
20 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1 Old Mutual in Africa South Africa Swaziland 51m population 1m population Target market 13.0m Market position Life: #1 2 Customers 3.3m Customers 18,000 M&F market position #3 M&F market position #1 Namibia Malawi 2m population 14m population Market position Life: #1, AM: #1 Market position Life: #1, AM: #1 Customers 238,000 Customers 114,000 M&F market position #2 Zimbabwe Botswana 10m population 2m population Market position Life: #1, AM: #1 M&F market position #3 Customers 782,000 M&F market position #3 Kenya 45m population Market position Life: #8, AM: #1 Customers 27,000 1 All data based on Old Mutual estimates 2 OMSA retail customers our Retail Affluent and Mass Foundation customers a Old Mutual in Africa comprehensive range of savings, protection and investment There are some 1 billion people in Africa around 200 products, and we have a strong share of both segments.
million households and this population is increasingly urbanised, as happened in Asia in the recent past.
We also have a substantial Corporate segment and are thelargest asset manager in South Africa.
We manage McKinsey has forecast a 50% increase in the number of approximately 2.7% of the South African equity market.
households with discretionary income between 2008 and 2020.
This represents a considerable opportunity and our South Africa represents 50% of our total value of aim is to find ways of driving a proportion of that income new business, 40% of MCEV covered business, 81% into savings.
The work we are doing on financial education IFRS AOP profits from operating units and 20% of funds and literacy in the region supports this goal.
The powerhouse of our African business is South Africa, Elsewhere in Africa our operations are based in countries where we have a long heritage, a sizeable customer base of with relatively high per capita GNP, but relatively low over 3 million, and a strong and trusted brand.
penetration of the insurance markets.
The demographics of South Africa are very favourable We currently have more than 300,000 customers in these forfuture growth in financial services.
Large numbers of countries and in most cases are the market leader.
We people are coming into the economic system and the believe these markets offer significant growth opportunities retailpool is growing rapidly.
We have identified a target which we are well placed to capture.
market of some 13 million customers and we currently have around a 25% share of that market.
We offer both Old Mutual plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS OVERVIEW MARKET REVIEW African financial markets are at different stages in their lifecycles Dormant Early stage Developing Maturing Kenya Tanzania Pop: 2m 1 Zambia 7.3% Pop: 1m Pop: 45m 1 Malawi 2.8% Namibia Uganda Swaziland Pop: 14m Pop: 10m 3 2.18% Ghana 2 2.77% Rwanda Zimbabwe Pop: 25m Pop: 150m 1 0.5% Nigeria Financial services lifecycle stage Nominal GDP capita USD : South Africa $8,506: Namibia $5,783: Swaziland $3,544: Nigeria $1,630: Kenya $769 1.
Insurance penetration 2010 Swiss Re Sigma report includes Life and Non-Life business 2.
Source: AXCO Insurance Market Report, March 2011, 2007 data presented 3.
Source: AXCO Insurance Market Report, March 2011, 2008 data presented We are seeking to enhance this part of the business.
Affluent markets of Wealth Management We are refreshing the systems infrastructure and International expect to roll this out across the business in 2012.
Our Wealth Management business services the International offshore customers of the UK, South Africa and the Rest UK ofthe World.
Clients are typically internationally mobile A decade ago, the investment market for UK retail professionals who seek investment security and choice.
customers was predominantly served by with-profits Italso services the UK Affluent segment.
These were difficult for customers tounderstand and charges were opaque.
They offered customers a The international markets served by Skandia International show strong growth, with good potential for further limited form of guarantee, but, in general, sub-optimal investment performance.
Unlike most of our UK peers, expansion.
wedo not have a with-profits business.
The capitalised annual growth rate of offshore assets Moving on from with-profits, the market has evolved heldby high-net-worth individuals is expected to increase atgood rates inthe future.
through unit-linked products offering some transparency and some investment choice to multi-manager solutions Our current business is focused on the Far East, Middle offering a wider range of investment options from a broader East, Latin America, South Africa and Europe.
We see choice of providers.
However, all of these are still essentially potential for increasing our capabilities in these markets product-driven.
and also for venturing into new markets.
We have plans for The current Old Mutual model is fundamentally different.
product development using new technology suchas tablet devices.
An increasing number of consumers are seeking the help of independent financial advisers IFAs, who are evolving The Skandia International business model allows us to from simply selling products to becoming  strong revenue flows from the assets we manage.
trained financial planners, helping customers to make the This results in attractive profitability and returns on equity: right investment choices for their personal circumstances historically, margins have been high compared with onshore and financial goals.
models, where margins have been constrained by greater competition and regulation.
We are now seeing increased margin pressure from other providers, and regulators are intervening more in this segment of the market.
Nevertheless, we believe it will remain an attractive part of our overall business proposition.
22 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Insurance penetration Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Share of assets held offshore millionaire households only 2008 80 Latin America 60 Middle East and Africa Russia Brazil % 40 Europe CEE Asia Pacic excl.
Japan 20 India China North America -2 002468 Expected CAGR of offshore assets held by millionaire households, 2008-2013 % -20 Markets we serve Markets we do not serve Source: BCG Global Wealth Market Sizing Database 2009: expert interviews.
Our proposition is to aid this shift towards a financialProportion of adviser business planning focus by providing appropriate tools and currently transacted via a platform % support.
The mechanism we use to provide this service 22 75 is the platform which is also the conduit through which we bring a variety of investment products to IFAs and 24 51-75 their clients.
26-50 22 The platform market is growing and we are sharing in that up to 25 32 growth.
In the past three years, we have more than doubled 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 the assets under management on our platform.
We have Proportion of advisers surveyed % now recorded eight successive quarters with positive net client cash flows on to the platform, and we retain the Source: Research conducted by Skandia.
highest market share, of around 30%.
There are currently around 20 platforms in the UK market: Current size of platform market the three largest account for around three-quarters of total platform assets.
We expect consolidation in the future as some smaller players leave the market and the remaining participants potentially capture a disproportionate share QQ Skandia 31 of market growth.
Q Funds Network 27 1 FUM 110bn Q Co Funds 22 The UK continues to be a market in transition, largely as Q Hargreaves Lansdown 16 a result of the Retail Distribution Review.
From the end of Q Next six companies 4 2012 this will force a move to greater choice and transparency, including fundamental changes to charging structures.
Our model is designed to work in this new world and we have already withdrawn some products that were Source: Navigant Platforms Lessons learnt & looking forward not totally compliant.
As a result, we can focus on providing December 2008. capital-light products that meet customer needs without Source: Navigant Consulting Research July 2008. being distracted by the regulatory changes.
Old Mutual plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
