OVERVIEW BUSINESS MODEL We bring a range of resources, expertise, people and processes together across our businesses in order to develop the customer proposition and experience, thereby driving value for shareholders, employees and bond holders.
Skills and resources What we do Financial outcome People Product Net Client Customer development Cash Flow 11.4 bn Sales Payments and Savings Protection Investments Values IT & Funds under administration management 1 267.2bn Funds under management 2 Profit 1,515m Capital Distribution Free Surplus allocation generated 986m Profits & cash Ordinary dividends Risk Knowledge per share 5.0p management and Return on & governance experience equity 14.6% framework Shareholders, employees, Government, bond holders Debt costs 128m 1.
AOP before tax and non-controlling operations Our five strategic priorities 1 Develop the customer proposition and experience 2 Deliver high performance in all business units 3 Share skills and experience across the Group 4 Build a culture of excellence 5 Simplify our structure to unlock value To see Glossary terms please go topage 290 6 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our business model is simple driving value for shareholders by harnessing the resources and skills we have across the Group into Savings, Protection and Investments.
Meeting customer needs Investment dynamics In our long-term savings, protection and investment We invest customers funds, and their value rises or falls business we look after and grow our customers money, with the underlying markets.
offering financial security against single or multiple events.
We earn fees on the funds we manage.
This, combined For example, we provide for them in retirement through with tight expense management, generates profits and pensions and annuities and help them to save for their cash.
Cash generated is used both to invest in future childrens education.
growth and to reward our shareholders.
We provide them with appropriate and tax-efficient Long-term need for our products investment products, and protection products offering Our markets are characterised by resilience and stability.
life assurance and disability benefits.
In emerging markets Whatever happens in the world economy or the equity we also provide products to help them save for their own and currency markets, the basic need of consumers and their familys funerals these have particular cultural around the world to save for critical life events and for importance in many of the countries we serve.
retirement, against a background of declining state and corporate support, does not change.
Multiple customer interactions Customers buy our products either directly or through an intermediary such as an independent financial adviser.
This generates inflows of cash.
At the same time we also make payments to our customers returning their money in line with our promise.
This generates outflows of cash.
Our aim is that, in any period, our net flow ie inflows less outflows should be positive.
This increases our overall funds under management.
Old Mutual plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
