16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified across all market sectors.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in non-UK equities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: the Company will not invest more than 5% of its gross assets in unquoted investments: and gearing may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
The Manager monitors the portfolio on a daily basis to ensure adherence to its Investment Policy.
Change in Investment Policy As explained in the Chairmans Statement on page6, the Board is seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to update the Companys Investment Policy.
The proposed new Investment Policy is as follows: Investment Policy Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed interest markets.
Investment Policy and Risk The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The Manager seeks to identify and invest in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
The Manager may also invest up to 10% of gross assets in fixed income securities and up to 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities.
The Manager manages a portfolio that reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies:
