20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys ordinary share price and dealings in the Companys ordinary shares.
In order to avoid significant overhang or shortage of ordinary shares in the market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions every year which allow for the repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This may assist in the management of the diluted discount.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
However, should the Board consider it to be in shareholders interests to do so, then it is the Boards policy to sell shares held as treasury shares on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Total Expense Ratio TER The expenses of managing the Company are carefully monitored by the Board and the TER provides a guide to the effect on performance of the annual operating costs.
The Board reviews expenditure using an annual budgetary process.
The TER for the year was 1.0% 2010: 1.1% based on management fees and other expenses of 5,267,000 2010: 4,738,000.
Current and Future Development As part of the Companys overall strategy, the Company will seek to manage its affairs so as to maximise returns for shareholders.
One of the Boards longer-term objectives is to increase the size of the assets of the Company in a manner consistent with seeking to maximise returns for shareholders.
Details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Investment Managers Report on pages7 and 8.
Further details as to the risks affecting the Company are set out below under Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 21 and 22.
Resources The Company is an investment trust which outsources its management and administrative functions.
As a result the Company has no employees.
Through the contractual arrangements in place, a full range of services are available to it.
The most significant contract is with the Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, to whom responsibility for the investment management of the portfolio is delegated.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager formally at every Board Meeting and when market conditions dictate.
The day-to-day responsibility for the investment management of the portfolio rests with the Manager.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the Manager is permitted wide discretion: decisions made outside these parameters are referred to the Board.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the contract formally every year.
The outcome of this review is commented upon on page 24.
Other contractual arrangements govern relationships with the Company Secretary and Administrator, Corporate Broker, Registrar, Banker and Custodian.
These contracts are also reviewed by the Board in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis and more formally on an annual basis.
Shareholder Communication Through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, monthly fact sheets, the Managers website, the AGM and the publication of a daily NAV and other methods, the Board endeavours to ensure that shareholders understand the Companys Investment Policy and that the Board, both independently and through the Manager, reviews its Investment Policy in the light of feedback from shareholders.
The Board monitors and reviews shareholder communications on a regular basis.
Advisers and Principal Service Providers The Companys main supplier of services is the Manager who provides both investment management services and company secretarial and administrative support.
The Company has the following advisers: Capita Registrars as Registrar: The Bank of New York Mellon as Banker and Custodian:
