12 DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE Chairman of the Main Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Board and of the Management Engagement Antony Hardy was appointed to the Board on Committee 2 February 1996.
He is Investment Adviser to Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on Essex County Council Pension Fund and South 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July Yorkshire Pension Fund.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman number of endowed charities and trusts, of Wigborough Ltd and The Henley Festival a Director of Sableknight Limited and was Limited.
He was previously Chairman of Xansa previously Investment Manager of the Church plc and Chief Executive of RWE Thames Water Commissioners for England.
plc, and also held non-executive appointments at RMC plc, GB Airways Ltd and Laporte plc.
Bob Yerbury Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on Sir Martyn Arbib 4 December 2008.
His investment career spans Sir Martyn was appointed to the Board on over 40 years, having led the North American 6 February 1996.
He was the founder and team at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming Chairman of Perpetual plc, which became part of Chief Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief The Invesco Group on 7 December 2000, and Executive Officer in 2004.
He handed over his left the company in 2002.
CEO and CIO responsibilities in September 2008 and June 2010 respectively, continuing as a Vivian Bazalgette Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd.
He Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board on holds an MA in Mathematics from Cambridge 21 May 2007.
He is a Non-Executive Director of University and qualified as an Actuary at Equity & Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc and Law Life Assurance Society.
He is a Fellow of the Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is a member of Institute of Actuaries FIA.
the Investment Committee of St. James Place plc and an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and to the Nuffield Foundation.
He is currently a Trustee of The Dulwich Estate and a Governor of Dulwich College.
He previously held the position All Directors are non-executive.
of Chief Investment Officer of M&G between All Directors are considered independent except 1996 and 2000 and, following the takeover of for Bob Yerbury, who is employed by Invesco M&G by Prudential, was Chief Investment Officer Perpetual.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee.
