PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 Key Performance Indicators The Board reviews performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators which include the following: Relative Asset Performance Dividend Policy Peer Group Performance Premium Discount Total Expense Ratio Relative Asset Performance In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Company, the Board monitors the diluted NAV in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active investment management approach.
It is not the investment management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from the FTSE All-Share Index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of that index.
During the course of the year the NAV total return of the Company rose by 12.2% compared with a rise of 8.7% by the FTSE All-Share Index total return.
Dividend Policy It remains the Directors intention to distribute by way of dividend substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation.
With effect from 1 April 2010, the Directors decided to declare four dividends in respect of each financial year.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
The portfolio will typically command a yield premium to the market.
However, the pursuit of income is not a prime objective and dividend yields are not permitted to constrain investment decisions.
For the year ended 31 March 2011, three interim dividends of 2.2p each per share were paid on 27 September 2010, 30 December 2010 and 31 March 2011 respectively.
A fourth interim dividend of 2.75p per share has been declared for payment on 30 June 2011, giving a total dividend paid for the year of 9.35p 2010: two interims dividends totalling 8.8p.
This represented an increase of 6.25% on the previous year.
The Directors intend to maintain their existing policy of providing ordinary shareholders with real growth in dividends over the medium term and, it is anticipated that the historic rate of dividend growth will continue to be targeted.
Peer Group Performance There are currently over 300 investment trusts in the UK of which 21 form the UK Income and Growth sector.
This group, however, is quite diverse in its investment policies and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both the sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be the peer group that most closely match its investment policy and structure.
As at 31 March 2011, out of the 21 investment trusts within the UK Income and Growth sector the Company was ranked number 6 over one year and number4 and 3 over three and five years respectively by NAV performance source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Premium Discount The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys ordinary shares trade in relation to the assets and how this compares to other investment trusts in the peer group.
During the year the Companys ordinary shares traded at both a discount and a premium.
The highest premium was 2.9% and the widest discount was 7.4%.
At the year end the discount was 1.1% 2010: 5.8%.
As at 31 March 2011, the average discount of the 21 investment trusts in the UK Income and Growth Sector was 4.2% 2010: 6.9% source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
