18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any right of participation in the profits of the Company.
On a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise the assets of the Company shall be applied, pari passu with any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares, in repaying to the holders of the subscription shares a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the subscription shares held by them respectively.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any further right of participation in the assets of the Company.
Subscription shareholders have the right to receive notices of general meetings and to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting only if a resolution is to be proposed abrogating, varying or modifying any of the rights or privileges of the subscription shares and then only on such resolution.
Wherever the holders of the subscription shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting, every subscription shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each subscription share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
B Shares An Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders was held on 9 June 2010 at which new Articles of Association for the Company were adopted.
These Articles of Association allow an issue of B shares to take place should conditions permit.
The rights attaching to the B shares are therefore listed below.
There were no B shares in issue during the year or as at 10 June 2011.
Rights Attaching to the B Shares The B Shares are identical in all material respects to the Companys ordinary shares, save for the fact that holders of B Shares will not receive distributions from the Company by way of dividend: they will instead receive capital returns.
A capital return will be made to the holder of a B Share at the same time as any dividend is paid to the holder of an ordinary share, and will be in an amount equal to any such dividend.
To the extent that any amount in the Capital Repayment Reserve is insufficient to match any dividend paid to ordinary shareholders, a dividend will be paid to B shareholders in an amount equal to any such shortfall following which the B shares will convert into ordinary shares.
For certain shareholders, there will be tax and other advantages in receiving a capital return rather than a dividend.
Capital returns will be paid to holders of B shares from the Capital Repayment Reserve which will be created from the proposed cancellation of the amount standing to the credit of the Companys share premium account which is referable to the issue.
The B shares will convert into ordinary shares once the Capital Repayment Reserve has been fully paid out.
Restrictions on the Transfers of Ordinary, B and Subscription Shares The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any ordinary, B or subscription share which is not fully-paid, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which prevents dealings in the ordinary, B or subscription classes of shares from taking place on an open or proper basis.
As at 31 March 2011, the Companys issued share capital did not include any ordinary, B or subscription shares that were not fully paid.
There are restrictions on the transfer of B shares by shareholders located in the US, which make it more difficult for a US person to resell B shares in many instances.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of an ordinary, B or subscription share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary, B or subscription shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, market abuse laws.
In certain circumstances, the Directors can require certain US holders of shares to transfer their shares compulsorily.
Share Valuations On 31 March 2011, the mid-market price and the diluted net asset value NAV per ordinary share were 252.8p 2010: 217.9p and 255.5p 2010: 231.2p respectively.
