PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 the Company will not invest more than 20% of its gross assets in non-UK securities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: the Company will not invest more than 5% of its gross assets in unquoted investments: and gearing may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
All of the above investment limits are taken at the time of acquisition.
Share Capital Ordinary Shares At the year end the Companys share capital included 210,900,504 ordinary shares.
During the year 203,607 ordinary shares were issued at 218.94p each following an exercise of subscription shares and 645,880 ordinary shares were issued for cash at an average price of 260.22p.
After the year end a further 250,000 ordinary shares were issued on 8 June 2011, at a price of 271p.
No shares were bought back during the year and no shares were held in treasury during the year or at the year end.
Rights Attaching to the Ordinary Shares Under the Companys Articles of Association, any ordinary share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
The profits of the Company available for distribution and resolved to be distributed, subject to the provisions of UK law, shall be distributed by way of dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
On a return of capital on liquidation, the assets of the Company shall be applied, pari passu with any payment to the holders of the subscription shares, in repaying to the holders of both classes of shares a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the shares held by them respectively.
The remaining balance shall be distributed rateably among the holders of the ordinary shares and B shares in the event they are issued according to the number of shares held by them.
At a general meeting of the Company every ordinary shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each ordinary share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
If any shareholder has been duly served with a notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Act which confers the power to require information with respect to interests in voting rights and has failed in relation to any ordinary shares default shares to give the Company the information thereby required within 14 days from the service of the notice, then unless the Directors otherwise determine, the shareholder shall not, for so long as the default continues, be entitled in respect of the default shares to attend or vote at any general meeting or on any poll.
Where the default shares represent 0.25% or more in nominal value of the issued ordinary shares excluding any treasury shares, the Directors may in their absolute discretion by notice to such shareholder direct any dividend or part thereof or other money which would otherwise be payable in respect of the default shares to be retained by the Company.
When such money is finally paid to the shareholder, he shall not be entitled to receive interest or elect to receive shares in lieu of dividend.
Subscription Shares At the year end the Companys share capital included 17,478,825 subscription shares.
During the year 203,607 subscription shares were converted into ordinary shares.
Rights Attaching to the Subscription Shares On 31 August the subscription date in each of the years 2006 to 2013, subscription shareholders have the right to convert all or any of their subscription shares into fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each on the basis of one ordinary share for every subscription share so converted at a price of 218.94p per share being 110% of the net asset value of an ordinary share as at close of business on 26 May 2005.
Not earlier than 56 days or later than 28 days before each subscription date, the Company will give notice in writing to subscription shareholders reminding them of their subscription rights and providing the appropriate information required for conversion.
