PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT After the strong performance of the previous 12 months, a rise of 8.7% in the UK equity market over the year to 31 March 2011 looks relatively pedestrian.
The increase, however, was achieved against a backdrop of rising risk aversion, as concerns grew over both the pace of global growth and a spreading sovereign debt crisis.
The year in many ways was notable for the volatility of indices.
The BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and consequent fall in its share price caused the FTSE100 Index to fall in the early months of the year.
But, as corporate results continued to positively surprise investors it resulted in a strong rally in UK equities, particularly at the end of 2010.
However, market sentiment continued to be over shadowed by a variety of worries: Middle East politics, the Eurozone debt crisis and the aftermath of the Japanese earthquake.
At the end of the period the price of gold hit an all time high and the price of oil was at a three year high.
Monetary stimulus on both sides of the Atlantic arguably played a large part in the rise of equity markets.
UK interest rates remained at 0.5% for the duration of the year, although inflation stayed above the 2% target the government has set the Bank of England.
Concerns grew that interest rates might be increased sooner rather than later, but these were assuaged by the minutes from the Bank of Englands March meeting which showed no new support for an increase, despite the Bank warning that inflation was likely to remain above its target for the remainder of the year.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 12.2% during the 12 months to the end of March 2011, compared to a rise of 8.7% from the FTSE All-Share Index total returns.
The performance of the Company benefited from its holdings in the telecommunications sector.
The most significant contribution over the year came from the holding in BT Group, with the company confirming both its ability to produce double digit growth in earnings and an improving free cash flow outlook.
Vodafone also provided a positive impact.
The sale of non-core assets by Vodafone forced the market to re-appraise the value of its core business, while the price agreed by AT&T for T Mobile, which it purchased from Deutsche Telekom, highlighted the value inherent within the mobile telecoms sector.
The Company benefited from a strong performance from oil and gas business, BG Group.
Good full year results were accompanied by news of further Brazilian oil discoveries while BG Group is a likely beneficiary of an increasingly positive outlook for gas demand.
The tobacco sector also continued to generate positive returns for the Company, with the holdings in Reynolds American and British American Tobacco particularly benefiting performance.
The most negative impact on the Companys performance came from Yell Group, which continued to suffer as a result of the underperformance of its directory business and on continued speculation concerning its long-term future.
The Manager remains cautiously optimistic as a result of the new strategy to migrate more of Yells business online.
Elsewhere in the Company, Rentokil Initials share price struggled as investors focused on problems in its parcel division, City Link.
In terms of portfolio activity, a number of new holdings were introduced to the Company.
These comprised both larger companies, including Ladbrokes, Roche, Serco, Daily Mail & General Trust and non-FTSE 100 companies, N. Brown, Chemring, Halosource and Homeserve.
The Company reduced its exposure to the utilities sector over the 12 months, disposing of holdings in National Grid and Northumbrian Water.
The Manager is concerned that a more onerous UK regulatory outlook will hamper both of these companies abilities to generate adequate returns on equity while also seeing more attractive investment opportunities elsewhere.
Outlook It is likely that the performance of the UK stock market will be more volatile over the next few months as the second round of Quantitative Easing, by the US monetary authorities, is wound up.
This stimulus has undoubtedly been a contributing factor behind the strong rise in the stock market since last summer.
Notwithstanding this recent good performance, the market still offers some areas of good opportunity to the long term investor.
08 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT continued The companies that populate the top half of the list of investments in the portfolio are extremely attractively valued, many of them have dividend yields substantially above their corporate bond yields.
These companies are among the cheapest stocks in the market but ironically are also among the least risky.
This confluence of low risk and low valuation is very unusual and has encouraged a shift to a more concentrated portfolio.
The Company is increasingly exposed to a collection of high quality, large cap, geographically diversified and extremely well capitalised businesses.
The UK stockmarket offers investors a fairly good selection of these kinds of businesses, however the Manager believes that similar opportunities exist in other markets particularly within globalised industries.
To this end the Board is seeking shareholder approval to increase the limit on non-UK companies to 20% of the portfolio, at the AGM.
The direction of the market over the near term may also become less certain as the outlook for corporate earnings is impacted by the persistently high oil price, the aftermath of the Japanese earthquake on the global supply chain and the economic effects of the sovereign debt problems in the Eurozone.
The Manager is reassured by the knowledge that the fundamental qualities of the portfolios holdings are strong, reliable businesses, managed in the interests of their shareholders.
It is worth remembering that the most under-rated virtue of stock market investing is patience, and that the market rarely recognises under valuation in the timeframe originally envisaged.
However, the majority of the portfolio is still being valued by the market at a significant discount to its intrinsic value.
The quality of the investments is demonstrable and requires a degree of patience for the value to be realised.. Mark Barnett Investment Manager 10 June 2011
