PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2011 Introduction and Content The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report for the year ended 31 March 2011, which incorporates the Business Review.
It also includes the Corporate Governance Statement, which starts on page 27.
Nature of the Company The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company under the Companies Act 2006 the Act registered number 3156676.
The Company is an investment company as defined by Section 833 of the Act and operates as an investment trust within the meaning of Sections 1158-1165 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved the Companys status as an investment trust, subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Life the Company The Company was required by its Articles of Association to include an ordinary resolution at the 2006 AGM to the effect that the Company continued as an investment trust for the period expiring at the end of the AGM held five years thereafter.
As this ordinary resolution was passed, the next occasion on which the Company must propose a similar ordinary resolution will be at the 2011 AGM.
Should this ordinary resolution fail, then the Directors shall, within four months of the AGM, convene an EGM at which the following resolutions shall be proposed: a a special resolution for the reconstruction of the Company and incorporating proposals for shareholders to elect either i to continue their investment in a closed-ended company: or ii to receive a cash alternative: and b if the special resolution referred to in a above shall not be passed, a special resolution requiring the Company to be wound up voluntarily.
Further details can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page5.
Investment Policy The Companys investment objective, investment policy and risk and investment limits combine to form the Investment Policy of the Company.
Proposed changes to the following Investment Policy can be found on page 16.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment mainly in the UK equity market.
It is intended that the Company will provide real dividend growth over the medium term.
Investment Policy and Risk The Company will invest mainly in above average yielding UK equities and equity-related securities of UK companies.
However, a portion of the portfolio may be invested in equities with a lower initial yield which are considered to have good potential for income growth.
At certain times, up to 10% of the gross assets may be invested in fixed interest securities, where the main criteria for inclusion will be capital certainty, good liquidity and high credit quality.
In addition, up to 10% of gross assets may be invested in non-UK equities.
The Manager will construct a portfolio which reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
