20 20 P Po or rt tf fol oli io o A An na al ly ys si is s I T n h v e n est em w c en yt c l m e u an pa dg ae tr e: s C R lo eu pd c ort omputing and the mass production of IT Mass Scale ITS HAPPeNING AGAIN.
The unprecedented scale and multi-tenancy of the late 19th century skyscraper bears a remarkable resemblance to todays giant datacentres that will equally transform the skyline of computing once Henry bessemer had made it possible to mass based on the experience of earlier industrial produce cheap steel, thick and heavy masonry walls transformations, the downward pressure could be replaced with skeleton steel structures.
The on computing costs associated with a mass worlds first skyscraper in 1885 the ten storey Home production model will be dramatic.
Insurance building in Chicago theoretically should have presaged wholesale change in construction given the additional rent generated by more floors and c. 80% thinner walls.
However, the prospect of extra rental potential reduction in computing and income proved insufficient to overcome early storage costs associated with public objections.
However, once the safety elevator and clouds operating at scale relaxed building regulations had made fifty storey skyscrapers such as the Woolworth building 1931 a reality, the uplift in rental yields was more than 50% enough to overcome inertia.
ImAGE: circa 1931, two male construction workers crouch on the corner of a estimated growth in public cloud IT steel beam high above the city, during the construction of the Empire State workloads over the next three years building, new York City.
Photo by lewis W. Hine George Eastman House Getty Images.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update:Cloud computing and the mass production of IT 21 21 THe NeW CYCLe UPDATe: CLOUD COMPUTING AND THe MASS PRODUCTION OF IT continued Just as the skyscraper ultimately changed the skyline, so we expect the cloud and the mass production model it delivers to transform the IT industry beyond recognition This coming bifurcation in fortunes between private and public clouds reflects 10% how the adoption of cloud computing is Estimated proportion coming at the expense of traditional of IT workloads already enterprise IT which, by 2014 will account running in the Cloud for only 62% of IT workloads from 79% today.
This trend will naturally recalibrate the focus of IT spending away from on-premise environments towards managed hosting and cloud providers, largely at the expense of incumbent vendors that may have to contend with negative growth in servers, storage and networking at in-house datacentres over the next three years.
With an estimated 10% of workloads already running in the Cloud, we believe the transition to a mass production model is at or approaching an inflection point beyond which further progress should be rapid, Morgan Stanley recently suggesting that public cloud workloads could grow at 50% per annum over the next three years, about twice as fast as consensus estimates.
Just as the skyscraper ultimately changed the skyline, so we expect the cloud and the mass production model it delivers to transform the IT industry beyond the adoption of cloud recognition over the coming years.
computing is coming at the expense of traditional Ben Rogoff enterprise IT 15 June 2011 we believe the transition to a mass production model is at or approaching an inflection point beyond which further progress should be rapid Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS
