Portfolio Analysis Investment managers Report 05 05 INVeSTMeNT MANAGeRS RePORT ben Rogoff A remarkable post-recession earnings recovery Market Review season resulted in equity markets ending The continuation of one of the most the financial year at highs, risk appetite 17.0% remarkable post-recession earnings elsewhere began to contract during March Increase in net asset recoveries and the announcement of and April reflecting a wave of negative value per share a second round of quantitative easing macro developments including soaring oil QE2 saw global equities advance prices amid unrest in the Middle East, strongly over the past year.
Unfortunately a tragic earthquake and tsunami that pronounced US Dollar weakness which devastated Japans east coast: Portugals fell 9% against the British Pound reduced request for EU assistance: and monetary returns significantly, with the FTSE policy tightening in emerging markets.
World index rising just 9.3% in Sterling The strongest regional returns taking into terms.
Despite myriad challenges, the account the impact of foreign exchange world economy expanded by 5% driven movements were generated in Europe, as by emerging economies 7% as both the low interest rates necessary to support China and India grew real GDP in excess the so-called PIIGS and Euro weakness of 10%.
Although developed economies helped drive strong export growth.
Europe grew by a respectable 3%, growth in the also benefited from uncharacteristically US and the Eurozone has only been on par decisive ECB action which significantly with the early 1990s recovery trajectory, reduced the risk of contagion.
Asian despite the deeper downturn.
Corporate equities also performed strongly, earnings continued to materially outpace reflecting superior growth and positive global growth, reflecting margin expansion fund flows.
US stocks trailed modestly as and the weakened position of labour.
the strong earnings recovery was offset by It was this earnings growth that drove pronounced Dollar weakness, while Japan equities during the year, supported by unsurprisingly given the tragic events in M&A activity and low interest rates.
March underperformed materially with the strength of the Yen further hindering Prior to US Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernankes speech in late August its recovery.
As earnings growth drove QE2 and the return of equity returns, growth stocks naturally 2010 when he revealed his willingness to the Fed Put presaged embark on a second round of quantitative outperformed value stocks and large a sharp rebound in capitalisation companies materially trailed easing, equity markets had corrected investor sentiment sharply as negatives including a Greek smaller capitalisation alternatives that also benefited from elevated M&A activity.
bailout, Chinese economic tightening, an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, and risk appetite... began Technology Review a deterioration in US economic data to contract during The technology sector trailed global led investors to question the recovery.
march and April equities over the period as the poor Despite a lukewarm reception, QE2 and reflecting a wave performance of a number of large caps and the return of the Fed put presaged a of negative macro US Dollar weakness depressed overall sharp rebound in investor sentiment and developments returns, the Dow Jones World Technology a reallocation from bonds to equities.
including soaring index rising just 4.7% in Sterling terms.
While a strong first quarter earnings oil prices Deteriorating macroeconomic trends led Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS 06 Portfolio Analysis Investment managers Report INVeSTMeNT MANAGeRS RePORT continued Our outperformance was driven by stock selection to a pronounced rotation out of the sector acquisition of storage vendor 3PAR following before QE2 and an acceleration of M&A a bidding war with Dell.
In addition to 30% activity acted as welcome catalysts.
The supporting small cap valuations, the more outperformance combination of superior growth and expensive M&A transactions also made of small caps vs. additional compression in the sectors a mockery of one of the key attractions larger caps relative forward price earnings PE ratio of large caps their so-called free cash left the sector trading around the market flow which added additional downward multiple by year end despite a vastly pressure to valuations.
At the sector level, superior aggregate balance sheet.
late cycle areas including software and IT services outperformed while defensive Valuation compression was most keenly healthcare and early cycle subsectors felt by large caps which contributed to semiconductors, hardware trailed.
Poorest their trailing small caps by a staggering performance was once again reserved for 30% during the year.
Despite some strong the alternative energy subsector, despite individual large cap performances from resurgent energy prices.
the likes of Apple, IBM and Oracle, a number of industry giants began to creak Our Performance under the weight of their incumbency.
The Companys net asset value rose A series of earnings mishaps and gross 17.0% per share compared to the 4.7% margin degradation at Cisco, together return recorded by the Dow Jones World a number of industry with a poor quarter from Hewlett Packard Technology Index in Sterling terms.
Given giants began to creak in February saw both companies join the that we construct the portfolio using this under the weight of penalty box already occupied by Nokia.
benchmark as our primary tool to manage their incumbency However, the greatest contribution to the risk, the magnitude of our outperformance fide-rating of large caps was the stunning was ahead of our expectations.
A constructive debut of Apples category creating tablet top-down view based on the near perfect small and mid cap the iPad which, having been initially alignment of investors and policymakers companies enjoyed a considered as a complement, rapidly allowed us to take advantage of periods of halcyon period driven became perceived as the PC industrys market weakness and made us receptive by superior earnings would-be assailant.
to a contrarian positive view on QE2.
growth, relative PE However, most of our outperformance In contrast, small and mid cap companies expansion and was driven from the bottom-up as our enjoyed a halcyon period driven by superior burgeoning m&A long held view that a disruptive new earnings growth, relative PE expansion and activity cycle would disproportionately benefit burgeoning M&A activity.
SAPs acquisition small and mid cap stocks played out.
of Sybase for a 48% premium in May was the M&A activity also provided an important our long held view spark that lit the small and mid cap powder performance boost, the thrilling bidding that a disruptive keg.
The rush of transactions that followed war for 3PAR proving the most edifying new cycle would and the full prices paid, made it clear that moment in a year that had more than disproportionately a new technology cycle had taken hold.
benefit small and This was epitomised by Hewlett-Packards mid cap stocks played out Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis Investment managers Report 07 We expect the global economy to continue to muddle through during the coming year economic Outlook impact growth later in the year once the We expect the global economy to continue inventory buffer is depleted.
While deficit c. 4.5% to muddle through during the coming year reduction will be a significant headwind Forecast global with global growth estimated at 4.5% in 2011, over the coming year, sovereign risk is growth in 2011 once again skewed in favour of developing more worrying still given the existential economies that should grow c. 6.5% versus threat it represents.
Greek debt trading at advanced economies at c. 2.5%.
In the distressed levels and still no agreement developed world, monetary policy should in place about how the European Stability remain extremely accommodative while in Mechanism will be funded post 2013 reflects emerging markets policy tightening is set to the difficulty in finding a solution acceptable continue in order to avoid overheating amid to both creditor and debtor electorates.
narrowing output gaps and food energy Should default risk extend to Spain, price inflation.
The US economy should widespread contagion would likely become continue to grow at around trend growth self-fulfilling.
While we recognise that the 2% 3% aided by a Zero Interest Rate Policy risk of a growth scare has indeed risen, we that should endure beyond the end of QE2.
suspect growth will prove more resilient While there will be substantial variation than feared.
We also have not given up across economies, Europe should also be able on a more substantial improvement in to grow c. 2% due to low interest rates and employment trends given that no postbenign core inflation.
Although growth war US President has been re-elected is likely to decelerate as policy normalises, with unemployment above 7.5%.
Asia should remain an economic bulwark over Market Outlook the coming year driven by China and India We remain hopeful that equity markets which are expected to grow at 9% and 8% can make additional gains over the respectively.
Japan the one country that coming year although returns will likely could do with a little inflation unfortunately in the developed world, be subject to greater volatility.
Stocks continues to experience core inflation close monetary policy should remain modestly valued on a price earnings to zero with growth set to slow this year remain extremely basis the S&P trading at 13x forward due to the recent Japanese earthquake.
accommodative year estimates and continue to look As recent declines in Treasury yields more attractive than both bonds and cash.
Recent M&A activity at levels well and commodity prices attest, risks to this sanguine economic view have increased above market prices suggests there is policy tightening considerable value remaining in stocks, lately.
Policy tightening in emerging in emerging markets markets certainly represents a key risk especially with cash generating negative certainly represents real returns.
Strong free cash flows given how dependent the global economy a key risk is on developing world growth.
The recent should provide additional valuation support by helping to finance buybacks, rise in oil prices amid unrest in the Middle East has clearly contributed to inflationary dividends and cash M&A whilst earnings we remain hopeful that revisions remain firmly positive.
pressures while disruption in Japan could equity markets can make additional gains over the coming year Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS 08 Portfolio Analysis Investment managers Report INVeSTMeNT MANAGeRS RePORT continued Sub-trend growth in the developed world should continue to provide a positive backdrop for the technology sector Although this investment backdrop Technology Outlook will become less uniformly benign as We continue to believe that sub-trend 5.6% the recovery extends, it should remain growth in the developed world will 2011 forecast growth broadly supportive reflecting substantial continue to provide a positive backdrop in IT spending output gaps in the developed world.
for the technology sector as corporates However, given the extent of margin are likely to remain focused on delivering recovery to date, material upside productivity.
However the current cycle to equities will likely depend on PE is unlikely to resemble that of the 1990s expansion that eluded stocks over the when overall IT budgets grew at multiples past twelve months.
This is unlikely to of global GDP for much of a decade.
occur before the recovery is perceived to Indeed, leading IT expert Gartner expects have become self-sustaining which, in technology spending to increase by 5.6% turn, will require labour and or housing in 2011 and enjoy a 4.8% CAGR between markets to show marked improvement.
These modest expectations reflect both the deflationary impact of Although valuations appear well a new technology cycle and the ongoing supported, there are a number of efforts by IT managers to reduce the cost headwinds that stocks will have to of supporting existing IT assets which will contend with over the coming months.
likely result in further intensification of Risk appetite may continue to contract competition between todays incumbents.
given the myriad of near-term economic concerns inflation, oil, policy tightening.
As with the broader market, the technology While the market appears comfortable sector forward price-to-earnings ratio has that sovereign risk is likely to remain fallen over the past year global technology contained, any risk to Spain an economy stocks today trading at c. 14 times forecast twice the size of Greece, Ireland and next twelve month earnings.
Given that Portugal combined would represent a technology remains the only sector material negative.
Having acknowledged with a significant aggregate net cash the soothing influence QE2 has had on risk position, cash adjusted forward PEs are assets, we are naturally nervous about its even more compelling at c. 13x.
However, imminent conclusion and the impact it overall valuation metrics are flattered these modest IT might have on sentiment ahead of June by modestly rated large caps that are budget expectations as investors digest the removal of the Fed struggling with slowing growth or in reflect the deflationary backstop.
The end to QE2 may also lead some cases, are beginning to look impaired impact of a new to a reversal in fortunes for the US Dollar by the new cycle.
As a result we are not technology cycle whose weakness has been a significant anticipating a material revaluation over contributor to higher risk asset prices in the coming year in either direction.
A further unwind in the m&A activity continued Undemanding valuations should be relatively Dollar carry trade would likely lead to at an elevated pace buttressed by M&A activity that is further reversals in commodities and with $37bn in deals continuing at an elevated pace, with $37bn in other Dollar-denominated assets announced so far deals announced so far during 2011.
Given which could extend into equities.
during 2011 that the technology sector sports an almost Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis Investment managers Report 09 We continue to believe that the sector remains in the early stages of a disruptive new cycle based on three key drivers cloud computing, broadband applications and the growing ubiquity of computing absurd $710bn cash balance UBS M&A Strong growth in broadband applications activity is likely to continue to support small looks set to continue reflecting low $8.5bn and mid-cap values.
It may also begin to penetration rates in key application Amount microsoft engulf larger non-aligned companies such as categories such as e-commerce c. 4% of paid for Skype Juniper Networks, or Network Appliance as US retail sales, online advertising c. 12% the primary consolidators Microsoft, IBM, of the total US advertising market and HP, Cisco, Oracle and Dell stop shadow  SaaS c. 12% of boxing and begin to trade proper blows as worldwide software.
While we have competition intensifies, a view supported by exposure to each of these categories, SaaS Microsofts recent $8.5bn acquisition of is our preferred broadband application as Skype.
In addition to M&A activity, valuations we have high conviction that the multishould also benefit from greater efforts to tenant, rental model developed by the return excess capital to shareholders via likes of Salesforce.
com will become the strong growth dividends and share buybacks.
US companies dominant delivery model for enterprise in broadband have announced plans to repurchase $150bn software while expanding the size of the applications of their own stock so far in 2011, the highest existing market.
Lastly, given the massive looks set to continue level since 2007. interest in Facebook and to a lesser extent reflecting low Twitter, we are continuing to analyse the penetration rates In terms of key themes, we continue to social networking space but have limited in key application believe that the sector remains in the early exposure today given a paucity of publicly categories stages of a disruptive new cycle based traded entities and frothy valuations.
on three key drivers cloud computing, broadband applications and the growing Our third key theme ubiquitous ubiquity mobility of computing.
Gartners computing enjoyed the most explosive we have high recent CIO survey helped reinforce this growth over the past year due largely to conviction that the view as it revealed that cloud computing, strength in smartphones, augmented by multi-tenant, rental virtualisation and mobility represent the the birth of a new computing category model developed by the top three IT priorities today.
Having been previously the likes of Salesforce.
com cloud computing to make further progress preserve of early adopters and enterprise, will become the over the coming year as application 2010 was the year when smartphones dominant delivery migration gathers momentum.
We also became mass market products as volumes model for enterprise expect desktop virtualisation VDI to grew 80% year over year resulting in software continue to enjoy accelerated adoption penetration rising from 18% to 27% by the as CIOs begin to use their datacentres first quarter of 2011.
While this trend has to deliver desktop computing, in part continued to benefit Apple and its supply we are continuing to ease the migration to Windows 7. chain, the mass market transition via to analyse the social Together with growth in video related Android devices has been even better news networking space but traffic, these virtual workloads should for volume beneficiaries such as ARM have limited exposure result in significant additional demand Holdings, Qualcomm, HTC and Atmel.
today given the paucity for storage while potentially driving an Far from the panacea that incumbents once of publicly traded optical upgrade cycle as telecom operators argued, smartphone growth has clearly come entities and frothy look to reduce their data delivery costs.
at the expense of the traditional handset valuations Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS 10 Portfolio Analysis Investment managers Report INVeSTMeNT MANAGeRS RePORT continued Smartphone growth has clearly come at the expense of the traditional handset market market and its dominant vendors such as In addition to our three core themes, we Nokia.
This dynamic has recently made odd expect a fourth emerging market growth $120bn bedfellows of Nokia and Microsoft and is to continue to play a supporting role over Estimate market an excellent reminder of why incumbents the coming year.
As a result of a shift size for smartphones rarely fare well from new cycles.
towards domestic consumption and by 2015 a longer list of investable companies, Given the importance of penetration rates in we are becoming increasingly able to our investment process, we may scale back gain emerging market exposure in each our smartphone exposure over the coming of our preferred themes.
Internet stocks twelve months as 2011 is likely to prove the such as Baidu.
com and Tencent remain peak year for smartphone unit growth.
our favoured way of gaining exposure to However, we are in no immediate rush as Chinese consumption while IT software tablets represent a significant incremental services companies such as VanceInfo are opportunity for many of the vendors that helping Chinese corporations apply IT to currently dominate smartphones.
Enterprise help stymie wage inflation.
Although there adoption seems assured following a recent have been a flurry of new listings in areas Goldman Sachs survey that revealed that where we are fundamentally very bullish, more than 80% of CIOs are planning to we have been unwilling to participate adopt tablets which beyond the tablet where they have come at valuations vendors themselves should also help that remind us a little of the late 1990s.
flash memory companies such as Sandisk Additional areas that we favour include and enterprise WiFi vendors due to the cyber security, real-time analytics and a need for pervasive wireless coverage in potential arms war between Intel and the enterprise to support tablets.
ARM-based competition as Intel attempts Unfortunately for the PC industry, the to out-manufacture its architecturally tablet has already begun to cannibalise superior competition.
Emerging themes netbooks and over time, future tablet growth worthy of mention include unified is expected to come more materially at the communications driven by the upgrade expense of notebooks.
While this would of thirty year old circuit switching be unequivocally positive for companies infrastructure, and solid state drives, with limited PC exposure today such as the eventual successors to hard disks.
we may scale back our Apple, ARM and Qualcomm, incumbent Conclusions smartphone exposure PC vendors will have to contend with a Equity markets are likely to continue over the coming twelve contracting PC market and the impossibility climbing the so-called wall of worry over months of recapturing their former dominant the coming year as a myriad of potential market shares in a new product category.
top-down show stoppers make it This twin threat was recognised in impossible for investors to revel in what equity markets are December when Microsoft revealed that should be the third year of this bull market.
likely to continue the next iteration of its PC operating climbing the so-called system Windows 8 would run natively wall of worry over the on ARM as well as Intel-based processors.
coming year Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis Investment managers Report 11 We believe that the sector is just two years into a new disruptive cycle While we cannot know if any of these existential risks will unfold, we do know 80% that over time people have been all too Growth in willing to call the end of things.
In smartphones contrast, history has generally been year on year characterised by inertia which is why despite an intellectually beguiling bear case that rests on unresolved structural issues we prefer to side with the null hypothesis, that policymakers will do whatever they can to ensure the global economy continues to muddle through.
We fully expect to have to deal with echoes of the recent crisis that will likely manifest as growth scares from time to time.
As such investors should expect to contend with greater volatility than has been evident during the past few years.
Turning to technology, we believe that the sector is just two years into a new disruptive cycle that will continue to disproportionately benefit small and midcap companies without legacy exposures to defend.
While the shape of the current portfolio already reflects this view, we have retained a considerable large cap exposure as we are mindful that next-generation valuations that have expanded over the past year may come under some pressure investors should expect should the current growth scare escalate.
to contend with greater As such we expect to use periods of market volatility than has been weakness and or adverse rotation to evident during the past amplify the portfolios current shape few years because we think the odds of a double dip recession are low.
we expect to use periods of market Ben Rogoff weakness and or 15 June 2011 adverse rotation to amplify the portfolios current shape Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS
