D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce 3 37 7 There is significant exposure to the economic cycles of Europe, Asia and the US as these are the major investment markets for technology stocks.
A very small element of the investment portfolio is invested into unlisted securities.
These investments are made where they offer specialist management or investment opportunities which would otherwise not be available.
At the year-end this amounted to less than 0.2% of NAV.
The Board has regard to the degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in order to generate the investment returns and the effect of gearing on the portfolio by borrowed funds which can magnify the portfolio returns per share positively or negatively.
There is a second group of business risks in the form of financial, operational including accounting and taxation, and legal and regulatory requirements.
The financial risks which arise from the investment activities expose the Company to risks such as market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency and interest rates.
The operational and accounting risks cover disruption to or failure of systems and processes provided by the Investment Manager including any sub contractors to which the Investment Manager has delegated the task.
The keeping of safe custody records and systems provided by the custodian or sub custodians.
Suppliers may deliver sub standard services which impact on the Company or its customers.
The taxation risk that the Company may fail to obtain qualification on an annual basis as an investment trust or recover withholding taxes on overseas investments.
Legal and regulatory risks include: compliance with the FSAs Listing Rules and Transparency and Disclosure Rules: meeting the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation affecting UK companies and compliance with accounting standards.
The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit and liquidity are set out in note 31 to the accounts.
Other business risks are managed through regular reporting to the Board on the diversification of the portfolio, market and sector views, the investment strategy including analytical performance data and attribution presented by the Investment Manager.
Any investment in unquoted companies or funds is approved by the Directors before the investment is made.
The Board also receives regular financial information on the Company and discusses the share register and share price performance at each meeting.
Information and guidance on the second group of risks is managed by the use of the Investment Manager or professional advisers where necessary and the submission of reports to the Board for discussion and, if required, any remedial action or changes considered necessary.
Management Company and Management of the Portfolio As the Company is an investment vehicle for shareholders the Directors have sought to ensure that the business of the Company is managed by a leading specialist investment management team and that the investment strategy remains attractive to shareholders.
The Directors believe that a strong working relationship with the investment management team will achieve the optimum return for shareholders and to this end value the inclusion on the Board of Mr Ashford-Russell.
Investment team The Investment Manager is Polar Capital LLP Polar Capital, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Under the terms of the investment management agreement Polar Capital provides investment management, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services.
It has also procured the provision of a share savings plan and ISA accounts for the Companys shares from BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di iR Re eC CT To oR RS S R Re eP Po oR RT T 38 38 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists led by Ben Rogoff, who is supported by Craig Mercer and Nick Evans.
Each member focuses on specific areas and the team is supported by two researchers.
Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio and looks after the US investments.
Polar Capital also has other specialist and geographically focused investment teams which contribute to idea generation.
Termination arrangements The investment management agreement may be terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, but under certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay up to one years management charges if immediate notice is given and compensation will be on a sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
Continued appointment The Board, through the Management engagement Committee, has reviewed the performance of the investment Manager in managing the portfolio over the longer-term.
The review also considered the quality of the other services provided by the investment Manager.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Management engagement Committee, has concluded that on the basis of longer-term performance it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole that the appointment of Polar Capital LLP as investment Manager is continued on the existing terms.
Fee arrangements Management fee 1% based on Net Asset Value plus borrowings, on a per share basis, payable quarterly in arrears.
Any investments in funds managed by Polar Capital are wholly excluded from the base management fee calculation.
Performance fee Performance periods will coincide with the Companys accounting periods.
Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount by which the increase in the adjusted Net Asset Value per share exceeds the total return on the Dow Jones World Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted multiplied by the time weighted average of the number of shares in issue during that period, subject to a high water mark.
The Net Asset Value per share Adjusted NAV per share is adjusted for the purposes of the performance fee calculation by adding back any accruals for unpaid performance fees, any dividends paid or payable by reference to the performance period and the removal of any benefit of share issuance or buy backs.
High water mark the performance fee will only be payable if, and to the extent that, the Adjusted NAV per share exceeds the highest of: the NAV per share on the last day of the previous performance period: the Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of a performance period in respect of which a performance fee was last paid: and 255.88 pence per share, this being the Adjusted NAV per share as at 30 April 2006 when the current performance fee arrangements became effective.
Any performance fee accrual will be included in the Net Asset Value calculated in accordance with the AIC guidelines.
The performance fee which can be paid by the Company in any one performance period is capped at 2% of net assets.
In the event of a termination of the investment management agreement, the date the agreement is terminated will be deemed to be the end of the relevant performance period and any performance fee payable shall be calculated as at that date.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
