32 32 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors present their Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance together with the Audited Financial Statements for the Company and Group prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS for the year ended 30 April 2011.
Principal Activities and Status The Company is incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary and subscription shares are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The business of the Company is to provide shareholders with access to a discretionary managed portfolio of technology stocks and shares selected on a worldwide basis.
The Companys investment portfolio is a long-only fund which means that it buys and holds shares to seek appreciation in their value and consequently in the Net Asset Value NAV of the Company.
The Company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a way as to meet the tests set down in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and thus retrospectively qualify on an annual basis as an investment trust.
This qualification permits the accumulation of capital within the portfolio without any liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
HM Revenue & Customs approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has been received in respect of the year ended 30 April 2010 subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry into the Companys tax return.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has and will continue to conduct its affairs so as to enable the Directors each year to seek approval as an investment trust.
The Company has no employees or premises and the Board is comprised of non-executive Directors.
The day to day operations and functions of the Company have been delegated to third parties.
The Company has one subsidiary, PCT Finance Limited a wholly owned dealing company whose results are consolidated with those of the Company.
The Companys ordinary and subscription shares are eligible for inclusion within the stocks and shares component of an ISA.
Life of the Company The Articles of Association of the Company provide that at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, and at every fifth Annual General Meeting thereafter, a vote on whether the Company should continue will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
The last vote for the continuation of the Company was proposed at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 and was passed on a vote of hands.
99.9% of the votes lodged by shareholders were in favour.
Business Review The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out a business review for shareholders to provide a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year to 30 April 2011, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
Full details of the Investment Managers activities and its views are given in the Investment Managers Report.
The Board considers that the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report when read in conjunction with the information provided in the Directors Report fulfils the requirements of the business review and gives a comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the Group and the position of the Group at the end of the financial year.
Future Developments The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook for technology and the Company will continue to pursue its investment objective in accordance with the stated investment policy and strategy.
The outlook for the future performance is dependent to a significant degree on the worlds financial markets and their reactions to economic events and other geo-political forces.
The Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report comment on the outlook.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
