12 12 P Po or rt tf fol oli io o A An na al ly ys si is s I T n h v e n est em w c en yt c l m e u an pa dg ae tr e: s C R lo eu pd c ort omputing and the mass production of IT Standardisation ITS HAPPeNING AGAIN.
Before the IT industry can fully transition to a mass production model it will first need to fully embrace standardisation and automation before Henry Ford could deliver on his promise Faced today with the challenge of reducing to create a motor car for the great multitude its running costs, the IT industry has also he first needed to ensure that his auto parts were begun to tackle the complexity that reflects interchangeable so that any valve would fit any engine, the kaleidoscope of computing platforms any steering wheel would would fit any chassis.
This that have existed to date.
process of standardisation had already been pioneered in the photography equipment market by George Eastman in 1892 having become possible by the advent $850$290 of machinery and cutting tools that could make parts declining price of the model T made possible instead of a skilled craftsperson.
An ominous portent by standardisation and automation of Fords for skilled labour, standardisation also enhanced production line buying power by reducing the number of suppliers.
ImAGE: new Ford motorcars grouped in warehouse, c. 1925 78% estimated reduction in IT labour hours due to standardisation and use of virtualisation Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update:Cloud computing and the mass production of IT 13 13 THe NeW CYCLe UPDATe: CLOUD COMPUTING AND THe MASS PRODUCTION OF IT The shift to cloud computing represents nothing less than the IT industry transitioning towards a mass production model Last year we set out that the transition friction means that wholesale change to cloud computing was analogous to the usually occurs only once the perceived 41% change that occurred in the electricity pain of non-adoption is considered greater IT buyers will continue industry once Tesla had invented the than adoption itself which is why paybacks or begin to invest in transformer.
This year we will make the case associated with new technologies have cloud computing in that in addition to making it possible to to be far more compelling in practice than 2011, according to deliver IT as a service the shift to cloud they need be on paper in order to become Gartner computing represents nothing less than widely deployed.
This dynamic also points the IT industry transitioning towards a to why industrial transformations have mass production model.
We expect this often occurred following a dislocation process to broadly resemble previous which can act as an overdue catalyst industrial transformations, in particular by creating a need to do something.
those that have taken place in agriculture, The development of the skyscraper in the automotive and construction.
We believe late 19th century certainly followed this that todays datacentres bear remarkable pattern.
Once Henry Bessemer had made it resemblance to the unprecedented scale possible to mass produce cheap steel, thick represented by the late 19th century and heavy masonry walls could be replaced skyscraper.
Likewise we expect the move with skeleton steel structures.
The worlds towards a mass production model to first skyscraper in 1885 the ten storey significantly lower the cost of computing Home Insurance Building in Chicago while materially expanding the market in a theoretically should have presaged similar way to how Ford and his assembly wholesale change in construction given line drove mass adoption of the automobile.
the additional rent generated by more Finally we believe that agricultural floors and thinner walls.
However, the we expect this process mechanisation provides a useful roadmap prospect of extra rental income proved to broadly resemble for how cloud computing is likely to treat insufficient to overcome early objections.
We hope this discursive piece However, once the safety elevator and transformations provides a useful framework for how relaxed building regulations had made fifty we expect this transformative process storey skyscrapers such as the Woolworth to progress.
todays datacentres Building 1931 a reality, the uplift in rental bear remarkable As shareholders may already know, yields was more than enough to overcome resemblance to the we typically avoid blue sky early inertia.
Likewise, early steam powered unprecedented scale investment opportunities because tractors enjoyed only limited success, but represented by the we believe that even successful new the productivity associated with smaller skyscraper technologies take longer to become and cheaper alternatives introduced in the pervasive than they theoretically should.
1920s led to wholesale adoption at the Often referred to as the hype cycle, this expense of horsepower.
The early car was agricultural mismatch between elevated expectations similarly unable to displace the horse and mechanisation provides and a more pedestrian reality reflects carriage until manufacturing had moved to a useful roadmap for the debilitating combination of risk a mass production model.
how cloud computing intolerance and inertia.
This emotional is likely to treat labour Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS 14 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update:Cloud computing and the mass production of IT THe NeW CYCLe UPDATe: CLOUD COMPUTING AND THe MASS PRODUCTION OF IT continued This new cycle is only now beginning to gain the traction we believe it has long warranted We have long argued that a plethora of was intrinsically a more conservative city new technologies with compelling payback with well established building codes.
In 50% periods would form the basis of a new and contrast, Chicago was young... bold and Forecast growth very disruptive cycle.
In line with the short on precedent a description that of public cloud IT historical parallels described above, this could easily by applied to Google today workloads over the new cycle is only now beginning to gain the with a pressing need for new construction next 3 years traction we believe it has long warranted.
following the Great Fire of 1871.
The ability to recentralise computing via Once early adopters in Chicago had server and datacentre consolidation has significantly fide-risked the concept, the been an available option for some time, compelling economics associated with thanks to virtualisation software and the the skyscraper led to its appearance in existence of plentiful bandwidth.
However, older US cities such as New York 1889, the compelling paybacks associated with Boston 1893 and Pittsburgh 1895.
This this approach were insufficient to drive emulation process is beginning to play wholesale adoption until the recent out in the technology sector today as large downturn and resultant IT budget companies increasingly embrace private pressure made it clear that the enterpriseclouds that make it possible to deliver centric form of computing where c. 80% existing IT more cheaply and as a service.
of the average IT budget is consumed However, just as skyscrapers remained the solely maintaining existing assets is preserve of only the largest developers, deeply flawed and unsustainable.
so the prohibitive cost of building private mass adoption cannot Of course, mass adoption cannot occur clouds will preclude smaller companies occur before a new before a new technology has been first from this approach.
This crowding out of technology has been stress-tested.
This role is carried out by small companies was also a feature of early first stress-tested.
so-called early adopters that are either agricultural mechanisation due to the cost able to see the future with greater clarity of and risk associated with expensive farm or more likely are unencumbered by equipment.
In our sector, the became widespread once a rental market the recentralised recentralised model of computing has was established, a dynamic that once model of computing long been the norm for next-generation public clouds are more broadly adopted has long been the norm technology companies such as Google, will also make it possible for smaller for next-generation Amazon and Salesforce.
com, not solely companies to access the cheaper and companies such as because they are agents of change but also more flexible form of computing made Google, Amazon and because they are young entities with possible by the Cloud.
com limited need to support old, often critical, Despite the considerable progress made applications.
This lack of incumbency was to date, the current consensus still holds a major reason why the first skyscraper lack of incumbency was that the mass adoption of cloud computing an architectural form that will forever be a major reason why the is unlikely until concerns related to its associated with Manhattan was built in first skyscraper was security and its applicability are addressed.
Chicago rather than New York which, with built in Chicago rather In our opinion, these challenges represent two centuries of history already behind it than new York Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update:Cloud computing and the mass production of IT 15 Before the IT industry can fully transition to a mass production model it will first need to fully embrance standardisation and automation little more than the normal response declared that the horse is here to stay made by incumbents keen to slow the but the automobile is only... a fad.
We think 5 process of change by labelling disruptive that the cloud and the vastly lower cost of The estimated technologies as inferior.
As discussed computing it can deliver will in time make world wide market last year, Edison spent a good part of a todays detractors feel equally humbled by for computers decade spreading disinformation about their lack of foresight.
predicted by Ibm alternating current AC technology in However, before the IT industry can in 1943!
order to fend off its challenge to direct fully transition to a mass production current DC.
That is not to say that model, it will first need to fully embrace there is no truth to the claim that standardisation and automation.
Before new technologies are often inferior to Henry Ford could deliver a motor existing ones when first introduced.
As car for the great multitude he first such it is near impossible for disruptive needed to ensure that his auto parts technologies to disprove the inferiority were interchangeable.
This process claim evidenced by how long skyscrapers of standardisation had already been had to contend with predictions of disaster it takes time for pioneered in the photography equipment that were ultimately unfounded.
new technolgies to market by George Eastman in 1892 demonstrate their Similarly it takes time for new technologies following the advent of machinery that potential... when to demonstrate their potential to materially could make parts instead of a skilled so-called experts expand the existing market opportunity, craftsperson.
An ominous portent for pour scorn on their particularly when so-called experts pour skilled labour, standardisation also widespread appicability scorn on their widespread applicability.
enhanced buying power by reducing These experts such as Thomas Watson the number of suppliers.
Faced today Chairman of IBM who in 1943 predicted with the challenge of reducing its that there was a world market for maybe running costs, the IT industry has also as such our confidence five computers and Ken Olsen, CEO of begun to tackle the complexity that in cloud computing minicomputer vendor Digital Equipment reflects the kaleidoscope of computing becoming pervasive who in 1977 opined that there is no reason platforms that have existed to date.
rests on it why anyone would want to have a computer Indeed one of the key drivers of server overwhelming, rather in the home often carry weight well virtualisation is that it allows hardware than overcoming, the beyond what they ultimately warrant.
to become standardised while running adoption barriers that As such our confidence in cloud computing a myriad of different operating systems exist today becoming pervasive rests on it overwhelming, at the virtualised layer.
Another way rather than overcoming, the adoption that standardisation is being applied barriers that exist today.
This is likely to echo within IT is by the pre-configured we think that the cloud the automotive experience where sharply combinations of software and hardware and the vastly lower lower prices drove widespread adoption components such as Oracles Exadata, cost of computing it despite the advice given by the president of which significantly reduce the need for can deliver will... make the Michigan Savings Bank to Henry Fords expensive IT craftsmen.
With Google todays detractors feel lawyer not to invest in the Ford Motor reputed to be running as few as five humbled by their lack Company in 1903 when he infamously different hardware configurations of foresight Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS
