30 30 D Di ir rec ect to ors rs Re Rep po or rt t D Di ir rec ect to ors rs DIRECTORS DIRECTORS in office at the year end Chairman R K A Wakeling aged 64 Appointed to the Board as Chairman in 1996.
Formerly chief executive of Johnson Matthey plc 1991-1994 and a non-executive director of Logica plc from 1995-2002 and was a non-executive director of The Brunner Investment Trust plc until 2010.
Mr Wakeling has served on the Board for over nine years and retires at the conclusion of the AGM on 4 August.
Directors B J D Ashford-Russell aged 52 Investment Trust plc.
Mr Gamble was chief executive of Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Mr Ashford-Russell is a British Airways Pension Investment Management Ltd. director and founder of Polar Capital Partners.
He was until his retirement in 2004. previously head of the technology team at Henderson Global Investors.
He managed the Company from launch # R A S Montagu until 30 April 2006. aged 45 Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Mr Montagu co-founded Mr Ashford-Russell has served on the Board for over nine Montagu Newhall Associates in 2000, a specialist years and is connected to the investment manager.
He investor in technology and healthcare venture capital stands for annual re-election.
industries where he was a partner until 2010.
# P F Dicks # M B Moule aged 68 aged 65 Appointed to the Board in 1996 and elected Senior Appointed to the Board in 2007 and elected Chairman of Independent Director in 2004.
Mr Dicks is Chairman of the the Audit Committee in 2010 and will become Chairman Remuneration Committee.
He is the Chairman of Private of the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Mr Moule Equity Investor plc and Sportingbet plc as well as a director was a director of investment trusts at Henderson of several other companies including Standard Microsystems Global Investors, where he had been the investment Corporation and Graphite Enterprise Trust plc.
manager for The Bankers Investment Trust plc and Law Mr Dicks has served on the Board for over nine years and Debenture Corporation plc until his retirement in 2003. stands for annual re-election.
He is a director of The European Investment Trust plc and Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
D J Gamble aged 67 Appointed to the Board in 2002.
He is Chairman of Member of Audit Committee Member of Management Engagement Committee Hermes Property Unit Trust and Montanaro UK Smaller Member of Nomination Committee Companies Investment Trust plc.
Mr Gamble is a director # Member of Remuneration Committee of IBM Pension Trustees Ltd. Barrie & Hibbert plc, Vencap International plc and Dunedin Enterprise The Board considers that the majority of the Directors including Mr Dicks, who has served more than nine years and stands for annual re-election, are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
In the case of Mr Ashford-Russell the Board has concluded that he should not be considered as independent due to his relationship with the investment manager.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
