16 16 P Po or rt tf fol oli io o A An na al ly ys si is s I T n h v e n est em w c en yt c l m e u an pa dg ae tr e: s C R lo eu pd c ort omputing and the mass production of IT Labour reduction ITS HAPPeNING AGAIN.
Labour has historically fared poorly during transitions to mass production models as standardisation and automation greatly reduce the need for skilled workers Inspired by the meat packing houses of Chicago and facilitated Software is allowing tasks such as provisioning, by factory electrification and the availability of high speed tools, patch management and maintenance to Ford created the moving assembly line.
The division of labour become increasingly automated, resulting forever changed the economics associated with the automotive in a reduction of headcount.
as manpower per car fell from 12.5 hours to just 93 minutes.
In agriculture, the workforce also fared poorly from mechanisation as self-propelled machines such as pickers and cheap tractors 10,000 eliminated much of the labour requirement in harvesting.
Reputed number of servers managed by ImAGE: Assembly line workers inside the Ford motor Company factory each Google administrator as compared to at Dearborn, michigan.
c. 10 in a traditional enterprise datacentre 25% potential reduction in IT labour hours by 2015 due to adoption of automation tools Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update:Cloud computing and the mass production of IT 17 THe NeW CYCLe UPDATe: CLOUD COMPUTING AND THe MASS PRODUCTION OF IT continued The IT industry has also begun to tackle the complexity that reflects the kaleidoscope of existing computing platforms across its entire 1m server base, it associated with repetitive work.
The first should be clear that the move towards phase of agriculture mechanisation had 5 more homogenous environments is a been a boon for labour as new equipment number of precondition for true cloud computing.
such as harvesters led to the doubling of different hardware total farmland between 1870 and 1920.
The 1908 introduction of the Model T configurations Google The so-called Bonanza farms large scale a simple car with no factory options is believed to be operations made possible by this early epitomised this standardisation process running across its mechanisation still required a large but at $825 it was clearly too expensive server base number of people to operate, not least to drive mass adoption.
As a result, because early harvesters took six people between 1908 and 1915 Henry Ford built and thirty six horses to pull.
This first, on the progress already made by rival labour dependent wave of mechanisation automaker Ransom E Olds who had bears a remarkable resemblance to the introduced the first assembly line in 1901. experience of the IT industry post the Inspired by the meat packing houses of mainframe during which labour greatly Chicago and facilitated by factory benefited from both the growth and electrification and the availability of high decentralisation of computing.
However, speed tools, Ford created the moving while the first wave of agricultural assembly line.
Not only did this take work mechanisation helped improve the to the workers, but, as a result of the productivity of labour, the second came division of labour the economics largely at its expense as machines such as associated with automotive production the gasoline-powered combine harvester changed forever, as manpower per car fell only required one person to operate.
This from 12.5 hours to just 93 minutes.
With essentially eliminated much of the labour cars coming off the line in three minute requirement in harvesting and presaged intervals, only one colour Japan Black a significant reduction in labour input per would dry fast enough which is why the acre farmed and rapid growth in average Model T was available in any colour so farm sizes.
Despite the remarkable growth long as its black.
By the time the last car as a result of the in farm output that occurred during this number 15,000,000 was produced in division of labour the period, agricultural employment fell in both 1927, Fords Model T had transformed the economics associated absolute and relative terms as the mass automotive industry from a low unit, high with automotive production model took its toll.
cost model dependent on skilled labour to production changed a mass production variant made possible This trend towards larger farms and forever by standardisation and automation.
reduced labour is the same dynamic driving cloud scale datacentres today.
Like their Unfortunately for those employed in IT agricultural equivalents, giant server farms we expect the impact today, we expect the impact on labour from are making it possible to deliver units of on labour from cloud cloud computing to broadly resemble the computing, storage and networking with computing to broadly post 1920s agricultural experience rather cost savings at up to 80% less than traditional resemble the post than the mixed experience of auto workers enterprise datacentres due to enhanced 1920s agricultural who at least benefited from higher wages buying power and the ability to reduce experience paid by Ford to counter the negatives Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS 18 Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update:Cloud computing and the mass production of IT THe NeW CYCLe UPDATe: CLOUD COMPUTING AND THe MASS PRODUCTION OF IT continued This trend towards larger farms and reduced labour is the same dynamic driving cloud scale datacentres today power costs 15-20% of total by of UK wheat yields between 1945 and being located in regions with relatively 2005, having been largely static for the 15-20% inexpensive electricity and abundant preceding sixty years.
Unsurprisingly Reduction in power water supply.
They also significantly reduce falling prices and or rising yields costs through adoption labour costs due to their homogeneity and inevitably cause significant disruption to of giant datacantres use of virtualisation and infrastructure existing markets and incumbent vendors.
tools that help automate tasks such as In 1867, the market for rails railroad track provisioning which could also eliminate was dominated by wrought iron which cost 25% of labour hours by 2015.
Combined less than half as much as steel alternatives.
we expect these factors to drive a Seventeen years later with steel rails remarkable increase in output per unit selling at just $32 ton iron rails of labour and power given that a single essentially disappeared.
Likewise steam system administrator in an internal powered cars were superseded by the likes datacentre today might manage c. 10 of the Model T which, in 1918, cost 85% servers while Google is already managing at less than the leading steam car of the day, a scale of 10,000 servers per head.
The combination of these inherent advantages are already lower prices, technology alternatives and somewhat apparent in early iterations new entrants a staggering 241 automobile such as private clouds we believe that the manufacturers went into business in the US utilisation required to deliver the mass between 1904 and 1908 naturally results production of IT will only be possible in in greater competition.
This pattern is the utilisation public clouds operating at scale.
In these apparent in the technology space today required to deliver the massive configurations not only do labour as modest overall IT budget growth and a mass production of IT costs tend towards zero but overall significant shift in technology priorities has will only be possible in utilisation can be maximised because the led to intensifying competition between public clouds operating multi-tenancy of public clouds allows incumbent vendors such as Cisco and at genuine scale workloads with variable demand to be Hewlett Packard.
Just as there were c. two aggregated which in turn reduces the thousand US automakers in the early 1900s overall variability.
In other words, multibut were only one hundred remaining by based on the tenancy means that the larger the cloud, 1920, so we expect consolidation within experience of previous the higher the utilisation rate and the the technology industry to accelerate as transformations the lower the cost of computing.
troubled incumbents look to reinvent downward pressure on themselves and those unable to operate Based on the experience of previous computing costs is at mass production scale disappear.
transformations, the downward pressure likely to be dramatic on computing costs is likely to be dramatic.
For new entrants and those legacy vendors The Bessemer converter made it possible able to refashion themselves, the to deliver steel for c. 33% less, Ford was opportunities made possible by mass falling prices inevitably able to more than halve the the cost of the production are significant as sharply lower cause significant Model T between 1908 and 1916 and the prices have often presaged market growth disruption to existing combination of mechanisation and larger due to price elasticity of demand.
This markets and incumbent farm sizes resulted in a near quadrupling dynamic is almost always vastly vendors Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 Portfolio Analysis Portfolio Analysis The new cycle update:Cloud computing and the mass production of IT 19 For new entrants and those legacy vendors able to refashion themselves, the opportunities made possible by mass production are significant underestimated by naysayers who Furthermore, the ability to use cloud due to a myopic focus on inferiority capacity on an ad hoc basis means that 36.6 think about incremental opportunities for the first time in the history of computing Change in number in percentages rather than factors.
it costs the same to provision one thousand of Virtual machines Even the most enlightened industry servers for an hour as it does one server for per server since 2005 participants are sometimes unable to a thousand hours.
This concept, known as grasp the exponentials associated with elasticity should enable IT to address mass adoption, epitomised by the complex tasks that had been previously prediction of Gottfried Daimler that the prohibited by time constraints, such as worldwide automobile market could not real-time analysis of massive datasets surpass one million units due to a lack of that to date have been too large chauffeurs.
Whereas once the car had to tackle within a tolerable time horizon.
been the preserve of the wealthy, the price This mass production model is finally of a Model T had fallen so significantly by beginning to make headway with IT buyers, 1914 that a Ford assembly line worker could as evidenced by a number of encouraging buy one with four months pay.
To some degree this more than 8m Americans owned cars.
even the most softening of attitude reflects early Widespread adoption also played out in enlightened industry successes associated with SaaS, private agriculture following the introduction of participants are clouds and managing virtualised tractors such as the Fordson, the market sometimes unable to environments, IDC recently estimating the expanding from 4,000 units produced in grasp the exponentials average number of virtual machines VMs 1910 to a peak of 564,000 in 1951. associated with mass per server has risen from three in 2005 to adoption By delivering vastly lower costs and c. 6.6 today.
In addition, we suspect that unprecedented flexibility, cloud computing CIOs are also beginning to take the advice should similarly expand the reach of the IT of advisors such as Gartner who now industry by attracting new incremental recommend that unless IT departments cloud computing buyers while generating a plethora of new fully embrace the Cloud they risk should expand the applications.
An early example of this is how disintermediation by business users.
reach of the IT industry the per user, per month model associated As a result of this combination of stick by attracting new with  SaaS has made business user disintermediation and incremental buyers it possible for small and medium sized carrot early cloud success adoption while generating a companies to easily access enterprise appear to be inflecting, a Gartner survey plethora of new software having previously been priced revealing that 41% of IT buyers will applications out by the upfront cost and onerous risk continue, or begin to, invest in cloud associated with the traditional licence computing in 2011.
This should help fuel model.
By converting fixed costs such as more than a tenfold increase in the market the concept of capital spending into variable ones, cloud for cloud computing by 2020, with public elasticity, should computing eliminates much of the friction clouds expected to grow by 27% per annum greatly enable IT to associated with new projects which should to $160bn in contrast to private clouds address complex tasks lead to greater experimentation.
that are forecast to expand with an 8% that had been CAGR to $18bn over the same timeframe.
previously prohibited Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 PoRTFolIo AnAlYSIS
