10 DIRECTORS REPORT: OVERVIEW: OUR MARKETPLACE our marketplace At the end of 2011, total outstanding UK personal debt balances stood at 1.45trn.
As would be expected, most of this total, 1.24trn, was secured by mortgages on housing, with the balance of 0.21trn being unsecured consumer credit.
During 2011, a total of 319bn was lent to UK borrowers, 141bn secured and 178bn unsecured.
Provident focuses on the non-standard end of the UK credit market in which around 65bn was lent in total during the year.
The UK non-standard credit market has Home Credit stands out as a highly The number of people become the domain of specialists.
Generalists personal in-home offer with a long history who make up the non-standard market with untailored mainstream lending models of customer popularity.
10 largely withdrew at the start of the credit Non-standard credit cards are a more crunch with significant losses and show no Credit issued to recent development offering modern those with limited appetite to return.
mainstream retail convenience and protection access to credit 65 In the UK there is a wide range of different to non-standard consumers for about the lending models and products tailored to the last 20 years.
Annual group non-standard consumer in different ways.
credit issued 1.6 EStiMatEd rElativE aNNual uk NoN-StaNdard lENdiNG by product typical customer traits example companies 1 1 rent to own Live within three miles of store, BrightHouse, PerfectHome do not own cars, credit impaired, 2 low income.
3 4 2 home creDit Mostly employed, hourly paid, Provident Personal Credit, female, renting, low income Greenwood Personal Credit, S&U, Shopacheck, Morses, Mutual, around 500 local operators 3 payDay lenDing Wide range, banked, debit card MoneyShop, Cheque Centre, 5 holders, employed, reasonable Payday UK, QuickQuid, Wonga credit score 6 4 mail orDer Wide range, mostly online ShopDirect, OTTO, N. Brown shoppers, mostly female with brands targeted at C, D and E socio-demographic groups 5 overDraFts Mostly home owners Lloyds, HSBC, Barclays, RBS 6 creDit carDs Employed, salaried, banked with Capital One, Barclaycard, low credit score, renting Vanquis Bank, SAV Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: overview 11 Home home creDit charactEriSticS of collection e. g. provident personal credit and greenwood personal credit NoN-StaNdard crEdit Meter MarkEt productS rent-to-own One way of looking at the wide range of credit products used by UK non-standard borrowers Store visit pawnBroking, sale anD is by speed of access to funds, how they are unsecureD Bill oF Buy Back term loan repaid and the nature of the transaction.
sale log Book Provident focuses on products with quick but Pay Point mail orDer Payzone not immediate access to new credit, offering a range of repayment mechanisms for cash-based general use.
This is in contrast Post Office creDit to payday lending, for example, which is more carD immediate with limited repayment options and e. g. vanquis Bank mail order, for example, which relates directly Cheque Branch-BaseD payDay to a retail purchase.
nD Electronic mortgage, 2 charge overDraFt car transfer e. g. direct debit, online payDay debit card Instant Minutes Hours Days Weeks Months cash-based asset-based How quickly the customer receives the money after applying for credit trENdS iN our SEctioN of thE MarkEt our business model and experience ensure that we are well suited to succeed in this specialist market.
the market is continually evolving in channels, pricing and product offers.
consumer situation market trenDs Many consumers are wary about borrowing Overall, access to credit in general and nonConsumer demand for shorter fixed terms and spending, given uncertainty over standard lending in particular is starting to and smaller amounts of credit has led their employment and pressure on increase again after dramatic falls in the leadto higher APRs unseen in the UK five disposable incomes from rising food, up to and after the credit crunch in mid 2007. years ago.
The internet channel generally continues Growth areas include payday lending, Consumer confidence is persistently low with to grow strongly for borrowing, spending pawnbroking, rent-to-own, and car finance.
consumers concerned about their current and searching for better deals and Areas that are unchanged overall in situation and prospects for the near future.
information this can most clearly be seen scale include Home Credit, bill of sale in the growth in online mail order credit and Where consumers are looking to borrow, they logbook credit, overdrafts, credit cards, online payday lending.
are often favouring shorter term products and mail order credit, mortgages and credit smaller amounts to limit exposure, features There is also a new drive to expand and unions Community Development Finance which are core to the non-standard market.
develop high street stores in a range of Institutions CDFIs.
different forms: multi-product chains Consumers are also displaying a preference Areas reducing in scale include storecards, offering various credit and non-credit for speed and ease in setting up credit second charge secured lending and some financial products e. g. The Money Shop, agreements, and therefore an increased coin meter-based rent-to-own.
second-hand goods and pawnbrokers willingness and desire to use the internet e. g. Albemarle & Bond and H&T as a channel.
Pawnbrokers, sale and buy back lay aside stores e. g. Cash Converters and specialists like rent-to-own retailers e. g. BrightHouse and PerfectHome.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 How the customer will repay v h a o n m q e u i c s r B e a D their text reminder service is really helpful 12 DIRECTORS REPORT: OVERVIEW: OUR MARKETPLACE our marketplace our cuStoMErS age: Average typically, Provident customers are hardc.
40 principal working people living on modest incomes.
genDer: loan purpose: they borrow relatively small amounts, but 61% Female Christmas, 39% Male it is a big commitment.
they need it to be household items, holiday travel easy to make repayments and they like the flexibility to adjust those payments if their circumstances change.
householD Home Credit customers are not always the employment: average Part-time, casual, main breadwinners, but they often control the loan: manual, e. g. 500 household budget.
The breadwinners in these cleaner, van driver households are more likely to be hourly-paid or have part-time or casual work than be in salaried employment and less than half of our customers are in receipt of non-universal benefits.
Home Credit customers value the net income: customer discipline of the weekly visit and appreciate Household satisFaction: having flexibility on repayments.
267 per week 91% The household income of most Vanquis Bank customers is between 15,000 and 30,000 a home: socioOwner: 15% year.
They use the card in a similar way to users economic Tenant: 78% level: of mainstream cards at major supermarkets, on Friends C2, D, E the high street, and for internet shopping.
Growth family: 7% in online shopping and changes in merchants payment policies have made everyday tasks increasingly difficult without a payment card.
The card therefore has a high utility value and offers useful additional consumer protection it is often the only one they have.
age: Average c. 35 principal loan purpose: genDer: Internet spending, 48% Female i like hoW it utility everyday 52% Male spending vanquis means i dont keeps in have to touch.
Worry employment: average Typically full-time, Balance: about wide spectrum 650 of roles forgetting to make a repayment lisa, income: Vanquis Bank customer 15-30k customer satisFaction: per annum 84% sociohome: economic Owner: 25% level: Tenant: 75% C1, C2, D Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 i n t k c c u u s s t t o o m m e e r r Directors report: overview 13 policy aNd rEGulatioN the Department for Business, innovation current regulatory Framework Future regulatory lanDscape and skills Bis and hm treasury hmt The group is subject to various regulatory Financial services regulation Although not regulatory in function, policy and supervisory regimes: The Government has been reviewing the way recommendations made by BIS and HMT financial services are to be regulated.
The office of Fair trading and the consumer frequently relate to and affect the financial outcome will be the creation of three key credit act services sector.
The two departments often institutions: the Financial Policy Committee The provision of consumer credit is regulated work together on financial services issues.
FPC, as part of the Bank of England, with by the rules set out in the Consumer Credit responsibility for macro-prudential regulation, BIS and HMT jointly consulted recently on Act 1974 as amended the CCA and the the Prudential Regulation Authority, with proposals to restructure the regulatory regime supporting regulations and guidance made responsibility for micro-prudential or for financial services.
They also conducted a under it.
These cover all aspects of credit firm-specific regulation and the Financial joint review of consumer credit and personal transactions from advertising to debt recovery.
Conduct Authority FCA, with responsibility insolvency during 2011.
The Office of Fair Trading OFT is responsible for conduct of firms and markets regulation.
for licensing businesses involved in consumer central Bank of ireland credit-related activities and for ensuring On 27 January 2012, the Government The Central Bank of Ireland the Bank is the compliance with the CCA.
published a Financial Services Bill which licensing authority for consumer credit in the includes provisions enabling the transfer of Republic of Ireland and Provident Personal The groups Home Credit businesses within responsibility for consumer credit regulation Credit Limited, a subsidiary within CCD, holds the Consumer Credit Division CCD and from the OFT to the FCA, whilst retaining the a moneylenders licence issued by the Bank.
Vanquis Bank hold consumer credit licences existing consumer rights and protections issued by the OFT.
The legislation which is applicable in the contained in the CCA.
The Government has Republic of Ireland includes the Consumer Financial services authority Fsa stated that it will exercise these powers if, Credit Act 1995, the European Communities Vanquis Bank also holds a banking licence and when, it has identified a mode of FCA Consumer Credit Agreements Regulations and is regulated by the FSA.
The FSAs regulation that is proportionate for the 2010, the provisions of the Consumer regulation of Vanquis Bank covers a number different segments of the credit market.
Protection Code for Licensed Moneylenders of areas, comprising: i code of conduct: and the Central Bank Reform Act 2010. ii treating customers fairly: iii regulatory capital requirements: iv liquidity eu requirements, including the requirement The European Union institutions comprising to hold a liquid assets buffer: and v monthly the Commission, Council and Parliament and quarterly reporting to the FSA.
initiate and enact legislation which applies to the EU Member States.
The majority of Provident Financial plc, as the parent UK legislation now involves implementation company of a regulated bank, is itself the of EU legislative acts.
A recent example was subject of consolidated supervision by the the implementation of the EU Consumer FSA and is subject to regulatory capital Credit Directive 2008 which took full effect requirements and quarterly reporting to in the UK in February 2011. the FSA.
current regulatory anD policy coverage The group and its businesses are subject to a range of regulators and policy-making bodies at the national and international level.
proviDent central consumer vanquis Financial Bank oF creDit Bank group irelanD Division Fsa cca oFt Bis hmt eu Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011
