our approaCH unique market For over 10m people in the UK, borrowing isnt just a convenience its an important way of making ends meet.
Non-standard credit is a lifeline for people on modest incomes, as they are often overlooked by mainstream banks and lenders who see them as too much of a risk.
Thanks to our specialist focus and knowledge of this unique market, we help 2.5m people navigate lifes financial hurdles.
Number of Home Credit customers 1.8 Number of Vanquis Bank customers 0.7 We treat our customers as We'five been around for quite a our approaCH in-Depth experience Dealing with the complexities of the non-standard market calls for specialist experience.
At Provident, weve been lending responsibly in this market for more than 130 years.
We have a real understanding of the people and the communities we serve in fact, many of the self-employed Home Credit agents are former Provident customers.
This helps us make sure that we deliver credit in a way thats right for our customers.
Company founded in 1880 our approaCH secure FunDing We have mediumand long-term funding from banks, other lending institutions, the public debt market and from retail deposits.
By keeping our funding channels diverse, we make sure we always have plenty of funding available.
This means we can seize opportunities to grow when the market is thriving.
And when the outlook is less rosy, we can come continue to be there for the people who need us most.
Average period to maturity 3.5 of funding or shine Well be here keeping an eye on the ahead our approaCH eFFective processes To react quickly to change, it helps if you can see what lies ahead.
We have unique systems and processes in place that analyse payment and spending patterns, so we can keep track of our customers changing circumstances and adjust our lending and their repayment plans accordingly.
At the same time, our investments in IT infrastructure help us operate at a more efficient level, boosting growth and productivity.
Home Credit customer satisfaction 91% We st art With a friendly our approaCH personal approach The more we get to know our customers, the better we can serve them.
Thats why building trusting, personal relationships is such a vital part of our approach.
We talk with our customers regularly face-to-face or on the phone so we can offer a listening ear and provide individual support.
By understanding their particular circumstances, we can tailor our products to match.
Percentage of female agents 69% our approaCH acting responsiBly Its in nobodys interests for us to lend more than people can afford to repay, so we structure our loans in a way that takes account of customers circumstances.
And if they hit a bump in the road, our close relationship with them means we can respond quickly and flexibly.
Lending responsibly helps our customers to meet their repayments and the company to keep impairment to a minimum.
And as well as looking after our customers, we also invest in their communities, making them safer and more vibrant places in which to live and work.
Investment in community projects 1.6 and We have responsibility at our heart
