78 DIRECTORS REmunERaTIOn REpORT directors remuneration report The committee keeps itself fully informed of Details of the work undertaken by the RemuneRation explained developments and best practice in the field of committee during the year are shown below: remuneration and it seeks advice from external introduCtion Q1 advisers when it considers it appropriate.
The This directors remuneration report complies committee has appointed new Bridge Street 2010 remuneration report.
with the Companies act 2006 the Companies a trading name of aon Corporation as its 2011 remuneration policy.
act, Schedule 8 of the Large and mediumremuneration consultant to advise on aspects sized Companies and Groups accounts and Review of company-wide remuneration and of executive director and senior management Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing incentive policies and senior management pay, including advice in relation to the 2011 Rules of the Financial Services authority FSa.
new Bridge The company also followed the requirements Review of prior year performance against Street is a member of the Remuneration of the uK Corporate Governance Code financial and non-financial objectives in Consultants Group and has signed up to its the Code.
relation to the annual cash bonus scheme.
aon Hewitt Limited provides Vesting of awards under the performance This report will be subject to an advisory investment advice in respect of the companys Share plan and Long Term Incentive vote at the aGm of the company to be held uK pension scheme and actuarial services in Scheme.
on 2may 2012 and sets out the policy for the respect of its Irish pension schemes.
The financial year just ended, for the forthcoming committee has, in addition, been advised Review of the FSa Remuneration Code.
year and, subject to ongoing review, for by Towers Watson and Herbert Smith LLp in Review of committee terms of reference.
relation to the establishment of an unfunded Grant of awards under the companys unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme.
the remuneration Committee Towers Watson provide actuarial and Review of directors expenses.
members: consultancy services in respect of the Robert Hough Chairman companys main uK pension scheme.
Herbert Q2 Rob anderson Smith provide advice to the company on a manjit Wolstenholme range of other legal matters affecting the no committee meeting held.
The committee is comfortable that attendees by invitation: none of these relationships have impaired Q3 John van Kuffeler the independence of its advisors due to the Review of executive remuneration peter Crook internal controls in place and the committees landscape.
new Bridge Street remuneration consultant monitoring of existing cross relationships.
The terms of engagement for each advisor Vanquis Bank remuneration committee The committee consists of three non-executive are available from the Company Secretary on update.
directors, each of whom is, in the opinion of request.
The General Counsel and Company Review of impact of pension tax changes.
the board, independent when assessed against Secretary is secretary to the committee and the criteria set out in the Code.
instructed the advisors on behalf of the Q4 Remuneration committee.
The secretary attended all the committee meetings Establishment of an unfunded meetings of the committee in 2011 and Total number of meetings in 2011 5 unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme.
provided legal and technical support to Robert Hough Chairman 5 the committee.
Rob anderson 5 Establishment of 2012 proposed The Chairman and Chief Executive of manjit Wolstenholme 5 remuneration policy.
the group normally attend meetings of the committee other than when their own Review of executive directors pursuant to its terms of reference, the remuneration or any matter relating to them shareholdings.
committee considers and determines, is being considered.
Review of performance and effectiveness within the framework agreed with the board, of the committee.
the specific remuneration packages and The committee has reviewed and considered conditions of service of the Chairman, the impact of the FSa Remuneration Code The committee formally considered its the executive directors and the Company the FSa Code.
Whilst the FSa Code applies effectiveness in 2011.
On the basis of the Secretary, including their service agreements.
to Vanquis Bank, it does not apply to the board and committee evaluation undertaken It also monitors the level and structure of the group.
as a consequence, a Vanquis Bank by means of an online questionnaire in remuneration of the most senior management remuneration committee has been established conjunction with Independent audit Limited, below board level.
no director is involved in which has identified those employees who are the committee determined that it was determining his her own remuneration.
operating effectively and that it continued Full details of the terms of reference of to have the appropriate regard for the key the committee are available on the issues within its remit.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors remuneration report 79 exeCutiVe direCtors and the changing regulatory environment remuneration poliCy The executive directors remuneration within which the group operates and on The committee considers it very important consists of a basic salary, an annual cash the basis of a benchmarking exercise, that there should be an appropriate proportion bonus subject to performance conditions the non-executive directors fees were of fixed and variable pay.
The remuneration and other benefits, including participation increased by 10,000 in 2011. policy operated by the committee during the in the companys pension arrangements.
year and, subject to ongoing review by the Chairman additionally, they may participate in committee, to be applied for the following The fees for the Chairman are fixed by the the companys various share incentive financial year and for future financial years, is committee.
Full details of the Chairmans schemes, including: based on the need to attract, reward, motivate fees in 2011, with 2010 comparative figures, and retain executive directors in a manner a performance share plan which are set out in the table of directors remuneration consistent with the long-term accumulation of necessitates the waiver of a minimum on page 84.
Reflecting the wider economic value for shareholders and achievement of the of 25% of the annual cash bonus award environment and on the basis of a benchmarking companys strategic objectives.
The committee up to a maximum of 50%, which is exercise, the Chairmans fees were not is cognisant of the need to maintain a clear subject to performance conditions: increased in 2011. link between the overall reward policy and a long term incentive scheme, which is senior management remuneration specific company performance which is subject to performance conditions: and The committee also considers the aligned to the business strategy both in the an employee savings-related share option remuneration structure and level of pay for short and long term.
performance conditions scheme which is not subject to performance the most senior level of management within and targets for variable incentives are chosen conditions executive directors participate on the group, including an annual cash bonus to incentivise and reward for performance, the same terms as other eligible employees and participation in the companys executive taking account of the strategy and KpIs of the group.
outlined in the Business Review.
The policy of the committee is to pay remuneration The remuneration policy is designed to ensure salary which is competitive, with a significant that a significant proportion of the executive at its meeting in December 2011 the proportion dependent on risk assessed directors remuneration is linked to committee, having considered the companys performance targets.
The committee regularly performance, through the operation of the strong financial performance and each reviews the remuneration framework in the annual cash bonus scheme and the share individuals personal performance, agreed context of the groups risk management incentive schemes.
For 2011, variable to increase the executive directors salaries structure to ensure it does not inadvertently remuneration accounted for approximately in 2012.
These increases are consistent with promote irresponsible behaviour.
two-thirds of the fair value of executive the average percentage increases awarded remuneration excluding pension, a policy across the group.
The committee has access to both the audit which the committee considers appropriate.
committee and the risk advisory committee to proposed 2012 salaries are as follows: assist with the monitoring and assessment of The committee normally reviews the executive % risk management with regards to the directors salary levels annually.
This review Directors name increase remuneration incentives in place.
takes into account individual performance, peter Crook 3.3 650,000 experience and market competitiveness.
The committee considers corporate andrew Fisher 3.4 465,000 In 2011, the executive directors received performance on environmental, social and Chris Gillespie 3.6 450,000 an increase which was broadly in line with governance ESG issues when setting the the wider workforce.
performance conditions for the annual cash Cash bonuses bonus and share incentive plans and will use non-exeCutiVe direCtors an annual cash bonus is payable, subject to its discretion to ensure that, where The fees for the non-executive directors, the satisfaction of performance conditions.
appropriate, the management of ESG risks are other than the Chairman, are fixed by the The bonus is calculated as a percentage of reflected in the rewards granted to directors board and are designed both to recognise the salary and does not form part of pensionable and senior management.
responsibilities of non-executive directors and earnings.
The purpose of the bonus scheme to attract individuals with the necessary skills is to provide a meaningful cash incentive for The committee takes due account of and experience to contribute to the future executive directors which is clearly focused remuneration structures elsewhere in the growth of the company.
Full details of the on improving the companys performance company when setting pay for the executive non-executive directors fees in 2011 and through the achievement of certain financial directors, including consideration of the details of their benefits with 2010 comparative and operational goals and aligns, so far as group-wide salary increases which have been figures, are set out in the table of directors is practicable, shareholder and executive budgeted and the incentive structures that remuneration on page 84.
directors remuneration does not include share options or other performance related elements.
Reflecting the increased time commitment Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 80 DIRECTORS REmunERaTIOn REpORT directors remuneration report Executive directors are eligible for an annual EpS is the key internal measure of For 2012, the maximum bonus opportunity cash bonus by reference to the groups audited financial performance as it is the broadest will continue to be restricted to 120% of salary EpS as defined in the bonus scheme and measure of the groups financial performance for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for a divisional financial target in the case of and is aligned to the shareholder base the other executive directors, with the split Chris Gillespie maximum 40% which cannot which is weighted towards longer-term between the two measures three measures exceed 80% of the maximum bonus income investors.
in relation to Chris Gillespie remaining opportunity, and achievement of specific unchanged from 2011.
The personal The actual proportions of the 2011 group personal objectives, which cannot exceed objectives element of the plan will continue EpS that needed to be delivered, which the 20% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
to be underpinned by a threshold level of committee considered to be challenging, were Typical personal objectives in 2011 included: EpS performance.
as follows: strategic development share inCentiVe sChemes Threshold Target maximum funding The grant of awards under the executive share Group EpS 95% 100% 105% incentive schemes to executive directors and external and investor relations % of EpS element senior management is normally considered of annual bonus regulatory compliance paid 0% 60% 100% once in each year after the preliminary upon the occurrence of any event or events as announcement of the groups results, a result of which the committee, in its absolute Straight-line vesting operated between 95% in accordance with a formula determined discretion, considers it fair and reasonable to of targeted group EpS and the maximum of by reference to salary.
The company has three do so such as material changes in accounting 105% of targeted group EpS.
a similar operational schemes: the provident Financial standards or material changes in the group principle applied to the divisional financial Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 the structure, the committee may change the target set for Chris Gillespie.
ESOS, the provident Financial Long Term EpS target, provided that any such change Incentive Scheme 2006 the LTIS and the For 2011, the personal objectives percentage does not make the EpS target more or less provident Financial performance Share plan of the annual cash bonus entitlement only onerous than it was before the event in the pSp.
The committee regularly reviews the became payable if 95% of the 2011 targeted question.
The committee carries out a detailed long-term incentives for the executive directors group EpS was achieved.
personal objectives review of the computations undertaken in and senior management, and has decided to are set to reflect the roles and responsibility determining the groups EpS and ensures continue to make conditional share awards to of each executive director.
that the rules are applied consistently.
executive directors and senior management The companys auditors are asked to perform at its meeting in February 2012, under the LTIS and awards under the pSp.
agreed-upon procedures on behalf of the the committee assessed the groups This policy is in line with prevailing market committee on the EpS calculations.
performance against the targeted group practice and recognises that conditional share EpS and determined that 100% of the awards, and the deferral of annual bonus in The maximum bonus opportunity in respect EpS element of the 2011 annual cash bonus the case of the pSp, provide greater alignment of 2011 was restricted to 120% of salary for would be paid.
the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the other executive directors and was split The committee also considered, on a similar as follows: basis, the divisional financial target set for Chris Gillespie, and determined that peter andrew Chris Crook Fisher Gillespie none of this element of his bonus was payable.
measure maximum bonus opportunity The balance of the annual cash bonus, as Group EpS 80% 80% 40% detailed in the table of directors remuneration Divisional on page 84, was paid on the basis of the financial target 40% committees assessment of the extent to personal objectives 20% 20% 20% which the personal objectives for each director had been achieved.
The range of bonus payable as a percentage of salary in relation to 2011 was therefore 54% to 120%.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors remuneration report 81 ltis The committee again reviewed the way in proportion of the award vesting at the participation is currently limited to which TSR is measured.
While some investors threshold performance level, to be no less executive directors, certain members of may have a preference for relative TSR, the challenging than the TSR performance senior management and other employees committee continues to believe that absolute condition operated in prior years.
The committee can grant TSR is a more appropriate performance performance condition is considered to provide conditional share awards pursuant to the LTIS measure as there are doubts as to the a realistic but stretching target and will be the up to a maximum of 200% of a participants suitability of the FTSE 250 as an appropriate subject of review on an annual basis for future basic salary.
Executive directors received benchmark for the company this being the awards to ensure the range of targets set and maximum grants during 2011. reason for the change to absolute TSR in the associated vesting percentages remain 2009 and the general financial sector is a appropriate.
The targets set will be disclosed The performance targets for awards under diverse group of companies, none of which is in next years directors remuneration report the LTIS in 2011 were based on challenging considered to be directly comparable to the and are not anticipated as being any less EpS targets 50% and on absolute Total company and many of which continue to challenging, in the opinion of the committee, Shareholder Return TSR targets 50%.
experience above-average historic levels of than those previously operated given the In addition, no awards will vest unless the volatility.
However, the committee will continue circumstances prevailing at the time of setting committee is satisfied that the TSR to keep the appropriateness of this measure the targets.
performance is a genuine reflection of the under review.
There is It is also proposed that awards made under no re-testing should performance targets not In terms of the degree of stretch in the target the LTIS from 2012 onwards will be restricted be met at the end of the three-year ranges for 2011, the committee believes that to board members and senior management, performance period.
the EpS range is demanding and the TSR with other employees receiving a deferred target range of 10% to 15% which is designed cash-based incentive which will be subject The actual range of the EpS targets for awards to be equivalent to median to upper quartile to a performance target based on group EpS in 2011 was as follows: relative TSR performance is challenging or a divisional financial target, as appropriate.
percentage vesting given the economic uncertainty.
annual awards will continue to be capped at annualised growth in EpS of EpS part of award 200% of salary.
Below RpI 3% 0% The targets are reviewed annually prior to a grant being made to ensure that they oFFshore employee beneFit trust RpI 3% 25% remain challenging in the prevailing The rules of the LTIS allow it to be operated RpI 8% 100% economic environment.
in conjunction with any employee trust established by the company.
accordingly, the The actual range of the TSR targets for awards For awards to be made in 2012, it is proposed company established the provident Financial in 2011 was as follows: to change the EpS element of the performance plc 2007 Employee Benefit Trust EBT in target under the LTIS to an absolute target, percentage vesting Jersey on 11 September 2007 with Kleinwort annualised TSR of TSR part of award due to the recent volatility in the level of Benson Jersey Trustees Limited acting as the Below 10% 0% inflation potentially reducing the incentive trustee of the trust.
The EBT, together with any impact of the LTIS.
The proposed range for 10% 25% other trust established by the company for the this absolute target will remain stretching and 15% 100% benefit of employees cannot, at any time, hold no less challenging relative to the targets set in more than 5% of the issued share capital 2011.
However, the specific range of targets a sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line of the company.
for 2012 will be determined by the committee basis will apply between these lower and at the time of grant of the awards, taking Details of share subscriptions made by the upper EpS and TSR targets.
account of current market expectations, EBT for the purposes of satisfying awards EpS and TSR are felt to provide an investors best practice guidance and the aBI made under the LTIS during the course of appropriate balance between internal and principles of Remuneration.
It is also proposed the year are shown on page 85. external performance measures.
EpS is the to change the range of targets and threshold esos key internal measure of financial performance entitlement for the TSR element of the LTIS The ESOS contains both an HmRC approved as it is the broadest measure of the groups awards in 2012.
20% of the TSR element of and unapproved section.
Exercise of options financial performance and is aligned to the the award, as opposed to 25%, will vest if an is subject to a performance target and annual shareholder base which is weighted towards annualised TSR of 8% is achieved and 100% grants are ordinarily capped at 100% of salary, longer-term income investors.
With regards of the TSR element of the award will continue and at 200% in exceptional circumstances.
to TSR, delivering superior returns to to vest if annualised TSR of 15% is achieved, no options are outstanding for the executive shareholders remains the companys key, with vesting on a straight line vesting between directors.
The committee does not currently overarching, long-term objective.
The committee believes the intend to make further grants to executive revised range of targets set, allied to the lower directors under the ESOS.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 82 DIRECTORS REmunERaTIOn REpORT directors remuneration report psp For awards to be made in 2012, it is proposed dilution and use oF eQuity participation in the pSp includes executive to change the performance target under the Following the demerger of the international directors who may elect to waive up to 50% pSp to an absolute EpS target, due to the business in 2007 and the subsequent share with a minimum of 25% of their annual cash recent volatility in the level of inflation potentially consolidation, the number of shares in issue bonus, and other eligible employees who may reducing the incentive impact of the pSp.
as a consequence of this, the waive up to 50% or 30%, depending on their proposed range for this absolute target will 5% anti-dilution limit contained within the level of seniority, of their annual cash bonus remain stretching and no less challenging companys executive share incentive schemes for a period of three years.
participants then relative to the targets set in 2011.
However, was completely utilised so that it was no longer receive a basic award of shares equal to the the specific range of targets in 2012 will be possible for the company to satisfy any new value of their waived bonus, together with an determined by the committee at the time awards granted under the executive share equivalent matching award on the basis of one of grant of the awards, taking account of incentive schemes using newly issued shares share for each share acquired by a participant current market expectations, investors best as opposed to satisfying awards by making pursuant to their basic award which is subject practice guidance and the aBI principles of market purchases of shares.
Had the to a performance condition.
The targets set will be disclosed demerger not occurred, the company would shareholder approval at the aGm in 2009, in next years directors remuneration report have had sufficient headroom under the awards to executive directors have been made and are not anticipated as being any less then-existing 5% limit to continue to satisfy on the basis of up to two shares for each share challenging, in the opinion of the committee, awards under the executive share incentive acquired pursuant to their basic award, the than those previously operated given the schemes using newly issued shares.
second share being subject to a more circumstances prevailing at the time of setting The remuneration committee considers the stretching performance target.
LTIS an important means of incentivising For awards made in 2011, the first matching deFerred bonus and retaining key executives and senior share granted on the basis of one share for Separate to the annual cash bonus scheme management and consequently a resolution each share acquired pursuant to the basic referred to on pages 79 to 80, peter Crook, seeking shareholder approval for the temporary award will only vest in full if the companys andrew Fisher and Chris Gillespie received removal of the 5% anti-dilution limit from the average annual percentage growth in earnings an additional one-off bonus in respect of the LTIS rules was passed at the companys 2008 per share is equal to, or greater than, the companys performance during 2008 valued annual general meeting the 2008 aGm.
average annual percentage growth in RpI at 200,000, 150,000 and 140,000 Information on the resolution was included plus 3% measured over a period of three respectively.
These bonuses have taken in the shareholders circular and notice of the consecutive financial years, the first of which the form of an award of ordinary shares in the 2008 aGm.
awards granted under the LTIS is the financial year starting immediately company which have been acquired by the can therefore be satisfied using newly issued before the grant date of the matching award.
trustee of the EBT, who holds the legal title shares, up to the 10% anti-dilution limit in any The second matching share is subject to a to the shares until they vest in march 2012.
10 years, which applies to all share schemes more stretching performance target and will These shares are not subject to any operated by the company.
In due course, only vest in full if the companys average performance conditions and will vest if the the remuneration committee intends to annual percentage growth in earnings per director is still employed by the group in march re-introduce the 5% limit when the LTIS share is equal to, or greater than, the average 2012. an amount equal to the dividends that can be effectively operated in accordance annual percentage growth in RpI plus 8% would have been paid on these shares will also with, and subject to, a 5% anti-dilution limit.
measured over a period of three consecutive be payable in the form of additional ordinary The table below sets out the headroom financial years, the first of which is the shares in march 2012.
The committee available for all employee share schemes financial year starting immediately before the believed that a deferred bonus satisfied with and shares held in trust as at 31 December.
grant date of the matching award.
a sliding shares in the company in the manner set out 2011 2010 scale of vesting on a straight-line basis will aligned the interests of the executive directors Headroom % % apply between these lower and upper targets.
with those of shareholders, recognised the all employee share schemes 1.60% 1.78% companys exceptional performance in 2008 In summary, the actual range of targets Shares held in trust 2.83% 3.05% and reflected the need for such performance is as follows: to be sustained in the medium term.
average annual matching aChieVement oF perFormanCe targets percentage growth in EpS shares vesting assessment of the achievement of the Below RpI 3% no vesting performance targets under the companys executive share incentive schemes is RpI 3% One matching share calculated by the company, and confirmed RpI 8% Two matching shares by  LLp for the pSp or new Bridge Street for the LTIS and approved by the committee.
Further details can be found on pages 85 and 86.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors remuneration report 83 are invited to participate in the scheme.
Date of contract up to 250 can be saved each month.
letter of appointment notice period unexpired term Executive directors This scheme does not contain performance conditions as it is an HmRC approved Terminable on 12 months notice peter Crook 27 april 2006 by either party One year scheme designed for employees at all levels.
Invitations to join the scheme were issued Terminable on 12 months notice andrew Fisher 1 January 2008 by either party One year to eligible employees in august 2011.
Terminable on 12 months notice other beneFits Chris Gillespie 31 may 2007 by either party One year The executive directors are provided with Non-executive directors company-owned cars and fuel or a cash John van Kuffeler 29 January 2002 Terminable on 12 months notice One year alternative, long-term disability cover under by the company the companys permanent health insurance and six months notice by John van Kuffeler policy and medical cover for them and their immediate families.
Benefits in kind are Rob anderson 27 February 2009 not applicable to 30 march 2015 not pensionable.
Robert Hough 18 October 2006 not applicable to 31 January 2013 share oWnership poliCy manjit Wolstenholme 1 June 2007 not applicable to 31 July 2013 The company has a share ownership policy for executive directors which requires them to serViCe agreements all directors will seek reappointment at the acquire and maintain shares in the company The current policy is for executive directors forthcoming aGm and details of their service with a value of one times their annual salary.
service agreements to provide for both the agreement or letter of appointment are set Executive directors are required to retain 50% company and the director to give one years out in the table above.
of vested LTIS awards, net of tax, until this notice of termination.
no director has a service saVings-related share option sCheme requirement has been reached.
agreement containing a liquidated damages The executive directors together with other clause on termination.
In the event of the The committee reviews the shareholdings eligible group employees may participate termination of an agreement, it is the current of the executive directors in the light of this in the provident Financial plc Employee policy to seek mitigation of loss by the director policy once a year, based on the market Savings-Related Share Option Scheme concerned and to aim to ensure that any value of the companys shares at the date of 2003. participants save a fixed sum each payment made is the minimum which is assessment.
When performing the calculation month for three or five years and may use commensurate with the companys legal to assess progress against the policy, shares these funds to purchase shares after three, obligations.
any awards under the companys held by a spouse, dependant, or in an ISa or five or seven years.
The exercise price is fixed executive share incentive schemes would be pension scheme are included, whilst unvested at up to 20% below the market value of the treated in accordance with the rules of the LTIS awards and awards granted under the shares at the date directors and employees relevant scheme.
all three executive directors complied with TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: PROVIDENT FINANCIAL vs. FTSE 250 this policy as at 31 December 2011: actual share ownership as Provident Financial 200 Director a percentage of salary FTSE 250 peter Crook 124% 160 47.3% andrew Fisher 113% Chris Gillespie 101% 120 4.1% Fees From direCtorships 40 The company will normally permit an executive director to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fee from that appointment, 0 provided that the board considers that this 29 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 30 Dec 11 will not adversely affect his executive responsibilities.
Source: Thomson DataStream Note: Final trading day for 2011 was 30 December 2011 at present, the executive directors do not The graph above shows the total shareholder return for provident Financial plc against the FTSE hold any external positions.
250 Index for the past five years.
This Index was chosen for comparison because the company has been a member of this Index for the five-year period.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011
