vanquis bank For many oF our customers In todays world, lack of access to plastic makes it hard to participate fully in modern life.
mainstream card issuers exclude borrowers with limited or uneven credit histories.
The vanquis Bank card brings the flexibility, consumer protection and convenience of a credit card to the non-standard market.
new world 44 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: vaNquIS BaNK vanquis bank vanquis Banks low and grow approach to customer lending and the high level of contact we have with our customers is proving successful in meeting the demand of non-standard credit card customers.
Michael Lenora, managing Director, vanquis Bank performance over time to understand introduction customers declined by individual customer behaviour before granting vanquis Bank continues to bring the benefits prime issuers appreciate responsible increases when its right to do so.
of a credit card to people who can find themselves rejected by more mainstream a 'second chance' to Our interest rates reflect the higher risk of lenders.
Since 2003, we have operated in default within this market segment.
The get a credit card from the non-standard market, helping people on majority of our customers are taken on at our average or below-average incomes to make vanquis bank.
representative aPR of 39.9% and our default simple, everyday things even easier, such as charges are in line with those of the supermarket shopping or online purchases.
we are confident in a market which inherently another important factor that makes vanquis carries more risk because of our specific and Bank different from other lenders is the high extensive experience in lending to nonlevel of contact we enjoy with our customers.
whilst we are willing to Customers declined by prime issuers lend to this segment, we do so cautiously and appreciate a second chance from vanquis responsibly and aim to support and educate Bank and we provide a higher level of help and our customers, whether they are new to credit support than the mainstream lenders from our or want to repair their financial history.
two contact centres in Chatham and Bradford.
This cautious approach is called low and grow.
Customers start with credit limits typically as low as 250 and we then monitor strategy our strategy at vanquis bank is to deliver sustainable growth and high returns with a minimum 30% post-tax return on equity.
sustainable growth is vital to our strategy as we continue to enhance our reputation as a responsible lender and to put the needs of our customers first.
To deliver our strategy, we continue providing customers with the appropriate to focus on: credit limit and maintaining high levels of utilisation thereafter to minimise the level clear credit management objectives to of contingent risk: ensure that we continue to maintain stable levels of impairment: ensuring that we operate efficiently and effectively in all aspects of the customer high levels of contact with our customers lifecycle from new accounts to customer through the acquisitions process and service, to collections, to fraud: and welcome call: maintaining a minimum risk-adjusted providing customers with a high-quality margin of 30% annualised revenue service, unique to our sector of the market: less impairment divided by average receivables.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 45 we also offer a gold Service, carrying capability in both acquiring our customers and our tailored approacH enhanced levels of customer service, to subsequently allowing credit line increases.
at vanquis Bank we have developed a tailored over 150,000 of our best customers.
This low and grow approach has allowed the approach to delivering our strategy.
This average credit limit of the portfolio to continue comprises four key strands: High customer contact has helped us to to grow to 940 2010: 900 whilst maintain some of the best levels of customer 1. focus on our target market continuing to improve underlying credit quality.
satisfaction in the industry with 9 out of 10 vanquis Bank operates in the non-standard 4. collections customers saying they would recommend us.
sector of the uK credit card market and some Collections are an extremely important aspect It is always our aim to treat customers fairly of our customers have been refused credit by of the business and we continue to develop and resolve quickly any complaints that do mainstream lenders and would like to repair new and innovative collections strategies arise.
This is reflected in the fact that when their credit rating.
we estimate that 7 million designed to help customers stay on track.
complaints do get escalated to the Financial of the current 10 million people in this Our telephone-based operations use leadingOmbudsman Service FOS, they find in our non-standard market are the target audience edge technology and techniques to maximise favour over 90% of the time.
again, this is for our credit card product.
Our collections one of the best statistics in the industry.
Our experience in this specialised form of teams are highly trained and our promise 3. low and grow credit has grown year-on-year and we have kept rate the number of payments actually Booking the majority of our accounts on been able to tailor our products and services received from a promise given by a customer a small initial credit line is at the core of our to suit the very particular needs of our is 70-75% which we believe is best in class.
The typical first credit customers.
Not every lender is happy to work Our employees are trained to manage the line is just 250 and this allows us to observe in the non-standard market but we enjoy accounts of customers that are identified as and understand our customers behaviour taking care of our customers and providing vulnerable and support them accordingly.
before granting any further lending in a them with high levels of service and products vanquis Bank also continues to develop new responsible and sustainable manner.
which genuinely meet their needs.
growth channels for collections activity with the in our business is never at the expense of our introduction in 2011 of services to allow vanquis Bank has developed an unparalleled customers and we continue to find new and customers to pay online and via SmS.
expertise in lending to the non-standard innovative ways to deliver the credit they market in this way.
we continue to invest in canafford.
people and systems that enhance underwriting 2.
High customer contact The relationships with our customers are much closer than those in the mainstream lending market.
we value our customers and continue to develop new propositions to enhance levels i Had of contact.
all of our customers receive a welcome call as part of the acceptance process this is unique never used a in the credit card industry.
The call provides the opportunity to gather additional card information which is useful to help manage credit their account at a later date.
It is also an important element of our underwriting that beFore so vanquis we will generally turn down an application, if we cannot speak to a potential customer.
Has been great Some of our customers are new to credit and in turn they choose to contact us more than For would be expected in a standard lending relationship.
In 2011, our contact centres received approximately 5.2 million calls, of which 2.7 million were answered by our contact centre staff and 2.5 million were handled by our Interactive voice Response karolina, system.
This high level of contact means that vanquis Bank we understand their needs and can provide customer support to customers when they are struggling to make payments.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 46 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: vaNquIS BaNK vanquis bank explained What makes the Vanquis Bank credit card different?
aCCounT engaging witH our customers MonITorInG vanquis Bank brings the advantages of credit cards to we monitor accounts continuously.
Our collections team analyses payment non-standard customers, many of whom are excluded by and spending patterns to understand mainstream card issuers.
we are specialists in the nonthe particular circumstances of each standard market.
we lend responsibly to new and existing individual borrower.
we periodically suggest changes in credit limits and customers and provide information and support to help interest rates in line with usage and them manage their finances.
Customers who service their debt effectively can get reduced interest rates.
Provident Financial has a long experience The vanquis Bank card is highly prized.
It is of the non-standard market.
we are therefore widely used for shopping online and on the comfortable extending credit to people on high street, providing access to the best deals modest incomes.
and helps customers establish better credit ratings.
In 2011, 84% of Lending decisions for mainstream credit customers rated their vanquis Bank experience cards are based on credit scoring and as good or excellent.
we take account of credit scores and credit bureau data, but we have also developed our own bespoke scoring and underwriting assessments.
In contrast to other credit card companies, we aim to speak to every new customer before issuing a card.
2 uK ConTaCT CEnTrES applying The 500 staff at our contact centres at Chatham in Kent and Bradford in west Yorkshire stay in For a card First close contact with our 691,000 Online applicants get a customers.
we aim to speak by phone provisional response within to every new customer prior to activating contact minutes.
we aim to interview an account.
Our staff are in phone candidates by phone before In 2011, 52% of new contact with each customer on a regular making a final decision.
customers came from online basis, approximately four times channels, 37% from direct as often as most mainstream mail and 11% from partner card issuers.
1 ProvIDEnT FInanCIaL PLC annuaL rEPorT & FInanCIaL STaTEMEnTS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 47 payMent oPerational eFFiciencY We completed a major systems cHannels conversion within our First Data Payments can now be made online through account management environment.
internet account servicing eVanquis or The upgrade was completed directly at www.
co. uk for all successfully with no adverse impact customers.
Debit card payments can be on either customers or the business.
made by phone through the Interactive This conversion provides us with the Voice Response system or with a call key infrastructure necessary to centre operative or a standing order or manage much larger volumes direct debit can be established to pay of accounts.
the account on a regular basis.
Customers can also pay over the counter at The Post Office or a bank, or send a cheque by post.
4 Building trust analYtical With our low and grow lending policy, new eXPertiSe customers typically receive a 250 initial credit The senior management team limit.
We will then review the account after four has significant experience in the months for potential credit line adjustments.
financial services sector, particularly We will only provide credit line increases to 5 the credit card industry.
Our key personnel accounts being managed appropriately.
In no have strong analytical capabilities.
The circumstances will we increase credit lines of business has invested heavily in scorecard customers who have fallen behind in making development and underwriting systems.
When appropriate, we increase credit It supplements standard industry lines in small manageable steps.
techniques with a bespoke underwriting methodology.
My teaM focuses on providing a HigH level of custoMer support, and our 3 custoMers know tHat transparent wHenever tHey need us, terMs were only Every new customer receives a welcome pack outlining their rights a pHone and responsibilities and offering tips call away on managing finances and improving their credit rating.
Our website provides detailed advice.
Josephine Kelly, Vanquis Bank Customer Service Manager Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 48 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: vaNquIS BaNK vanquis bank renewals being available for investment each progress in 2011 Typical initial year.
vanquis Bank is targeting to fund up to vanquis Bank has made impressive progress vanquis Bank 80% of its receivables with deposits by the in 2011.
The business once again performed 250 credit limit end of 2012. as a guide, the receivables book very strongly in 2011, exceeding our targets of around 450m at the end of 2011 therefore for growth and profitability.
Profits increased average supports deposits of approximately 360m, by 65.5% to 44.2m and customer numbers vanquis Bank which represents a small fraction of a very 940 grew by 27.0% to 691,000.
Receivables credit limit large market.
increased by 31.4% to 453.4m and reached the medium-term target originally set for the Like our credit card offering, our deposit business of 450m by the end of 2012, a year product is designed to be a straightforward earlier than planned.
proposition but aimed at a very different customer base: This impressive financial performance has been delivered against the backdrop of we issue fixed-rate deposits of fixed terms tough economic conditions and the of either 1, 2, 3 or 5 years we do not offer implementation of some major operational instant access products: changes during 2011: depositors have no right to withdraw early other than in the event of death or retail deposit taking bankruptcy which ensures that we have In July, vanquis Bank successfully activated a fixed maturity profile: a retail deposits programme to establish standalone funding for the business and the offer is internet based through our own further diversify the groups funding base.
co. uk: our products are also marketed The retail deposits market in the uK is huge through the best buy tables such as with around 60bn to 140bn of cash and moneysupermarket.
com: as an FSa-regulated bank, the first 85,000 beFore of deposits are covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme: and i got a the deposit-taking platform is outsourced to Newcastle Building Society, the marketvanquis card leading specialist in providing a scalable service for the industry.
was virtually sHopping The launch of retail deposits has been online extremely successful.
The platform and impossible product proposition are both working very well For me.
and by the end of 2011 we had taken just under 140m of deposits.
This was slightly above our expectations of between 100m now i am always and 125m by the end of 2011, and we are well on track to fund up to 80% of receivables tracking down with deposits by the end of 2012. we have taken deposits at rates of between 3.15% and 4.65% during 2011 which is consistent with an all-in average cost, after bargains!
taking account of administration costs and the costs of maintaining a liquid assets buffer, of less than 6%.
as we anticipated, the retail deposit market is primarily driven by the shaneel, interest rate on offer.
During a single week in vanquis Bank customer Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 49 The vanquis Bank board of directors has September, vanquis Bank positioned its governance framework previously comprised three executive directors products at or towards the top of the best buy vanquis Bank has a well-established and and three non-executive directors, one of tables and took applications of some 30m.
The framework whom, Ian Lindsey, is independent.
In light This clearly demonstrates that the business has been designed to allow vanquis Bank to of the commencement of deposit-taking can raise funds quickly as and when required operate as a stand-alone regulated entity and activities, vanquis Bank has further and gives us a great deal of strategic flexibility.
to comply with the groups policies and strengthened its board by the appointment procedures as a publicly listed company.
additional contact centre capacity of Iain Cornish as a second independent In order to accommodate growth, vanquis as a regulated entity, vanquis Bank operates non-executive director.
Iain has significant Bank increased its contact centre capacity a number of the internal control and risk board and senior management experience, by opening a second operation in Bradford, management processes typically only held and was the Chief Executive of the Yorkshire located within CCDs head office facility.
at a group level in many organisations.
These Building Society until he stepped down from The Bradford operation works as a satellite include a risk committee, audit committee, the role at the end of 2011.
He had held a to our existing contact centre in Chatham remuneration committee and compliance number of senior management positions since and uses exactly the same IT infrastructure committee, all of which are chaired by joining Yorkshire Building Society in 1992 and and procedures that has made the Chatham an independent non-executive director to was appointed Chief Executive in July 2003. contact centre so effective.
The Bradford provide the appropriate level of challenge He is also an independent non-executive site has the capacity to house 230 seats in and oversight.
director of St Jamess Place plc and served as addition to the 420 seats we have at Chatham.
a member of the FSa Practitioner Panel from This will accommodate the growth at vanquis 2007 to 2011, becoming Chairman in 2009.
Bank for at least the next two years.
Iain brings with him a wealth of experience in retail financial services.
The benefits of opening this new facility are very clear.
It provides us with flexibility.
There is a deep talent pool to select from in Bradford and it makes sound economic sense in terms most of using an existing group building with little or no additional fit-out required.
The opening credit of the Bradford contact centre took six months to plan and execute and involved many people card from across the whole organisation working together effectively.
It is very pleasing to report companies that the new site has fitted into the operational structure seamlessly.
like to upgrade of it systems give you a In may 2011, we undertook a major systems conversion which upgraded our back office credit limit platform provided through First Data International.
The conversion was part of a but i preFer contractual agreement with First Data, which allowed us to take advantage of lower per unit my 500 limit pricing.
The new platform provides a fully scaleable solution for growth and the project involved a large proportion of our employees witH over a period of 12 months.
The conversion was extremely successful and was executed vanquis it stops without interruption to customer service levels deana, or business efficiency.
vanquis Bank me going customer mad in tHe sales!
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 50 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: vaNquIS BaNK vanquis bank financial performance vanquis Bank generated a profit before tax of 44.2m in 2011 2010: 26.7m.
vanquis bank performed extremely well during Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Change 2011, reporting a result m m % ahead of management's Customer numbers 000 691 544 27.0 Year-end customer receivables 453.4 345.0 31.4 internal plans.
average customer receivables 391.2 289.2 35.3 Revenue 213.7 162.0 31.9 Impairment 76.9 63.9 20.3 the demand for Revenue less impairment 136.8 98.1 39.4 Risk-adjusted margin 35.0% 33.9% non-standard credit Impairment % revenue 36.0% 39.4% cards remains strong and Costs 69.4 52.9 31.2 vanquis bank received Interest 23.2 18.5 25.4 approximately 1.5m Profit before tax 44.2 26.7 65.5 applications during 2011.
Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Impairment as a percentage of revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December.
vanquis Bank performed extremely well during The demand for non-standard credit cards 2011, reporting a result ahead of managements remains strong and vanquis Bank received internal plans.
Strong growth in the receivables approximately 1.5 million applications during book, together with favourable delinquency 2011.
Year-on-year growth in the customer levels, enabled the business to deliver profits base was 27.0%, similar to the rate of growth of 44.2m 2010: 26.7m, up 65.5% on in 2010, reflecting the step-up in the intensity 2010.
The business is generating more than of the customer acquisition programme since sufficient capital to fund its own growth and mid-2010.
New customer bookings of maintain its regulatory capital base.
Surplus 294,000 2010: 241,000 were made against distributable capital generated in 2011 tight underwriting standards that remained amounted to 14.8m, of which vanquis Bank consistent with those applied in 2010.
The remitted its first dividend of 5.0m to acceptance rate of 20% increased from 18% Provident Financial plc in July and is due to in 2010, wholly due to a shift in mix towards pay a further dividend of 5.0m in respect of the direct mail channel which carries a higher 2011 in march 2012.
The business continued booking rate than the internet channel.
to generate a post-tax return on equity above the threshold set for the business of 30%.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 51 The growth in customer numbers, together It includes the benefit of the reduction looking aHead with the credit line increase programme to in delinquency rates over the last year vanquis Bank has had an excellent year customers who have established a sound of some 7m which is unlikely to recur.
in 2011, growing its customer numbers payment history, generated a 35.3% increase To date there has been no discernible and receivables and continuing to deliver in average receivables and a 31.9% increase pressure on delinquency from the rise in uK strong profits growth.
The business is now in revenue.
Returns from the low and grow unemployment in recent months.
However, the capital-generative and contributing to the approach to extending credit remain business plan for 2012 has been drawn up on groups dividend.
vanquis Bank remains the basis of unemployment reaching 3million we anticipate 2012 being a further year of extremely active in managing utilisation and in 2012, which would result in a modest strong growth.
we expect to continue to invest yield to reflect underlying risk.
average deterioration in delinquency rates and some in growing the customer base, which should utilisation was 76% during 2011 2010: 75%, moderation in the risk-adjusted margin.
The support receivables growth of between 75m ensuring a strong stream of revenue is earned tight underwriting and credit line increase and 100m.
However, the business remains whilst maintaining a low level of contingent criteria applied over the last two years will focused on delivering a post-tax return on undrawn exposure.
remain in place for the foreseeable future.
equity of at least 30% and we will not seek Delinquency levels improved during the first growth in the cost base of 31.2% includes growth at the expense of returns.
we are half of the year and have remained stable at a year-on-year uplift of 4m in the spend on mindful that the economic environment is the record low for the business during the direct mail and marketing activities to support likely to remain difficult in the near term and second half of the year against the backdrop the more intensive customer acquisition that the employment market is forecast to of a relatively stable employment market.
vanquis Bank has also incurred remain weak in 2012. accordingly, we will accordingly, impairment showed a year-oncosts of approximately 1m in respect of maintain the tight underwriting that has served year increase of just 20.3% versus a 35.3% upgrading its IT platform and establishing us so well over recent years.
This strong the retail deposits programme during the year.
we will continue to take retail deposits and performance reflects the continued Interest costs of 23.2m 2010: 18.5m aim to fund up to 80% of the receivables improvement in the underlying quality of the increased by 25.4% during 2011.
This reflects book with deposits by the end of 2012. book, resulting from the progressive tightening the increase in average receivables partly In addition, we will continue to explore ways of underwriting between 2007 and 2009 and offset by the benefit from a reduction in the in which we can use our platform to increase the success of the credit line increase groups average funding rate from 8.5% to our revenue streams.
This is the clearest demonstration 7.6%.
vanquis Banks funding cost will reduce of the effectiveness of vanquis Banks Looking beyond 2012, we expect the to an average of around 7% in 2012 as retail credit decisioning.
demand for non-standard credit cards to deposit funding becomes more significant.
remain strong and believe that vanquis Bank The risk-adjusted margin for 2011 of 35.0% has the potential to grow to 1.0 to 1.2 million reflects the sound revenue yield from the customers with an average balance of around receivables book, combined with the 800-1,000, generating 1bn of receivables.
The rate of progress towards these targets will be dictated by economic conditions, the emergence of competition and maintaining our minimum targeted post-tax return on equity of 30%.
The future for vanquis Bank is very bright.
It is a profitable, growing, capital-generative business which will be a major contributor to the future growth in the groups dividends and the overall returns provided to shareholders.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011
