Directors report: Business review anD management report consumer credit division it's all about For many people, face-to-face personal service still plays an important role in todays world personal of call centres and the internet.
Our Home Credit customers value the weekly call to their home by their agent to collect their repayment and discuss any further credit needs they service may have.
34 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: CONSumER CREDIT DIvISION consumer credit division Home Credit succeeds by offering simple, transparent financial products to customers on average or below-average incomes, some of whom may find it difficult to obtain or manage other forms of credit.
The service is popular for very clear reasons: its personal, friendly and flexible, and is well suited to the needs of our customers.
Chris Gillespie, managing Director, Consumer Credit Division Number of whatsoever, even if a customer misses a introduction Home Credit customers payment.
For those managing on a tight The Consumer Credit Divisions CCD 1.8 budget, its important to know that the amount Home Credit business is Provident Financials to be repaid is fixed at the start and will never longest running business, stretching back to Number of go up.
80% of our customers consider our the companys foundation in 1880.
It is the Home Credit agents products to offer them good value for money largest Home Credit business in the uK and 10,500 and flexibility.
Every week, 10,500 local agents visit 1.8 million customers, around one in 20 The part played by the agent supports uK households, to issue loans and collect responsible lending.
Even after 130 years, the commission almost entirely on what they business continues to flourish and fill an collect, not what they lend, so they have every important space in the uK non-standard reason not to lend more than their customers credit market.
Furthermore, they typically see their customers each week and thereby Home Credit succeeds by offering simple, develop an intimate knowledge of their transparent financial products to customers circumstances, which informs their lending on average or below-average incomes, some decisions.
Thats good for the customer and of whom may find it difficult to obtain or a valuable check on impairment for the manage other forms of credit.
The agents regular visit is not only popular for very clear reasons: its personal, convenient for the customer but also acts as friendly and flexible, and is well suited to a useful reminder to put the money aside for the needs of our customers.
If customers get into difficulty, How Home credit works they know theyll get a sympathetic response Provident is the uK and Irelands leading from their agent.
The Home Credit product is Home Credit lender operating through one that customers trust and positively want to the Provident Personal Credit PPC and use which helps to explain why our customer greenwood Personal Credit gPC brands satisfaction rates are consistently high.
91% which share a national network of over of customers say they are satisfied with the 400 branches.
PPC and gPC provide small, Provident Home Credit service, and the vast unsecured credit, typically for sums of around majority say they would recommend Provident 500.
These are delivered to customers to family or friends.
homes by self-employed agents who then usually call every week, or in some cases every month, to collect repayments.
unlike other forms of lending, Home Credit includes all the costs upfront.
There are no extra charges Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 35 customers, and now only around 1 in 5 of progress in 2011 new applications are being accepted compared the non-standard credit CCD can be proud of its achievements in with around 1 in 3 in 2008 this is consistent 2011.
The business has delivered profits market has become the with our approach to responsible lending of 127.5m 2010: 127.3m, marginally during this difficult time for consumers.
we up on last year, despite the deteriorating domain of specialists.
have also tightened our underwriting criteria economic environment in the uK.
In addition, for existing customers and are now more we have faced a number of challenges from cautious on extending repeat or further credit implementing a number of significant to customers in some higher risk grades.
changes to our processes and operations, both to ensure we continue to improve the To reinforce our approach, we have adjusted performance of the business and to adapt the agents commission scheme to ensure to a changing regulatory environment.
that agents focus on quality and early-stage arrears.
This includes, amongst other things, changes to underwriting and arrears a mechanism of commission reductions where management an agents customer slips into mid-arrears 2011 has seen a deterioration in economic stages or moves to the highest arrears stage.
There continues to be pressure Conversely, if an agent can get customers to on disposable incomes from increases in improve from either of these trigger points, fuel and food prices and low wage inflation.
they will recover the previous commission understandably, some of our customers have reductions.
The focus is on maintaining the become more cautious in taking out credit and quality of the book.
The amended scheme agents have been more cautious in extending has proved successful in improving CCDs credit, mindful of the increased risk of impairment, with the ratio of impairment to short-term shifts in customers circumstances.
revenue reducing from 32.9% at the end of Our focus during these tough economic 2010 to 32.1% at the end of 2011 despite times has been to reinforce the quality of the deteriorating economic environment.
and, the receivables book by staying close to as a result, the vast majority of agents are now and working with our existing customers generating more than they did a year ago with and placing less emphasis on growing the average commission rising by 9% in theyear.
at the start of the year, we tightened our acceptance criteria for new strategy our strategy in ccd is to be the leading community-based lender in the uk and ireland and to deliver profitable growth by lending responsibly and meeting customer needs.
In order to deliver this strategy, we continue The non-standard credit market has become to focus on: the domain of specialists.
many lenders who had over-extended in previous years have growing customer numbers and withdrawn from the sector and mainstream receivables through the acquisition of new lenders are not lending to those at the customers and re-serving good-quality margins of their lending models.
This existing customers: presents a good opportunity for the business maintaining the quality of the receivables to serve more customers who are better book through sound underwriting, suited to our high-service, flexible, smallcollections and arrears management sum model.
processes: continuing to improve the operational efficiency of the business to manage costs and unlock further capacity: and providing customers with the right products and services in order to maintain our high levels of customer satisfaction.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 36 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: CONSumER CREDIT DIvISION Home credit explained local agents a network of 10,500 self-employed agents advance credit and collect payments in What makes home credit different?
Crucially, engaging witH our customers agents generate commission almost entirely on amounts repaid, so it is in their interests For families on modest incomes, juggling finances can be to lend responsibly.
Often with limited ability to save, negotiating customers themselves and generally live peaks and troughs in spending is challenging.
in the communities where they operate.
as a result, they are able to build up strong, professional relationships Credit can be of enormous help, but it needs customers from taking on too much credit.
to be affordable, manageable and delivered It is in no ones interests for us to lend to in the right way.
people who cannot afford it.
Provident Financial is the uKs leading many of our customers have incomes which community-based provider of credit.
we have are less predictable than those of borrowers been providing small-sum loans tailored to this in the mainstream market.
we allow for that specialist market since 1880. in the way we structure our loans.
There may be weeks when they cannot afford to keep Our Home Credit service is straightforward, up their payments, or need to make a reduced personal and flexible.
we tailor our products payment.
we will respond flexibly to these to suit our customers.
situations and never charge extra fees we lend responsibly.
of customers circumstances gained from the face-to-face, personal service delivered through the agents we engage, protects our 2 tHe brancH network Over 400 branches, providing tHe agents coverage of virtually every postcode in the country, make us one of the only visit Home Credit providers with nationwide First after receiving a request to coverage in the uK and Ireland.
we call at the customers home, operate through two main companies: contact the agent will visit to discuss Provident Personal Credit and the various products the many customers hear about greenwood Personal Credit.
company offers and make us through a recommendation.
Local branch managers support an appointment to call back.
much of our new business agents to manage payments comes from word of mouth, and arrears.
direct mail or is sourced through 1 our network of agents.
we are also recruiting increasing numbers through online advertising.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 D Di ir re ec ct tor ors s r rep epor ort t: : B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vi ie ew w a an nD D m ma an na agem gemen ent t r rep epor ort t 37 applying simple repayments For a loan an agent will call at the an agent will visit the customer in their customers home to collect own home to conduct affordability and the weekly, or in some cases creditworthiness checks, complete the monthly, repayment, and when paperwork required, and agree a suitable the need arises, consider loan amount, having fully explained any further request for an the loan terms and determined it to additional loan.
They will then agree an appropriate collection routine to suit the customer and deliver the loan in person.
4 credit management Our field force is focused on monitoring cash collections which allows us to manage impairment effectively.
Every week we update our risk 5 assessment of every customer, using behavioural scoring which assesses customer payment patterns and building utilises credit bureau data.
we can identify trends early on, allowing trust the appropriate action to be taken we operate a low and grow policy.
First-time borrowers typically get smaller, shorter-term loans.
Those able to manage their repayments 3 become eligible for larger amounts over longer periods.
transparent terms There are no hidden charges.
ive been years The maximum amount to be repaid is clear and fixed at the an agent and start, even if the customer misses payments.
For many oF my customers Have been witH diverse, secure funding me From tHe we have medium and long-term funding from banks, other lending start, so i institutions and the public debt market.
at any given time we maintain substantial understand headroom and have additional committed facilities in place.
we borrow for an oF average of three to four years and lend for an average of less than 12 months.
tHeir This allows us to adapt our lending if external funding situations circumstances change.
sandra, Home Credit agent Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 38 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: CONSumER CREDIT DIvISION consumer credit division implementation of the eu consumer credit The implementation of the Directive has been directive and the ofts irresponsible a major project for CCD in 2010 and 2011. shopportunity illustrates lending guidance There has been a considerable re-engineering our commitment to The Eu Consumer Credit Directive the of processes and procedures to implement the Directive applies to agreements entered into product innovation and new requirements.
These include changes to on or after 1 February 2011 and to certain the processes of granting credit, the upgrading finding ways to enhance aspects of agreements entered into before that of IT systems, amending legal agreements and date and the OFTs Irresponsible Lending our service to customers.
In a guidance was introduced in march 2010 and business that operates on a face-to-face basis updated in February 2011.
They introduced with its customers, this represented a huge and formalised a number of rights and task and it is testament to the hard work and obligations for lenders and customers, expertise of everyone involved in CCD that the including in particular: implementation was delivered on time and 1. the need to provide customers with prewith no significant disruption to the business.
contractual adequate explanations of the The implementation of the new requirements product: has had some impact on sales execution and 2. a duty for lenders to assess customer marginally reduced customer satisfaction affordability and creditworthiness before levels as the new processes are both more an agreement is entered into: lengthy and more complex than was previously 3. amendments to the form and content the case.
as part of the project to improve the of pre-contract information and credit operational efficiency of the CCD operations in agreements: and 2012, we will be seeking to enhance our 4. a right for the customer to withdraw from processes in order to improve the customer a credit agreement, a right to request a experience within the confines of the statement of account and rights to partial witH a regulatory regime.
partner shopportunity Shopportunity illustrates our commitment and two young to product innovation and finding ways to enhance our service to customers.
In the last quarter of 2011, we relaunched our cHildren Shopportunity card which provides customers with a ready-loaded plastic card that can be to look aFter, used at a range of retailers as an alternative to cash.
The spend on the card represents a some montHs Home Credit loan against which agents collect repayments from the customers home in the usual way.
we provided the benefits of the my budget card to our best quality customers during just doesnt the busy Christmas period.
Home credit just Helps to smootH everytHing Jennifer and son charlie, Home Credit out customer Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 39 we made a number of major enhancements The ongoing modernisation of our approach to our Shopportunity card in 2011: with agents has not impacted our longthe number of established, better-performing agencies.
the card can be used in significantly more development managers, This is evidenced by our agent stability ratio retailers the total number of retailers who a very important metric which measures the - accept the card is now 39, including many the front line managers proportion of agents who have been engaged of the major high street retailers: who directly interact by the business for 12 months or more which the card can now be used online: very was very stable at 77% at the end of 2011, with agents, has remained important with more and more customers compared with 78% at the end of 2010. wishing to shop online: and broadly unchanged at as a result, we have seen an improvement in customers obtain discounts or cashback impairment performance and an increase in just under 1,300 - an from certain retailers, thereby increasing commissions generated by the vast majority their spending power compared with a average of eight agents of the agency force.
we have taken two other important measures per development manager The enhanced Shopportunity card has been to modernise our approach.
Firstly, we now in 2011 compared with very well received by customers.
move non-paying customers to our Central Debt Recovery department CDR earlier nine in 2010. modernising our approach than before.
CDR is very successful at working The self-employed agent force is an important with non-paying customers to re-establish part of the Home Credit business model.
Secondly, despite the 1.9% Ensuring that we engage and retain goodreduction in customer numbers during 2011, quality agents is very important in ensuring we have maintained our investment in the that we meet our customers needs, lend field management force.
The number of responsibly and deliver strong financial development managers, the front-line performance.
However, it is also very managers who directly interact with agents, important that we encourage and support has remained broadly unchanged at just under agents to build a viable book of customers 1,300 an average of eight agents per to ensure that they can generate a level development manager in 2011 compared with of commission which accords with nine in 2010.
This is important in ensuring their aspirations.
that we focus on maintaining and building Throughout 2011, as part of the early the quality of our business in these difficult stages of our business efficiency programme economic times.
see page 42 for more details, we have been carrying out a review to identify smaller agencies where the agent finds it more difficult to make sufficient commission to meet their expectations.
many of these smaller rounds have higher agent turnover which can adversely affect the quality of the agency as well as absorbing important management time.
Following our review, we have closed around 900 poorer performing agencies and amalgamated the better elements of these with other existing agencies.
as a result, we have reduced agent numbers from around 11,400 at the end of 2010 to around 10,500 at the end of 2011.
This produces slightly larger and potentially more profitable rounds enabling agents to increase their commission and enabling us to offer more attractive agencies to agents who have the drive, commitment and time to develop those agencies.
This in turn will lead to further improvements in the financial performance of the company.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 40 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: CONSumER CREDIT DIvISION consumer credit division financial performance CCD generated a profit before tax of 127.5m in 2011 collections performance 2010: 127.3m analysed as follows: during 2011 was strong, reflecting an ccd results improvement in credit Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 quality and the success 52 weeks 53 weeks Change m m % of the enhancements Profit loss before tax: made in april to the Home Credit 127.5 129.1 1.2 Real Personal Finance 1.8 100.0 agents' commission CCD 127.5 127.3 0.2 scheme that provide greater focus on home credit early-stage arrears.
Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 52 weeks 53 weeks Change m m % Customer numbers 000 1,825 1,861 1.9 Year-end customer receivables 876.7 867.2 1.1 average customer receivables 783.4 753.6 4.0 Revenue 697.1 701.1 0.6 Impairment 223.8 230.6 2.9 Revenue less impairment 473.3 470.5 0.6 Revenue yield 89.0% 93.0% Impairment % revenue 32.1% 32.9% Costs 298.8 292.3 2.2 Interest 47.0 49.1 4.3 Profit before tax 127.5 129.1 1.2 Revenue as a percentage of average receivables for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Impairment as a percentage of revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 41 Home Credit delivered profits of 127.5m Headline cost growth was 2.2% during 2011 in 2011 2010: 129.1m.
This profit is after and, after excluding the additional trading absorbing 2m of one-off costs associated week in 2010, like-for-like cost growth was with implementing the Eu Consumer Credit 4.2%.
This increase includes the roll-out Directive in early 2011.
The prior year profit of the changes required to implement the of 129.1m included a benefit of Eu Consumer Credit Directive across the approximately 2m from the inclusion branch network at a one-off cost of 2m, of an additional trading week.
together with additional costs of approximately 3m in relation to the new head office facility Customer numbers reduced by 1.9% during in Bradford into which the business relocated the year, reflecting the decision taken during during the fourth quarter of 2010.
In 2012, the latter part of 2010 to place greater cost growth is expected to be held within the emphasis on serving good-quality existing average rate of inflation.
customers than on recruiting new customers.
New customer underwriting was tightened Interest costs fell by 4.3% as the business further during the early part of 2011.
In benefitted from an average group funding rate addition, the criteria applied to re-serving of 7.6% compared with 8.5% in 2010. existing customers have remained consistently i Have real personal finance tight, and agents have continued to exercise The collect-out of the Real Personal Finance caution because of the pressure on customers receivables book continued to progress my own disposable incomes from food, fuel and utility satisfactorily with the receivables book price inflation.
This focus has resulted in a reducing from 7.1m at December 2010 to sustained improvement in credit quality and 2.6m at December 2011.
There was no gain supported growth in average receivables of or loss in the year in respect of Real Personal 4.0% for the year.
The rate of receivables Finance 2010: loss of 1.8m.
growth moderated in the fourth quarter, reflecting the exceptionally strong growth seen so my towards the end of 2010 and, consequently, receivables ended the year marginally up on montHly income the prior year.
tends as previously indicated, the yield on the l t e u receivables book has moderated from 93.0% to F c uat.
in 2010 to 89.0% in 2011 due to the growth in credit over the last 15 months being i usually use focussed on existing good-quality customers Home credit to spread who, compared with new customers, tend to be served with slightly longer-term products which carry a lower yield.
The yield on the tHe cost oF book is not expected to change significantly during 2012.
Holidays Collections performance during 2011 was strong, reflecting an improvement in credit quality and the success of the enhancements made in april to the agents commission scheme that provide greater focus on wHicH early-stage arrears.
as a result, the ratio of impairment to revenue improved from 32.9% is really at December 2010 to 32.1% at December 2011.
In the absence of any significant change HelpFul in the external environment, collections performance and impairment rates are eva, Home Credit expected to remain stable.
customer Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 42 DIRECTORS REPORT: BuSINESS REvIEw aND maNagEmENT REPORT: CONSumER CREDIT DIvISION consumer credit division and cHristmas can be a real my Family is looking aHead Our 130-year history, together with our ever growing achievements in 2011, mean that we have a strong platform to deliver our strategic aims and grow the profitability of the business in and cHristmas the forthcoming years.
what we do and how we do it fits our can be a real marketplace perfectly.
However, it is important that we do not stand still and we seek squeeze.
continuous improvement in everything we do.
a major goal during 2012 and beyond is to makes a Home grow the business through a number of paying For interlinked initiatives: credit cHristmas 1.
Expanding the footprint of our business our Home Credit business is well presents loan spread throughout the whole of the uK and Ireland.
However, there are pockets mucH more in which we are under-represented.
we have had success in 2011 in opening manageable branches, at negligible cost, in Stafford, weymouth, Darlington, Kidderminster, maria and granddaughter leah, weston-super-mare and the south-west Home Credit customer of manchester to improve penetration.
These were all locations where the branch had been closed a number of years ago and consolidated into an adjacent location.
Modernising our approach with agents we have seen a strong performance from proposition we are continually looking the 10,500 self-employed agents are these newly-opened branches being run for new ways of serving our customers, very important to the success of the by highly-motivated local management.
as demonstrated by the success of the business.
During 2011, we began the There are opportunities for further enhanced Shopportunity card in 2011. process of consolidating smaller, less openings in 2012. we will continually review both our profitable agencies into larger agencies.
products and proposition to strive to meet 2.
Continuing to improve our use of IT In addition, we started to engage more our customers needs.
greater use of systems we have been successful in highly-motivated agents who have more the internet, debit card payments and adapting our business processes to an time to spend on their agencies and re-loadable vISa cards are some of the ever changing economic and regulatory who tend to be breadwinners.
Our focus areas we will explore in 2012. environment.
However, to unlock more field going forward will be on ensuring that capacity we need to get smarter in our use we continue to attract and engage the The focus in 2011 has been on bolstering the of IT systems.
This is not about investing in right agents to exacting standards and to quality of the receivables book the right call more IT, but using what we have better to encourage and support them in operating in the current environment.
This will continue reduce paperwork, maintain our regulatory their agency.
whilst the agency force will to be our focus in 2012. at the same time, standards and improve sales execution.
By continue to be predominantly agents who we will build on our strong platform, unlock better use of systems, we will aim to reduce spend a few days a week running their operational efficiency and ensure we are the time taken by agents to process the agency, there is room for more agents who well-positioned for growth as and when granting of credit in 2012. are breadwinners, run their agency on a the economy shows sustained signs full-time basis and who regard it as their of improvement.
Our data shows CCD remains a highly profitable, cashthat these agencies often perform better.
generative business that provides the bedrock Importantly, we will ensure that all agents, for the groups high-dividend payout ratio.
irrespective of who they are, still adopt the same procedures and retain the important characteristics of living in the communities they serve and fully understanding their customers circumstances and needs.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987
