13 130 0 Governance | Additional disclosures Additional disclosures The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with analysis associated with the Groups assets and liabilities can be the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules found in note G2 on pages 316 to 320, policyholder liability and the Corporate Governance Codes.
maturity profile by business units in notes D2, D3, D4 on pages 244, 266 and 275 respectively, cash flow details in the Financial reporting consolidated statement of cash flows and provisions and The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the contingencies in note H14.
The directors therefore have performance and financial position of the Group and are continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in responsible for preparing the financial statements on pages 163 preparing the financial statements.
to 382 and the supplementary information on pages 385 to 432.
It is the responsibility of the auditor to form independent Post-balance sheet events opinions, based on its audit of the financial statements and its Important events affecting the Company after the end of the audit of the EEV basis supplementary information: and to report financial year are detailed in note I11 on page 370. its opinions to the Companys shareholders and to the Company.
Its opinions are given on pages 384 and 434.
Change of control Under the agreements governing Prudential Corporation Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Holdings Limiteds life insurance and fund management joint statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view ventures with China International Trust & Investment of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
The Corporation CITIC, if there is a change of control of the criteria applied in the preparation of the financial statements Company, CITIC may terminate the agreements and either are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on i purchase the Companys entire interest in the joint venture pages 383 and 433. or require the Company to sell its interest to a third party The directors are further required to confirm that the directors designated by CITIC, or ii require the Company to purchase report includes a fair review of the development and all of CITICs interest in the joint venture.
The price of such performance of the business, with a description of the principal purchase or sale is to be the fair value of the shares to be risks and uncertainties.
Such confirmation is included in the transferred, as determined by the auditor of the joint venture.
statement of directors responsibilities on pages 383 and 433.
Essential contracts or arrangements The Chief Financial Officers Review provides, on pages 80 to 90, There are a number of significant relationships with third parties, a description of the Groups risk and capital management, which which have value to the business.
No single relationship, includes a description of the Groups liquidity position.
These however, is considered to be essential to the Group as a whole.
risks are also discussed in Note C to the financial statements on page 215.
The Group has considerable internal and external At no time during the year did any director hold a material financial resources and the directors believe that the Group is interest in any contract of significance with the Company or well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Compensation for loss of office directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there None of the terms of employment of the Companys directors is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor includes provisions for payment of compensation for loss of is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or office or employment that occurs as a result of a change of she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself control.
Terms applying on a termination of their office are set aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
In the US senior the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This executives participate on a discretionary basis in a plan confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance which entitles them to compensation, in the event that their with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. employment is terminated or adversely affected as a result of a change of control.
Going Concern After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable Customers expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate The five largest customers of the Group constituted in aggregate resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future.
less than 30 per cent of its total sales for each of 2011 and 2010.
In support of this expectation, the Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, For the year ended 31 December 2011, none of the directors successful performance and position in the current economic of the Company, their associates or any shareholders of the climate are set out in the Business Review on pages 15 to 106.
Company which have, to the knowledge of the directors of the The risks facing the Groups capital and liquidity positions and Company, owned more than 5 per cent of the Companys issued their sensitivities are referred to in the Chief Financial Officers share capital had any interest in the Groups major customers.
Specifically, the Groups borrowings are detailed in note H13 on pages 340 to 342, the market risk and liquidity P Pr ru ud fide en nt ti ia al p l pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 11 1 G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce Governance | Index to principal directors report disclosures 13 131 1 Index to principal directors report disclosures Information required to be disclosed in the directors report may be found in the following sections: Information Section in Annual Report Page number s Business review Business review 15-106 Essential contracts or arrangements Additional disclosures 130 Disclosure of information to auditor Additional disclosures 130 Directors in office during the year Board of directors 108-112: 115 Principal activities Business review 4-5: 91-94 Dividend recommended for the year Business review 67 Details of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions Corporate governance 117 Political and charitable donations and expenditure Corporate responsibility review 105 Financial instruments risk management objectives Business review 76 and policies Post-balance sheet events Note I11 of the Notes on the Group 370 financial statements and Additional disclosures Future developments of the business of the Company Group Chief Executives report 14 Employment policies and employee involvement Corporate responsibility review 99-101 Creditors policy on payment and practice Corporate responsibility review 106 Structure of share capital, including restrictions on Corporate governance 126-127 the transfer of securities, voting rights and significant shareholders Rules governing appointments of directors Corporate governance 115 Rules governing changes to the articles of association Corporate governance 126 Powers of directors Corporate governance 113 Significant agreements impacted by a change of control Additional disclosures 130 Agreements for compensation for loss of office or Additional disclosures 130 employment on takeover In addition, the risk factors set out on pages 466 to 470 and the additional unaudited financial information set out on pages 436 to 463 are incorporated by reference into this directors report.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Margaret Coltman Company Secretary 12 March 2012 132 Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report 133 Section 4 Directors remuneration report 134 Directors remuneration report
