108 Governance | Board of directors Board of directors 1 2 Chairman Group Chief Executive Harvey McGrath First and the East London Tidjane Thiam & Company and one of the leaders Chairman and Chairman of Business Alliance and former Vice Group Chief Executive of their Financial Institutions the Nomination Committee Chairman of the London Skills and Tidjane Thiam has been an practice before joining Aviva Harvey McGrath was appointed Employment Board from 2006 to executive director of Prudential in 2002. as an independent non-executive 2011.
In July 2011, Harvey was since 25 March 2008.
He was Tidjane was a non-executive director of Prudential in appointed as co-chair of the new the Chief Financial Officer until director of Arkema in France until September 2008 and became Board of the London Enterprise 30 September 2009 and became November 2009.
He is a member the Chairman and Chairman of Partnership LEP.
Group Chief Executive with of the Board of the Association the Nomination Committee in effect from 1 October 2009.
Harvey is Chairman of Governors of British Insurers ABI and a January 2009.
Harvey has a long of Birkbeck College and trustee Tidjane was previously Group member of the Council of the and distinguished career in the of a number of charities.
These Executive Director and Chief Overseas Development Institute international financial services include New Philanthropy Capital, Executive Officer, Europe at Aviva ODI in London.
Tidjane is a industry, having started his a research based charity which where he worked from 2002 to member of the Africa Progress career at Chase Manhattan Bank gives advice and guidance to 2008 and held successively the Panel chaired by Kofi Annan in London and New York.
From donors and charities: the Royal positions of Group Strategy and and a sponsor of Opportunity 1980 to 2007 he worked for the Anniversary Trust, which operates Development Director and International.
In January 2011, Man Group, first as Treasurer, then the Queens Anniversary Prizes Managing Director, Aviva he was appointed to chair the G20 Finance Director, then President of for Higher and Further Education: International.
Tidjane spent the High Level Panel for Infrastructure Man Inc. in New York before being Children and Families Across first part of his professional career Investment, which reported to the appointed as Chief Executive of Borders CFAB, which protects with McKinsey & Company in Paris G20 Leaders at the G20 Summit in Man Group plc in London in 1990 the rights and welfare of children and New York, serving insurance Cannes in November 2011.
Tidjane and then Chairman in 2000.
He and vulnerable adults across companies and banks.
He then is a member of the UK-ASEAN left Man Group in 2007. borders: icould, an online careers spent a number of years in Africa Business Council and of the Harvey is also Chairman of the resource: and the Princes Teaching where he was Chief Executive and Strategic Advisory Group on UK London Development Agency Institute, which promotes subject later Chairman of the National Trade and Investment.
In January which works for the Mayor of based professional development Bureau for Technical Studies and 2012, Tidjane was appointed to London coordinating economic for teachers.
Harvey will retire from Development in Cote dIvoire and the Prime Ministers Business development and regeneration the Board in 2012 once a successor a cabinet member as Secretary Advisory Group.
He is the former has been found.
Age 60. of Planning and Development.
awarded the Lgion dHonneur Chairman of both London Tidjane returned to France to by the French President in July 2011. become a partner with McKinsey Age 49.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 109 1 Harvey McGrath 2 Tidjane Thiam 3 Nicolaos Nicandrou ACA 4 Robert Devey 5 John Foley 6 Michael McLintock 7 Barry Stowe 8 Michael Wells 3 4 5 Executive Directors Nicolaos Nicandrou ACA where he worked in both UK, US and Europe.
Rob chairs and Group Treasurer in 2001.
He Chief Financial Officer London and Paris.
Age 46. the London Leadership Team of was appointed Chief Executive Nic Nicandrou has been an Business in The Community and of Prudential Capital and to the executive director of Prudential Robert Devey is also a trustee of the LloydsTSB Group Executive Committee in and Chief Financial Officer since Executive Director Foundation for England and Wales.
Prior to joining Prudential, October 2009.
Before joining Rob Devey has been an executive Age 43.
John spent three years with Prudential, he worked at Aviva, director of Prudential and Chief National Australia Bank as General where he held a number of senior Executive, Prudential UK and John Foley Manager, Global Capital Markets.
John began his career at Hill finance roles, including Norwich Europe since November 2009.
Executive Director Union Life Finance Director and Rob joined Prudential from Lloyds John Foley has been an executive Samuel & Co Limited where, over a 20 year period, he worked in every Board Member, Aviva Group Banking Group where he worked director of Prudential and Group Financial Control Director, Aviva from 2002 in a number of senior Chief Risk Officer since January division of the bank, culminating in senior roles in risk, capital markets Group Financial Management leadership roles across insurance 2011.
He joined Prudential as and Reporting Director and and retail banking.
Prior to joining Deputy Group Treasurer in 2000 and treasury of the combined TSB and Hill Samuel Bank.
CGNU Group Financial Reporting Lloyds Banking Group Rob was before being appointed Managing Director.
Nic started his career a consultant with the Boston Director, Prudential Capital at  Consulting Group BCG in the formerly Prudential Finance UK 6 7 8 Michael McLintock Barry Stowe Michael Wells Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Michael McLintock has been an Barry Stowe has been an Mike Wells has been an executive executive director of Prudential executive director of Prudential director of Prudential since since September 2000.
He is since November 2006, and Chief January 2011 when he succeeded also Chief Executive of M&G, Executive, Prudential Corporation Clark Manning as President and a position he held at the time of Asia since October 2006.
He has CEO of Jackson National Life M&Gs acquisition by Prudential been a member of the Board of Insurance Company.
Michael joined M&G in Visitors of Lipscomb University served in a variety of senior and 1992.
He previously also served on since May 2009 and was a director strategic positions at Jackson over the board of Close Brothers Group of the Life Insurance Marketing the last 15 years, including plc as a non-executive director Research Association LIMRA President of Jackson National Life from 2001 to 2008.
Since October and the Life Office Management Distributors.
Mike has been Vice Chairman and Chief Operating 2008, he has been a Trustee of Association LOMA from October the Grosvenor Estate and was 2008 to October 2011.
Previously, Officer of Jackson for the last nine years.
During this period he has appointed as a non-executive Barry was President, Accident & director of Grosvenor Group Health Worldwide for AIG Life led the development of Jacksons variable annuity business and Limited in March 2012.
He joined AIG in 1995, also been a member of the and prior to that was President and been responsible for IT, strategy, operations, communications, Finance Committee of the MCC CEO of Nisus, a subsidiary of Pansince October 2005.
American Life, from 1992 to 1995. distributions, Curian and the retail broker dealers.
Before joining Nisus, Barry spent 12 years at Willis Corroon in the US.
110 Governance | Board of directors | continued Board of directors 9 10 11 Non-Executive Directors 9 Keki Dadiseth FCA Lever and became Chairman in He served the Government of Keki Dadiseth FCA 10 Sir Howard Davies Independent non-executive 1996.
Australia as Chairman of the Food 11 Michael Garrett Industry Council and as a Member director and member of the Remuneration Committee Sir Howard Davies of the Industry Council of Independent non-executive Australia, and was also a member Keki Dadiseth has been an independent non-executive director, Chairman of the of the Advisory Committee for Risk Committee and member an APEC Asia-Pacific Economic director of Prudential since April 2005.
He is a member of of the Audit Committee Cooperation Food System, a Sir Howard has been an Member of The Turkish Prime the Remuneration Committee and was a member of the Audit independent non-executive Ministers Advisory Group and the director of Prudential and WTO World Trade Organization Committee from 2005 to 2007.
During 2006, he was appointed Chairman of the Risk Committee Business Advisory Council in since October 2010.
as a non-executive director of ICICI Prudential Life Assurance Audit Committee in November Michael remains a director of 2010.
Sir Howard was the Director Company Limited and ICICI Nestl in India, and was appointed Prudential Trust Limited.
Keki of the London School of Chairman of the Evian Group, a Economics and Political Science is also a director of Britannia think tank and forum for dialogue Industries Limited, Piramal LSE from September 2003 to promoting free trade, from 2001 April 2011.
Prior to joining the LSE, Healthcare Limited, Siemens to 2011.
He also serves as a Limited, The Indian Hotels he was Chairman of the Financial non-executive director on the Services Authority, the UKs Company Limited and Godrej Boards of the Bobst Group in Properties Limited, all of which financial regulator.
He is a Switzerland, Hasbro Inc. in the Professor at the Institut dtudes are quoted on the Bombay Stock USA, and Gottex Fund Exchange.
In addition, he acts Politiques Sciences Po, a director Management Holdings Limited of Morgan Stanley Inc, an external as adviser to Goldman Sachs, in Guernsey.
In addition, he is Fleishman-Hillard Inc and adviser to the Government a Member of the Swaziland Investment Corporation of Chairman of Marsh & McLennan International Business Advisory Companies Group, India.
He is Singapore and a member of the Panel under the auspices of the International Advisory Board of Chairman of the Breach Candy Global Leadership Foundation Hospital Trust and a trustee for a the China Banking Regulatory GLF London, as well as being Commission.
Age 61. number of Indian charities.
Keki a member of the Development is the non-executive Chairman Committee of the International Michael Garrett of Omnicom India Marketing Business Leaders Forum IBLF Advisory Services Private Limited, Independent non-executive until stepping down in 2011. director and member of the an unquoted Indian company, and Age 69. is also a board member of various Remuneration Committee Michael Garrett has been an other unquoted Indian companies.
Ann Godbehere FCGA He serves as Chairman of Sony independent non-executive Independent non-executive director of Prudential and a India Pvt Ltd and Senior Advisor director, Chairman of the to Sony Group in India.
member of the Remuneration Audit Committee and Committee since September member of the Risk Before he retired from Unilever 2004.
He worked for Nestl from in 2005, Keki was Director, Home Committee 1961, becoming Head of Japan Ann Godbehere has been an and Personal Care, responsible from 1990 to 1993, and then for the HPC business of Unilever independent non-executive Zone Director and Member of director of Prudential since August worldwide, a Board member of the Executive Board, responsible Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. 2007.
She has been a member of for Asia and Oceania.
In 1996 his the Audit Committee since and a member of Unilevers responsibilities were expanded Executive Committee.
He October 2007, becoming its to include Africa and the Middle Chairman in October 2009, and joined Hindustan Lever Ltd in East.
Michael retired as Executive India in 1973 and in 1987, he joined the Risk Committee in Vice President of Nestl in 2005.
Ann began her joined the Board of Hindustan Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 111 12 13 14 12 Ann Godbehere FCGA Alistair was a partner of KPMG Director, a member of the career in 1976 with Sun Life of 13 Alexander Alistair Johnston Canada, joining Mercantile & from 1986 to 2010.
He joined Nomination Committee and CMG FCA KPMG then Peat Marwick Chairman of the Remuneration General Reinsurance Group in 14 Paul Manduca 1981, where she held a number of Mitchell in 1973 and held a Committee of Morrisons.
He number of senior leadership previously chaired the Audit management roles rising to Senior Vice President and Controller for positions.
These included Vice Committee and stepped down Chairman of UK Financial Services from the Board of Morrisons in life and health and property casualty businesses in North and Head of UK Insurance March 2011.
He is also Chairman Practice, International Managing of Aon Limited, a non-executive America in 1995.
In 1996 Swiss Re acquired Mercantile & General Partner Global Markets and UK director and Chairman of the Vice Chairman.
Latterly he served Audit Committee of KazmunaiGas Reinsurance Group and Ann became Chief Financial Officer as a Global Vice Chairman of the Exploration & Production Plc, firm from 2007 to 2010.
Chairman of Henderson of Swiss Re Life & Health, North America.
In 1997 she was made Diversified Income Limited and Alistair acted as a non-executive Chairman of JPM European Chief Executive Officer of Swiss director of the Foreign & Re Life & Health, Canada.
She Smaller Companies Investment Commonwealth Office from 2005 Trust Plc.
Paul was a director of moved to London as Chief to 2010 and chaired the audit Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life Development Securities plc committee until 2009.
He was an & Health Division in 1998 and until March 2010, Chairman of Association Member of BUPA until joined the Property & Casualty Bridgewell Group plc until 2007 January 2012.
Alistair is a member Business Group, based out of and a director of Henderson of the Strategy and Development Zurich, as Chief Financial Officer Smaller Companies Investment Board and a Visiting Professor at on its establishment in 2001.
Paul was Cass Business School.
In February From 2003 until February 2007, European CEO of Deutsche 2012 Alistair was appointed as a Ann was Chief Financial Officer Asset Management from 2002 Trustee of the Design Museum in of the Swiss Re Group.
to 2005, global CEO of Rothschild London.
Asset Management from 1999 Ann is also a non-executive to 2002 and founding CEO of director of Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Paul Manduca Threadneedle Asset Management Limited, UBS AG, Ariel Holdings Senior independent Limited from 1994 to 1999 when Limited, Atrium Underwriting non-executive director he was also a director of Eagle Star Group Limited and Atrium and member of the Audit, and Allied Dunbar.
From its Remuneration and member of the Securities Institute.
nationalisation in 2008 until Nomination Committees Age 60.
January 2009, Ann was Interim Paul Manduca has been an Chief Financial Officer and independent non-executive Executive Director of Northern director of Prudential since Rock.
Ann joined the Board of October 2010 and succeeded British American Tobacco plc in James Ross as the Boards Senior Independent Directo in January October 2011 as a non-executive r director.
He joined the Audit and Remuneration Committees in Alexander Alistair November 2010 and became a member of the Nomination Johnston CMG FCA Independent non-executive Committee in January 2011. director and member of the Paul was appointed as a Audit Committee non-executive director of Wm Alistair Johnston has been an Morrison Supermarkets Plc independent non-executive Morrisons in September 2005. director of Prudential and a He was the Senior Independent member of the Audit Committee since January 2012.
112 Governance | Board of directors | continued Board of directors 15 16 17 Non-Executive Directors 15 Kaikhushru Nargolwala FCA Kaikhushru Nargolwala FCA Kathleen ODonovan ACA Lord Turnbull KCB CVO 16 Kathleen ODonovan ACA Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive 17 Lord Turnbull KCB CVO director and member of the director and member of the director, Chairman of the Risk and Remuneration Audit and Nomination Remuneration Committee Committees Committees and member of the Risk and Kai Nargolwala has been an Kathleen ODonovan has been Nomination Committees independent non-executive an independent non-executive Lord Turnbull has been an director of Prudential and a director of Prudential since May independent non-executive member of the Risk and 2003.
She has been a member of director of Prudential since Remuneration Committees since the Audit Committee since 2003 May 2006.
He joined the Risk January 2012.
Until December and was its Chairman from May Committee and the Remuneration 2011 he was the non-executive 2006 until September 2009.
Committee in November 2010, Chairman of Credit Suisse Asia Kathleen joined the Nomination and became Chairman of the Pacific, having joined Credit Committee in November 2010.
Remuneration Committee and Suisse in 2008 as a member of Kathleen is also a director and a member of the Nomination the Executive Board and CEO Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee in June 2011.
From of the Asia Pacific region.
of Trinity Mirror plc, the Senior January 2007 to November 2010 Independent Director and he was a member of the Audit From 1998 to 2007, Kai worked for Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He entered the House Standard Chartered PLC where he Committee of ARM Holdings plc of Lords as a Life Peer in 2005.
In was a Group Executive Director and Chairman of the Invensys 2002 he became Secretary of the responsible for Asia Governance Pension Scheme.
Cabinet and Head of the Home and Risk.
His responsibilities Civil Service until he retired in included developing strategy and Previously, Kathleen was a 2005.
Prior to that he held a non-executive director and business performance across Asia, number of positions in the Civil as well as strategic merger and Chairman of the Audit Committees Service, including Permanent of Great Portland Estates PLC, acquisition activity.
Prior to that, Secretary at HM Treasury: he spent 19 years at Bank of EMI Group plc and the Court Permanent Secretary at the of the Bank of England, and a America and from 1990 was based Department of the Environment in Asia as Group Executive Vice non-executive director of O plc.
2 later Environment, Transport and President and Head of the Asia From 1991 to 2002, Kathleen the Regions : Private Secretary Wholesale Banking Group.
From was Chief Financial Officer Economics to the Prime Minister: 2004 to 2007, he was a nonof BTR and Invensys and prior and Principal Private Secretary to executive director at Tate & Lyle to that she was a partner at Margaret Thatcher and then John plc and at Visa International, Ernst & Young.
He joined HM Treasury where he served on the Asia retire from the Prudential Board in 1970.
Lord Turnbull is Chairman of Kai is currently a non-executive BH Global Limited and a nondirector and lead independent executive director of Frontier director of Singapore Economics Limited and The British Telecommunications Limited, a Land Company PLC, and was member of the Board of the Casino formerly a non-executive director Regulatory Authority of Singapore of the Arup Group from 2006 to and a member of the Governing 2007.
He also worked part-time Board of the Duke-NUS Graduate as a Senior Adviser to the London Medical School.
Age 61. partners of Booz and Co UK until February 2011.
