Business review Business review | Other corporate information 91 Other corporate information Products and drivers of insurance operations profits In Malaysia and Indonesia, Prudential also offers life insurance Overview of the Groups principal activities policies that are constructed to comply with Islamic principles Prudential plc is the holding company of the Prudential Group.
The main principles are The principal activity of our subsidiary operations is the provision policyholders co-operate among themselves for the common of financial services to individuals and businesses in Asia, the US good, uncertainty is eliminated in respect of subscription and and UK.
We offer a wide range of retail financial products and compensation and there is no investment in prohibited areas services, and asset management services, throughout these such as gambling or alcohol.
The retail financial products and services principally In addition to the life products described above, we offer mutual include life insurance, pensions and annuities as well as fund investment products in India, Taiwan, Japan, Singapore, collective investment schemes.
Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Vietnam and China, thus enabling customers to participate in debt, equity and money market Asia investments.
We are also licensed in the United Arab Emirates.
The life insurance products offered by Prudential Corporation Eastspring Investments our asset management business in Asia Asia include with-profits participating and non-participating earns a fee based on assets under management.
term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies often combined with protection riders and typically with regular United States premium payments.
Jacksons product offerings include variable, fixed and fixed index annuities, as well as life insurance and institutional In 2011, the new business profit mix in our Asian insurance business was derived 60 per cent 2010: 59 per cent from health products.
and protection products, 27 per cent 2010: 32 per cent from unit-linked products and 13 per cent 2010: 9 per cent from Annuities Annuity products are long-term individual retirement products, non-linked products.
which offer tax-deferred accumulation on the funds invested Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, with the until proceeds are withdrawn from the policy.
cash value of the policy depending on the value of the underlying unitised funds.
Participating products provide savings with Fixed annuities are used for asset accumulation in retirement protection where the basic sum assured can be enhanced by a planning and for providing income in retirement and offer profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined flexible payout options.
The contract holder pays us a premium, at the discretion of the insurer.
Non-participating products offer which is credited to the contract holders account.
Periodically, savings with protection where the benefits are guaranteed or interest is credited to the contract holders account and determined by a set of defined market-related parameters.
The interest rate may Accident and health products provide mortality or morbidity be reset on each contract anniversary, subject to a guaranteed benefits and include health, disablement, critical illness and minimum, in line with state regulations.
When the annuity accident cover.
These products are commonly offered as matures, the contract holder is paid either the amount in the supplements to main life policies, but can also be sold separately.
contract holder account or staggered payments in the form of an immediate annuity similar to a UK annuity in payment.
Policyholder and insurer share the profits from participating policies typically in a 90:10 ratio in the same way as with-profits Policyholder behaviour is relevant when looking at profits for fixed annuity contracts.
The relevant factors are the potential business in the UK.
With unit-linked products, shareholders receive the profits arising from managing the policy, its for surrenders when interest rates rise and, in a low interest environment, the influence of the minimum guarantees required investments and the insurance risk.
Policyholders within the underlying unitised fund receive investment gains.
Fixed annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges for the first six to nine years of the contract.
In addition, from accident and health and non-participating products come from any surplus remaining after paying policy benefits.
the contract may be subject to a market value adjustment at the time of surrender.
During the surrender charge period, the Unit-linked products tend to have higher profits on the EEV contract holder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
basis of reporting than traditional non-linked products, as Our profits on fixed annuities come primarily from the spread expenses and charges are better matched and solvency between the return earned on investments and the interest capital requirements are lower.
At the end of 2011, we were credited to the contract holders account, less expenses.
offering unit-linked products in all markets except Thailand.
92 Business review | Other corporate information | continued Other corporate information Fixed index annuities are similar to fixed annuities, in that the GMWBs provide a guaranteed return of the principal invested by contract holder pays a premium that is credited to the contract allowing for periodic withdrawals that are limited to a maximum holders account, and also in that interest is periodically credited percentage of the initial premium.
One version of the GMWBs to the contract holders account.
An annual minimum interest provides for a minimum annual withdrawal amount that is rate is guaranteed, although actual interest credited may be guaranteed for the contract holders life without annuitisation.
higher and is linked to an equity index over the products index Variations of the GMWBs are offered whereby the guaranteed option period.
Profit comes primarily from the spread between base can be increased, either through step-ups to a more recent the return earned on investments and the amounts credited to market value of the account, or through bonuses offered if the contract holders account, less expenses, which include the withdrawals are delayed for a particular number of years.
costs of hedging the equity component of the interest credited to Additional charges are assessed for these features.
The net hedge results are reflected in short-term generally provide a guarantee for a return of a certain amount fluctuations.
Fixed index annuities are subject to early surrender of principal after a specified period.
This benefit was eliminated charges for the first five to 12 years of the contract.
During the from Jacksons product offerings in 2011.
GMIBs provide for a surrender charge period, the contract holder may cancel the minimum level of benefits upon annuitisation regardless of the contract for the surrender value.
The fixed index book provides value of the investments underlying the contract at the time of natural offsetting equity exposure to the guarantees issued in annuitisation.
Jackson stopped offering GMIBs in 2009, with connection with our variable annuity products, which allows for existing coverage being reinsured with an unaffiliated reinsurer.
efficient hedging of the net equity exposure.
As the investment return on the separate account assets is Variable annuities are tax-advantaged, deferred annuities attributed directly to the contract holders, Jacksons profit where the rate of return depends upon the performance of arises from the fees charged on the contracts, less the expenses the underlying investment portfolio, similar in principle to UK incurred, which include the costs of hedging and the eventual unit-linked products.
They are also used for asset accumulation payment of benefits guarantees.
The net hedge results are in retirement planning and to provide income in retirement.
In addition to being a profitable book of business in its own right, the variable annuity The contract holder can allocate the premiums between a variety book also provides an opportunity to utilise the offsetting equity of variable sub-accounts, with a choice of fund managers and or risk among various lines of business to manage in a cost-effective guaranteed fixed-rate options.
As with a unit-linked fund, the manner our equity exposure.
Profits in the variable annuity book contract holders premiums allocated to the variable accounts of business will continue to be subject to the impact of market are held separately from Jacksons general account assets.
The movements on both sales and allocations to the variable value of the portion of the separate account allocated to variable accounts and the effects of the economic hedging programme.
sub-accounts fluctuates with the underlying investments.
While risk is hedged on an economic basis, the nature and Variable annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges duration of the hedging instruments, which are recorded at fair for the first four to nine years of the contract.
During the value through the income statement, will fluctuate and produce surrender charge period, the contract holder may cancel the some accounting volatility.
Management continues to believe contract for the surrender value.
Jackson offers one variable that, on a long-term economic basis, the equity exposure remains annuity that has no surrender charges and also offers a choice of well managed.
guaranteed benefit options within their variable annuity product portfolio, which customers can elect and pay for.
These options Life insurance include the guaranteed minimum death benefit GMDB, which Jackson also sells several types of life insurance including term guarantees that, upon death of the owner, the beneficiary life, universal life and variable universal life.
Term life provides receives a minimum value regardless of past market protection for a defined period of time and a benefit that is performance.
These guaranteed death benefits might be payable to a designated beneficiary upon the insureds death.
expressed as the return of original premium, the highest past Universal life provides permanent individual life insurance for anniversary value of the contract, or as the original premium the life of the insured and includes a savings element.
Variable accumulated at a fixed rate of interest.
In addition, there are three universal life is a life insurance policy that combines death benefit other types of guarantees: guaranteed minimum withdrawal protection with the ability for the policyholder account to be benefits GMWB, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits invested in separate account funds.
The Jackson life insurance GMAB and guaranteed minimum income benefits GMIB.
book has also delivered consistent profitability, driven primarily by favourable mortality experience.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Business review 93 Institutional products The profits from almost all of the new non-participating business Jacksons institutional products division markets institutional accrue solely to shareholders.
Such business is written in the products such as traditional Guaranteed Investment Contracts non-profit sub-fund within PACs long-term fund, or in various GICs, Funding Agreements and Medium Term Note MTN shareholder-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries.
The institutional product offerings also significant of these is Prudential Retirement Income Limited include Jacksons funding agreements issued to the Federal PRIL, which also writes all new immediate annuities arising from Home Loan Bank.
Institutional products are distributed directly vesting deferred annuity policies in the with-profits sub-fund of to investors, through investment banks, or through funding PAC.
There is a substantial volume of in-force non-participating agreement brokers.
Jackson sold no institutional products during business in PACs with-profits sub-fund and that funds wholly 2010 or 2009, as available capital was directed to support owned subsidiary Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, which is highermargin variable annuity sales.
In 2011, Jackson closed to new business.
Profits from this business accrue to the reentered the institutional market on a limited and selective with-profits sub-fund.
basis, taking advantage of the high returns available at particular times during the year.
Description of EEV basis reporting Prudentials results are prepared on two accounting bases the United Kingdom supplementary EEV basis, and the IFRS basis for the financial In common with other UK long-term insurance companies, statements.
Over the life of any given product, the total profit Prudential UKs products are structured as either with-profits or recognised will be the same under either the IFRS or the EEV participating products, or non-participating products including basis.
However, the two methods recognise the emergence of annuities in payment and unit-linked products.
Depending on that profit in different ways, with profits emerging earlier under the structure, the level of shareholders interest in the value of the EEV basis than under IFRS.
This section explains how EEV policies and the related profit or loss varies.
differs from IFRS and why it is used.
With-profits policies are supported by a with-profits sub-fund In broad terms, IFRS profits for long-term business reflect the aggregate of statutory transfers from UK-style with-profits funds and can be single premium for example, Onshore Bonds or Flexible Investment Bonds or regular premium for example, and profit on a traditional accounting basis for other long-term business.
By their nature, the products sold by the life insurance certain pension products.
Prudential UKs primary with-profits sub-fund is part of The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds industry are long-term, as insurance companies commit to service these products for many years into the future.
The profit PAC long-term fund.
The return to shareholders on virtually all with-profits products is in the form of a statutory transfer to PAC on these insurance sales is generated over this long-term period.
In our view, the result under IFRS does not properly reflect the shareholders funds.
This is analogous to a dividend from PACs long-term fund, and is dependent upon the bonuses credited or inherent value of these future profits, as it focuses instead on the amounts accruing to shareholders in the current year.
declared on policies in that year.
Prudentials with-profits policyholders currently receive 90 per cent of the distribution In May 2004 the CFO Forum, representing the Chief Financial from the main with-profits sub-fund as bonus additions to their Officers of 19 European insurers, published the European policies, while shareholders receive 10 per cent as a statutory Embedded Value Principles expanded by the Additional transfer.
Guidance of EEV Disclosures published in October 2005, that The Defined Charge Participating Sub-Fund DCPSF forms part provide consistent definitions, a framework for setting actuarial of the PAC long-term fund.
It is comprised of the accumulated assumptions, and a more explicit approach to the underlying investment content of premiums paid in respect of the defined methodology and disclosures.
So for example: charge participating with-profits business issued in France and The allowance for risk is explicit for EEV through: i an the defined charge participating with-profits business reassured allowance for the cost of capital at the higher of economic into PAC from Prudential International Assurance plc and capital and the local statutory minimum, ii stochastic or Canada Life Europe Assurance Ltd.
It also includes the portfolio other appropriate modelling of financial options and of with-profits annuity policies acquired from Equitable Life guarantees to ensure that an allowance for their cost is in 2007.
All profits in this fund accrue to policyholders in irrespective of their value at the balance sheet date, and the DCPSF.
iii an explicit allowance in the risk discount rate for financial and non-financial risks: EEV specifically allows for the look-through into profits arising in shareholder service companies, most notably the profit arising in investment management companies from managing the insurance companies funds for covered business: There are extensive disclosures required for EEV on all aspects of the calculations, including the methodology adopted and the analysis of return.
94 Business review | Other corporate information | continued Other corporate information It is thought that the EEV basis not only provides a good The value added from new business defined as the present indication of the value being added by management in a given value of the future profits arising from new business written in accounting period, but also helps demonstrate whether the year is a key metric used in the management of our shareholder capital is being deployed to best effect.
The change in value of business in-force at the start of insurance companies in many countries use comparable bases of the year demonstrates how the existing book is being managed.
Together, these metrics provide management and shareholders with valuable information about the underlying development The EEV basis is a value-based method of reporting in that it of the Groups business and the success or otherwise of reflects the change in value of the business over the accounting management actions.
This value is called the shareholders funds on the EEV basis which, at a given point in time, is the value of future profits EEV basis results are prepared by first of all setting best estimate expected to arise from the current book of long-term insurance assumptions, by product, for all relevant factors including business plus the net worth of the company.
In determining expenses, surrender levels and mortality.
Economic assumptions these expected profits, full allowance is made for the risks as to future investment returns and inflation are generally based attached to their emergence and the associated cost of capital, on a combination of market data and long-term assumptions.
and takes into account recent experience in assessing likely These assumptions are used to project future cash flows.
The future persistency, mortality and expenses.
present value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and The change in value is typically analysed into the following the risks associated with the cash flows.
The risk discount rate is components: determined by adding a risk margin to the appropriate risk free the value added from new business sold during the year, rate of return.
The actual outcome may differ from that projected, in which case the effect will be reflected in the the change in value from existing business already in place at experience variances for that year.
the start of the year, The assumptions used for the EEV basis of accounting are set short-term fluctuations in investment returns, out in the notes that accompany the supplementary EEV basis change in economic assumptions, information.
An indication of the sensitivity of the results to changes in key assumptions is also provided within that change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees and information.
economic assumption changes, other items for example, profit from other Group operations, tax, foreign exchange, exceptional items, and dividends.
