22 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report As a Jersey incorporated company whose shares are Composition of the Committee Premium Listed on the Official List of the London Stock The members of the Committee, who are considered to Exchange, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized be independent based on the criteria included in the UK Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations Corporate Governance Code, are set out below.
2008 the Regulations does not apply to Cape.
However, in the interests of best governance practice, the Company has The following served as members of the Committee of Old chosen to comply with the disclosure requirements set out in Cape throughout the period 1 January 2011 to 17 June 2011, those Regulations.
except where otherwise shown: This Report sets out the remuneration policy and principles David McManus Committee Chairman under which the Directors are remunerated and details the Tim Eggar appointed 1 May 2011 remuneration and share interests of each Director for the Michael Merton appointed 1 February 2011 year ended 31 December 2011.
Also set out below is the Sean OConnor resigned 30 April 2011 remuneration policy for the current year and, subject to David Robins resigned 2 March 2011 ongoing review, for subsequent years.
The following served as members of the Committee of The sections and tables of this Report dealing with Directors New Cape during the period ended 31 December 2011: emoluments and share interests labelled as audited have been audited by the Groups external auditors, David McManus appointed 10 June 2011  LLP.
Committee Chairman Tim Eggar appointed 10 June 2011 This report has been approved by the Board and the Michael Merton appointed 10 June 2011 Remuneration Committee referred to as the Committee Brendan Connolly appointed 16 November 2011 in this remuneration report.
Brendan Connolly stepped down as a member of the Group reorganisation Committee on his appointment as acting Chief Executive Prior to 17 June 2011, the Cape group of companies was on 29 March 2012. wholly owned by Cape plc, a company registered in England and Wales with company number 40203 Old Cape, and the Role of the Committee Ordinary Shares were traded on AIM, a market operated by The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: the London Stock Exchange.
d etermine the broad policy and elements for the On 9 May 2011, Old Cape announced details of a change remuneration of the Executive Directors: to the corporate structure of the Old Cape Group the Group.
d etermine all individual elements of the remuneration The restructuring proposals put in place a new parent of those Directors: and company for the Group, which would be Jersey-incorporated s elect and appoint any remuneration consultants and UK-listed.
The proposals were implemented by means who advise the Committee.
of a scheme of arrangement of Old Cape under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 the Scheme.
Advisors to the Committee The Committee has appointed independent remuneration Following approval by shareholders, the Scheme became consultants, New Bridge Street NBS to advise on all effective on 17 June 2011 and the Company became the aspects of senior executive remuneration.
NBS has no ultimate holding company of the Group.
Simultaneously, the other connection with the Group other than in the provision Companys Ordinary Shares were admitted to the premium of advice on executive and employee remuneration.
listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
The terms of for listed securities.
the engagement for NBS are available from the Company Secretary on request.
Aon Corporation the ultimate parent Remuneration Committee of NBS provides insurance brokering services to the Group.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations The Committee is comfortable that this relationship does not to the Board on remuneration policy as applied to Capes impair the independence of its advisors due to the internal Executive Directors and senior executives.
The full terms controls in place within Aon Corporation and through the of reference of the Committee are available on the Committees own monitoring of existing cross-relationships.
The Committee also seeks advice where appropriate from the Group Human Resources Director to ensure that the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors take due account of pay and conditions in the Group as a whole.
The Executive Directors and other senior management may attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
However, no Director takes part in any discussion directly concerning their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to theCommittee.
