04 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Business model Cape has a low risk business model where the We offer a compelling combination of services majority of Capes work is carried out under with exposure to both operating expenditure cost-plus reimbursable contracts where we and capital expenditure trends in the energy and commit only to working to a pre-agreed resources sectors.
We have leading positions in schedule of rates and where the customer onshore and offshore maintenance markets.
would usually take on the risk of cost over-runs.
Our services Our client sectors Access Oil & Gas Scaffolding enables site operators and other contractors ExxonMobil facility, Fawley UK to obtain access to all parts of an industrial plant.
This can be for routine maintenance, shutdowns, major projects or new construction.
Cape both supplies and erects scaffolding using computer-aided design where appropriate.
Increasingly Cape is able to deploy alternative access services such as rope access, system scaffold, tension netting and powered access.
Insulation The provision and application of thermal and acoustic insulation for industrial applications.
Thermal insulation is provided for temperature maintenance, personnel Utilities protection and for the conservation of heat and efficient EDF nuclear power station, Heysham UK cryogenic insulation and temperatures down to -160C.
Cape can provide heat loss calculations and evaluate savings from thermal insulation.
Cape also uses infrared equipment to enable it to undertake surveys of thermal insulation efficiency.
Specialist Coatings The provision of a complete range of coatings for a variety of structures, including petrochemical plants, refineries and offshore installations.
Cape provides surface protection and the application of coatings to prevent corrosion of bare surfaces or those to be Mineral resources insulated and clad.
Alcoa Kwinana refinery, Australia Fire Protection The application of fire protection to a variety of structures in environments ranging from the extreme weather conditions in the North Sea to onshore petrochemical and other installations exposed to fire risk.
Refractory Linings The lining of boilers, furnaces, kilns and high temperature petrochemical reactors with materials to withstand temperatures in excess of 1000C.
Cape offers design, supply and installation services to clients worldwide.
Marine Associated Services Queen Elizabeth Class Aircraft Carriers, Portsmouth In response to client needs Cape seeks to maximise Naval Base UK the range of industrial services offered.
These include industrial cleaning, fabrication of both insulation and sheet metal and, for offshore installations, the provision of an integrated deck facilities management support service including lifting and crane operations.
2011 Operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 05 Our markets International High growth international markets UK Ageing energy infrastructure Our strategy is to invest only where we can generate The stable, mature UK market supports our exposure superior returns for our shareholders.
Internationally, to both operating expenditure and capital expenditure we look to invest in markets that offer strong growth throughout the life-cycle of clients assets.
The maintenance prospects with significant exposure to capital expenditure.
market represents around half 2011: 54% of Capes total revenue.
We have seen rapid growth in our chosen international markets, with positions of scale in two of the three large Growth is driven by increasingly ageing infrastructure E&C markets downstream in the Gulf Middle East and growing client and regulatory focus on plant safety.
and Gas LNG in the Far East Pacific Rim.
Since 2008 Cape has unrivalled breadth and scale in this market.
we have seen growth of 30% in oil & gas revenues, about Our compelling bundled service offering reinforces existing half of Capes total revenues, and 67% growth in revenue high barriers to entry.
We expect, over time, construction from the minerals and mining sector.
contracts in high-growth markets to become maintenance contracts, prolonging the returns on our investment in new markets.
Cape provided services A stronghold position in on 65 major construction the power station sector presence projects in 2011. on 23 of the UKs largest 52 stations.
65 23 Market drivers Bundled Uncompromising Reputation and multi-disciplinary safety proposition track record services A typical construction project Construction projects are typically multi-year where Cape will support after ground is broken but most critically during the construction completion pre-commissioning phase.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Conceptual idea Feasibility & basis of design FEED Final investment decision EPC contract bid period EPC contract award EPC execution Pre-commissioning commissioning Start-up SIP contracts FEED Front-End Engineering & Design.
Critical phase Cape joins the project EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction.
at the pre-commissioning phase SIP Scaffolding, Insulation, Painting.
