2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 33 Conflicts of interest The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors may serve on The Annual Report is mailed to all shareholders.
The Annual the boards of other companies provided they are able to Report, together with regular trading updates, significant demonstrate satisfactory time commitment to their role as a contract wins and health and safety achievements are Director of Cape plc.
Directors are required to declare their published via a Regulatory Information Service and on directorships or other appointments to companies which are the Companys website at www.
not part of the Cape Group and which could give rise to conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is mailed to shareholders at least 20 business days prior to such meeting.
Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys which conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests Annual General Meeting at which the shareholders have an of the Group unless that conflict has been approved by the opportunity to ask any questions they may have.
Conflicts of interest are a standing item on the agenda attends this meeting and is available to answer questions from of all Board meetings.
During the year no occasion arose those shareholders present.
when a Directors appointment or situation gave rise to a conflict of interest.
The Board is satisfied that, throughout Internal control the year, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors had the The respective responsibilities of the Directors in connection necessary time available to devote to the proper performance with the Annual Report and Accounts are explained on page 41. of their duties.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Board evaluation control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is The 2011 evaluation of the Board, its Committees and designed to reduce rather than eliminate the risk of failure to individual Directors was carried out internally.
The evaluation meet business objectives and can provide only reasonable and took the form of individual interviews conducted by not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Chairman with each Director, and comprehensive questionnaires which reflected the increasing roles of The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for the Board Committees and provided all Directors with identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced an opportunity to comment on Board and Committee by the Group.
The process, including related procedures and procedures.
The results were presented to the Board in controls, is kept under regular review by the Board and January 2012, and recommendations arising from the recommendations for changes are made as appropriate.
The Directors have performed an annual assessment of A performance evaluation of the Chairman was carried out by the Groups system of internal control using the Financial the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Reporting Councils Turnbull Guidance Internal Control Director, and taking into account the views of the Executive Revised Guidance for Directors on the Corporate Governance Directors.
This assessment included review and discussion of Board papers which summarised the key elements of Relations with shareholders the Groups overall internal control system, assessed the The Company values the views of all its shareholders and robustness of those control elements, described how those recognises their interests in the Companys strategy and elements have operated to date, proposed planned performance.
Analysts and the Companys major shareholders improvements to the control environment and explained the are offered meetings with the Chairman, Chief Executive and reasons for those improvements.
In reviewing the supporting Chief Financial Officer on a regular basis to develop their Board papers and forming their view as to the effectiveness of understanding of the Company and to enable them to raise the system of internal control, the Directors took into account any concerns or issues.
The Chairman is responsible for the nature and quality of regular and annual reporting to them ensuring that all Board members are aware of the views of its during 2011 and 2012. major investors.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director held a number of meetings with institutional shareholders.
NonExecutive Directors and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet with major shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views.
