2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 23 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy for Executive Directors When comparing remuneration levels with market practice, Remuneration policy is based on the following broad theCommittee considered pay practices for similar roles principles set by the Committee: in twocomparator groups of companies: i a group of International Oil Equipment and Services companies and ii a to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract, group of International Goods and Services companies.
Both motivate and retain quality individuals: groups comprised companies of a broadly comparable size.
to align remuneration to drive the overall objectives When considering this data, the Committee was mindful of of thebusiness: working within a UK best practice framework and of the pay to align the interests of management with the interests and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
of shareholders: and to set the pay of the Executive Directors with due account The main output from this review was that certain changes taken of: i pay and conditions throughout the Group and should be made to the ongoing long-term incentive provision ii corporate governance best practice.
atthe Company, and which were approved by shareholders at a General Meeting of the Company held on 25 May 2011.
The objective of this policy is aligned with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code In addition, the Committee considered the following items as they relate to Directors remuneration.
That is to provide a of business during 2011: level of remuneration to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, Executive Directors and senior executives salary levels but avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Review of Non-Executive Directors fees As explained below, a significant proportion of Executive Annual bonus performance measures and targets for 2011 Directors remuneration is structured tolink rewards to Outturn of bonus for 2010 corporate and individual performance.
2011 long-term incentive award levels Introduction of share ownership guidelines The Committee ensures that account is taken of Introduction of a clawback mechanism to incentive plans.
environmental, social and governance ESG risks when setting remuneration and is comfortable that remuneration Fixed versus variable remuneration packages do not raise any ESG risks by motivating In order to incentivise management whilst aligning their irresponsible behaviour.
interests with those of the shareholders, a substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is performance The Committee is cognisant of its overall responsibility to related.
The table below shows the balance between fixed ensure the remuneration policy operates within a sound risk and performance related pay at target and maximum framework.
The Committee will review incentive arrangements performance levels based on the 2012 remuneration policy regularly to ensure they comply with the risk management as adopted by the Remuneration Committee from the start systems and that controls are operating effectively.
The of the current financial year.
Maximum performance assumes Committee also ensures that inappropriate operational achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of shares financial risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded under the Cape Performance Share Plan: through the Companys remuneration policies and that, instead, a sensible balance is struck between fixed and Performance related versus fixed remuneration variable pay, short and long-term incentives and cash and equity.
The Committee has access to the Audit Committee Maximum and its members to discuss any matters of risk assessment as and when required.
Target 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Activities during 2011 Basic salary Annual bonus Long-term incentive plan As part of the process for the Companys transfer on 17 June 2011 fromAIM to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, theCompany undertook a full review of its executive remuneration structures so as to ensure these structures tookdue account of market and best practice in addition toincentivising and rewarding the Executive Directors for achieving the Companys strategic goals.
These strategic goals were established with the intention of generating outstanding returns for shareholders.
