24 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors The fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
When setting these fees, due account is taken of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies, the time commitment of each Director and any additional responsibilities undertaken, such as acting as Chairman to one of the Board Committees or as Senior Independent Director.
For 2011 the basic fee for acting as a Non-Executive Director was 35,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee of 5,000 perannum is paid for being a member of a committee and 10,000 per annum is paid for chairing either the Remuneration or Audit Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in long-term incentive schemes.
Chairmans remuneration Tim Eggar, who was appointed Chairman of Old Cape on 1May 2011, and of New Cape on 4 May 2011, receives a fee of 150,000 per annum.
Further to a letter of variation dated 31August 2011, Tim Eggar has irrevocably agreed that 25% of the value before tax of his agreed fees shall be satisfied by the issue to him of Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company at a subscription price per share equivalent to the volume weighted average price of the Ordinary Shares for the five trading days preceding each quarterly payment date, with the balance to be paid in fees.
Elements of Executive remuneration The table below summarises the components of the Executive Directors remuneration.
Objective Performance period Policy Basic salary To position at a market competitive Annually Individual pay levels are determined level for similar roles within by reference to the individuals comparable companies performance, experience in post and potential Pension To provide competitive cost-effective Ongoing The policy is to provide market benefits in line with market practice competitive retirement benefits or, and to act as a retention mechanism depending on individual circumstances, and reward long service to provide a cash alternative with which the executive may make their own arrangements.
Only basic salary is pensionable Other benefits To provide competitive cost-effective Ongoing Executive Directors receive a car benefits in line with market practice allowance, private medical insurance, health insurance and life assurance Performance related To incentivise delivery of 1 year Bonus payments are based on bonus performance linked to the the achievement of specified Companys business objectives corporate and individual objectives Performance To drive long-term performance 3 years Awards are subject to stretching Share Plan linked to the Companys strategic EPS growth targets objectives, aid retention and align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders i Basic salary The salary of individual Executive Directors is reviewed with effect from 1 January each year.
Account is taken of the performance of the individual concerned, together with any change in responsibilities that may have occurred and the rates for similar roles within the appropriate comparator groups.
The Committee is also mindful of pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when setting Executive Directors salaries.
As of 1 January 2012, the following increases wereeffected: Chief Executive: 500,200 increased by 2.5% from488,000 Chief Financial Officer: 333,125 increased by 2.5% from325,000 These increases reflected the calibre of the individuals, their past and ongoing performance and were in line with the salary increases awarded tohigh performing individuals across the Group as a whole.
