2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 31 The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its own decision which specifies key aspects of the Companys affairs which the Board does not delegate.
The principal matters reserved to the Board include: authorisation of significant transactions: dividend policy: internal controls and risk management via the AuditCommittee : remuneration policy via the Remuneration Committee : shareholder circulars and listing particulars: matters relating to share capital and buy back of shares: treasury policy and commitment to new material bank facility agreements, borrowings or bonds: and appointment removal of Directors and the CompanySecretary.
The Board has established properly constituted audit, remuneration and nomination committees of the Board with formally delegated duties and responsibilities.
The Chairmen of these Committees report regularly to the Board.
In addition, the Board receives reports and recommendations from time to time on any matter which it considers significant to the Group.
Composition of the Board The following served as Directors of Old Cape throughout the period 1 January 2011 to 17 June 2011 except where otherwise indicated.
Appointment dates are also shown: Tim Eggar Chairman appointed 1 May 2011 Martin K May Chief Executive appointed 11 October 2002 Richard Bingham Chief Financial Officer appointed 1 June 2008 David McManus Non-Executive Director appointed 3 November 2004 Michael Merton Non-Executive Director appointed 10 January 2011 Sean OConnor former Chairman resigned 30 April 2011 David Robins Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director resigned 2 March 2011 The following served as Directors of New Cape throughout the period from incorporation on 19 April 2011 to 31 December 2011 except where otherwise shown: Tim Eggar Chairman appointed 4 May 2011 Martin K May Chief Executive Richard Bingham Chief Financial Officer David McManus Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director appointed 4 May 2011 Michael Merton Non-Executive Director appointed 4 May 2011 Brendan Connolly Non-Executive Director appointed 16 November 2011 On 29 March 2012, Martin K May stepped down as Chief Executive and a Director of the Company and Brendan Connolly was appointed acting Chief Executive.
Access to appropriate information The Board is supplied with information in a form and quality to enable it to take informed decisions and to discharge its duties effectively.
Directors are provided with regular detailed briefings on the Groups business, financial performance, the markets in which it operates, the overall economic and competitive environment and an analysis of the Groups actual performance against budget and the previous year.
All Directors are encouraged to challenge and make further enquiries of the Executive Directors or management, as they consider appropriate.
The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for advising the Board on governance matters, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for ensuring good information flows within the Board and the Board Committees.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, as well as access to external advice, if required, at the expense of the Group.
An agreed procedure exists for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice.
No such external advice was sought by any Director during the year.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
