2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 39 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List audited financial statements of the Group and the Company of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Business Review and future developments During the year the Group established an International The Directors present a Business Review for the 2011 financial Headquarters based in Singapore.
This comprises: Principal activities The Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3 of the Annual Cape plc is a holding company.
of itssubsidiary undertakings during the year were the The Former Chief Executives review on pages 8 and 9 provision of essential non-mechanical fabric maintenance of the Annual Report.
The range ofservices T he Regional review on pages 10 to 13 of the Annual Report.
included access systems, insulation, refractory, painting, The Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 14 to 16 coatings, blasting, industrial cleaning, training andassessment.
The five-year financial summary and key performance Principal subsidiaries and branches indicators on page 92 of the Annual Report: and Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are listed on The discussion of the risks and uncertainties facing page 91.
The Group also has branches located in Azerbaijan, the Group set out on pages 19 and 20 of the Annual Report.
Bahrain, Chile, Kazakhstan, The Netherlands, New Caledonia, Ireland, Trinidad, Tunisia and Turkmenistan.
Incorporation of the Company The Company was incorporated on 19 April 2011 under Directors indemnities theCompanies Jersey Law 1991 with Registered As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Company Number108031.
has indemnified the Directors and officers in respect of proceedings which may be brought by third parties and the Scheme of Arrangement and Admission to the London Directors and officers had the benefit of such indemnification Stock Exchange throughout the year.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor Prior to 17 June 2011, the Cape group of companies was insurance provides cover in the event that a Director or officer wholly owned by Cape plc, a company registered in England is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
and Wales with company number 40203, Old Cape, and the Ordinary Shares were traded on AIM, a market operated by A qualifying indemnity provision has also been made by Old the London Stock Exchange.
Cape and was in force throughout the financial year for the benefit of the directors of the Companys subsidiaries.
This On 9 May 2011, Old Cape announced details of a change to has been replaced by a qualifying indemnity provision made the corporate structure of Old Cape Group the Group.
The by the Company on 28 February 2012. restructuring proposals the Proposals put in place a new parent company for the Group, which is Jersey-incorporated Pre-emption rights and authority to allot and UK listed.
The Proposals were implemented by means of The Articles require that any shares issued wholly for cash a scheme of arrangement of Old Cape under Part 26 of the must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their Companies Act 2006 the Scheme, involving a reduction of existing shareholding unless authorised to the contrary by a the capital of Old Cape under section 641 of the Companies resolution of the shareholders.
Act 2006 the Reduction of Capital, and were approved by shareholders at a General Meeting of Old Cape held Purchase of own shares on 25 May 2011.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM held on 28September 2011, shareholders approved a resolution to The Group had the same business and operations after the authorise the Company to make one or more market purchases date on which the Scheme became effective the Scheme of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company up to a maximum Effective Date as the Group had before the Scheme Effective aggregate number of 11,813,356 Ordinary Shares representing Date.
The Proposals did not result in any immediate changes 10% of the Companys then issued Ordinary Share capital.
in the day-to-day operations of the business of the Group or No shares were purchased under this authority during the year.
No purchases have been made pursuant to this authority and a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew this authority On 16 June 2011, the High Court sanctioned the Scheme for a further year at the 2012 AGM.
and confirmed the associated Reduction of Capital.
Under the terms of the Scheme, all the issued Ordinary Shares of Ordinary shares of 25 pence 25pence each in Old Cape were cancelled in consideration The Companys Ordinary Shares represent approximately 100% for the issue of the same number of new Ordinary Shares of its total issued share capital.
At a meeting of the Company in Old Cape to the Company, and one Ordinary Share of every member present in person or by proxy shall, have one 25pence each in the Company was allotted to shareholders vote for every Ordinary Share of which they are the holder.
for each Ordinary Share held by them in Old Cape.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends.
On a winding-up or other return of capital, holders are entitled On 17 June 2011, the Scheme became effective and the to a share in any surplus assets pro rata to the amount paid Company became the ultimate holding company of the up on their Ordinary Shares.
The Ordinary Shares are not Group.
Simultaneously, the Companys Ordinary Shares were redeemable at the option of either the Company or the holder.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares.
40 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued plc Scheme share of 1 Scheme Share to trade creditors at the end of the year 2010: nil.
The Group The Company has only one Scheme Share in issue.
The had 49.6 million of trade payables at the end of the year Scheme Share carries two votes for every vote which the 2010: 37.0 million which represented 65 payable days 2010: 55. holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any resolution proposed during the life of Treasury policy the Scheme to engage in certain activities specified in the The Groups policy on treasury and financial risk see note 22 Companys Articles of Association.
The Scheme Share is is set by the Board and is subject to regular reporting and held on behalf of the Scheme creditors.
The main risks faced by the Group relate to foreign not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the currency risk and liquidity risk.
Companys Articles of Association without the prior consent of the holder of the Scheme Share.
The rights attaching to the A significant proportion of the Groups business is conducted Scheme Share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets overseas.
The Group is therefore subject to exchange rate are only used to settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs.
risk when translating the results and assets of its overseas The Scheme Share does not confer any right to receive a subsidiaries into GBP.
Where significant transactional distribution or any right to receive a return of surplus capital.
exchange rate risks are identified, then appropriate currency The Scheme Shareholder has the right to require the Company contracts are used to hedge these transactions.
to redeem the Scheme Share at par value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme.
Further details The Groups committed facilities all carry interest rates based are in note 27 on page 78. on LIBOR and therefore the Group is exposed to interest rate movements.
As at 31 December 2011, 23.1% of the Group Treasury shares borrowings were hedged 2010: 59.6%.
The Company currently holds no Ordinary Shares in treasury.
Substantial holdings Dividends As at 26 March 2012, the Company is aware of the following The Board is recommending the payment of a Final Dividend interests of 3% or more in the issued Ordinary Share capital of 9.5 pence per Ordinary Share 2010: 8 pence in respect of the Company: of the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
of shares % holding approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 16 May M&G Investment Management Ltd 13,085,000 11.03 2012, the Final Dividend of 9.5 pence per Ordinary Share will BlackRock Inc 7,942,831 6.70 be paid on 8 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the J. P. Morgan Asset Management 5,286,974 4.45 record date of 11 May 2012.
Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 3,991,996 3.36 Deutsche Bank 3,606,073 3.04 On 7 October 2011 the Company paid an Interim Dividend of4.5 pence per share 2010: 4 pence, making a total dividend The Company has not received notification of any other interests of 14 pence per share 2010: 12 pence in respect of the held by persons acting together which at 26 March 2012 financial year ended 31 December 2011. represented 3% or more of the issued Ordinary Sharecapital.
Annual General Meeting Going concern The AGM of Cape plc is to be held in the United Kingdom.
After a review of the Groups budget, the Directors consider The AGM is to be held at the offices of Lawrence Graham LLP, that the Group has adequate resources to continue 4 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AU, United Kingdom in operational existence for the foreseeable future and at 11.00am BST on Wednesday 16 May 2012. accordingly consider it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Further details of the AGM venue together with the details of the resolutions to be proposed are set out in a separate Independent auditors Notice of Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report The auditors,  LLP, have indicated and Accounts.
their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Property, plant and equipment Details of the movements in property, plant and equipment are By order of the Board given in note 14 to the Group financial statements on page 66.
Jeremy Gorman Charitable and political donations Company Secretary During the year the Group made charitable donations of 17,321 2010: 20,521 towards various local and national Cape plc causes.
There were no political donations 2010: nil.
47 Esplanade St Helier Supplier payment policy Jersey The supplier payment policy for Group companies is to agree JE1 0BD terms and conditions for business transactions with suppliers.
Channel Islands Suppliers are made aware of the Groups terms of payment.
13 April 2012 Payment is then made subject to these terms and conditions being met.
The Company did not have any amounts owed
