2011 Operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 21 The Board Tim Eggar Brendan Connolly Richard Bingham Non-Executive Chairman Acting Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee and None.
a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Background and relevant experience Background and relevant experience Background and relevant experience Brendan Connolly joined Cape as a Non-Executive Richard Bingham was appointed Chief Financial Tim Eggar had a distinguished parliamentary Director on 16 November 2011 and was appointed Officer CFO in June 2008.
With a background in career from 1979 to 1997 which included the key acting Chief Executive on 29 March 2012.
Brendan reorganisation and restructuring, he has previously Government appointment of Minister for Energy Connolly is currently Regional President for the held executive and non-executive roles at several from 1992 to 1996.
He has extensive international Middle East, FSU, Eastern Europe and Russia at public and privately owned companies as well experience including being Global Head of Intertek, which provides testing, inspection and as that of CFO of a national law firm.
Prior to Integrated Energy Corporate Finance at ABN certification to clients in all industry sectors.
Brendan this, Richard Bingham spent several years in AMRO, Chief Executive of Monument Oil and Gas, was previously Chief Executive Officer of Moody professional practice with .
Chairman of Harrison Lovegrove and Chairman of International which was acquired by Intertek in Indago Petroleum.
Prior to Moody International, Brendan Additional appointments was the UK Managing Director of the Sema Group Richard Bingham has no external appointments.
Additional appointments and subsequently Atos Origin, an IT integrator, for Tim Eggar is currently Chairman of 3 Legs three years, and previously spent more than 25 years Resources plc, MyCelx Technologies Corporation, of his career in the oil & gas sector with Schlumberger, the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce and in senior International roles over three continents.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of SoyuzNeftegaz and TAG Energy Additional appointments Solutions Limited, and a member of the Strategic Brendan Connolly is currently Regional President for Advisory Board of Braemar Energy Ventures.
the Middle East, FSU, Eastern Europe and Russia for Intertek.
David McManus Michael Merton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Committee membership Committee membership 2011 onwards Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Background and relevant experience Background and relevant experience David McManus was appointed as a Non-Executive Michael Merton is a Chartered Accountant with Director in 2004 and served as Non-Executive significant experience in the international resources Chairman between 2006 and 2008.
He was industry, having spent the majority of his executive appointed Senior Independent Director with effect career at Rio Tinto, where he held senior operational 10 June 2011.
David McManus was until recently roles around the world, including Head of Global Executive Vice President of Pioneer Natural Business Services from 2005 to 2009, and was a Resources, a US listed oil & gas company, with member of the Executive Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Rockhopper Exploration Additional appointments plc, Flex LNG and Caza Oil & Gas.
Prior to these Michael Merton is currently a Non-Executive appointments he was also Executive Vice President Director of BlackRock Commodities Income with BG Group where he was responsible for Investment Trust plc, a trustee of the Rio Tinto developing technical and commercial capabilities Pension Fund and the HALO Trust, and Chairman within the Company and directing assets in the of the J Sainsbury Pension Scheme.
Previously David McManus was President of ARCO Europe until ARCOs merger with BP in 2000.
Additional appointments Information on the appointment dates of the members David McManus is currently a Non-Executive Director of Capes Board is in the Corporate Governance report of Rockhopper Exploration plc, Flex LNG and Caza on page 31.
