06 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 What we do Maintenance Production Support services Cape provides essential support to clients plant maintenance and shutdown programmes.
With its unrivalled breadth and scale, Capes competing bundled service offering delivers to our clients tangible benefits of reduced supplier interface and administration costs, underpinned by rigorous safety procedures.
Business environment How we deliver A majority of Capes business derives from maintenance Maintaining large-scale production assets requires a and shutdown production support activities, at 54% service provider that can offer its clients innovative of revenues in 2011 2010: 56%.
multi-disciplined integrated solutions and enhanced reliability.
By applying principles of continuous Trends and insights improvement and innovation, we play a major role in We delivered essential maintenance and shutdown helping our clients businesses and operations maintain support services on 287 industrial assets onshore and enhance their efficiency.
and offshore in 2011 including 39 power stations, 31 oil & gas processing plants, 12 LNG and GTL plants, Cape works extensively with clients in the planning stage 39 petrochemical plants and 66 offshore sites.
In the of their shutdown and outage programmes to maximise nuclear environment we continue to provide maintenance efficiency during the process.
services at all 8 of the EDF former British Energy stations in the UK as well as comprehensive services at both The resulting peace of mind for clients is one of Capes Sellafield and the Winfrith and Harwell research sites.
key propositions, and this is enhanced further by worldclass safety performance and an international reputation for completing projects on time and within budget.
Sellafield Ltd nuclear power station 3. in Cumbria, UK 2.
BAPCO refinery in Awali, Bahrain 3.
SABIC facilities in Teesside, UK 2011 Operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 07 Construction Support services Cape provides Construction Support services to major Engineering and Construction E&C companies.
With an international reputation for the highest safety standards, Cape has the ability to deliver major projects in challenging and remote environments.
Business environment How we deliver Capes reputation for delivery of major projects in Capes involvement often begins as early as the feasibility study, where we provide expert advice and technical challenging and often remote environments to the highest international safety standards continues to set us apart support to some of the worlds largest and most respected E&C contractors.
Drawing on considerable international experience in Trends and insights We supported 65 major construction projects in 2011. the delivery of major projects, together with extensive technical resources, we work in partnership with our Projects successfully completed during the year include the Saudi Kayan project, the worlds largest ethylene plant, clients to develop a safe and reliable construction methodology, a detailed programme of work, and an where our peak manpower exceeded 1,000, and the Pearl GTL plant in Qatar where our peak manpower reached 500. accurate assessment of costs.
Clients can expect high-quality standards and projects completed on In Singapore, our workforce on the Exxon Singapore Parallel Trains SPT Olefins project reached c. 1,600.
When the time and within budget.
insulation schedule came under pressure at the Pluto LNG project in Western Australia, the EPC contractor was able to turn to Cape to provide additional resource at short notice.
Saudi Kayan project in Jubail Industrial City, 3.
Project Aurora ammonium nitrate plant in Queensland, Australia 3.
GNL3-Z LNG project in Arzew, Algeria Reproduced by permission of SABIC.
