30 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report Cape is committed to achieving high standards of business Audit Committee membership integrity, ethics and professionalism across its worldwide Code Provision C. 3.1 specifies that companies below the operations.
FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately prior to the reporting year should have an Audit Committee of at least The Board is collectively accountable to the Companys two independent Non-Executive Directors.
Cape met this shareholders for good governance to facilitate efficient and provision.
Cape became a member of the FTSE 250 index effective management in order to deliver shareholder value in September 2011.
Brendan Connolly was appointed as an over the long term, within appropriately established risk independent Non-Executive Director and as a further member parameters.
of the Audit Committee on 16 November 2011, in preparation for the extended requirement for the reporting year ending Group reorganisation 31December 2012.
During the year ending 31 December 2011 the Companys Ordinary Shares were admitted to the premium listing segment Brendan Connolly stepped down from the Companys of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
on 29March 2012 following his appointment as acting Further information concerning the reorganisation of the Group Chief Executive in place of MartinKMay.
during the year is set out in the Directors Report on page 39.
2011 AGM Confirmation of individual As a Jersey-incorporated Company with a premium listing on Directors performance the London Stock Exchange, Cape is expected to meet the Code Provision B.
7.2 requires the Board to set out to highest standards of regulation and corporate governance.
shareholders in the papers accompanying a resolution to A company with a premium listing is required by the United elect a Non-Executive Director why they believe an individual Kingdom Listing Authority to adopt the UK Corporate should be elected, and that the Chairman should confirm Governance Code the Code, regardless of whether it is to shareholders when proposing re-election that, following incorporated in the UK or elsewhere.
formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment During the period 1 January 2011 to 16 June 2011, when to the role.
Old Capes shares were traded on AIM, it was not required to comply fully with the Code.
However, during that period An internal performance review of the Board and its the Board implemented policies and procedures designed to Committees, and the effectiveness and commitment of the comply with the Code, as far as reasonably practicable and Non-Executive Directors had been carried out in November appropriate for a public company of its size and complexity.
2010 by the former Chairman of Old Cape.
As Tim Eggar and Michael Merton were only appointed to the Board of Old Cape This Corporate governance report has therefore been earlier in 2011, they had not undergone such a review at the prepared in accordance with the Code and in relation to the time of the Companys 2011 AGM held on 28 September Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Board has since carried out a formal performance 2011.
The statements set out below describe how the review of all the Non-Executive Directors and appropriate principles identified in the Code have been applied by recommendations are being made at the 2012AGM.
The role of the Board Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall As explained in the Chairmans statement on page 2, management and performance of the Group and each throughout the period from admission to a premium listing Director must act in ways which promote the long-term on 17 June 2011 to the end of the financial year 31 December success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders 2011 the Board confirms that it has complied with the as a whole.
The Board also ensures that an appropriate provisions of the Code and applied the principles of the Code balance is met between promoting the long-term growth in the same manner.
The following matters should be noted.
The Board is primarily responsible for determining strategic direction, demonstrating leadership and focusing on matters that consistently add value for the shareholders.
Its role includes reviewing and monitoring the Companys strategic objectives, budgets and commercial strategy, approval of major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure and overseeing the Groups systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
It also sets standards for monitoring environmental, health and safety performance.
