2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 25 ii Performance related bonus The maximum potential bonus payable to Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December2011 was capped at 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and100% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Performance measures, all of which were equally weighted, were based on the achievement of adjusted earnings per share EPS targets, cash flow targets and personal objectives.
For financial measures, a challenging sliding scale of targets is set around the budgeted level of performance for the year.
Performance levels are set at threshold, target and stretch.
The target level is established by reference to achieving budget performance while stretch and threshold are generally set at - 10% of budget.
With regard to personal objectives, the bonus becomes payable based on the Committees assessment of the extent to which each Executive Director met the range of targets set for them at the start of the year.
The bonuses paid to Martin K May and Richard Bingham in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 were 68% and 49% of 2011 salary respectively, reflecting a year ofrobust corporate and individual performance.
The Committee agreed the above bonus payments, which were based on partial achievement of financial metrics and partial achievement of personal goals established by the Committee.
The use of the above targets is seen as supporting the delivery of the Companys strategic goals.
In light of this, it is intended that a similar bonus structure including performance measures and the approach to target setting, will be used in 2012.
Clawback provisions During the year the Committee introduced changes to the incentive provision such that a clawback provision has been introduced into the annual bonus plan, with effect 1 January 2012, that will enable any excess bonus earned in respect of a misstatement of financial results to be reclaimed by the Company at the Committees discretion.
The ability to clawback bonuses will operate for two years following the payment of a bonus in any year.
iii Long-term incentive arrangements a The Cape Performance Share Plan PSP The Cape PSP was approved by shareholders at a General Meeting held on 25 May 2011, and replaced the Old Cape PSP which had been approved by shareholders at the Old Cape General Meeting in 2007.
The Cape PSP currently operates as the Companys sole type of executive long-term incentive arrangement.
The Cape PSP introduced certain changes to long-term incentive provision which applied from 25 May 2011 and the principal features of which are set out below.
Maximum award Executive Directors are eligible to receive an award of shares up to an equivalent of 175% of theirannual basic salary.
Under the Old Cape PSP Executive Directors were previously eligible to receive a conditional award of shares up to an equivalent of 100% of theirannual basic salary up to 200% of salary on an exceptional basis.
Performance conditions The vesting of awards made under the Old Cape PSP was subject to the achievement of a sliding scale of challenging EPS growth targets in excess of inflation over a fixed three-year period, calculated on an annually compounded basis, commencing with the financial year before that in which the award is made.
The targets that applied to awards granted under the Old Cape PSP were as follows: Annual EPS growth Percentage that vests Less than RPI 3% 0% RPI 3% 30% RPI 10% 100% Between performance points 30%100% pro rata Since awards may be granted at a higher annual quantum under the New Cape PSP, awards at a higher annual quantum will be subject to the following tougher targets at both the threshold and maximum performance levels: Annual EPS growth Percentage that vests Less than RPI 5% 0% RPI 5% 30% RPI 12% 100% Between performance points 30%100% pro rata The Committee continues to believe that the use of EPS remains an appropriate measure as it is a key indicator of the Companys underlying financial performance, it maintains a clear line of sight for Executives and is an important driver in creating shareholder value.
For these reasons the Committee will retain the use of EPS for awards to be made in the current financial year under the Cape PSP.
The Committee will seek third party confirmation of the extent to which the EPS growth targets are achieved.
