26 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Awards granted in 2008 became exercisable during 2011.
The maximum performance target was met and therefore these awards vested in full.
The Committee expects that awards granted in 2009 which will become exercisable during 2012 are likely to vest in full based on the audited adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Dilution The PSP rules provide that no more than 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company, from time to time, should be issued or be eligible to be issued when account is taken of all outstanding awards that retain the potential to vest and be satisfied through the issue of new shares under all share incentive schemes operated by the Group in any rolling ten-year period.
Currently, there is approximately 2.32% headroom available under this dilution limit.
Share ownership requirements During the year, share ownership requirements were introduced to require the Executive Directors to retain half the after tax number of vested shares from future long-term incentive awards until the share ownership guidelines are achieved Achievement of Guideline guideline as at Executive Director % of salary 31 December 2011 Martin K May 300% 131% Richard Bingham 100% 98% b Employee Incentive Plan Old Cape operated an Employee Incentive Plan EIP which allowed the Group to grant options to Executive Directors and senior employees.
The contractual life of the options was 10 years from the date of grant.
The options became exercisable on the third anniversary from the date of grant, subject to growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding an average 3% compounded annually above the growth in the consumer price index over the same period.
The remaining options granted to the Chief Executive under the EIP in 2007 were exercised in full during the year ended 31 December 2011 see below.
iv Benefits It is Company policy to provide Executive Directors with a car allowance, private medical, health and income protection insurance, and life assurance amounting to four times basic salary for the Chief Executive and three times basic salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
v Pensions Under the terms of their service agreement, Executive Directors are either entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes or to receive payment of a fixed percentage of salary.
Martin K May Chief Executive until 29 March 2012 was entitled to participate in the Companys defined contribution plan and received 15% of his basic salary, or alternatively to take a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions amounting to 15% of basic salary.
Richard Bingham Chief Financial Officer participates in the Companys defined contribution plan and receives 15% of his basic salary.
Directors service agreements, notice periods and termination payments Executive Directors The service agreement dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are as follows: Notice period Notice period Director Contract date from the Company from the Director Martin K May stood down on 29 March 2012 12 January 2012 12 months 12 months Richard Bingham 26 October 2011 12 months 12 months Richard Binghams service agreement which is a rolling agreement, is subject to standard terms in the event of termination.
Martin K Mays agreement contained a provision exercisable at the option of the Company to pay an amount on early termination of employment equal to one years salary.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, Martin K May was entitled to a cash bonus less income tax and National Insurance equal to the aggregate amount by which the value of a notional 500,000 Cape Ordinary Shares at the exit price exceeded 2.30 per Cape Ordinary Share.
This was a legacy feature of his contractual terms and there is no intention to include this type of provision in any future service agreements.
Martin May stood down as Chief Executive and as a Director of the Company on 29 March 2012.
Brendan Connolly was appointed as acting Chief Executive on 29 March 2012 at a base salary of 350,000 p. a. plus discretionary bonus.
The Nomination Committee has commenced a search for a replacement and a permanent appointment will be made in due course.
