32 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report continued Induction, training and development Annual re-election of Directors Newly appointed Directors are made aware of their Capes Articles of Association provide that newly appointed responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public limited Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first company and are provided with a formal and tailored induction Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment, programme by the Company Secretary.
This includes the and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three information pack recommended by the Institute of Chartered years.
In compliance with Code provision B.
7.1, the Board has Secretaries and Administrators, site visits and meetings with adopted a policy of annual re-election of all Board members senior management including all Board members, the Group and all Directors will be subject to election by shareholders Safety Director, the Group Human Resources Director, Director at the 2012 AGM.
of Audit Internal and the Companys auditors and stockbrokers.
Further to the performance evaluation conducted in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, the Board considers Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to participate in site that the performance of each Director standing for election visits in the furtherance of their duties.
re-election at this years AGM to be fully satisfactory and that he has demonstrated commitment to the role.
The Board balance and independence Board therefore fully supports the election re-election of the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the running Directors and recommends shareholders to vote in favour of the Board and the Executive Directors who are responsible of these resolutions.
for managing the Groups business.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separated, with clear written guidance The Non-Executive Directors are engaged under letters of to support the division of responsibilities.
appointment which will be on display at the AGM, together with the Executive Directors Service Agreements.
The The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment are Board, ensuring that all Directors are able to play a full part in terminable on one months written notice.
The Chief Financial its activities.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring all Officer is employed under a service agreement which Board members are aware of the views of its major investors, is terminable on 12 months written notice.
Following his and for ensuring that the training requirements of each Director appointment as acting Chief Executive on 29 March 2012, are met.
Brendan Connollys existing letter of appointment as a Non-Executive Director remains in place and he entered into a The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the service agreement which is terminable at one months notice.
operation and management of the Group and its business.
His role includes developing, for Board approval, an Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 21 appropriate business strategy and ensuring that the agreed of the Annual Report and Accounts.
strategy is implemented in a timely and effective manner.
The role of acting Chief Executive is similar in scope.
Senior Independent Director David Robins was the Senior Independent Director of Old At 31 December 2011, the Board consisted of the Chairman, Cape during the period 1 January 2011 to 2 March 2011. two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
David McManus was appointed as Senior Independent The Board regarded each of the three Non-Executive Director of New Cape on 10 June 2011 with effect from Directors as being fully independent in character and Admission on 17 June 2011. judgement, notwithstanding that David McManus served as Non-Executive Chairman of Old Cape between 10 July 2006 The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders to and 11 June 2008.
The Non-Executive Directors have no assist in resolving concerns which contact through the normal cross-directorships or other significant links which could channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Officer have failed to resolve, or for which such contact is judgement.
The Chairman was independent at the time of inappropriate.
No such matters of concern were raised during his appointment to that position.
The Board is satisfied that the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Senior Independent no individual or group of Directors has unfettered powers of Director is also required to lead the discussion relating to discretion and that an appropriate balance exists between the assessing the effectiveness of the Chairmans performance, Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board.
During and act as a sounding board to the other Non-Executive the year, the Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director should attend Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
sufficient meetings with the Companys major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the views of its Martin K May, stood down as Chief Executive and a Director major shareholders and report the outcome of such meetings of the Company on 29 March 2012, on which date Brendan at subsequent meetings.
Connolly was appointed as acting Chief Executive and resigned as a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
From that date, the Board consists of the Chairman, two Executive Directors, and two Non-Executive Directors.
