Our business model Rathbone Brothers Plc is a leading provider of high-quality, personalised investment and wealth management services for private clients, charities and trustees.
This includes discretionary investment management, unit trusts, tax planning, trust and company management, pension advice and banking services, employing over 750 people in 11 UK locations and in Jersey.
Investment M anagement Market Services Growth We provide investment Our discretionary investment management service accounts Referrals from existing services to: for nearly all of our business.
This service is underpinned clients, professional by robust systems and a strong investment process which intermediaries and charities private clients: provides guidance to our investment managers.
It is are the best source of professional defined by four key features: new business.
intermediaries: a direct relationship with an investment manager rather We attract investment charities: and than relying on relationship managers: managers as suitable opportunities arise.
bespoke investment portfolios that meet individual client requirements rather than model portfolios: We engage in targeted We have an offshore marketing and business presence in Jersey.
investments selected from all global markets: and development activity transparent fee arrangements.
focusing on intermediaries and charities.
Our service is complemented by our ability to offer: financial planning advice: tax and trust advice: loans to clients and payment services: ethical investment services through Rathbone Greenbank Investments: and advisory and execution only services.
Unit Trusts Market Services Growth Our unit trusts are Our range of actively managed specialist and multi asset The majority of our purchased by: unit trusts are designed to meet core investment needs.
growth is achieved Our approach is underpinned by a strong investment through professional professional philosophy and process.
Our unit trusts are managed by established and institutional investors: and experienced investment managers who provide a strong Our funds are available private clients.
breadth and depth of expertise.
across all the UKs major wrap and fund supermarket platforms.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 7
