Directors Ian Buckley Chairman Title: Head of the Trust, Tax and Pension Advisory Businesses Mark Nicholls Appointment: 21 December 2001 Age: 61 Title: Chairman Board committees: E Ri Appointment: 1 December 2010 Age: 62 Board committees: Re N Ian Buckley qualified as a chartered accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG in 1975.
He was chief executive of Smith & Williamson for ten years Mark Nicholls is a lawyer and corporate financier.
After from 1985 to 1995 and subsequently chief executive of studying law at Cambridge he took articles at Linklaters EFG Private Bank Limited and Tenon Group Plc.
He is before joining S G Warburg in 1976.
He became a director the director responsible for risk management and marketing in 1984 and head of investment banking in 1994.
In 1996 and is also chairman of the Groups IT steering committee.
he joined Royal Bank of Scotland and became head of their He is also a committee member of Family Assurance private equity group, leaving in 2003 to pursue a plural Friendly Society.
He is currently chairman of the West Bromwich Building Society and a non-executive director of Northern Paul Chavasse Investors Company PLC.
He became chairman following the Title: Chief Operating Officer AGM on 11 May 2011 and is considered to be independent.
Appointment: 26 September 2001 Age: 47 Board committees: E Ri Executive directors Andy Pomfret Title: Chief Executive Appointment: 1 August 1999 Paul Chavasse started his career working for the Age: 51 institutional fund management arm of NatWest, which was Board committees: E N Ri later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in the private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, his final role before joining the Group in 2001 was as head of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
He is currently the chief operating Andy Pomfret qualified as a chartered accountant officer responsible for the Groups investment operations, with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior IT infrastructure and facilities.
He will become head of to joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over 13 years investment management on 1 March 2012 when Richard with Kleinwort Benson as a corporate financier, venture Lanyon steps down from this role.
capitalist and latterly finance director of the investment management and private banking division.
He became Richard Lanyon chief executive in October 2004.
He is also a non-executive Title: Head of Investment Management director of Graphite Enterprise Trust plc and a director Appointment: 20 March 1996 Age: 60 of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers & Board committees: E Ri Stockbrokers APCIMS.
He chairs the Groups social and environmental committee.
Richard Lanyon started his City career with Laurence Prust, moving to Framlington Group Plc in 1986 where he was the director responsible for pension funds.
He joined the Group in 1992 to concentrate on private client discretionary investment management.
He will hand over his responsibilities as head of investment management to Paul Chavasse on 1 March 2012 and will retire from the Board at the AGM on 10 May 2012.
He will remain with Rathbones as an investment director, managing his clients portfolios.
38 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 Directors continued Andrew Morris Board committees A Audit Committee The principal Board committees are Details of its work are set out in the Title: Head of Investment Management the executive, audit, remuneration, audit committee report on page 59.
Liverpool and other Northern Offices nomination and risk management Appointment: 1 November 2000 Current members committees.
The Board has delegated Age: 47 Oliver Corbett chairman full authority to the executive Board committees: None Kate Avery committee, subject to a list of matters Caroline Burton which are reserved for decision by David Harrel the full Board.
The other Board Kathryn Matthews committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and Re Remuneration Committee Andrew Morris has spent his entire working career at approved by the Board on an annual Full details of its role are set out in the Rathbones in private client investment management.
These are available on request remuneration report on page 49. from the Companys registered office chairman of the Groups business continuity and training Current members and on the Company website.
Caroline Burton chairman and competence committees and manages a large number E Executive Committee Kate Avery of client portfolios.
The purpose of the executive Oliver Corbett committee is to monitor every David Harrel aspect of the Group businesses Kathryn Matthews Richard Smeeton on a continuing basis and to analyse Mark Nicholls Title: Head of Investment Management and plan all business proposals N Nomination Committee London and Jersey in detail for submission to and Full details of its role are set out in Appointment: 1 November 2000 consideration by the Board.
The the nomination committee report on Age: 47 executive committee meets monthly page 61.
Board committees: None and more frequently when required.
Current members Current members Mark Nicholls chairman Andy Pomfret chairman Kate Avery Ian Buckley Caroline Burton Paul Chavasse Oliver Corbett Richard Smeeton trained with County Bank and joined Richard Lanyon David Harrel Paul Stockton Laurence Keen in 1988 prior to its acquisition by Rathbones Kathryn Matthews Andy Pomfret in 1995.
He sits on a number of the Groups management and investment committees and also manages a large number Ri Risk Management Committee Full details of its role are set out in the of client portfolios.
risk management report on page 23.
Current director members Paul Stockton Ian Buckley chairman Paul Chavasse Title: Finance Director Oliver Corbett Appointment: 24 September 2008 Richard Lanyon Age: 46 Kathryn Matthews Board committees: E Ri Andy Pomfret Paul Stockton Kathryn Matthews will become chairman of the committee on 1 March 2012 Paul Stockton qualified as a chartered accountant with  in 1992.
In 1999 he joined Old Mutual Plc as group financial controller, becoming director of finance in 2001 and finance director of Gerrard Limited eight months later.
Following the sale of Gerrard to Barclays in 2003, he left in 2005 and has since worked for Euroclear in Brussels and as a division finance director of the Pearl Group.
He joined Rathbones in August 2008 and is also a non-executive director of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 39 Directors continued Caroline Burton Non-executive directors Title: Non-Executive Director Independent David Harrel Appointment: 1 November 2003 Age: 62 Title: Senior Independent Director Board committees: A Re N Appointment: 1 December 2007 Age: 63 Board committees: A Re N Caroline Burton is a highly experienced figure within the asset management industry.
She spent 26 years with Guardian Royal Exchange Plc, where she was executive David Harrel was one of the founding partners of director in charge of investments from 1990 until 1999.
S J Berwin LLP in 1982, and was made senior partner She was also a director of The Scottish Metropolitan in 1992.
He relinquished this role in 2006 and is now Property Plc until June 2000 and was a member of the a consultant to the firm.
David has a variety of other service authority for the National Crime Squad and National appointments.
He is non-executive chairman of Criminal Intelligence Service until March 2006.
She is a Savile Group Plc and CPA Global Limited, a member non-executive director of TR Property Investment Trust Plc, of the board of the English National Opera and a trustee LV Friendly Society and BlackRock Smaller Companies of the Clore Duffield Foundation.
She is chairman of the remuneration committee.
Kate Avery Oliver Corbett Title: Non-Executive Director Title: Non-Executive Director Independent Independent Appointment: 6 January 2010 Appointment: 7 March 2006 Age: 52 Age: 47 Board committees: A Re N Board committees: A Re Ri N Kate Avery began her career with Barclays Plc, where she Oliver Corbett is group finance director of Novae Group plc.
worked for some eighteen years, becoming managing director He is a chartered accountant and worked for S G Warburg, of Barclays Bank Trust Company and Barclays Stockbrokers.
Phoenix Securities later Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette and She subsequently joined Legal and General Group Plc and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, where he was managing served on its main board for eight years until January 2009, director of investment banking, before joining Novae Group latterly as group executive director for wealth management.
He is chairman of the audit committee.
She also served as a non-executive director with Kelda Group plc until its sale to an infrastructure fund in 2008.
She is Kathryn Matthews currently chairman of Openwork Holdings Limited and is a Title: Non-Executive Director non-executive director of the Newcastle Building Society.
Independent Appointment: 6 January 2010 Age: 52 Board committees: A Re Ri N Kathryn Matthews has spent her entire career in investment management, most recently as chief investment officer, Asia Pacific ex Japan for Fidelity International.
Prior to that, she held senior appointments with William M Mercer, AXA Investment Managers, Santander Global Advisers and Baring Asset Management.
She is a non-executive director of a number of companies including Hermes Fund Managers Limited, Aperam S. A. Fidelity Asian Values Plc, Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc and J P Morgan Chinese Investment Trust Plc.
She is to chair the risk management committee with effect from 1 March 2012.
40 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011
