12 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth 1 Total UK BPO market p. a Turnover by market Maintaining a strong Targeting growth competitive position Today 8.1bn Turnover by market Public sector 48% Private sector 52% markets We lead and shape the BPO market % of Group revenue % of Group revenue Public sector 28% in the UK by continually developing 2011 2010 2011 2010 1 Capita primarily focuses on Private sector 72% our outsourcing offering and by 1.
Life and pensions 19 18 2 business process outsourcing maintaining an excellent track record 2.
Insurance 6 7 opportunities and professional of service delivery with a strong set of 3.
Financial services 5 5 2 Total potential UK BPO market p. a satisfied clients.
We respond to support services in the UK and 4.
Other corporates 22 20 10 Potential 117bn clients specified requirements but 5.
Our turnover is always seek to share our expertise by 6.
Transport 2 2 9 currently derived 52:48 from recommending alternative service 3 the private and public sectors models that deliver even greater 1 8 Turnover by market Public sector 48% Private sector 52% where there are significant added value to their operations and 8.1bn % of Group revenue % of Group revenue enhance effectiveness and opportunities for growth across currently outsourced 4 2011 2010 2011 2010 1 competitiveness.
Life and pensions 19 18 2010: 7.8bn 6 7 2 Our clients are highly selective and 2.
Insurance 6 7 seek an outsourcing partner that has 3.
Financial services 5 5 Turnover by market Public sector 48% Private sector 52% the financial strength and stability to 4.
Other corporates 22 20 10 deliver large scale, complex activities % of Group revenue % of Group revenue 5.
Emergency services 3 2011 2010 2011 2010 over a long term partnership.
Transport 2 2 9 experience, skill base and extensive 1.
Life and pensions 19 18 3 2 operational and technical 117bn 2.
Insurance 6 7 8 infrastructure position us strongly.
Financial services 5 5 We have a detailed knowledge of the 4.
Other corporates 22 20 10 4 markets in which we operate: and 5.
Emergency services 3 5 our management team is highly 6 7 6.
Transport 2 2 9 accessible and swift to respond to 3 our clients needs.
8 Competitor rankings UK BPO market Market share 4 1 2 2011 2010 5 6 1.
indd 12 12 03 2012 21:05 Capita plc Business review 13 Generating & supporting growth Private sector Commercial Public sector The ongoing pressure Growth potential Expanding our international Drivers for outsourcing organisations are facing continued to reduce budgets whilst maintaining reach in 2011 Independent industry analyst, IDC, In the current economic climate, pressure to maintain their competitive frontline services is creating a steady estimates that the total market for where organisations are facing In 2011, we have established an office 1 position by driving down operational pipeline of opportunities in the public BPO in the UK was 8.1bn in 2011 difficult decisions about how best to in Continental Europe, in Krakow, 2 costs and introducing new products to sector, particularly across local against market potential of 117bn allocate resources to protect their Poland, for both existing and new market faster, whilst maintaining high government and increasingly in a year.
The capacity for long term frontline activities and long term clients across life and pensions and levels of customer service.
The 2011 Open growth is therefore substantial as sustainability, outsourcing is seen as the wider financial services market.
Public Services White Paper confirms Organisations can clearly benefit from organisations become increasingly an essential part of a cost efficient We are actively pursuing opportunities the Governments commitment to the higher productivity, enhanced aware of the benefits that outsourcing operating model.
in these areas and we are already reform and open service provision to a operational capabilities and flexible can deliver, particularly in the current seeing a good level of interest.
We By moving from in-house service wide range of suppliers.
They are also capacity that an experienced economic climate.
We remain the estimate that there are circa 500m life provision to a specialist third party exploring a spectrum of engagement outsourcing partner can provide.
clear leader in the overall UK BPO and pensions policies in force in provider, government and commercial 1 models, such as joint ventures, We saw sales activity pick up in 2011 market with 23% market share Continental Europe with entities can benefit from economies mutuals and other employee following the delay in decisions 2010: 23%.
Our nearest competitor an addressable spend of 18bn per of scale and flexible delivery options 1 ownership and cooperative models.
experienced in 2009 and 2010 and is reported to have 4% market share.
Costs of administration are that fit their service requirements, we expect to see continued activity We have a strong track record of some two times higher than in the There are significant drivers for enabling them to focus on their core in 2012. developing bespoke service delivery UK, demonstrating significant outsourcing across all our chosen activities.
models that meet the needs of our potential for us to replicate our Several of our recent acquisitions bring markets.
With our wealth of experience of clients and the current and future business model and expertise in with them high level relationships transforming processes, people expectations of the public.
across a wide range of industries management and effective ICT, including retail, utilities and telecoms together with our flexible delivery and we are actively looking to grow network, we are well positioned in these relationships.
With our wealth of experience, capabilities and scale, we are well positioned to win business and deliver value to clients across our 10 growing markets.
Maggi Bell Business Development Director 014881 AR11 p10-30.
indd 13 12 03 2012 21:05 14 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Targeting growth areas 1 2 3 4 5 3 Central government Local government Education Health Emergency services 9% of Group revenue 18% of Group revenue 11% of Group revenue 5% of Group revenue 3% of Group revenue 2010: 9% 2010: 20% 2010: 15% 2010: 4% 2010: N A Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Government required to reduce Funding to councils is to be reduced Requirement to respond quickly to NHS organisations need to make Need to protect frontline services administration spend by by approximately 7% per annum for changing legislation and up to 20bn of efficiency savings while delivering significant cost approximately 6bn a year by the next three years October 2010 Government initiatives by 2015 savings 1 2014-2015.
Total administrative Comprehensive Spending Review Increasing competition between As the Governments guidelines for Back office spend in policing spend estimated at 23bn in To date, less than 10% of the 468 higher education institutions creates reform become clearer, estimated at 2.7bn with 20% 2 2009 10 UK local authorities, have a role for outsourcing expertise and opportunities are expected to budget cuts targeted by 2015 Few central government undertaken significant outsourcing shared back office services emerge for the private sector to Regional collaboration police departments have to date support and partner with NHS Increasing recognition of the Need to make full use of technology forces recognising the benefits of outsourced wider services such as organisations in the delivery of benefits of shared service to support informed decision shared service infrastructure and customer, HR or financial non-clinical services infrastructures which bring together making and effective learning and procurement of technology to administration services public services in a more school improvement Health expenditure in 2011 was deliver significant savings 2 Legislation and other policy initiatives co-ordinated, cost efficient way estimated at 121bn.
The Delegation of funding from local Potential to enhance frontline likely to offer opportunities for addressable spend on the type of Greater responsibility for spending authorities to schools likely to services through adoption of mobile greater private sector involvement in administration support services that and service procurement to be create opportunities for private technology and innovation.
public service delivery Capita can deliver is estimated to be transferred from central to local sector involvement See case study on page 15 between 10bn and 15bn Evidence from other sectors, level allowing authorities to play a Expansion of the Academies including local authorities, that BPO greater role in shaping efficient, Opportunity to provide programme providing greater and new models of public service accessible services commissioning support to NHS outsourcing opportunities in areas delivery can achieve more for less organisations as they implement Changing role of local authorities such as HR, finance and ICT Government changes Access to skills and technology that continued shift from role as direct Significant potential to increase our can guarantee savings both upfront provider towards being The requirement to drive down presence in the international and and for the longer term commissioner of services.
sickness absence and improve staff independent school markets.
See case study on pages 48 and 49 Government committed to opening up competition on existing IT contracts and to shorter, more efficient procurement timelines.
2 HM Treasury, Public Expenditure Statistical See case study on page 23 Analyses 2011.
3 Emergency services now shown separately was previously reported under local government.
indd 14 12 03 2012 21:05 New market Capita plc Business review 15 Generating & supporting growth Entering the emergency services market Supporting the frontline UK emergency services are under pressure to turn The facts government policy into real results for citizens, Capita provides a solution delivering effective and efficient services in the face of that matches the process of reduced funding.
With the Capita entered the market to support emergency growing and successful services in December 2010 with the acquisition of partnership, Nottinghamshire SunGard Public Sector, a supplier of ICT, radio Police has a mobile data We manage over 40% of the network services and communication systems.
radio terminals used by the platform that realises Since then weve consolidated our position with police and 100% of those used the acquisitions of Tribal advisory services, Beat substantial benefits for our by the UK ambulance trusts Systems secure mobile data solutions, and Cedar HR frontline officers and enables a leading provider of HR management software cashable savings.
Richard Hitch IT Project Manager, We now handle ICT, HR, payroll, pensions, duty Nottinghamshire Police 2.7bn management and estate management for 2.7bn is currently spent on organisations across the emergency services sector.
We are now able to offer the back office police services in We supply ICT products and services to 52 of the 53 emergency services an end to the UK, and with 20% budget UK police forces, and the only police specific ERP and cuts targeted by 2015, the end back office solution with duty management solution in the UK.
Capita also pipeline of outsourcing real opportunities to drive down supplies the leading secure mobile data system in use opportunities looks set to increase costs, improve services to in the police service, the Home Office and other criminal justice organisations.
We manage over 40% citizens and accelerate their of the radio terminals used by the police and 100% of transformational journey.
those used by UK ambulance trusts.
We deliver Craig Rodgerson CEO Capita Secure integrated criminal justice solutions to more than Information Solutions 50% of UK police forces, and we are a leading supplier of fully integrated, collaborative digital interview recording and asset management solutions.
Capita delivers integrated criminal justice solutions to more than 50% of UK police forces 014881 AR11 p10-30.
indd 15 12 03 2012 21:05 16 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Targeting growth areas continued 6 7 8 9 10 Transport Life and pensions Insurance Financial services Other corporates 2% of Group revenue 19% of Group revenue 6% of Group revenue 5% of Group revenue 22% of Group revenue 2010: 2% 2010: 18% 2010: 7% 2010: 5% 2010: 20% Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Drivers for outsourcing Opportunities to support the Ongoing pressure on life and Need to provide claims processing Increasing burden on back office Increased competition creating Governments 8bn programme of pensions providers to reduce and comprehensive, quality processes due to the financial crisis pressure on organisations to reduce investment in the UK rail network operating and administration costs customer service at lower driving regulatory and compliance administrative costs and improve to maintain competitive positions operational cost and embrace new change, such as the Markets in service levels Continued squeeze on public sector technology Financial Instruments Directive spending prompting local We estimate there are circa 104m Pressure on investment and authorities to increase managed life and pensions policies in force in Higher frequency of severe weather Need to reduce risks and costs research budgets, despite services in highway maintenance the UK of which around 52m have events in UK prompting an increase associated with regulatory change undiminished requirement for and outsource CCTV monitoring not yet been outsourced in claims need for organisations to creates increased potential for value development to maintain services offset this with cost savings added outsourcing propositions competitiveness There are 29m members in group Highway maintenance contracts pension schemes and third party The Lloyds of London Claims Need for financial organisations to Growing recognition of outsourced being re-formed within many local administration is actively embraced Transformation Programme may offer greater flexibility and enhance expertise as a way of improving authorities, creating opportunities in this market sector result in new claims handling competitiveness customer service and satisfaction to forge links with major contractors models Providers seeking assistance to Focus on customer retention and Drive to optimise organisations Increased number of civil respond to and share associated The forthcoming Solvency II regime innovative ways to improve the own corporate services engineering consultancy projects costs of increasingly complex may lead to some firms adjusting customer experience creates Increased regulatory and legislative in India and various parts of Asia legislation their portfolios and moving away opportunities for outsourced requirements.
from some capital intensive lines of expertise Acknowledgement of the cost See case study on page 26 business giving rise to more run-offs benefits offered by commonality New market entrants looking for or portfolio transfers across shared delivery platforms low risk scalable models that can Need to improve management of enable them to rapidly take Significant potential in Europe with claims costs, particularly by advantage of changing market an estimated 500m policies in force preventing fraud and leakage.
and the cost of administration around two times higher than in the UK.
