Capita plc Governance 63 Corporate governance Board independence The report recognised the robustness of the governance process within the Board, and the strength of the dynamics that exists between strategic challenge Non-Executive Directors are required to be independent in character and and strategic focus amongst Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
All relationships that may materially interfere with this judgement are disclosed as required under the conflicts of interest policy.
The Board has The results of the evaluation were very positive and the final report was determined that all the Non-Executive Directors, except Paddy Doyle, who presented without amendment to the Board.
served during the year were independent and before and upon appointment as Consideration of the Board balance is kept under regular review by the Chairman Chairman, Martin Bolland met the criteria of independence as outlined in the and Chief Executive.
The Board all support the value and continuity Paddy brings and will The use of an external evaluator for the Board evaluation is reviewed annually.
continue to bring to the Board until his retirement at the end of March 2012.
Company Secretary The Board is satisfied that there are no compromises to the independence of the Non-Executives and that no conflict of interest exists for any Director.
This All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters relating to matter is a standing agenda item.
their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various committees of the Board at the Groups expense.
Board Directors inductions and training The Company Secretary, Gordon Hurst, who is also the Group Finance Director, Following appointment to the Board all new Directors receive an induction is available to all Directors and he is responsible for ensuring that all Board tailored to their individual requirements.
They are encouraged to meet and be procedures are complied with.
As with the Board composition and ongoing briefed on the roles of key people across the Group and have open access to all requirements, this is regularly reviewed.
business areas and employees to build up an appropriate level of knowledge of The duties of the Company Secretary continue to grow with the increase in size the business that extends beyond formal papers and presentations to the Board.
and diversity of the Groups activities and legislative changes.
All Directors have received an appropriate induction for their roles within Capita.
These have included familiarisation with: To assist in this area, the Deputy Company Secretary coordinates and manages the provision of share registration, company secretarial services and share plans terms of reference for all committees and matters reserved for the Board to the Group on behalf of Gordon Hurst.
The Deputy Company Secretary has overviews of the business via Management Operations Business MOB reports direct access and responsibility to the Chairmen of the standing committees and the Group approach to risk management.
open access to all the Directors.
The Deputy Company Secretary has been Following the appointment of Vic Gysin and Andy Parker to the Board in January appointed as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 2011, training was given in respect of their roles and responsibilities as Executive Committees to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest.
The Board continues to keep the Company Secretary role under review, but feels Ongoing training and briefings are also given to all Directors, including external that the combination of the roles continues to work well for the business as a whole.
Board evaluation During October 2011, the Board evaluation process was carried out by means of a questionnaire requiring written responses from the Directors.
To ensure independence and objectivity, the questionnaire was conceived, administered and reviewed on a confidential basis by the Deputy Company Secretary.
The resultant report, analysing responses and drawing anonymous conclusions, was sent to each Director for consideration at the October Board meeting.
The Chairman also met with each Board member individually to discuss the performance of the Board and also discussed and agreed the format of the Board evaluation with the Senior Independent Director.
