64 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance Committees terms of reference Nomination Committee The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees The Nomination Committee in 2011 comprised Martin Bolland Committee were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are summarised in the Chairman, Nigel Wilson, Martina King, Paddy Doyle and Paul Bowtell.
The table below and displayed in full in the investor centre at www.
co. uk Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and is available investors along with the matters reserved for the Board.
to assist the members of the Committee as required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed accordingly.
The Committee is also Nomination Remuneration authorised under its terms of reference to obtain the advice of independent Terms of reference Committee Audit Committee Committee search consultants.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee can Brief description of Reviews composition Reviews accounting Sets the policy for be found on the Groups website at www.
policies and the Executive Directors Recommends contents of financial and senior executives The Committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to appointment of new reports.
The Committees key responsibilities are: Directors.
Considers internal control Approves individual succession plans for environment.
remuneration to identify and nominate appropriate candidates for appointment to the Group Chairman and Considers the awards.
Agrees Board, having due regard to the provisions of the Code and, in particular, the Executive positions.
adequacy and scope changes to senior balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the diversity of Monitors corporate of the external and executive incentive its composition: governance issues.
Approves the The Group Diversity programme.
policy on to keep the structure and size of the Group Board and the leadership needs of statement is reviewed Oversees the remuneration for FSA the organisation under review and ensure that plans are in place for the orderly and recommended relationship with our regulated firms and succession of appointment to the Board: and by this committee.
also reviews and Monitors risk profile approves the to review the time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors, the and obtains Remuneration Policy performance of Directors and all declarations of interest made by Group Board assurance that Statement in respect members.
principal risks have of the FSA been properly Remuneration Code.
Committee activities during 2011 identified and appropriately During the year Vic Gysin and Andy Parker were appointed to the Group Board managed.
Prior to recommending the appointments for approval, the Committee conducted a rigorous review of the size and structure of the Membership of the committees Board and the balance and range of its Directors knowledge and experience.
Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the year is During the year the Nomination Committee has also considered the succession shown below: planning for the Board more generally.
Martin Martina Nigel Paul Paddy Given that all Directors except Paddy Doyle will be retiring at the Annual Bolland King Wilson Bowtell Doyle General Meeting the performance of all Directors, their interests and any Nomination C x x x x x potential conflicts of interest declared to the Company were reviewed.
Audit x x C x The Committee considered many issues, such as length of service and conflicts Remuneration C x x x of interest, and how these may have an impact on the independence of the Non-Executives.
C Chairman The time committed by the Non-Executives was also considered and this Paddy Doyle is not independent and therefore is only appointed to the remained appropriate to ensure that each discharged their duties and Nomination Committee, but he is available to the Audit and Remuneration responsibilities effectively.
