Capita plc Governance 69 Corporate governance Business Review and principal activities by fostering talent throughout the business can the Company expect to achieve Other statutory further diversity in senior management and on boards.
Capita established a Business Review network of diversity champions across the Group in 2008 and the Companys and regulatory The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of training and mentoring initiatives actively support the fostering of talent at all the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and of the position information levels in the business across the Companys diverse workforce.
The Board and of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal senior management teams across Capita are fully committed to continuing to risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business Review.
The foster talent and support those people from all backgrounds who wish to purpose of the Business Review is to enable shareholders to assess how the progress.
However, the Company will also continue to appoint and promote Directors have performed their duty under Section 172 of the Companies Act people on merit and in line with the skills and attributes identified for each post, 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils including those identified by the Nominations Committee for the Board.
the requirements of the Business Review can be found in pages 1 to 56.
Details of Social and environmental responsibility the Groups business goal, strategy and model are on pages 2 to 5 and 11.
Details of how the Group manages its social and environmental responsibilities Events after the Balance Sheet date can be found on pages 45 to 56 and at www.
The Board agreed with Paddy Doyles wish to retire and step down from the Group activities Board at the end of March 2012.
Capita is the leading UK provider of business process outsourcing solutions and Appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors professional support services to organisations across the public and private Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the Articles of sectors.
The Groups 10 chosen markets are: in the public sector central Association of the Company and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. government, local government, education, health, emergency services and All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after transport, and in the private sector life and pensions, insurance, financial their appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than three years in services and other corporates.
accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association.
However, On behalf of its clients, Capita aims to improve service quality, reduce costs of all Directors except Paddy Doyle will retire and will offer themselves for service delivery and enables clients to transform the way that they deliver re-election at the Annual General Meeting in May, in accordance with the Code services to their customers.
The services that Capita provides are essential to the provision B.
7.1. smooth running and success of its clients operations.
Capita designs, successfully No person, other than a Director retiring at the meeting, shall be appointed or implements and manages tailored service solutions, ranging across re-appointed a Director of the Company at any General Meeting unless he she is administration, information technology, financial, human resources, property recommended by the Directors.
Capita maintains leading positions in the majority of its markets due to its scale and ability to draw on this wide base of No person, other than a Director retiring at a General Meeting as set out above, professional services, detailed market knowledge and extensive business process shall be appointed or re-appointed unless between seven and 35 days notice, transformation and change management skills.
executed by a member qualified to vote on the appointment or re-appointment, has been given to the Company of the intention to propose that person for A review of the development of the Group and its business activities during the appointment or re-appointment, together with notice executed by that person year is contained in the Business Review on pages 1 to 56.
Our divisional of his her willingness to be appointed or re-appointed.
operations and financial performance are detailed on pages 35 to 44.
In January 2011, the Board decided to reorganise the Groups divisions to reflect Board diversity the growth of the Group and provide greater transparency.
From January 2011, Regarding the continuing debate on the topic of diversity on boards and in the Groups principal activities are managed through nine operating divisions.
particular whether prescribed quotas regarding women on boards are preferable Additionally a Divisional Executive Management Team was created with or not, approaching 20% of our senior management team and 20% of our Board representation from the heads of the nine divisions, and the head of Group in 2011 were women.
Capita sees significant business benefit in having access to acquisitions, head of strategic sales development and two Senior Divisional the diversity of thinking that comes from people with a wide range of Finance Directors.
backgrounds at all levels in the Company.
Only by encouraging this diversity and 014881 AR11 p60-86.
indd 69 12 03 2012 21:14 70 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance Profits and dividends Voting rights and share capital The Group underlying profit before taxation amounted to 385.2m On 17 February 2012 the Company had received notifications that the following 2010: 364.2m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 21.4p share were interested in accordance with DTR5: 2010: 13.4p per share to be paid on 28 May 2012 to ordinary shareholders on % of Voting the Register on 20 April 2012.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 21.4p per Rights as at share 2010: 20.0p per share.
Number of 17 February Number of Number of Shareholder shares 2012 shares direct shares indirect The employee benefit trust has waived its right to receive a dividend on the BlackRock Inc 32,380,092 5.28 32,380,092 shares being held within the Trust.
Capital Research and Conflicts policy Management Company 56,167,933 9.16 Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors are under an obligation to avoid Invesco Limited 122,463,959 19.96 122,463,959 situations in which their interests can or do conflict, or may possibly conflict, Legal & General with those of the company.
In response to the conflicts of interest provisions, a Group Plc 23,086,079 3.76 19,663,063 3,423,016 comprehensive project was undertaken in 2008 to identify and disclose any conflicts of interest that have arisen or may arise across Capita.
Procedures were This figure includes a Contract For Difference CFD for 1,108,828 shares.
implemented for evaluating and managing conflicts that have been identified in 1 At 17 February 2012, 627,638,789 ordinary shares of 2 p each have been issued 15 a way that ensures that decisions are not compromised by a conflicted Director.
and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
14,199,984 In addition, the Companys Articles of Association give the Board the power to shares are held in treasury and the total voting rights equates to 613,438,805. authorise matters that give rise to actual or potential conflicts.
The Board reports During the year ended 31 December 2011, options were exercised pursuant to annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 152,415 new authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have ordinary shares.
8,679 shares have been allotted under these schemes since the been followed.
A policy for ongoing identification and disclosure of conflicts is in end of the financial year to the date of this report.
0.82% of the issued share place and is kept under regular review.
capital is held within an employee benefit trust for the use of satisfying The Board has authorised the conflict of Gordon Hurst being a trustee of both employee share options.
the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Capita Group Money The share price at 31 December 2011 was 628.5p.
The highest share price in the Purchase Scheme, and gave specific guidance on this conflict going forward.
period was 786.5p and the lowest was 611.5p.
Gordon Hurst did not participate in the discussion or vote on the guidance given.
The Company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own issued No other conflicts of interest declared were material to the Board.
All conflicts of share capital at the Annual General Meeting in May 2011.
During the year the interest are reviewed on an annual basis by the Board and are revisited as part of Company did not purchase any shares 2010: 15,403,930. the year-end process by the Directors.
None of the Directors of the Company had a material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings, other than their contracts of employment.
indd 70 12 03 2012 21:14 Capita plc Governance 71 Corporate governance Going concern Employee involvement The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Capita is committed to involving all employees in the performance and development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on development of the Group.
Its approach to employee development offers pages 1 to 56.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 35 to 37.
The Group supports employees through a comprehensive range 26 to the financial statements on page 113 includes the Groups objectives, of key business and management skills and personal development programmes policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management through the Capita Academy and Capita Manager Academy.
At the same time objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its our businesses provide business specific training for all employees relevant to exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In addition the Group supports the achievement of professional qualifications including a range of National Vocational Qualifications.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long term contracts with a wide range of public and private sector clients and suppliers.
As The Group encourages all of its employees to participate fully in the business a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group through: frequent business risk successfully.
email notices: internal notice board statements: the Group employee intranet, Capita Connections, and regular email updates on business performance from After making enquiries, and in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and both Divisional and Group Directors.
Capita Connections enables employees to Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, the Directors have manage their work more efficiently and to share information within and a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate between business units and employees are encouraged to contribute news, resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group maintains a strong communications network Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and employees are encouraged, through its open door policy, to discuss with Annual Report and Accounts.
management matters of interest to the employee and subjects affecting Disabled persons day-to-day operations of the Group.
It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for Capita has an established employee share plan designed to promote employee employment of disabled persons and to ensure that any reasonable adjustments share ownership and to give employees the opportunity to participate in the are made to either workplace or job content to accommodate a persons future success of the Group.
In keeping with its belief that employees are the disabilities.
Disabled employees are eligible to participate in all career Groups most valuable asset, the Group operates employee awards schemes development opportunities available to employees and will be supported to do both at Group and Divisional level.
These celebrate the core values that embody so.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled to the organisation and reward employees for service excellence, teamwork, continue in their employment with any reasonable adjustments being made or leadership, cost saving and efficiency and charitable support and community to be retrained for other positions in the Group.
Payment of suppliers The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers contract terms.
In 2011 the Company had an average of 41 days purchases 2010: 41 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
indd 71 12 03 2012 21:14 72 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance Charitable and political donations The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency risk, except in respect of its overseas operations in India, which generates exposure to During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.5m 2010: 0.7m.
No movements in the Indian Rupee exchange rate.
The Group seeks to mitigate the political contributions were made.
Further details of the Groups charitable effect of this exposure by entering forward currency instruments, in the form of donations and work within the community can be found on page 56 and at non-deliverable forward contracts, to fix the sterling cost of highly probable www.
co. uk sustainability forecast transactions denominated in Indian Rupees.
Further details of the Financial instruments Groups financial instruments can be found in note 26 to the consolidated The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, bank loans, finance financial statements on pages 113 to 118. leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of these is to raise funds for the Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors Groups operations.
In addition various other financial instruments such as trade Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are under an obligation to disclose creditors and trade debtors arise directly from its operations.
From time to time, any indemnities which are in force in favour of their directors.
The current the Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in favour of the currency swaps and forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to Directors of the Company which indemnifies them in respect of certain liabilities manage interest risk and currency risk, arising from the Groups operations and and costs that they might incur in the execution of their duties as Directors.
Copies of the relevant extract from the Articles of Association are available for The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate risk, inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
on any weekday and will be available at the venue of the 2012 Annual General The Group borrows in selected currencies at fixed and floating rates of interest Meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
and makes use of interest rate swaps and currency swaps to generate the desired Powers of Directors interest profile and to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who are subject In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance between to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Association of the continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of multiple sources of Company and to any Directions given by special resolution, including the funding including bonds, bank loans, loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts, Companys power to repurchase its own shares.
over a broad spread of maturities.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special In respect of credit risk, the Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy resolution of the Companys shareholders.
It is the Groups policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable Change of control balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions in relation to a change of exposure to bad debt is not significant.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance such as cash, financial investments and derivative instruments, the Groups conditions at that time.
exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty.
The Group Capita has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banks and other manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of counterparty risk financial institutions.
Capitas bank debt contains a change of control provision and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek assurance from the under which the banks may require immediate repayment in full on change of counterparties to ensure that they can fulfil their obligations.
The bonds issued by Capita contain a change of control provision which requires the Group to offer to prepay the bonds in full if a change of control event occurs and Capita does not obtain an investment grade credit rating.
There are no other significant contracts in place that would take effect, alter or terminate on the change of control of the Company.
