Capita plc Business review 27 Generating & supporting growth We achieve this by continuously We track employee retention as one Harnessing talent and leadership Effective integration Building our investing in and developing our of our key performance indicators and and transformation Our people are critical to our success.
services and products, our continue to maintain levels in line with We need to have the right skills in capability and scale Successfully managing large-scale infrastructure and our people and by the industry.
Our retention rate for place so that we can continue to employee transfers is one of our The strength of our offering is a acquiring small to medium sized managers across the Group was 95% deliver high quality services for our strengths.
This is an extremely companies which add value to our 2010: 84%.
Our overall employee result of our proactive clients and plan for long term growth.
complex and sensitive process and propositions.
We harness the retention rate was 89% 2010: 83%.
development of the Groups our experienced HR integration team Attracting, developing and retaining a extensive skills and resources that we Succession planning is a key element consult with the client and potential capability and infrastructure highly skilled workforce helps to drive have internally across the Group and of our strategy, ensuring that we have transferees throughout the whole our business performance.
By ensuring that we have the right work with partners, SMEs and third the appropriate resources in place to project, providing support and nurturing our employees talents, resources in place to deliver sector organisations to meet each maintain stable leadership.
In order to information to ensure that we while recognising their differences, we clients need.
quality services for our clients.
retain the best people we give them meet our objectives.
Staff typically can meet, and often exceed, the needs We continuously assess the needs of the opportunity to grow and develop transfer under TUPE Transfer of our clients and their customers.
We each part of the Group to ensure that and actively reassign managers to new of Undertakings, Protection of encourage our people to develop their we have the necessary people, business areas.
This also serves to Employment regulations and, skills and we ensure that they have infrastructure and resources in place promote the Capita ethos and allows approaching 70% of our workforce access to the right expertise and to maintain consistent service delivery us to share innovation and skills have transferred in this way.
training to do their jobs effectively, and to plan for future business between contracts and businesses, underpinning the Groups long term We work closely with clients to development.
Each month we review helping us to stay at the forefront of success.
transform their business performance comprehensive operational the BPO market.
primarily through effective people management information which helps See page 50 management, process re-engineering us to allocate resources in a way that and appropriate ICT platforms.
We meets the needs of our clients and apply the experience that we have delivers our key financial targets.
gained through numerous large scale transformations in order to drive through efficiencies and optimise revenue for the organisation.
indd 27 12 03 2012 21:08 28 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Wherever possible, we migrate and Leveraging resources integrate systems, share resources and Our range of capabilities and flexible rationalise premises to optimise our infrastructure means that we can infrastructure while maintaining and Smart procurement support organisations in a way that enhancing services.
As we increase works best for them, whether its a scale, we are able to deliver more single service in a specific market area By creating mutually beneficial relationships with services and contracts through shared or a full strategic partnership our suppliers, we can use our purchasing power to ICT platforms and operating combining multiple objectives secure best value goods and services, which can structures, allowing us to deliver and services.
directly improve our business performance and significant cost savings for clients.
We This allows us to deliver the that of our clients.
To support this, during the year also use our scale to procure services appropriate outcome for each client, we acquired a procurement business, Red cost effectively and share these cost meeting their individual objectives, Procurement and Business Systems, which benefits with our clients.
provides expert procurement consultancy services Within our IT Services & Consulting to the public and private sectors.
The team are division we provide a full a range of IT Sharing scale benefits responsible for optimising Capitas procurement services from off the shelf solutions to Our substantial scale and broad process and we are also using this expertise to help full service, on-premise solutions.
We capability enable us to put forward our clients procure in a smarter way, bringing support businesses and contracts compelling, cost effective propositions 1m additional value to our BPO proposition.
internally and sell to external clients.
for clients and are integral to us Red Procurement and Business See page 54 We have the capability to work with winning major service transformation Systems was acquired for 1m and enhance a clients existing in May 2011 projects.
The successful integration technical platforms or we can create and delivery of progressively larger entirely new, bespoke systems contracts, with common processes depending on the desired outcomes.
and substantial numbers of Integral to our offering is our highly transferring employees, fuels the efficient internal operating and growth of our operations and financial structure which ensures that resources.
we contain our central overhead, helping us to remain competitive on price whilst providing real added value 46,500 for clients.
Capita was formed in 1984 with two employees and has grown to a workforce of 46,500 today 014881 AR11 p10-30.
indd 28 12 03 2012 21:08 Capita plc Business review 29 Generating & supporting growth Nearshore: In 2011, we established a Offshore: Our offshore operations in Business centre network Our business centre network new European business centre in India, which we established in 2004, Our business centres, where we are Onshore: Nearshore: Offshore: Krakow, Poland.
The centre is now are an integral part of our flexible able to run a broad range of shared UK Continental India operational and will be servicing a delivery model.
They deliver a range 55 6 7 services, form a central part of our Europe, Dubai number of Capitas existing clients and of services, from simple transaction service delivery infrastructure.
We are Ireland, new clients in English and the core processing through to more complex Channel Islands further developing our nearshore and European languages.
This development knowledge based back office Isle of Man offshore capability to meet the adds another option to our flexible functions and English language based increasing demand for flexible delivery network and means that clients have services.
Following the acquisitions of models from clients, particularly in even more choice of how and where Ventura and Vertex Private Sector in the private sector.
We have 68 centres they want their service to be 2011, we now have a total of six sites onshore in the UK, the Channel delivered.
The centre in Krakow is in India, located in Mumbai, Pune Islands and Europe and offshore in located close to the city centre and and Bangalore.
Our comprehensive the university and can therefore Capita India operates like any other security and quality assurance access a skilled, multi-lingual What we do What we do What we do Capita business with the same values, systems ensure consistent service workforce.
We have a 550 seat technical infrastructure and operating Core client marketplace Additional tax Quality, cost effective quality across the entire capacity and expect to expand as model.
The sites share a combined jurisdictions to support offshore service delivery infrastructure.
management team to ensure they all clients products Onshore: We now have 55 multi benefit from their collective skills.
What we provide What we provide What we provide service centres in the UK serving We proactively recruit from the highly Back office administration Customer services Data validation and entry clients across all our markets.
We Customer services Life and pensions Claims and policy skilled graduate workforce that is increased our capability in 2011 administration administration Life and pensions available in these locations.
Their through the acquisitions of Ventura Financial services Fund management IT and software skills, knowledge and excellent work and Vertex Private Sector, which we administration Corporate registrars Resourcing and training ethic help us meet our objectives of are in the process of integrating into Accounting and finance Loan administration Share registration delivering a first class service to one unified customer management processing Fund administration Property consultancy our clients.
Payroll processing and HR Electronic document services See case study on page 26 As part of our new contract with processing Property consultancy Zurich Financial Services Group, we Claims and policy IT services administration now have a business centre in Dubai Consultancy and knowledge HR administration which currently primarily supports life services and pensions administration.
indd 29 12 03 2012 21:08 30 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth We have an extensive track record of Flexible delivery models Priorities for 2012 creating collaborative partnerships By offering clients onshore, nearshore, and working together with small Generating long term, profitable growth: offshore or blended delivery options, businesses, local organisations and over a time frame that suits their convert and replenish our bid pipeline charities to deliver the right outcomes 2012 organisational objectives, we can offer for our clients and the communities maximum service flexibility, quality explore new market segments where we can add value they serve.
We are, therefore, well and cost savings.
For some clients, a maintain rigorous bid selection, pricing and contractual criteria positioned to help create and long term defined contract and cost participate in new models of delivering profile is important to support their select acquisitions that complement or grow our offering public services.
We leverage our long term strategy.
Other clients, who focus on integration of 2011 acquisitions expertise, capability and infrastructure face faster decision making cycles and to support government at both business seasonality, require a greater apply rigorous selection, due diligence and pricing in line with a central and local level, and the degree of flexibility, for example, our acquisition criteria private sector.
organisations in the retail and utilities continue to develop our capability and scale to deliver sectors.
We can adapt to meet their specific requirements and through innovative service solutions for clients.
this, we generate a healthy mix of revenue streams across a wide spectrum of markets and industries.
The majority of our revenue is generated from medium to long term contracts which average 3 15 years.
