24 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Capita took its first significant step Stimulating growth and adding Progress in 2011 2011 acquisitions by business area into the private sector in 2000 with value through acquisitions We have had a particularly active year % by value the acquisition of share registration in 2011 with 341m invested in 21 Acquisitions that enhance our 1.
Customer management 35% business, IRG Plc.
Through acquisitions we capabilities and take us into new and & technology this business through organic growth have enhanced our pensions, complementary areas have always 2.
Financial services 14% and further acquisitions creating the corporate mortgage and trust played a key part in Capitas growth.
Health 12% platform for our growth into the administration operations and Alongside our organic growth, we 4.
Document management 9% private sector and particularly the extended our capabilities in customer acquire small to medium sized 5.
Pensions administration 8% wider financial services market.
Our management, IT, health and the companies with capabilities that private sector annual revenues now 6.
IT & software services 8% emergency services market.
enhance our propositions to clients contribute 52% of the Groups total 7.
Emergency services 7% In the emergency services market we and can support further organic revenue and we have leading market 8.
Consultancy 5% have acquired a number of niche growth.
We have also consistently positions established across a number 9.
Translation services 2% businesses which bring specialist used acquisitions to take us into new of areas, including life and pensions, market knowledge, products and market segments.
In the 9 8 services and relationships with 52 of public sector, acquisitions have also the 53 police authorities across the 7 played a key role in helping us to enter UK.
These acquisitions, together with and grow in areas such as education, existing Group capabilities and health and, most recently, the 6 infrastructure, now position us well to emergency services.
bid for major outsourcing contracts in the police and wider emergency 5 services market.
See case study on page 15 2 4 Market conditions in the year enabled us to acquire the non-core activities 3 of a number of private sector organisations at attractive prices.
For example, our successful acquisition of both Ventura and Vertex Private Sector expands our private sector client base significantly and will enable us to offer wider service propositions to this client base beyond the existing customer management offering.
Did you know... See case study on page 26 Capita took its first significant step into the private sector in 2000 with the acquisition of share registration business, IRG Plc 014881 AR11 p10-30.
indd 24 16 03 2012 10:06 Capita plc Business review 25 Generating & supporting growth Our focus is now on achieving the Rigorous selection criteria Smooth integration Expanding capability through acquisitions successful integration of all our 2011 and pricing We have substantial experience of 1 acquisitions realising synergies.
We successfully integrating acquired 2011: 21 acquisitions totalling 341m Potential acquisitions are identified expect our acquisition activity to slow businesses and contracts into the and brought to the Group by external to our previous historic levels going Group and achieving synergies with consultants, people in our businesses, forward in 2012 as organic growth Price our existing operations.
Our values or through a direct approach and all 2 Enhancing our capabilities Acquisition m across the Group picks up.
and key processes are communicated deals are assessed, priced and agreed Customer management Ventura 65.0 We continuously look to acquire small and implemented right from the start by the Group Board.
Stringent due to medium sized businesses that will of the integration process.
A dedicated & technology diligence, before and after acquisition, Vertex Private Sector 40.0 help us to: project team manages the transition is undertaken at both Group and Call Centre Technology 15.0 bringing financial procedures, business level enabling us to achieve grow organically information and communications clear targets for growth, integration Translation services Applied Language Solutions 7.5 60 strengthen existing capabilities technology ICT, HR, legal, benefits and profit.
Salmat Speech Solutions 0.1 extend our market position compliance and marketing quickly To stimulate growth and ensure that UK operations access a new client base into line with our standards.
Acquiring we can negotiate sensible purchase only small to medium sized businesses Emergency services Beat Systems 8.0 4 build economies of scale prices and terms we generally seek enables us to integrate them into our target acquisitions that: enter a new market.
Cedar HR Software 15.0 existing business infrastructure have operations and customers efficiently and allows us to generate IT & software services Talis Information 18.5 3 principally in the UK and or Europe value faster.
Technophobia 6.3 fit with our strategy and core competencies Document management Right Document Solutions 30.0 10 generate sustainable, quality Health Insurance Medical Group IMG 9.7 revenues Team24 recruitment 24.0 2 can be secured for an attractive price Tribal health division are privately owned preferably not in 16.5 an auction, as we aim to acquire Consultancy Tribal government division without competition.
Red Procurement and Business Systems 1.0 1 Xayce financial services 2.4 MSS Health & Safety property 3.9 ESA property 2.0 1 Financial services Barclays Capital Mortgage Servicing 7.0 AIB International Financial Services 29.0 12.5 AIB Jersey Trust Pensions administration NorthgateArinso 27.5 1 Before contingent consideration.
2 Value in brackets represents maximum contingent performance based consideration.
indd 25 12 03 2012 21:07 Acquiring value 26 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Growing our customer management capability Adding to our capabilities In 2011, Capita acquired contact centre and customer The facts management experts Ventura and Vertex Private Sector.
Since then we have merged the two organisations with our existing capabilities to create a new customer management business.
Now the UKs leading provider of customer management services, we are trusted to handle over 60m customer contacts each year for more than 35 clients, including O, 2 This is a really exciting Google, The National Trust, BT, British Gas and the 60m Department for Work and Pensions.
We are trusted to handle Many of our clients adopt a multi-channel approach The transfer went very smoothly and we over 60m customer for both sales and customer engagement, so it is really felt welcomed by our new Capita contacts each year for essential that we have the depth of functions more than 35 clients colleagues.
I have 10 clients across multiple necessary to meet all of these requirements.
These sectors and we are looking forward to acquisitions enhance our customer management and maximising the opportunities that being front office outsourcing capabilities, increasing our 9,400 part of Capita brings.
reach and significantly strengthening our proposition employees The back office support that we now enjoy to the private sector.
By outsourcing their customer means that we can offer clients a management, we can help clients to increase sales, improve customer satisfaction, reduce costs without completely joined up service, and the compromising quality, consolidate existing contact customer service expertise that we bring to centres or rapidly set up new ones, improve efficiency the table means that the newly formed at existing sites, and increase flexibility.
customer management operation is capable of handling new contracts of almost any size Over 9,400 employees and complexity.
transferred into Capita across the two acquisitions, making it Karen Moorby Head of Operations the largest employee transfer in Capitas history.
