Capita plc Governance 77 Remuneration Key elements of Executive remuneration Remuneration framework For Executive Directors this is summarised as follows: Policy Delivery Year in review Lower quartile pay Monthly in cash Reviewed against: Base pay Reviewed annually in December and effective Salaries in similar companies and comparablyJanuary sized companies Economic climate, market conditions and Group performance The role and responsibility of the individual Director Upper quartile for performance Paid in cash following the results.
No award made Bonus plan For 2012 a maximum of 200% of annual salary can be achieved subject to stretching performance targets.
Deferred Annual Bonus plan Upper quartile for performance Compulsory deferral of 50% of the cash bonus No award made is put into the plan and this is matched with up to 2 shares for each one deferred.
From 2012 awards onwards up to 100% of all bonus awarded can be deferred.
Long Term Incentive Plan Upper quartile for performance Award of nil cost options Reviewed against: Vest in 3 years following a performance The role and responsibility of the individual condition of EPS and share price performance Director Review of performance targets for future awards In line with all employees within the Group Pension up to 5% Benefits Car allowance Healthcare All employee plans Annual bonus For the period to 31 December 2011, no bonuses have been awarded to the Executive or Divisional Directors.
The target set during the business planning process for 2011, in agreement with the Executive Directors, was extremely stretching and was not met as explained on page 60.
Pay and benefits received by the Board Executive remuneration Salary A salary increase of 5,000 per annum was awarded to each Executive Director in 2011.
No salary increases were awarded to the Executive Directors for 2012.
Non-Executive fees The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board apart from the Chairman which is set by the Remuneration Committee and are set at a level that ensures that the Company can attract and retain individuals with required skills, experience and knowledge so that the Board can effectively carry out its responsibilities.
The fees also recognise the responsibility of the role and the time commitments required - these are not performance-related or pensionable.
The fees are paid monthly in cash and there are no other benefits.
There were no increases in fees in 2011.
In line with the Executive Directors, no increase in fees are proposed for 2012 for the Non-Executive Directors.
