58 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Board members Board members The Board currently comprises of ten Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
We continue to believe we have a talented and substantial team in place to support our continued growth.
However, as the Group continually grows and diversifies, we will continue to regularly review the Board composition to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
Martin Bolland Nigel Wilson Paddy Doyle Martina King Paul Bowtell Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in March 2008 and Joined the Board in May 2010 and became Joined Capita in 1992 and was appointed Joined the Board in January 2005 and is Joined the Board in June 2010 and is became Chairman on 1 January 2010.
A Senior Independent Director upon to the Board in 1994.
As Group currently the Managing Director of currently the Chief Financial Officer of Chartered Accountant, Martin previously appointment.
Nigel is Group Chief Operations Director he was responsible Aurasma, a division of Autonomy.
Paul was previously on held a number of senior operational Financial Officer of Legal & General for the ongoing operational management previously held a number of senior the Board of Tui Travel PLC as Chief positions within the Lonrho Group and Group Plc, appointed in September 2009. of the Groups business units.
From positions in marketing and online media, Financial Officer and was also on the was also a founder and partner of Having held many senior management August 2006 to the end of July 2008 he including Managing Director roles at Board of First Choice Holidays PLC.
He is a Alchemy Partners for 11 years.
Martin positions across varied sectors, including was Joint Chief Operating Officer before Yahoo!
Her broad Chartered Accountant and has extensive continues to be a member of both his roles as Chief Financial Officer and moving to a part-time Executive position.
knowledge and extensive experience of experience across the UK retail sector.
He Alchemys Investment Committee and Deputy Chief Executive of United Business He became a Non-Executive Director management, new technology and sales brings significant financial and commercial Monitoring Board.
He is also currently Media plc.
Nigels extensive financial and from 1 March 2010.
Paddy has been and marketing brings a different range of knowledge to the Board.
He is also a Chairman of QHotels Group Limited and commercial experience further instrumental to Capitas success.
In expertise to the Board and is of value in Non-Executive Director and Chairman of RecyCoal Holdings Limited.
Nigel retired as the January 2012 Paddy decided to retire and our continued growth.
Martina is also a the Audit Committee at SThree PLC.
Senior Independent Director of Halfords will step down from the Board at the end Non-Executive Director of Cineworld PLC Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Group plc on 31 March 2011. of March 2012. and Debenhams Plc.
Nomination Committee Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee 014881 AR11 p57-59.
indd 58 12 03 2012 21:13 Capita plc Governance 59 Board members Paul Pindar Gordon Hurst Maggi Bell Andy Parker Vic Gysin Chief Executive Group Finance Director Business Development Director Joint Chief Operating Officer Joint Chief Operating Officer Joined Capita in 1987 from 3i, after Joined Capita in 1988 and was first Joined Capita in January 1999 and was Joined Capita in 2001 and was appointed Joined Capita in 2002 and was appointed advising Capita on its management appointed to the Board as Commercial appointed to the Board in August 2008. to the Board in January 2011.
Andy to the Board in January 2011.
He became Chief Executive in Director in February 1995 and then as Maggi has held various positions across oversees the majority of Capitas Capitas financial services operations and 1999.
A Chartered Accountant, Paul is Group Finance Director in 1996.
A Capita, including running our recruitment non-financial services operations.
Prior to the Integrated Services Division.
Prior to responsible for managing and developing Chartered Accountant, he is also businesses and leading the Business joining the Board he was the Divisional joining the Board he was Divisional Capitas business to achieve the Company Secretary.
He has Board Services and Corporate Services Divisions, Director for Capitas ICT, Health and Director for Capitas Insurance and Companys strategic objectives, and has responsibility for our overall corporate and has been head of the Group Sales & Business Services Division.
Before this he Investor Services Division.
Before this he overall responsibility for our charitable responsibility policy and specific Marketing Division since January 2005. held a number of senior finance director headed up the Integrated Services approach.
Paul is also Chair of the Great responsibility for our environment, health She is responsible for driving forward positions across the Group including Division, containing many of Capitas Ormond Street Hospitals Corporate and safety approach and supplier business development across the Group, 3 years as a Senior Divisional Finance major central government contracts.
He chairs the Business including managing our Major Sales Team, Director.
Andy is a Chartered Accountant Since joining Capita he has overseen the Services Associations Finance and and has Board responsibility for and has extensive commercial and successful implementation and delivery of Taxation Committee.
Andy has joint Board a number of our key contracts.
Vic is an responsibility for clients and employees experienced business director with strong with Vic Gysin.
Vic has joint Board responsibility for clients and employees with Andy Parker.
