Capita plc Governance 61 Corporate governance Strategy Board evaluation in 2011 A specific session to review the Groups strategy in detail is held each year.
In 2010 we undertook a full Board evaluation.
In 2011 we undertook a shortened Strategy is also a standing item at each Board meeting.
The diverse nature of the evaluation managed by the Deputy Company Secretary.
The evaluation was business means that we must continue to be adaptable to the opportunities and questionnaire based as I had recently held one to one meetings with all Board challenges that face us, our clients and our stakeholders.
Risk is considered side members.
The unedited Board evaluation report was presented at the October by side with strategy and is included in our operational reporting.
The evaluation covered risk, board strategy and training.
Further detail on this is shown on page 63.
Board members reporting Risk and business assurance All Executive Directors prepare and present a report at each Board meeting.
These include the key issues including risk and opportunity, operational and Both the Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance and Group Compliance financial performance and bid and acquisition activity.
These reports are then Director report to the Group Finance Director and independently to the Audit complemented with verbal updates at the meeting.
This allows the Directors to Committee and report on the internal assurance programme and risk focus on specific issues and also for the other Directors to debate and challenge management activities across the Group.
They have access to all members of the as required.
See management and governance structure on page 32.
Board and hold regular meetings with the Executive Directors and meet with the Audit Committee Chairman and myself at least quarterly.
Financial and corporate reporting Directors The Board considers the Groups statutory reports and the broader aspects of corporate reporting at each scheduled meeting.
Regular updates are received on The Directors of the Company currently in office are listed on pages 58 and 59. the financial results from Gordon Hurst and Paul Pindar, which also include the As explained in our announcement in January 2012, Paddy Doyle has decided to financial outlook for the Group.
retire from the Board at the end of March 2012.
All the current Directors except Paddy Doyle will be offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Major bids and acquisitions Annual General Meeting in May 2012.
Paddy has made an immense contribution Maggi Bell, Business Development Director, presents a report at each Board to Capita over the last 20 years and has been instrumental in our success.
I wish meeting which covers the current major bid strategy, constituents of the bid him a long and prosperous retirement and know that he will remain a good pipeline bids over 10m in value where we are shortlisted to four or fewer and friend to many of us here in Capita.
prospects which are sitting just outside of the bid pipeline.
As many of these No Director has a service contract exceeding one year.
potential contracts are of significant size and duration, these opportunities can The following pages in this section consist of our Corporate Governance and make a significant impact on the shape and resource requirements of the Group Remuneration Reports.
I hope that you will find these and the entire Annual as it grows.
Report and Accounts informative and the Board will be happy to receive any Paul Pindar reports on the acquisition strategy and current acquisition activity in feedback you may have.
addition to his Chief Executive report.
Again these acquisitions have an impact on the shape and resource requirements of the Group, particularly in 2011 when Martin Bolland a large number of acquisitions were completed.
Non-Executive Chairman The Board considers the potential impacts of new acquisitions and contracts on resourcing at a senior management level and identifies candidates from within the Group or externally for key positions in the transition periods and ongoing delivery of these operations.
