Capita plc Business review 17 Generating & supporting growth Organic growth is a key Progress in 2011 Highly visible future revenues 2011 contract wins by market Creating growth component of Capitas long 2011 was a record year for Capita in The combination of long term major % by value term growth respect of new major contracts and contracts, which makes up around both organically and 1.
Life and pensions 35% renewals, with 2.0bn of contract 65% of revenue, and recurrent Our evolution across a number of 2.
Other corporates 33% through acquisition wins secured during the year.
This business ensures highly visible future markets has enabled us to develop a 3.
Central government 19% reflects the operational track record revenues for the Group: broad based services business which We create growth by 4.
Local government 7% of the Group and the demand for generates revenues from multiple Long term BPO contracts securing long term relationships 5.
Financial services 3% outsourcing across our target markets clients across a wide range of High quality recurring revenues with new and existing clients 6.
Health 2% and will support stronger revenue different sectors.
delivered from multiple, integrated and through acquisitions which growth in 2012.
Emergency services 1% administration and customer enhance our proposition, Our performance in 2011 was services contracts, currently average impacted by the more challenging capability and market reach.
nine years in length economic environment, including a Single service business range of austerity measures 1 7 implemented across Government.
Annual roll-over, high repeat rate or 6 2 This adversely affected a number of secured under medium to long term 5 our trading activities, including our contracts of two to five years property consultancy and parts of our Discretionary spend 4 IT and resourcing businesses, and also Additional services for existing resulted in lower discretionary clients and or change control revenue being generated from existing requests clients.
Securing long term client relationships 3 Transactional activities 10% of revenue What we do What we deliver Short term projects contracts Historical contract wins and for specific work streams.
Construct and deliver robust business renewals by total annual value Improved transformation programmes customer service bn Re-engineer and improve processes Reduced 2.0 1.9 Introduce new ways of working operating costs Increase service efficiency, Enhanced 1.4 quality and effectiveness revenues 1.2 1.0 Harness the most appropriate technology Improved quality 0.8 Apply innovative solutions Staff progression Commercial certainty 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Partnership model 014881 AR11 p10-30.
indd 17 12 03 2012 21:05 18 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Given the long term nature of Selecting new business 2011: 26 major contract wins totalling 2.0bn contracts, it is essential for us to opportunities pursue only those relationships that We constantly identify areas of can both meet the clients opportunity across all our chosen expectations and generate reasonable Central government Life and pensions Local government markets and actively engage with returns for Capita.
This high level of potential clients to demonstrate the Teachers Pension Scheme MetLife London Borough of Lambeth selectivity, along with our bespoke benefits and added value that Value: 80m over 7 years Value: 149m over 10 years Value: 50m over 10 years client solutions, underpins our long outsourcing can offer, both to their term win rate of approximately one organisations and their customers.
Administration of the Teachers Pension Selected to deliver an extended life and Collaborative partnership to deliver a in three and most recently just below Scheme TPS, the second largest public pensions administration contract range of services including revenue The procurement process, especially one in two.
sector pension scheme in England and providing customer servicing, policy collection, management of call centre in the public sector, can be costly to Wales.
administration, claims activity and operations, ICT support and benefits pursue and we maintain stringent related IT support.
We continue to look for: criteria to focus on opportunities Driver and Vehicle where we see a real prospect of clients with whom we can build Other corporates Zurich Financial Services Group Licensing Agency DVLA securing value to the client and a strong relationship and deliver TV Licensing Value: 570m over 11 & 15 years Capita.
If at any stage we feel that real benefits Value: 100m over 5 years conditions have shifted significantly or Value: 560m over 8 years Extension of current contract and a new a defined bid process with clear A new contract to provide a national that any of these criteria are no longer contract to support development of decision criteria Vehicle Excise Duty service that includes New contract to continue administering met, we will, after detailed Zurichs European and international provision, at the DVLAs option, for a TV Licensing on behalf of the BBC.
opportunities in line with our core consultation, withdraw from the administration hubs.
Continuous Insurance Enforcement competencies in service process.
We will not take on excessive service.
transformation Various sectors risk or output based contracts which a fair risk reward balance are reliant on external factors that are The Pensions Regulator 19 contracts worth 10-50m out of our control.
limited requirement for capital Value: 105m over 7 years Total value: 397m over investment, unless there is a real value proposition for the Group average 6 years Appointed to support direct communications with employers for acceptable contractual obligations.
Secured contracts with clients across automatic enrolment of staff into our 10 markets including EDF Energy, workplace pension schemes, due to be The Childrens Mutual and the London phased in from October 2012.
Boroughs of Lewisham and Bromley.
indd 18 15 03 2012 19:39 Capita plc Business review 19 Generating & supporting growth Procurement landscape Creating the right bid team Over the past 18 months, In the private sector, the procurement We manage procurements either process is determined by each centrally or at business level, weve increased our major individual client, often working with depending on the size and complexity sales team headcount to advisers.
We seek out opportunities of the opportunity.
ensure we have the right through business intelligence and Our major sales team pursues existing relationships: increasingly, we complex, long term contracts, usually resources in place to are also approached directly by valued in excess of 50m.
It can draw manage the higher level organisations.
on the resources of the whole Group of opportunities coming UK public sector contracts are subject to tailor solutions to each clients to a defined procurement process requirements.
Each central bid team is through.
which can take up to two years to comprised of a sales director, who is Maggi Bell Business complete.
EU policy requires fair and responsible for the client relationship, Development Director open competition and opportunities and a support team including: solution are formally advertised and notified.
architects, financial modellers and bid In addition, under EU competition law, support specialists.
They are also able Average contract life cycle public sector outsourcing contracts to draw from our wealth of businesses that are already in place must be to ensure that they have the relevant offered for tender when the initial specialist market and technical Opportunity identified Contract secured Contract extension Contract renewal rebid contract and extension term is knowledge to support the process.
However, Government and Typically 3-18 months Average 9 year Average 2-5 years Average 9 year local authorities are exploring ways to contract duration stipulated at original contract duration To ensure prudent pricing, Creation of bid team speed up the procurement process as we clearly separate responsibilities: contract award full rebid required with they strive to realise the benefits of Transfer & transformation Exploration of clients long sales teams: client relationships public sector contracts outsourcing at a faster pace and we term objectives and their Further adaptation of Delivering service have seen progress on this in 2011. sales support teams: pricing and customers needs service to meet new improvement and cost In our 28 years of risk models requirements savings Solution developed in operation we have only Group Board: solution and pricing dialogue with the client, failed to renew three of our Continuous improvement 1 approval major bids.
drawing on Group wide skills material contracts 1 Material contracts: defined as generating more than 1% of previous years revenue.
indd 19 15 03 2012 19:39 20 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Expanding our relationship with Zurich In December 2005, Capita entered into a partnership The facts with Zurich Financial Services Group to deliver In July 2011, Zurich extended customer service, policy administration, new business A growing the UK contract, and also and claims activities for their 2.1m UK open-book life appointed Capita to support and pensions policies.
the growth of their European and international business In May 2005, 11.6% of all calls were abandoned and overall competency was at just 87%.
Within one month wed reduced call abandonment to 2.3% and partnership raised overall competency to 99%, a level weve maintained ever since, and Zurich has continued to win coveted five star service ratings from distributors year-on-year.
In 2007, our UK operations for Zurich in Swindon and Cheltenham were officially recognised with Investors in People accreditation.
Areas of particular commendation included our values, our 99% performance management system and our culture of Volupta nonecto tatem.
Et accat Back in 2005, we were looking for a partner that valuing individuals.
Within one month we dolestibus apis expellaborum aut could bring operational and scalable efficiencies reduced call abandonment voloreptae dolorum nit evendi The partnership has continued to go from and deliver on cost.
We also wanted an to 2.3% and raised overall conseniani ut ad quatas numquas mo strength-to-strength, so much so that in July 2011, organisation that was a good cultural fit.
competency to 99% maionse ligenis et officaepe cu rum not only did Zurich extend the UK contract, they also conseniani ut ad quatas numquas Capita ticked every box.
appointed us to support the growth of their European cusam que as aut rat sam que as aut and international business by providing customer The key to the success of the partnership is good rat quibus r rum aut voloreptae service and administration for cross-border products relationships at all levels, not just amongst dolorum nit evendi conseniani ut ad in Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and their senior managers.
Were very open and honest quatas numquas mo maionse ligenis domestic business in Ireland.
with each other which means that when issues et officaepe cu rum aut voloreptae e do arise they are resolved quickly and in an adult velolore exerspit.
These strong relationships have been Volupta nonecto tatem.
Et accat fundamental to the smooth transition of the dolestibus apis expellaborum aut recent contract extension, particularly as many voloreptae dolorum nit evendi of the people involved have been here since conseniani ut ad quatas numquas mo 2005 and bring with them a wealth of maionse ligenis et officaepe cu rum experience from the first transition.
aut voloreptae dolorum nit evendi Paul Kenmir Head of the European and International conseniani ut ad quatas numquas mo Hub, Zurich Financial Services maionse ligenis et officaepe cusam que as aut rat sam que as 014881 AR11 p10-30.
indd 20 12 03 2012 21:06 Strong delivery Capita plc Business review 21 Generating & supporting growth Fuelling our growth: Major sales opportunities Over the past 18 months, we have Setting our bid success rate against Actively replenishing increased our major sales team our bid pipeline provides a useful our pipeline Emergency headcount to ensure that we have the indicator of likely future sales growth.
Financial Our bid pipeline at the end of Health services services right resources and skills in place to Our long term win rate is one in three, February 2012 was 4.6bn, manage the higher level of however, in 2011 we achieved a win comprising 35 bids across our target opportunities coming through.
In 2011, rate of just below one in two.
markets with the highest value being Other we also appointed a European business corporates Behind our bid pipeline is an active in central government, followed by development director, who feeds into prospect list of opportunities where defence, local government and life Central the central UK sales team, and senior government the bidding process is underway but and pensions.
Bid pipeline country managers for Scotland and we have yet to reach a shortlist or We report on the status of our Ireland to further develop our presence Life and final bidding stage.
Our prospect list is pensions 4.6bn pipeline twice a year, in February and in these countries.
This prospect list July, providing a snapshot in time.
The Contracts below a 50m threshold, is in turn supported by a list of suspects bid pipeline represents bids which are usually focused on a single or a smaller relationships which we are nurturing at an advanced stage to provide a fair bundle of services, are managed by to generate future bid opportunities.
indication of the health of the market the relevant business unit.
Where the and is subject to the following criteria: contract is worth between 10m to Local Defence government 50m, the major sales team may contains contracts of 10m or above provide extra support.
where we have been shortlisted to the last four or fewer bidders Converting opportunities 1 Bid pipeline all bids are capped at 500m to The key to winning new business is to 35 bids prevent very large individual really engage with our clients and contracts distorting the total listen to and understand their Prospect list reported twice a year at our half year challenges and the expectations of active live bids and full year results.
Our sales teams are dedicated to creating solutions which Suspect list meet the needs of organisations today identified opportunities and into the future and we have the capability and infrastructure to 1 Bid pipeline as at February 2012: Shortlisted to 4 bidders.
deliver the solutions to high service quality levels.
indd 21 12 03 2012 21:06 22 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Generating & supporting growth Our contract price is generally made In line with the nature and the size of Securing appropriate Retaining and up of a base cost that covers the the contract, we create appropriate pricing and contract terms expanding contracts transformation and normal running governance and client engagement Our major contracts are long term As well as securing new business from costs of the service.
Where demand structures to ensure that we are commitments.
It is therefore essential new clients, we work to renew or on the service infrastructure and delivering to expectations.
to get our pricing and contract terms expand existing client relationships.
resources fluctuates, the pricing will On our largest contracts, strategic correct from the start, to deliver value By achieving operational excellence, include a variable volume-related partnership boards help both parties to both the Group and our clients and we often secure additional business element.
All contracts include a understand each others requirements to ensure that we maintain a mutually from clients and we achieve high related basket of indices that reflect better and ensure that the partnership beneficial, long term relationship retention rates as contracts come up the cost elements of the service such develops to support any changing which is based on trust.
Over the last 28 years, we as wage inflation indices, CPI and RPI.
As a result, clients find that extensive due diligence to build have only failed to renew three of our Our scale, multi country service outsourcing gives them more control detailed service, risk and pricing material contracts defined as delivery model and low central over support operations, not less.
We often share these openly generating more than 1% of the overhead costs help to provide with our prospective clients to ensure previous years revenue.
additional competitive advantage and that all our assumptions for delivering We maintain open and honest enable us to generate reasonable successfully on the project are robust discussions with our clients, which margins for the Group.
and that the benefits generated to allow us to develop a detailed Our track record in accurately pricing both parties are fully understood.
understanding of their business and contracts enables us to offer clients challenges.
This ensures that we can sensible and realistic proposals while secure opportunities to expand the robustly managing and mitigating risk.
relationship where this is mutually Once agreed, the terms of our beneficial.
We agree detailed service contracts are fixed.
This means we standards and key performance have a good view of stable, long term indicators to measure progress and revenues.
indd 22 12 03 2012 21:06 Capita plc Business review 23 Generating & supporting growth Taking teachers pensions administration to the next level Our remit includes raising awareness Initial research showed that there was amongst members and helping them a significant opportunity for channel to proactively manage their pensions.
shift, with a key focus on equipping A better In parallel, we will improve systems and members with intuitive tools and support to help employers meet their resources to enable them to obligations, all within a strict budget.
We are developing a new customer website that will provide the main We engaged in a highly collaborative platform for encouraging improved approach to service design with understanding, self-service and members and employers playing an experience behaviour change.
integral role in the design process as our expert advisors.
We developed an To advise both members and In March 2011, Capita was engagement strategy, including a new employers, we launched the Employer awarded its third consecutive brand, to improve perceptions of the Relationship Management Service, a service and encourage members to team of regionally focused pension Teachers Pension Scheme change their behaviour, as well as experts who provide training and administration contract, having enhancing their experience of the support both face-to-face and online.
been awarded its first in 1996. service.
Additionally, in response to the current focus on public sector We also worked hard to reduce the pensions, we have developed a risk of re-engineering the service by pensions calculator which allows identifying and addressing design members to estimate what pension challenges at an early stage, before we benefits they may receive under any invested in changes in technology, new scheme arrangements.
Capita has offered a solution which will see the effective delivery of services to both members and employers, with continuous improvement and innovation throughout the life of the contract to reflect the challenges associated with the pension environment.
The Department will work with Capita to build on their achievements to date in delivering the requirements of the new contract.
