BOARD OF DIRECTORS 19 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Lord Rothschild, OM GBE Lord Rothschild has chaired the Board of Directors of the Company since its inception in its present form in 1988.
He also serves as Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, he co-founded companies in money management, insurance and investment, including Global Asset Management and St Jamess Place Capital plc.
He served as Deputy Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, from 2003.
He serves on the International Advisory Board of Blackstone plc and on three family office Advisory Boards as well as chairing his own familys office.
In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
Mikael Breuer-Weil Mr. Breuer-Weil was appointed as Investment Director of the Company in 2008 having been a nonexecutive Director since 1998.
Since 1994 he has been the principal investment adviser to philanthropic foundations connected with Lord Rothschilds family interests.
Prior to this, he spent eight years at Mercury Asset Management Group plc as an investment manager, including a period of secondment to Odyssey Partners L. P. in New York.
Duncan Budge Mr. Budge was appointed an executive Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 1995.
He has been a director of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT Capital Partners plc, since 1988 and has represented the Company on the boards of a number of its investments.
Prior to this, he spent six years with Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT John Cornish Mr. Cornish is a chartered accountant and was appointed a non-executive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee and a member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
Previously he was a partner at Deloitte LLP where he led the firms services to the investment trust industry.
He served as Chairman of Framlington Innovative Growth Trust plc for four years until 2010 and currently he is a director of Henderson EuroTrust plc, RCM Technology Trust plc and Strategic Equity Capital plc.
Lord Douro Lord Douro joined the Board of the Company as non-executive Director in July 2010.
He has broad experience in banking and finance, having served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings from 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from 1994 to 2005.
He is currently a director of Compagnie Financire Richemont and Sanofi-Aventis.
Until 31 March 2011, he was a member of the Board of Abengoa Bio-Energia: on 1 April 2011 he was appointed to the International Advisory Board of Abengoa SA.
Until 31 March 2011, he was a director of Pernod Ricard SA.
He is Chairman of Richemont Holdings UK Limited and is a senior advisor to the Crdit Agricole Group.
He is also Chairman of the Council of Kings College, London.
He was a member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989.
Lord Douro is Chairman of the Conflicts and Remuneration Committees and a member of the Nominations Committee.
John Elkann Mr. Elkann was appointed as a non-executive Director in March 2007.
He is the Chairman of Fiat S. p. A. and Chairman and CEO of EXOR S. p. A. and Itedi publisher of La Stampa, and a director of RCS Mediagroup, Banca Leonardo and The Economist.
Mr. Elkann is a graduate of the Engineering University of Turin.
Mr. Elkann has advised the Company of his intention not to stand for re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 28 July 2011.
RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 20 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT continued James Leigh-Pemberton Mr. Leigh-Pemberton was appointed as a non-executive Director in August 2004.
He has worked at Credit Suisse since 1994, holding positions as Head of Equity Syndicate, Head of Equity Capital Markets and from 2001 to 2004, Head of European Investment Banking.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse, UK.
Mr. Leigh-Pemberton began his career at S. G. Warburg & Co, where he worked for fifteen years.
Michael Marks CBE Mr. Marks is the Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of the Global Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995, and where he subsequently held positions as Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa and was subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. Mr. Marks began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith New Court in 1987.
He was a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004.
He was appointed as a non-executive Director of RIT Capital Partners plc in September 2004 and became the Senior Independent Director in July 2010.
Lord Myners CBE Lord Myners was appointed as a non-executive Director in August 2010.
He is chairman of Justice Holdings and Autonomous Research and a former chairman of Marks & Spencer and Land Securities.
He has also served as a member of the Court of the Bank of England and of the Investment Committee of Singapores sovereign wealth fund.
His earlier career was spent in investment management.
He was a Treasury minister in the last British Government.
He is a member of the Companys Audit and Risk Committee and as of 1 April 2011 a member of the Valuation Committee.
Sandra Robertson Ms. Robertson was appointed as a non-executive Director in July 2008.
She is Chief Investment Officer of Oxford University Endowment Management.
Before her appointment at Oxford in 2007, she spent the previous 14 years at Wellcome Trust, where she became Co-Head of Portfolio Management.
Rick Sopher Mr. Sopher was appointed as a non-executive Director in December 2010.
He is the Managing Director of LCF Edmond fide Rothschild Asset Management and is Chairman of the Board of Management of Leveraged Capital Holdings NV, the flagship investment vehicle of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group, as well as several related multi-manager funds.
He was awarded the Chevalier fide la Legion dHonneur by President Chirac in 2007.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AT 2 JUNE 2011 Audit and Risk Committee Nominations Committee John Cornish Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman James Leigh-Pemberton Lord Douro Lord Myners James Leigh-Pemberton Michael Marks Conflicts Committee Valuation Committee Lord Douro Chairman John Cornish Chairman John Cornish Duncan Budge James Leigh-Pemberton Lord Myners Michael Marks Sandra Robertson Remuneration Committee Lord Douro Chairman John Cornish James Leigh-Pemberton Michael Marks
