Business review Description of business Global Transaction Services GTS ranks among the top tier of global Introduction transaction banks, offering payments, cash and liquidity management, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company of a large trade finance and commercial card products and services.
Through the global banking and financial services group.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, network and extensive partner bank agreements, GTS is able to support the Group operates in the United Kingdom, the United States and and connect customers across 128 countries.
internationally through its principal subsidiaries, the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest are major UK clearing Ulster Bank is the leading retail and business bank in Northern Ireland banks.
In the United States, the Group's subsidiary Citizens is a large and the third largest banking group on the island of Ireland.
It provides a commercial banking organisation.
Globally, the Group has a diversified comprehensive range of financial services.
The Retail Markets division customer base and provides a wide range of products and services to which has a network of 236 branches, operates in the personal and personal, commercial and large corporate and institutional customers.
The Corporate Markets division provides services to SME business customers, corporates and institutional Following the placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April markets.
2009, HM Treasury owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary share capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a US Retail & Commercial provides financial services primarily through the further 25.5 billion of new capital to HM Treasury.
This new capital took Citizens and Charter One brands.
US Retail & Commercial is engaged in the form of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general retail and corporate banking activities through its branch network in 12 meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary states in the United States and through non-branch offices in other shares and qualify as Core Tier 1 capital.
Following the issuance of the B states.
shares, HM Treasury's holding of ordinary shares of the company remained at 70.3% although its economic interest rose to 84.4%.
The divisions discussed above are collectively referred to as Retail & Commercial.
At 31 December 2011, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares was 66.9% and its economic interest was 82.2%.
Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to major corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an The Group had total assets of 1,506.9 billion and owners' equity of extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and 74.8 billion at 31 December 2011.
The Group's risk asset ratios at 31 investment services to its customers.
The division is organised along six December 2011, were a Total capital ratio of 13.8%, a Core Tier 1 capital principal business lines: money markets: rates flow trading: currencies: ratio of 10.6% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.0%.
equities: credit and mortgage markets: and portfolio management & origination.
Organisational structure and business overview The Groups activities are organised on a divisional basis as follows: RBS Insurance provides a wide range of general insurance products to consumers through a number of well known brands including: Direct Line, UK Retail offers a comprehensive range of banking products and related Churchill and Privilege.
It also provides insurance services for third party financial services to the personal market.
It serves customers through a brands, through its UKI Partnerships business.
In the commercial sector, number of channels including: the RBS and NatWest network of its NIG and Direct Line for Business operations provide insurance branches and ATMs in the United Kingdom, telephony, online and products for businesses via brokers or direct respectively.
UK Retail remains committed to delivering Helpful and international division, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, mainly Sustainable banking and to the commitments set out in its Customer motor, in Germany and Italy.
In addition to insurance services, RBS Charter - the results of which are externally assessed and published Insurance continues to provide support and reassurance to millions of UK every six months.
motorists through its Green Flag breakdown recovery service and Tracker stolen vehicle recovery and telematics business.
On 15 February UK Corporate is a leading provider of banking, finance and risk 2012, a new corporate brand, Direct Line Group, was announced.
management services to the corporate and SME sector in the United Kingdom.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial To comply with EC State Aid requirements, the Group has agreed to services through a nationwide network of relationship managers, and also dispose of RBS Insurance.
It continues to be reported as a separate through telephone and internet channels.
The product range includes operating segment rather than within the Non-Core division as its asset finance through the Lombard brand.
business is distinct from the activities of the Non-Core division.
Wealth provides private banking and investment services in the UK Central Functions comprises Group and corporate functions, such as through Coutts & Co and Adam & Company, offshore banking through treasury, funding and finance, risk management, legal, communications RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle of Man Bank, and and human resources.
The Centre manages the Group's capital international private banking through Coutts & Co Ltd. resources and Group-wide regulatory projects and provides services to the operating divisions.
RBS Group 2011 36 Non-Core division manages separately assets that the Group intends to GBM's corporate banking business will combine with the run off or dispose of.
The division contains a range of businesses and international businesses of our GTS arm into a new International asset portfolios primarily from the GBM division, higher risk profile asset Banking unit and provide clients with a 'one-stop shop' access portfolios including excess risk concentrations, and other illiquid to the Groups debt financing, risk management and payments portfolios.
It also includes a number of other portfolios and businesses services.
This international corporate business will be self-funded including regional markets businesses that the Group has concluded are through its stable corporate deposit base.
The domestic small and mid-size corporates currently served within Business Services supports the customer-facing businesses and GTS will be managed within RBS's domestic corporate banking provides operational technology, customer support in telephony, account businesses in the UK, Ireland Ulster Bank and the US US Retail management, lending and money transmission, global purchasing, and Commercial.
Business Services drives efficiencies and supports income growth across multiple brands and channels by using a Our wholesale business will be retaining its international footprint to single, scalable platform and common processes wherever possible.
It ensure that it can serve our customers' needs globally.
We believe, that also leverages the Group's purchasing power and is the Group's centre of despite current challenges to the sector, wholesale banking services can excellence for managing large-scale and complex change.
For reporting play a central role in supporting cross border trade and capital flows, purposes, Business Services costs are allocated to the divisions above.
It financing requirements and risk management and we remain committed is not deemed a reportable segment.
Organisational change Going forward the Group will comprise the following segments: In January 2012, the Group announced changes to its wholesale banking operations in light of a changed market and regulatory environment.
The Retail and Commercial changes will see the reorganisation of the Groups wholesale businesses - UK Retail into Markets and International Banking and the exit and downsizing of - UK Corporate selected activities.
The changes will ensure the wholesale businesses - Wealth continue to deliver against the Groups strategy.
- US Retail and Commercial - Ulster Bank The changes will include an exit from cash equities, corporate brokering, - International Banking equity capital markets and mergers and acquisitions businesses.
Markets Significant reductions in balance sheet, funding requirements and cost RBS Insurance base in the remaining wholesale businesses will be implemented.
Group Centre Core Existing GBM and GTS divisions will be reorganised as follows: Non-Core The Markets business will maintain its focus on fixed income, with Business divestments strong positions in debt capital raising, securitisation, risk To comply with EC State Aid requirements the Group agreed a series of management, foreign exchange and rates.
It will serve the corporate restructuring measures to be implemented over a four year period from and institutional clients of all Group businesses.
This supplements the measures in the Strategic Plan previously announced by the Group.
These include divesting RBS Insurance, 80.01% of GMS completed in 2010 and substantially all of RBS Sempra Commodities JV business largely completed in 2010, as well as divesting the RBS branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the Direct SME customers across the UK.
