Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Credit risk continued Problem debt management Risk appetite continued The Groups procedures for managing problem debts differ between Since 2009, the Group has been managing its corporate exposures to wholesale and retail customers, as discussed below.
reduce concentrations and align its appetite for future business to the Groups broader strategies for its large corporate franchises.
In the last Wholesale customers quarter of 2011, the Group announced further refinements to the single The controls and processes for managing wholesale problem debts are name exposure management controls already in place, which brings embedded within the divisions credit approval frameworks and form an them more closely in line with market best practice and which allows the essential part of the ongoing credit assessment of customers.
Any Group to differentiate more consistently between the different risk types.
necessary approvals will be required in accordance with the delegated These changes are expected to be implemented during the first quarter of authority grid governing the extension of credit.
The Group is continually reviewing its single name concentration framework to ensure that it remains appropriate for current economic Early problem recognition conditions and in line with improvements in the Groups risk Each division has established Early Warning Indicators EWIs designed measurement models.
to identify those performing exposures that require close attention due to financial stress or heightened operational issues.
Such identification may Reducing the risk arising from concentrations to single names remains a also take place as part of the annual review cycle.
EWIs vary from key focus of management attention.
Continued progress was made in division to division and comprise both internal parameters e. g. account 2011 and credit exposures in excess of single name concentration limits level information and external parameters e. g. the share price of were reduced by over 15% during the year.
The challenges posed by publicly listed customers.
continued market illiquidity and the impact of negative credit migration caused by the current economic environment are expected to continue Customers identified through either the EWIs or annual review are throughout 2012. reviewed by portfolio management and or credit officers within the division, who determine whether or not the customers circumstances Country warrant placing the exposure on the Watchlist process detailed below.
For information on how the Group manages credit risk by country, refer to the Country risk section on page 208.
Watchlist process There are three Watchlist ratings - amber, red and black - reflecting Controls and assurance progressively deteriorating conditions.
Watchlist Amber loans are A strong independent assurance function is an important element of a performing loans where the counterparty or sector shows early signs of sound control environment.
During 2011, the Group took the decision to potential stress or has other characteristics such that they warrant closer strengthen its credit quality assurance CQA activities and moved all monitoring.
Watchlist Red loans are performing loans where indications divisional CQA resources under the centralised management of Group of the borrowers declining creditworthiness are such that the exposure Credit Risk.
The benefits of this action are already apparent in greater requires active management, usually by the Global Restructuring Group consistency of standards and cross utilisation of resources.
Watchlist Black loans comprise risk elements in lending and planned for 2012 will benefit from the availability of subject matter experts potential problem loans.
across all material products and classes and an improved ability to track control breaches and strengthen processes.
Once on the Watchlist process, customers come under heightened scrutiny.
The relationship strategy is reassessed by a forum of Work began in the second half of 2011 on a major revision of the Groups experienced credit, portfolio management and remedial management key credit policies.
This will ensure that the Groups control environment professionals within the division.
In accordance with Group-wide policies, is appropriately aligned to the risk appetite that the Group Board has a number of mandatory actions will be taken, including a review of the approved and provide a sound basis for the Groups independent audit customers credit grade and facility security documentation.
Other and assurance activities across the credit risk function.
The work is appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances emerge that expected to be concluded by the end of the second quarter of 2012. may affect the customers ability to service its debt.
Such circumstances include deteriorating trading performance, an imminent breach of The Group Credit Risk function launched an assurance process to covenant, challenging macroeconomic conditions, a late payment or the provide the Group Chief Credit Officer with additional evidence of the expectation of a missed payment.
effectiveness of the controls in place across the Group to manage risk.
The results of these reviews will be provided to the Executive Risk Forum For all Watchlist Red cases, the division is required to consult with the and to the Board Risk Committee on a regular basis in support of the selfGRG on whether the relationship should be transferred to the GRG see certification that Group Credit Risk is obliged to complete under the more on the GRG below.
Relationships managed by the divisions tend to Group Policy Framework refer to Operational risk on page 236 to 239. be with companies operating in niche sectors such as airlines or products such as securitisation special purpose vehicles.
The divisions may also manage those exposures when subject matter expertise is available in the divisions rather than within the GRG.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 136 At 31 December 2011, exposure to customers reported as Watchlist Red Global Restructuring Group and managed within the divisions totalled 4.9 billion.
In cases where the Groups exposure to the customer exceeds 1 million, the relationship may be transferred to the GRG following consultation Strategies that are available within divisions include granting the with the originating division.
The GRGs primary function is active customer various types of concessions.
Any decision to approve a management of the exposures to minimise loss for the Group and where concession will be a function of the divisions specific country and sector feasible return the exposure to the Groups mainstream loan book appetite, the key credit metrics of the customer, the market environment following an assessment by the GRG that no further losses are expected.
and the loan structure security.
Only those concessions deemed to be outside current market norms are reported as restructurings in the At 31 December 2011, credit risk assets relating to exposures under discussions below.
GRG management excluding those placed under GRG stewardship for operational reasons rather than concerns over credit quality and those in Other potential outcomes of the review of the relationship are to: take the the AQ10 internal asset quality AQ band totalled 22 billion.
Credit risk customer off Watchlist and return it to the mainstream loan book: offer assets are defined on page 144.
The internal asset quality bands are further lending and maintain ongoing review: transfer the relationship to defined on page 145. the GRG for those customers requiring such stewardship: or exit the relationship altogether.
The following table shows a sector breakdown of these exposures: Core Non-Core Total Watchlist Red credit risk assets under GRG management m m m 2011 Property 6,561 6,011 12,572 Transport 1,159 2,252 3,411 Retail and leisure 1,528 669 2,197 Services 808 141 949 Other 1,952 916 2,868 Total 12,008 9,989 21,997 Types of wholesale restructurings conditions improve or will benefit from access to alternative sources A number of options are available to the Group when corrective action is of liquidity, e. g. an issue of equity capital.
Recently, these types of deemed necessary.
The Group may offer a temporary covenant waiver, a concessions have become more common in commercial real estate recalibration of covenants and or an amendment of restrictive covenants transactions, particularly where a shortage of market liquidity rules to mitigate a potential or actual covenant breach.
Such relief is usually out immediate refinancing and makes short-term forced collateral granted in exchange for fees, increased margin, additional security, or a sales unattractive.
reduction in maturity profile of the original loan.
Such covenant-related concessions are not included in the quantitative loan restructuring Forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt - debt may be disclosures below.
forgiven or exchanged for equity in cases where a fundamental shift in the customers business or economic environment means that the The reported restructurings comprise the following types of concessions: customer is incapable of servicing current debt obligations and other forms of restructuring are unlikely to succeed in isolation.
Debt Variation in margin - the contractual margin may be amended to forgiveness is often an element in leveraged finance transactions, bolster the customers day-to-day liquidity, with the aim of helping to which are typically structured on the basis of projected cash flows sustain the customers business as a going concern.
This would from operational activities, rather than underlying tangible asset normally be seen as a short-term solution and is typically values.
Provided that the underlying business model and strategy accompanied by the Group receiving an exit payment, a payment in are considered viable, maintaining the business as a going concern kind or a deferred fee.
with a sustainable level of debt is the preferred option, rather than realising the value of the underlying assets.
Payment holidays and loan rescheduling - payment holidays or changes to the contracted amortisation profile including extensions The vast majority of the restructurings reported by the Group take place in contracted maturity or roll-overs may be granted to improve the within the GRG.
Forgiveness of debt and exchange for equity is only customers liquidity.
Such concessions often depend on the available to customers in the GRG.
expectation that the customers liquidity will recover when market RBS Group 2011 137 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Credit risk continued Problem debt management continued The wholesale restructured loan data presented in the tables below include only those arrangements that achieved legal completion during 2011 and that individually exceed respective thresholds set at divisional level, which range from nil to 10 million.
This population captures approximately 71% of that proportion of the wholesale portfolio that is either on Watchlist or under GRG stewardship.
Within this population, restructurings amounting to 8.6 billion achieved legal completion during 2011.
A further 14.7 billion was in the process of being completed at year end these loans are not included in the tables below.
Of the loans that were subject to restructuring during 2011 by the divisions, 82% remained in the performing book at 31 December 2011.
Of those restructured within the GRG during the year, 17% had been returned to satisfactory by year end.
The asset quality of the restructured loans, the sectors affected and provision coverage are as follows: AQ10 2 provision AQ1-AQ9 1 AQ10 2 coverage Wholesale restructurings by sector m m % 2011 Property 1,980 2,600 18 Transport 686 694 11 Non-bank financial institutions 228 420 65 Retail and leisure 503 148 24 Other 1,078 251 28 Total 4,475 4,113 22 Notes: 1 Probability of default less than 100%.
The incidence of the main types of restructuring is analysed below: Loans by value Wholesale restructurings by type of arrangement % 2011 Variation in margin 12 Payment holidays and loan rescheduling 87 Forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt 31 Other 8 Note: 1 The total above exceeds 100% as an individual case can involve more than one type of arrangement.
Provisioning for impaired loans Any one of the above types of restructuring may result in the value of the Provisions on exposures greater than 1 million are individually assessed outstanding debt exceeding the present value of the estimated future by the GRG.
Exposures smaller than 1 million are deemed not to be cash flows from the restructured loan resulting in the recognition of an individually significant and are assessed collectively by the originating impairment loss.
Restructurings that include forgiveness of all or part of division.
the outstanding debt account for the majority of such cases.
In the case of non-performing loans that are restructured, the loan The customers financial position, anticipated prospects and the likely impairment provision assessment based on managements best effect of the restructuring, including any concessions granted, are estimate of the incurred loss almost invariably takes place prior to the considered in order to establish whether an impairment provision is restructuring.
The quantum of the loan impairment provision may change required.
once the terms of the restructuring are known, resulting in an additional provision charge or a release of the provision in the period the restructuring takes place.
Refer to Impairment loss provision methodology on pages 202 and 203.
RBS Group 2011 138 Recoveries and active insolvency management Forbearance The ultimate outcome of a restructuring strategy is unknown at the time of Within the Groups retail businesses, forbearance generally occurs when execution.
It is highly dependent on the cooperation of the borrower and the business, for reasons relating to the actual or potential financial stress the continued existence of a viable business.
The following are generally of a borrower, grants a permanent or temporary concession to that considered to be options of last resort: borrower.
Forbearance is granted following an assessment of the customers ability to pay.
It is granted principally to customers with Enforcement of security or otherwise taking control of assets - where mortgages.
Granting of forbearance to unsecured customers is less the Group holds collateral or other security interest and is entitled to extensive.
enforce its rights, it may take ownership or control of the assets.
The Groups preferred strategy is to consider other possible options prior Identification of forbearance to exercising these rights.
Mortgages are identified for forbearance treatment following initial contact from the customer, in the event of payment arrears or when the customer Insolvency - where there is no suitable restructuring option or the is transferred to collections or recoveries.
business is no longer regarded as sustainable, insolvency will be considered.
Insolvency may be the only option that ensures that the Types of retail forbearance assets of the business are properly and efficiently distributed to A number of forbearance options are utilised by the Groups retail relevant creditors.
These include, but are not limited to, reduced repayments, payment holidays, capitalisations of arrears, term extensions and Retail customers conversions to interest only.
Within UK Retail, interest only conversions Early problem recognition and collections are generally made available only to those customers who are current on There are collections functions in each of the retail businesses.
Their role payments and have a defined repayment source.
is to provide support and assistance to customers who are experiencing difficulties in meeting their financial obligations to the Group.
Evidence of The principal types of forbearance granted in RBS Citizens mortgage such difficulties includes, for example, a missed payment on their loan, or portfolio are the US government mandated HAMP Home Affordable a balance that is in excess of the agreed credit limit.
Additionally, in UK Modification Program and Citizens proprietary modification programme.
Retail and Ulster Bank, a dedicated support team aims to identify and Both programmes typically feature a combination of term extensions, help customers who may be facing financial difficulty but who are current capitalisations of arrears, temporary interest rate reductions and with their payments.
conversions from interest only to amortising.
These tend to be permanent changes to contractual terms.
Borrowers seeking a modification must Within collections, a range of tools is deployed to initiate contact with the meet government specified qualifications for HAMP and internal customer, establish the cause of their financial difficulty and, where qualifications for Citizens modification programme.
Both are designed to possible, return the customer to a satisfactory position using, where evidence that the borrower is in financial difficulty as well as appropriate, forbearance strategies.
If these strategies are unsuccessful, demonstrating willingness to pay.
the customer is transferred to the recoveries team.
For those loans classified as non-performing, the Groups objective in Recoveries granting forbearance is to minimise the loss on these accounts and The goal of the recoveries function is to collect the total amount wherever possible, return the customer to the performing book.
For those outstanding and reduce the loss to the Group by maximising the level of loans that are performing, the aim is to enable the customers to continue cash recovery whilst treating customers fairly.
A range of treatment to service the loan.
options are available within recoveries, including litigation procedures for secured assets.
In UK Retail and Ulster Bank, no repossession The mortgage forbearance population is reviewed regularly to ensure that procedures are initiated until at least six months following the emergence customers are meeting the agreed terms of the arrangement.
Additionally, certain forbearance options are made available to have been developed to record the proportion of customers who fail to customers within recoveries.
meet the agreed terms over time as well as the proportion of customers who return to a performing state with no arrears.
RBS Group 2011 139 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Credit risk continued Problem debt management continued The mortgage arrears information for retail accounts in forbearance and related provision arrangements are shown in the table below: No missed payments 1-3 months in arrears 3 months in arrears Total Accounts Balance Provision Balance Provision Balance Provision Balance Provision forborne Arrears status and provisions m m m m m m m m % 2011 UK Retail 1,2 3,677 16 351 13 407 59 4,435 88 4.7 Ulster Bank 1,2 893 78 516 45 421 124 1,830 247 9.1 Citizens 91 10 89 10 180 20 0.8 Wealth 121 2 123 1.3 Total 4,691 94 958 68 919 193 6,568 355 4.4 Notes: 1 Includes all forbearance arrangements regardless of whether or not the customer is experiencing financial difficulty.
2 Comprises the current stock position of forbearance deals agreed since January 2008 for UK Retail and since July 2008 for Ulster Bank.
3 Refer to page 155 for details of the proportion of UK Retail and Citizens mortgage loans that have missed three or more payments, compared to the forbearance population above.
The incidence of the main types of retail forbearance on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 is analysed below.
For a small proportion of mortgages, more than one forbearance type applies.
UK Retail 1 Ulster Bank 1 Citizens Wealth Total 2 Forbearance arrangements m m m m m 2011 Interest only conversions 1,269 795 3 2,067 Term extensions - capital repayment and interest only 1,805 58 97 1,960 Payment concessions holidays 198 876 180 1,254 Capitalisation of arrears 864 101 965 Other 517 23 540 Total 4,653 1,830 180 123 6,786 Notes: 1 Comprises the current stock position of forbearance deals agreed since January 2008 for UK Retail and since July 2008 for Ulster Bank.
2 As an individual case can include more than one type of arrangement, the analysis in the table above can exceed the total forbearance.
For unsecured portfolios in UK Retail, 1.1% of the total unsecured Within Citizens, granting of forbearance is significantly less extensive population was subject to forbearance at 31 December 2011 and for non real estate portfolios, as it is predominantly restricted to the comprises either debt consolidation loans provided to customers granting of short-term 1-3 months loan extensions to customers to subject to collections activity who do not meet the Groups standard alleviate the financial burden caused by temporary hardship.
Such underwriting criteria or repayment arrangements where the customer's extensions are offered only if a customer has demonstrated a capacity overdraft limit is increased to accommodate account excesses and or and willingness to pay following the extension term.
The number and loan arrears.
Additionally, support is provided to customers frequency of extensions are limited per customer.
Additionally, in the experiencing financial difficulties through breathing space initiatives case of loans secured by vehicles and credit cards, Citizens may offer on all unsecured products, including credit cards, whereby a 30-day temporary interest rate modifications but no principal reduction.
For period is given to allow customers to establish a debt repayment plan.
loans secured by vehicles, this is now restricted to three-month interest During this time, the Group suspends collection activity and a further rate modifications.
For credit cards, customers may be offered shortextension of 30 days can be granted if progress is made and term 6-12 months or longer-term up to 60 months interest rate discussions are continuing.
Arrears continue to accrue for customer modifications.
Citizens may also provide forbearance to student loan borrowers consistent with the policy guidelines of the US Office of the loans benefiting from breathing space.
