Divisional review Non-Core Division Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating loss before impairment losses m 284 29 Impairment losses m 3,919 5,476 Operating loss m 4,203 5,505 Rory Cullinan Head of Risk-weighted assets bn 93.3 153.7 Non-Core Division Non-Core Division is central to the Groups We have reduced the Non-Core Real Estate Our people continue to play a key part in the Strategic Plan.
We are the primary vehicle for portfolio by 49% since 2009 and in 2011 we: Non-Core asset reduction programme.
The reducing risk and the size of the balance experience they have gained in the previous sheet.
Non-Core allows the rest of RBS to formed a partnership with Blackstone to three years means we have built a strong focus on our strong customer franchises.
Since manage a fund of 1.4 billion of UK loans: knowledge base and skill-set.
An important we created the division in 2009 we have cut its sold our Spanish portfolio to Perella part of our success will be how well we assets by 164 billion.
Weinberg: manage our people as they come to the end of sold hotels, including the remaining their journey with Non-Core.
We have When we cut the Groups assets, we reduce: properties in our Hilton hotel portfolio: and developed a bespoke programme of activities agreed to sell our tenanted pub portfolio to to support them and their managers as they the amount of capital the Group needs to Scottish & Newcastle.
begin to consider the next stage of their hold.
That can free-up capital to lend to career, here in RBS or elsewhere.
other customers: We made good progress in our Portfolios & the Groups reliance on short-term funding.
We exited more than 130 Our operating loss of 4,203 million in 2011 That makes us more resilient: and individual loans.
That reduced TPAs by more was 1,302 million lower than the loss in 2010. the risks the Group faces.
We also agreed to sell a portfolio The continued divestment of Non-Core us stronger.
of leveraged loans totalling 500 million.
businesses and portfolios has reduced revenue streams as well as the cost base.
The We sold 22 billion of third party assets TPAs We have now signed or completed almost all improvement in other income reported for 2011 and negotiated the repayment of 22 billion of of our individual business and country exits, reflected fewer losses on disposal and lower TPAs.
This balance of asset sales and run-off with only a handful to go.
In 2011, we downward valuation movements.
means that we are not dependent on one way completed the sales of our Argentinean of reducing assets.
That has been important in business to Banco Comafi S. A. as well as the difficult market conditions.
completion of the share sale of RBS Uzbekistan to Korea Development Bank.
We paid more attention to reducing the assets that most tie-up capital.
These are mainly trading Our impairments fell again.
That reflected the assets in our Non-Core Markets business.
This reduction in assets as well as how we has paid dividends.
Our risk-weighted assets managed the remaining portfolio.
Although we RWA fell by 60 billion.
It also helped us to faced challenges in our real estate and Ulster avoid having to find additional capital that we Bank portfolios, impairments were down by would have needed to meet new regulations.
We reduced our derivatives portfolio by The performance of our ongoing businesses 5 billion to 11 billion.
It was 85 billion at the improved.
We reduced our cost base from start of 2009.
2.3 billion last year to 1.3 billion in 2011, mainly because our headcount fell through country and business exits.
