Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management Introduction In the final quarter of 2011, the Executive Risk Forum ERF approved a This section focuses on each of the key types of risk that RBS Group change to the management of the credit portfolio, delegating greater faces - explaining how the Group manages these risks and highlighting authority to the Group Chief Credit Officer as chair of the functional credit the enhancements made as a result of progress under the Groups committees that analyse and recommend the limits to the ERF.
With ongoing initiatives to strengthen its approach to risk management.
effect from October 2011, the Group Chief Credit Officer chairs a single Credit Risk Committee, with the authority to approve limits for the majority Credit risk of portfolios across the Group.
The ERF retains its strategic role as the All the disclosures in this section pages 134 to 160 are audited unless most senior risk committee outside the Group Board and will continue to otherwise indicated by an asterisk.
approve material portfolio concentrations and higher risk portfolios such as commercial real estate.
This change strengthens individual Credit risk is the risk of financial loss owing to the failure of a customer to accountability across the risk organisation and encourages the meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
The quantum and engagement of business leaders in first line of defence risk activity.
nature of credit risk assumed across the Groups different businesses vary considerably, while the overall credit risk outcome usually exhibits a Risk appetite high degree of correlation with the macroeconomic environment.
Credit concentration risk is managed and controlled through a series of frameworks designed to limit concentration by product asset class, Organisation sector, single name and country.
These are supported by a suite of The existence of a strong credit risk management function is vital to Group-wide and divisional policies, setting out the risk parameters within support the ongoing profitability of the Group.
The potential for loss which business units may operate.
Information on the Groups credit through economic cycles is mitigated through the embedding of a robust portfolios is reported to the Group Board by way of the divisional and credit risk culture within the business units and through a focus on the Group-level risk committees.
importance of sustainable lending practices.
The role of the credit risk management function is to own the credit approval, concentration and Throughout 2011, GCRs emphasis was on embedding the new risk credit risk control frameworks and to act as the ultimate authority for the management frameworks introduced in 2009 and 2010 and on ensuring approval of credit.
This, together with strong independent oversight and alignment with the strategic risk objectives being pursued across the challenge, enables the business to maintain a sound lending environment Group.
Risk appetite has been expressed by the Group Board by within risk appetite.
reference to earnings volatility and stable capital and these principles underpin the frameworks that GCR has established, and is continuing to Responsibility for development of Group-wide policies, credit risk refine, to manage the Groups concentration risks in the Core balance frameworks, Group-wide portfolio management and assessment of sheet, by product asset class, sector, single name and country.
provision adequacy, sits within the Group Credit Risk GCR function under the management of the Group Chief Credit Officer.
Execution of In the two years since the new concentration framework was rolled out these policies and frameworks is the responsibility of the risk across the Group, the ERF has reviewed all material industry and product management functions, located within the Groups business divisions.
portfolios and agreed a risk appetite commensurate with the franchises These divisional credit risk functions work together with GCR to ensure represented in these reviews.
In particular, limits have been reviewed and that the Group Boards expressed risk appetite is met, within a clearly re-sized, to refine the Groups risk appetite in areas where it faces defined and managed control environment.
The credit risk function within significant balance sheet concentrations or franchise challenges.
The each division is managed by a Chief Credit Officer, who reports jointly to product asset class, sector, single name and country limits are now firmly a divisional Chief Risk Officer and to the Group Chief Credit Officer.
embedded in the risk management processes of the Group and form a Divisional activities within credit risk include credit approval, transaction pivotal part of the Risk functions engagement with the businesses on the and portfolio analysis, early problem recognition and ongoing credit risk appropriateness of risk appetite choices.
The new sector and asset class limits have been informed by the work GCR is additionally responsible for verifying compliance by the divisions undertaken to stress the portfolios and historical loss experience.
In with all Group credit policies.
addition, they factor in the future consequences for risk and return in asset classes likely to be affected by the introduction of new regulatory capital rules under Basel III.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 134 Product asset class concentration framework In response to the severe budgetary cuts mandated by the UK Retail - a formal framework establishes Group-level statements and Government in 2010, the UK and Northern Ireland teams conducted a full thresholds that are cascaded through all retail franchises in the review of the likely impact of the austerity measures on their corporate Group and to granular business lines.
These include measures that and retail lending portfolios.
Areas of specific focus, such as local relate both to aggregate portfolios and to asset quality at origination, authority lending, where budgetary pressures will be hard felt, and which are tracked frequently to ensure consistency with Group portfolios exposed to discretionary consumer spend, such as the retail standards and appetite.
This appetite setting and tracking then and leisure industries, were stressed using downside assumptions on informs the processes and parameters employed in origination further house price deterioration and higher unemployment.
The output of activities, which require a large volume of small-scale credit these activities was reviewed by the Executive Risk Forum and actions decisions, particularly those involving an application for a new agreed in the event that these scenarios threaten to materialise.
product or a change in facilities on an existing product.
The majority of these decisions are based upon automated strategies utilising The impact of the eurozone crisis has been felt most significantly in the credit and behaviour scoring techniques.
Scores and strategies are financial institutions sector, where widening credit spreads and regulatory typically segmented by product, brand and other significant drivers demand for increases in Tier 1 capital have exacerbated the risk of credit risk.
These data driven strategies utilise a wide range of management challenges already posed by the sectors continued credit information relating to a customer including, where weakness, as provisions and write-downs remain elevated.
A material appropriate, information across customer holdings.
A small number percentage of global banking activity in risk mitigation now passes of credit decisions are subject to additional manual underwriting by through the balance sheets of the top global players, increasing the authorised approvers in specialist units.
These include higher-value, systemic risks to the sector.
The Groups exposures to these banks more complex, small business and personal unsecured transactions continue to be closely managed.
The increased use of central clearing and some residential mortgage applications.
houses to reduce counterparty credit risk, including settlement risk, among the larger banks is a welcome move but one that will bring its own Wholesale - formal policies, specialised tools and expertise, tailored challenges.
The weaker banks in the eurozone have also been the monitoring and reporting and, in certain cases, specific limits and subject of heightened scrutiny and the Groups risk appetite for these thresholds are deployed to address certain lines of business across banks was adjusted continuously throughout 2011. the Group, where the nature of credit risk incurred could represent a concentration or a specific heightened risk in some other form.
For Single name concentration framework example, in response to volatile conditions in the syndicated loan, Within wholesale portfolios, much of the activity undertaken by the credit fixed income and equities markets during 2011, the Group engaged risk function is organised around the assessment, approval and in only selective underwriting activity in these markets.
In addition to management of the credit risk associated with a borrower or group of the limit structures the Group has in place to manage its overall related borrowers.
exposure to underwriting activity, market-linked controls were introduced in the loan underwriting book in 2011, to align the risk A formal single name concentration framework addresses the risk of profile more closely to asset price movements.
Those portfolios outsized exposure to a borrower or borrower group.
The framework identified as potentially representing a concentration or heightened includes specific and elevated approval requirements, additional reporting risk are subject to formal governance, including periodic review, at and monitoring, and the requirement to develop plans to address and either Group or divisional level, depending on materiality.
reduce excess exposures over an appropriate timeframe.
Sector concentration framework Credit approval authority is discharged by way of a framework of Across wholesale portfolios, exposures are assigned to, and reviewed in individual delegated authorities, which requires at least two individuals to the context of, a defined set of industry sectors.
Through this sector approve each credit decision, one from the business and one from the framework, appetite and portfolio strategies are agreed and set at credit risk management function.
Both parties must hold sufficient aggregate and more granular levels where exposures have the potential delegated authority under the Group-wide authority grid.
Whilst both to represent excessive concentration or where trends in both external parties are accountable for the quality of each decision taken, the credit factors and internal portfolio performance give cause for concern.
Formal risk management approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
The level periodic reviews are undertaken at Group or divisional level depending on of authority granted to individuals is dependent on their experience and materiality.
These may include an assessment of the Groups franchise in expertise, with only a small number of senior executives holding the a particular sector, an analysis of the outlook including downside highest authority provided under the framework.
Daily monitoring of outcomes, identification of key vulnerabilities and stress scenario tests.
individual counterparty limits is undertaken.
Specific reporting on trends in sector risk and on status versus agreed appetite and portfolio strategies is provided to senior management and to At a minimum, credit relationships are reviewed and re-approved the Group Board.
The renewal process addresses: borrower performance, including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk parameter estimates: the As a result of the reviews carried out in 2011, the Group has reduced its adequacy of security: and compliance with terms and conditions.
For risk appetite in the higher-risk sectors of leisure, media, commercial real certain counterparties, early warning indicators are also in place to detect estate, construction, automotive, and airlines and aerospace.
deteriorating trends in limit utilisation or account performance, and to prompt additional oversight.
