Divisional review Ulster Bank Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating profit before impairment losses m 360 400 Impairment losses m 1,384 1,161 Operating loss m 1,024 761 Jim Brown Chief Executive, Return on equity % 26.1 21.0 Ulster Bank Serving customers well avoiding charges.
More than 43,000 customers Building sustainable value registered for the service and we sent over two Economic conditions remained extremely million texts in 2011.
Disappointingly, operating profit before challenging.
In the Republic of Ireland, the impairment losses fell by 40 million.
Income economy faltered again in the second half of Customers and colleagues told us how to fell by 7% driven by a contracting performing the year.
Unemployment averaged more than make it easier to open accounts.
We made loan book coupled with higher funding costs.
Northern Ireland grew, although application forms simpler.
A specialist account Lower income was partly offset by a 5% fall in unemployment was still above the preswitching team makes it easier for people to expenses, which reflected tight management recession rate and house prices fell.
We use texts to update of the cost base across the business.
Loans customers on the progress of their switching and advances to customers decreased by 5% I joined in April and I took time to talk to our application.
94% of customers who opened an in constant currency terms during 2011. customers and our employees.
I am clear account were satisfied with the process.
At all times, but especially in difficult times, we must do what we can to We continued to support businesses across support customers and deliver on our the island of Ireland.
Secondly, I believe that we have a strategy in place to ensure we Our share of new lending increased in are well-placed to compete effectively in the Northern Ireland and the Republic of markets in which we operate.
serving our personal and business customers, Since we launched our Start Up and Early now 1.9 million of them, for 176 years.
Stage proposition in September 2010, we have supported more than 6,000 new We developed our Customer Commitments to businesses.
deliver a more helpful banking service and we measure how we perform against these.
Building a sustainable risk prole We supported 20,000 customers with revised repayment arrangements through Customer deposit balances fell by 4% in Flex, our debt management service.
constant currency terms largely driven by the We serve 90% of customers in branches outflow of wholesale customer balances due within five minutes.
Our loan:deposit ratio 98% of customers are satisfied with the improved from 152% to 143%.
This We developed new ways to help customers largely reflects the deterioration in credit control their finances.
Our enhanced iPhone metrics on the mortgage portfolio driven by a app gives customers access to all the combination of higher debt flow and further accounts they have on Anytime Banking, falls in asset prices.
transfer funds between their accounts and find the nearest branch or ATM.
65,000 customers Risk-weighted assets increased by 15% with have downloaded the iPhone app to date.
Our the deterioration in credit risk metrics.
free text message alert service allows our customers to keep track of their money, 24 RBS Group 2011
