Control environment certification Compliance risk Control environment certification CEC is used by the Group Executive Compliance risk arises from non-compliance with national and management to review and assess its internal control framework, and international laws, rules and regulations.
The Group believes that being a provide a self-certification of its current state.
It demonstrates that the compliant organisation is fundamental to protecting sustainable growth, Group is operating a robust control framework, with mechanisms in place rebuilding its reputation and maintaining stakeholder confidence.
to understand and manage its risks, and to drive action to resolve areas of weakness or concern.
The regulatory environment remained highly challenging during 2011, as policymakers and regulators continued to strengthen regulation and CEC provides a twice-yearly assessment of the robustness of the supervision in response to the events of 2007 2008 and subsequent Groups internal control environment including: economic and financial stress.
compliance with the GPF and key divisional functional policy The regulatory agenda - largely framed by the G20 but with many standards: instances of EU and national initiatives - constitutes the most sweeping set of changes seen in many decades.
At 31 December 2011, the Group compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance was managing some 140 major regulatory or legislative policy initiatives: Code: and during the year as a whole, it had also reviewed over 300 consultations in its core markets.
In addition to these changes, many supervisory effectiveness of the risk frameworks, culture and governance authorities also continued to intensify their ongoing level of scrutiny and structures for each division or function.
CEC was enhanced during 2011 to improve the quality and depth of These trends have posed multiple challenges for banking groups, certification, and to implement a risk-based approach to the analysis of including RBS, namely: policy compliance.
The enhancements have delivered a greater degree of analysis of the key risk areas for each business and Group policy tracking, analysing and engaging with policymakers on proposed standard owner.
Improved alignment with Group Internal Audit has been changes: delivered through the implementation of a common rating system for the assessment of the control environment, and CEC outcomes are reported implementing change programmes to ensure compliance with new at both the divisional risk and audit committees and Group Audit requirements: Committee.
revisiting strategy, business and operating models in response to Capital model development the new environment: and At the end of 2011, the Group started to develop a statistical modelling capability for operational risk based on the requirements set out under driving through cultural and other changes to minimise compliance the Basel II advanced measurement approach.
The model is a hybrid and enforcement risks.
encompassing internal and external loss data as well as scenarios.
Business environment and internal control factors will be utilised when Below is an outline of some of the key developments in the regulatory constructing scenarios and allocating capital.
Development activities in environment that took place during 2011.
An explanation of how the 2011 focused on building the standalone loss data and scenario Group manages compliance risk begins on page 242. components within the model: integration activities, correlation and allocation will continue in 2012.
Final model validation is expected to take Global regulatory developments place during 2012.
The global agenda continues to be guided by the G20, drawing on the original action plan for strengthening financial stability agreed by G20 leaders at the November 2008 Washington summit.
During 2011, G20 countries continued to implement various elements of this action plan, culminating in the G20 leaders summit held in Cannes in November 2011.
RBS Group 2011 239 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Compliance risk continued Shadow banking A progress report on the action plan was issued at the Cannes summit.
In response to concerns, that heightened regulation of banks should not Key developments during 2011 included the following: lead to risks being displaced into unregulated sectors, regulatory authorities started to pay growing attention to the shadow banking Basel III system during 2011.
This term broadly refers to entities and financial Following publication by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in transactions that fall outside the scope of existing financial banking December 2010 of rules for the new Basel III capital and liquidity regulation, such as hedge funds, money market funds and structured framework, work during 2011 focused on finalising the remaining investment vehicles.
elements of policy and preparing for implementation.
Highlights were: Work was initiated in five areas to assess the need for regulatory The issuance of minimum requirements regarding the loss intervention, and this topic is likely to attract even more attention during absorbency of capital instruments at the point of non-viability 2012, when recommendations for action are expected.
January 2011 : The five areas include: banks interactions with shadow banking entities: The finalisation of rules for the capital treatment of counterparty ways to reduce the susceptibility of money market funds to runs: the credit risk in bilateral trades June 2011 : regulation of other shadow banking entities on prudential grounds: retention requirements and transparency in securitisation: and the Technical changes to Basel III relating to the treatment of trade possible regulation of margins and haircuts in securities lending and finance, aimed at helping promote trade with low-income countries repos.
October 2011 : Other Further work on the capitalisation of bank exposures to central During 2011, the authorities started to pay more attention to the counterparties November 2011 : and consistent implementation of G20 and FSB financial reforms, with plans developed to focus more on monitoring and the public reporting of A Basel Committee paper proposing that debit valuation implementation progress.
Although a priority, little progress was made adjustments for over-the-counter derivatives and securities financing during 2011 on developing a global policy framework for over-the-counter transactions should be fully deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 derivative reform, so as to help align ongoing activity in this space, capital December 2011.
The Group is evaluating the potential particularly in the US and the EU see below.
EU regulatory developments Systemic financial institutions The EU regulatory agenda in 2011 continued to focus mainly on The main focus of policy development at the global level during 2011 was prudential and market structure measures: retail issues also started delivering on the G20-mandated target of agreeing a framework by the receiving more attention and are likely to come under increased focus in end of 2011 for dealing with global systemically important financial 2012.
Key highlights were as follows: institutions G-SIFIs.
This target was met, with the Cannes summit endorsing: New regulatory architecture 2011 saw the implementation of a new EU regulatory architecture, with A new Financial Stability Board FSB international standard, The the start of operations of the ESRB and three supervisory authorities: the Key Attributes of Effective Resolution Regimes for Financial European Banking Authority EBA, the European Securities and Markets Institutions, which amongst other things provides a benchmark for Authority, and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions national resolution regimes, as well as mandatory requirements for Authority.
resolvability assessments and recovery and resolution plans for each G-SIFI: and The new framework marks a significant transfer of power to the three supervisory authorities, particularly with respect to detailed rule-making, A new Basel Committee framework for identifying an initial list of where over time they will be issuing binding technical standards across global systemically important banks G-SIBs, and applying to these a range of policy areas that will replace national rules.
an additional common equity capital requirement, above the Basel III minimum standards, rising from 1% to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets However, an early preoccupation of the new regulatory authorities was in line with their systemic impact.
In particular, the EBA was heavily engaged in overseeing the stress testing of EU banks, including UK groups.
The names of the initial list of G-SIBs though not their ranking were published by the FSB at the end of the summit: RBS is included in the 29 names.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 240 Prudential and related reforms EU retail market reforms A key focus during 2011 was work on amending the EUs Capital Notwithstanding the focus on prudential and market reforms in response Requirements Directive CRD : a key step in that process was the to the financial crisis, the EU Commission during 2011 also continued to publication of draft legislative text in September 2011, the CRD IV work on a wide range of retail agenda initiatives.
These included a draft package, which is expected to be finalised during 2012 and will legislative proposal for a mortgage credit directive, with a focus on implement Basel III in the EU.
responsible lending and borrowing: the development of proposals on collective redress: and ongoing discussions with the banking industry to Another key area of work was the EUs crisis management legislative improve the transparency and comparability of bank fees.
The Group also package, aimed at dealing with issues similar to those addressed by the continued to work on implementing the requirements coming into force at FSB work on G-SIFIs.
An early 2011 EU Commission consultation the end of 2011, contained in the EU Payment Services Directive.
included proposals on enhanced supervision and early powers of intervention: recovery and resolution planning: resolution frameworks: UK regulatory developments resolution funds and debt write-down but not capital surcharges.
Draft UK regulatory developments during 2011 continued to be extensively legislation to implement these measures was at the time of writing determined by global and EU developments, with UK regulators working expected to be issued in early 2012, after several postponements.
to implement requirements coming into force, such as the CRD III package of reforms, and actively participating in policy development at Other initiatives in the prudential space have included, notably, continued the EU and global levels.
In addition, there were a number of work on developing the Solvency II framework for insurers: the developments specific to the UK.
development of legislative proposals on corporate governance in financial institutions: and the further development and UK implementation of the Independent Commission on Banking ICB EUs common reporting framework COREP for banks.
The ICB was appointed by the UK Government in June 2010 to review possible structural measures to reform the UK banking system in order to Market and structural reforms promote, amongst other things, stability and competition.
It published its Key developments in this space included: final report to the Cabinet Committee on Banking Reform on 12 September 2011 the Final Report, which set out the ICBs views on European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR - negotiations possible reforms to improve stability and competition in UK banking.
continued during 2011 on this draft Regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, which represents a The Final Report made a number of recommendations, including in major element of the financial crisis regulatory response agenda.
relation to: i the implementation of a ring-fence of retail banking Agreement was close to being reached in early 2012. operations: ii increased loss-absorbency including bail-in, i. e. the ability to write-down debt or convert it into an issuers ordinary shares in certain Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Review MiFID2 - the EU circumstances : and iii promotion of competition.
review of this directive, which sets the framework for investment markets, culminated in the publication of draft legislative text in On 19 December 2011, the UK Government published its response to the October 2011.
Final Report and indicated its support and intention to implement the recommendations set out in the Final Report substantially as proposed.
Financial Transaction Tax FTT - the EU Commission published The Government indicated that it would work towards putting in place the proposals for an FTT, which would see trades in bonds and shares necessary legislation by May 2015, requiring compliance as soon as taxed at 0.1% and complex derivatives taxed at 0.01%.
However, practicable thereafter and a final deadline for full implementation of 2019. the proposal requires approval from all 27 EU members, but is opposed by some, including notably the UK, which reduces the The Group will continue to participate in the debate and to consult with likelihood of it being imposed.
the UK Government on the implementation of the recommendations set out in the Final Report and in the Governments response.
Other initiatives - these have included changes to the market abuse regime and prospectus requirements, initiatives on short-selling, Regulatory architecture reforms further legislative developments impacting credit rating agencies and Work on the UK coalition governments plans for reforming the UKs changes to depositor and investor protection.
regulatory structure continued during 2011, with major consultations from HM Treasury, a number of calls for evidence from parliamentary committees and the publication of a draft Bill for pre-legislative scrutiny purposes in June 2011.
In addition, the FSA and Bank of England published policy documents setting out initial high-level policy thinking on the new regulatory bodies: and an interim version of the Financial Policy Committee started to meet in advance of legislation being enacted.
However, the timescale for completing the legislative process and fully implementing the new framework has been delayed until 2013 from the end of 2012.
RBS Group 2011 241 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Compliance risk continued Compliance risk management Payment Protection Insurance PPI The Group manages its compliance risk through a regulatory affairs and The Judicial Review requested by the British Bankers Association BBA compliance framework that seeks to ensure it complies with all banking, in respect of the FSAs policy statement on PPI complaints and guidance securities, insurance and anti-money laundering regulations, defined by published by the Financial Ombudsman Service concluded in April 2011 over 120 different regulatory bodies and central banks, wherever the with an adverse ruling.
The BBA and the banks concerned decided not to Group operates.
This framework is managed by the Groups Regulatory appeal and the UK banks including the Group have moved towards Affairs and Compliance functions and includes: the tracking and settling claims in accordance with the FSAs revised principles.
Under the management of regulatory developments: regulatory relationship terms of a waiver granted by the FSA, the Group, along with the rest of management: the implementation of global compliance risk policies: the industry, has had to deal with the backlog of complaints within assurance and monitoring: training and awareness: and mitigation specified timescales.
Retail conduct issues Against the backdrop of intensified regulatory pressure, Group In addition to EU retail initiatives, the UK authorities continued to pursue Regulatory Affairs has managed the increased levels of scrutiny and additional issues during 2011.
These included initiatives relating to legislation by increasing the capacity of its team, as well as improving financial inclusion, where the Government is seeking to widen access to and refining its operating model, tools, systems and processes.
bank accounts: the implementation of the recommendations of the Retail Simultaneously, in response to enforcement actions against the Group in Distribution Review relating to the provision of investment advice: 2010 and 2011, Group Compliance initiated and led large-scale ongoing work on the Mortgage Market Review: the establishment of a remediation and infrastructure changes, driving both the definition and Steering Group by HM Treasury to devise a suite of simple financial the proactive management of conduct risk.
products: and a review of the insurance products that form part of packaged current accounts.
Management of regulatory change The early identification and effective management of changes in Supervisory developments legislative, regulatory and other requirements that may impact the Group In line with that of other regulatory authorities, the FSAs supervisory is critical to the successful mitigation of compliance risk.
scrutiny has intensified in response to the financial crisis and ongoing market stresses.
Front-end supervisory resources have been increased Group Regulatory Affairs maintains a well-established policy and and existing tools have been used more frequently and robustly supporting processes for the identification and management of such evidenced, for instance, in terms of the heightened number of information changes across the Group.
Group Board and Executive Committee requests, the increased deployment by the FSA of skilled person reports oversight is supported by a Prudential Regulatory Developments as well as the increased fines charged against the industry.
Across the Executive Steering Group, which was formed in early 2010 to provide a industry fines for 2011 totalled 66.1 million versus 5.3 million in 2007. specific focus on a range of key regulatory changes.
Communication and In addition, the FSA continued to develop new supervisory approaches, coordination were strengthened in 2011 with the formalisation of two notably its Core Prudential Programme for those major financial Group-wide forums, one focusing on prudential and wholesale market institutions it oversees, which includes in-depth rolling thematic issues, the other on retail conduct issues.
In addition, a divisional Heads assessments on governance, business models, risk management, capital of Regulatory Developments forum was established, and RBS Americas and liquidity.
US regulatory developments Reporting and internal communications activity expanded in 2011 in In the US, activity was dominated by rulemaking following the 2010 response to the growing regulatory change agenda.
Although there was some slippage on, for example, derivatives rules, output from the authorities has still been considerable.
The enhancement of quarterly reporting to the Group Audit Committee, with a particular focus on tracking progress on Key final rules were issued on a range of issues, including living wills, the compliance readiness programmes implementing new requirements: Collins Amendment which floors capital requirements at the level of Basel II advanced approaches, rights for shareholders to have an Six-monthly reporting to the Board Risk Committee, in addition to advisory say on pay, and limits on debit card interchange fees.
the standard monthly risk reports produced for the Board and other Meanwhile the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was governance committees: and established on the Acts first anniversary on 21 July 2011.
Increased communications, such as the development of a fortnightly High-profile draft rules that were published included the Volcker Rule Regulatory Affairs Flash Report, circulated widely across the Group, limiting proprietary trading and investments in private equity or hedge which captures key regulatory developments and relationship topics.
funds, the securitisation risk retention rule and rules applicable to Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations credit rating agencies.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 242 Regulatory relationship management Global compliance risk and compliance policies The Regulatory Relations Forum, chaired by Group Regulatory Affairs, Within the Group Policy Framework, compliance risk and compliance meets fortnightly and now has global coverage with representatives from policies define minimum standards to which all businesses must adhere.
It facilitates the sharing of key regulatory The policies are primarily driven by the rules and regulations set by the engagements and the lessons learned from them.
FSA, the Groups lead regulator.
However, these global minimum standards are supplemented, where appropriate, by divisional policies to Quarterly reporting to the Group Audit Committee captures all material meet local product or market requirements.
regulatory reviews and investigations and upstream regulatory developments worldwide, as well as tracking the status and trends in key In compliance risk management, the term conduct risk is used to refer to regulatory relationships.
the risk of breaches of: a regulation or law: or b regulatory expectation.
This is distinguished from prudential risk, i. e. compliance risks related to Other key regulatory policies, specifically Group Relationships with capital management, liquidity, credit risk, operational risk and market risk.
Regulators and Political, Legislative and Regulatory Environment, were A significantly enhanced compliance conduct policy structure was reviewed and re-launched.
Each incorporates a new risk appetite outlined during 2011.
It is aligned to a new Conduct Risk Appetite statement, a benchmarking exercise against the Group's peer banks and, statement as well as the expected direction of the new Financial Conduct for the latter, an end-to-end review and mapping of the upstream risk Authority, which will be one of the successors of the FSA.
As a result, in management process.
future, it will be possible to assess the pan-Group risk profile for conduct risk against its risk appetite.
In addition, it will be possible to provide more Recovery and resolution planning detailed policy direction to divisions on key areas of conduct risk.
The Group considers effective resolution regimes, coordination between regulators, and recovery and resolution planning, to be important Assurance and monitoring components of an extensive reform agenda to improve safety and Assurance and monitoring activities are essential to ensure that the stability within the banking industry.
Accordingly, the Group recognises Group can demonstrate compliance with existing rules and regulations.
the potential value of Recovery and Resolution Plans RRPs as mechanisms for preparing banks to deal with: severe stress events During 2011, a heatmap of the key inherent conduct risks across all the through a range of developed recovery options in the Recovery Plan : Groups global businesses, reflecting both internal and external change and ensuring authorities will have all the critical information they need to and divisional priorities, was developed.
This, in turn, drove a identify and carry out appropriate resolutions in the event of failure the comprehensive programme of assurance reviews across the Group.
These reviews introduced a global, end-to-end thematic approach, looking at customer outcomes as well as process adherence.
In addition To ensure effective management of financial stability across jurisdictions, to immediate issues, for which action plans were developed, the reviews and to avoid duplication and inefficiency for cross-border banks, it is identified a number of wider themes that required a more strategic important that the approach, content and role of RRPs are globally approach.
Training and awareness The Group intends to sustain its strong momentum on the development Maintaining compliance with existing rules and regulations requires of RRPs.
As well as working with the UK authorities, the Group will continued investment in professional training, as well as maintaining risk continue to work with global policy developers in order to contribute to the awareness.
During 2011, the Group focused on strengthening the development of RRPs in other jurisdictions, in particular within the EU capabilities of its compliance risk functions at both Group and divisional and the US.
The timeframes for the development of RRPs in these level.
The Group facilitates extensive compliance training through regions are considerably longer than in the UK, and it will be important to computer-based Group Policy Learning modules, with each one designed ensure that a consistent policy approach and format are adopted if the to promote the relevant regulatory Group Policy Standard.
RRPs of UK-based global banks are to meet local requirements, and do not have to be redrawn or duplicated.
To support the professional development of the Groups compliance teams, it also has a comprehensive and progressive training programme that is deployed globally.
All of the Groups regulatory staff are actively engaged in compliance e-learning, which incorporates a mandatory essentials course, and the RBS Risk Academy, through which all staff are required to complete foundation courses in other risk disciplines, such as operational risk, market risk and retail credit risk.
Formal training is supplemented by more informal regulatory familiarisation: this is designed to share knowledge, and support both personal development and technical training across the wider risk community.
