Divisional review UK Retail Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating profit before impairment losses m 2,779 2,532 Impairment losses m 788 1,160 Brian Hartzer Operating profit m 1,991 1,372 Chief Executive, UK Retail, Return on equity % 26.4 18.0 Wealth and Ulster Bank Serving customers well made in our hiring approach, we will now Impairments fell by 32% to 788 million, in part specifically recruit people who behave because of improvements we had made to our In 2010, we made a public commitment to like this and reward them for being helpful.
become the UKs most Helpful and We looked closely at how we run our local Sustainable Bank.
As part of this, we launched branches and decided to restructure our our Customer Charter a set of specific business to give more power back to people Building sustainable value commitments based on what our customers in each local area.
Our local CEOs can now told us they wanted from their bank.
We also make decisions that they believe are right for Despite the difficult economic climate and pledged to be open and honest about our their customers and communities.
low interest rates, we delivered strong results.
progress and to publish independently Operating profit increased by 619 million, assessed reports along the way.
We had said that we would continue to 45%, to 1,991 million.
Net interest income serve more than 300 communities with our increased by 5%, driven by strong balance The results have confirmed that we continued mobile banks.
Non-interest income fell by to make strong progress in 2011, meeting 23 mobile branches now serve more than 400 10%, primarily because of lower investment of the 25 goals we set ourselves.
communities, and drove more than 7,000 and protection income as a result of the miles each week to reach their customers.
dissolution of the UK Retail bancassurance We served 88% of customers in our joint venture.
branches in less than five minutes.
In the Customer Charter, we said we will By November, we had more than 1,200 actively support the local communities in Expenses declined by 6%.
We began to branches open on Saturdays.
Through our benefit from a clear management focus on We met our commitment to stay open in all Community Force programme, we awarded process re-engineering and operational 168 locations where NatWest or RBS is the 3 million to over 470 local projects that our efficiency.
As a result, our cost:income ratio last bank in town.
customers voted as worthy of support.
addition, we gave each of our retail banking Our commitment to Helpful Banking means employees a day of paid leave to support local we are working to make our customers lives projects, and our efforts totalled more than easier.
Our Emergency Cash service provides customers who lose their debit card Building a sustainable risk prole immediate access to up to 300, simply by phoning us.
We continued to focus on building secured We launched a new iPhone banking app lending.
While overall loans and advances to in May, followed by an iPad app in July, customers increased by 2%, mortgage a BlackBerry app in September and an balances increased by 5% and unsecured Android app in October.
We won a 10% share of gross mortgage lending, higher than While improvements to our service processes our 8% share of the stock of outstanding are important, we know that it is our people mortgages.
Customer deposits increased by who deliver Helpful Banking.
Helpful 6%, outperforming market deposit growth of employees are professional, proactive and only 3%.
Savings balances grew by 9%, with caring.
Their job is to make things simple for 1.5 million accounts opened.
Our loan:deposit their customers.
As a result of changes we'five ratio was 106% compared with 110% in 2010.
