Divisional review Global Transaction Services Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating profit before impairment losses m 909 1,097 Impairment losses m 166 9 Operating profit m 743 1,088 Scott Barton Chief Executive, Return on equity % 30.4 42.8 Global Transaction Services Serving customers well FI Global Account allows financial Building sustainable value institutions to make payments in 132 Global Transaction Services GTS enables currencies to 183 countries from a single In January 2012, we reaffirmed our customers to make and receive payments, base currency.
This simplifies clients' commitment to transaction banking.
The manage their cash and liquidity, and to trade transactions and can reduce the costs international elements of the existing GTS internationally.
We process around 4.3 billion associated with maintaining individual business will form part of our International worldwide payments per year and deliver 3,800 accounts.
Domestic corporate customers, global trade transactions daily.
Our global Our Global Liquidity Solutions Portal helps currently served by GTS, will be managed by banking network is present in 36 countries.
Corporate Treasurers to manage their global our domestic corporate banking businesses in cash positions.
It gives our customers a view the UK, Ireland and the US.
We recognise the importance of international of their operational and investment balances trade in a strong global economy and we are and rates, enabling them to execute and Operating profit was down 32%, partly committed to helping our customers do more redeem investments.
reflecting the sale of Global Merchant Services business overseas.
In 2011, we agreed a new GMS on 30 November 2010.
Adjusting for the partnership with UK Trade & Investment We won awards that show the breadth of our disposal, operating profit decreased 16%, UKTI, the government body that supports network, the quality of our service and the driven by provisions on a single name exporting and inward investment.
Together we strength our solutions.
Excluding GMS, income was 7% have worked hard to encourage and support higher driven by the success of depositUK businesses to increase their exports.
In Asia: 'Best Trade Financing Award' from gathering initiatives and expenses increased CFO World, as well as 'Best Foreign Bank by 10%.
Higher expenses reflected business An important part of serving our customers on Cash Management Bank' from Treasury improvement initiatives and investments in well lies in product innovation.
China: technology and support infrastructure.
In Europe: topping the survey for Domestic Bankline is our internet banking service for Cash Managers in the Netherlands and Best UK business customers.
More than 110,000 Bank for Liquidity Management in Western customers use it, from small businesses to large Europe from Euromoney: and corporations.
Since we launched Bankline in In the UK: Global Finance magazine named 2006 we have upgraded it every year to make us as Best Trade Finance Provider for the it easier to use it and more efficient, saving our second year running.
We launched a number of products to meet Building a sustainable risk prole our customers evolving needs: One way in which GTS is playing its part in Capital Import Finance, launched in building a sustainable risk profile for the Group conjunction with our Lombard Asset Finance is by gathering customer deposits, which grew arm, supports UK companies that want to by 3% to 71.7 billion.
Our loan:deposit ratio import capital equipment.
It combines our increased slightly but remained at a low 22%.
strengths in trade finance and asset finance Our success in boosting deposits reflected so that customers can take advantage of the product innovations such as a 95-day deposit lowest global prices.
account: yield call deposit accounts: and growth deposit accounts for our corporate and financial institution clients.
