Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Liquidity and funding risk Funding issuance All disclosures in this section pages 116 to 133 are audited unless The Group has access to a variety of funding sources across the globe, otherwise indicated with an asterisk.
including short-term money markets, repurchase agreement markets and term debt investors through its secured and unsecured funding Liquidity risk programmes.
Diversity in funding is provided by its active role in the Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations, money markets, along with access to global capital flows through GBMs including financing maturities as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is heavily international client base.
The Groups wholesale funding franchise is well influenced by the maturity profile and mix of the Groups funding base, as diversified by currency, geography, maturity and type.
well as the quality and liquidity value of its liquidity portfolio.
The Group has been a regular issuer in the debt capital markets in both Liquidity risk is dynamic, being influenced by movements in markets and secured and unsecured arrangements.
2011 net new term debt issuance perceptions that are driven by firm specific or external factors.
Managing was 21 billion, with 49% secured and 51% unsecured, of which 71% liquidity risk effectively is a key component of the Groups risk reduction were public transactions and 29% were private.
The Group's 2011 performance demonstrates continued improvements in managing liquidity risk and reflects actions taken in light Balance sheet composition of an uncertain economic outlook, which resulted in improvements in key The Groups balance sheet composition is a function of the broad array of measures: product offerings and diverse markets served by its Core divisions.
The structural composition of the balance sheet is augmented as needed Deposit growth - Core Retail & Commercial deposits rose by 9%, through active management of both asset and liability portfolios.
The and together with Non-Core deleveraging, took the Group objective of these activities is to optimise liquidity transformation in loan:deposit ratio to 108%, compared with 118% at the end of 2010. normal business environments, while ensuring adequate coverage of all cash requirements under extreme stress conditions.
Wholesale funding - 21 billion of net term wholesale debt was issued in 2011 from secured and unsecured funding programmes, Diversification of the Groups funding base is central to its balance sheet across a variety of maturities and currencies.
The Groups businesses have developed large customer franchises based on strong relationship management and high Short-term wholesale funding STWF - the overall level of STWF quality service.
These customer franchises are strongest in the UK, the fell by 27 billion to 102 billion, below the 2013 target of circa 125 US and Ireland, but extend into Europe and Asia.
provide large pools of stable funding to support the majority of the Groups lending.
Improvement of the Groups loan:deposit ratio to 100% Liquidity portfolio - the liquidity portfolio of 155 billion was or better, by 2013, is a strategic objective.
maintained above the 2013 target level of 150 billion against a backdrop of heightened market uncertainty in the second half of the The Group also accesses professional markets funding by way of public year and was higher than STWF.
This represents a 53 billion and private debt issuances on an unsecured and secured basis.
debt issuance programmes are spread across multiple currencies and maturities, to appeal to a broad range of investor types and preferences around the world.
This market-based funding supplements the Groups structural liquidity needs and, in some cases, achieves certain capital objectives.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 116 Stress testing Regulatory oversight The strength of a banks liquidity risk management can only be evaluated The Group operates in multiple jurisdictions and is subject to a number of based on its ability to survive under stress.
The Group evaluates the regulatory regimes.
survivability of the major legal entities and legal entity groups when subjected to simulated stress conditions.
The Groups lead regulator is the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
The FSA implemented a new liquidity regime on 1 June 2010.
The new Simulated liquidity stress testing is periodically performed for each rules provide a standardised approach applied to all UK banks.
At RBS business as well as the major operating subsidiaries.
A variety of firmGroup, the rules focus on the UK Defined Liquidity Group a subset specific and market-related scenarios are used at the consolidated level comprising the Groups five UK banks, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, and in individual countries.
These scenarios include assumptions about National Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and significant changes in key funding sources, credit ratings, contingent uses Adam & Co and cover adequacy of liquidity resources, controls, stress of funding, and political and economic conditions in certain countries.
testing and the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA.
The ILAA informs the Group Board and the FSA of the assessment and The Groups actual experiences from the 2008 and 2009 period factor quantification of the Groups liquidity risks and their mitigation, and how heavily into the liquidity analysis.
This systemic and name-specific crisis much current and future liquidity is required.
provides important data points in estimating stress severity.
In the US, the Groups operations must meet liquidity requirements set Stress scenarios are applied to both on-balance sheet and off-balance out by the US Federal Reserve Bank, the Office of the Comptroller of the sheet commitments, to provide a comprehensive view of potential cash Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Financial flows.
In the Netherlands, the Group is subject to the fide Nederlandsche Bank liquidity oversight regime.
Contingency planning The Group has a Contingency Funding Plan CFP, which is updated as Regulatory developments the balance sheet evolves.
The CFP is linked to stress test results and There have been a number of significant developments in the regulation forms the foundation for liquidity risk limits.
Limits in the business-asof liquidity risk.
usual environment are bounded by capacity to satisfy the Groups liquidity needs in the stress environments.
The CFP provides a detailed In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued description of the availability, size and timing of all sources of contingent the International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and liquidity available to the Group in a stress event.
These are ranked in monitoring which confirmed the introduction of two liquidity ratios: the order of economic impact and effectiveness to meet the anticipated liquidity coverage ratio LCR and the net stable funding ratio NSFR.
The CFP includes documented procedures and signoffs for actions that may require businesses to provide access to The introduction of both of these ratios will be subject to an observation customer assets for collateralised borrowing, securitisation or sale.
Roles period, which includes review clauses to identify and address any and responsibilities for the effective implementation of the CFP are also unintended consequences.
After an observation period beginning in 2011, the LCR, including any Liquidity reserves revisions, will be introduced on 1 January 2015.
The NSFR, including any The Group maintains liquidity reserves sufficient to satisfy cash revisions, will move to a minimum standard by 1 January 2018. requirements, in the event of a severe disruption in its access to funding sources.
The reserves consist of cash held on deposit at central banks, high quality unencumbered government securities and other unencumbered collateral.
Government securities vary by type and jurisdiction based on local regulatory considerations.
The currency mix of the reserves reflects the underlying balance sheet composition.
RBS Group 2011 117 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Liquidity and funding risk continued Funding sources The table below shows the Groups primary funding sources including deposits in disposal groups and excluding repurchase agreements.
This is approximately 7.1 billion in 2011.
52.9 billion lower than the Groups liquidity portfolio.
Deleveraging in Non-Core and GBM has led to the reduced need for funding.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 118 The table below shows the Groups debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities by remaining maturity.
The remaining notes issued under the CGS are due to mature in 2012, 15.6 billion in the first quarter of the year and 5.7 billion in the second quarter.
Short-term borrowings Short-term borrowings comprise repurchase agreements, borrowings from financial institutions, commercial paper and certificates of deposit.
Derivative collateral received from financial institutions is excluded from the table below, as are certain long-term borrowings.
The table below shows details of the Groups short-term borrowings.
2 Excludes Federal Home Loan Banks long-term borrowings of 1 billion at 31 December 2011 2010 - 1 billion, 2011 average of 1 billion 2010 - 1 billion.
Balances are generally based on monthly data.
Average interest rates during the year are computed by dividing total interest expense by the average amount borrowed.
Average interest rates at year end are average rates for a single day and as such may reflect one-day market distortions, which may not be indicative of generally prevailing rates.
RBS Group 2011 119 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Liquidity and funding risk continued Long-term debt issuances The table below shows debt securities issued by the Group with an original maturity of one year or more.
The Group also executes other long-term funding arrangements predominantly term repurchase agreements which are not reflected in the following tables.
2011 2010 2009 m m m Public - unsecured 5,085 12,887 8,386 - unsecured: guaranteed 19,663 - secured 9,807 8,041 Private - unsecured 12,414 17,450 14,895 - unsecured: guaranteed 15,459 - secured 500 Gross issuance 27,806 38,378 58,403 Buybacks 6,892 6,298 7,264 Net issuance 20,914 32,080 51,139 Key points In line with the Groups Strategic Plan, it has been an active issuer debt issuance decreased from 32 billion in 2010 to 21 billion in in recent years as it improved its liquidity and funding profile.
The net requirement in 2012 is not expected to exceed 10 Secured funding has increased as a proportion of total wholesale billion as further deleveraging should cover the differences.
funding more recently as market dislocation and uncertainty over future regulatory developments have made unsecured markets less The Group undertakes voluntary buybacks of its privately issued liquid.
debt in order to maintain client relationships and as part of its normal market making activities.
These transactions are conducted at As the Group delevers, with Non-Core and GBM third party assets prevailing market rates.
decreasing and Retail & Commercial deposits increasing, net term The table below shows the original maturity of public long-term debt securities issued.
Secured funding Liquidity management The Group has access to secured funding markets through own-asset Liquidity risk management requires ongoing assessment and calibration securitisation and covered bond funding programmes to complement of: how the various sources of the Groups liquidity risk interact with each existing wholesale funding programmes and access to the repo markets.
other: market dynamics: and regulatory developments to determine the The Group monitors and manages encumbrance levels related to these overall size of the Groups liquid asset buffer.
In addition to the size secured funding programmes.
This includes the potential encumbrance of determination, the composition of the buffer is also important.
The Group assets that could be used in own-asset securitisations and or composition is reviewed on a continuous basis in order to ensure that the covered bonds that could be used as contingent liquidity.
Group holds an appropriate portfolio of high quality assets that can provide a cushion against market disruption and dislocation, even in the For information on the Groups own-asset securitisations, covered bond most extreme stress circumstances.
programme and securities repurchase agreements, refer to Note 30 on the consolidated accounts on pages 396 and 397.
RBS Group 2011 121 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Liquidity and funding risk continued Liquidity portfolio The table below shows the composition of the Groups liquidity portfolio at estimated liquidity value.
All assets within the liquidity portfolio are unencumbered.
2 Includes AAA rated US government guaranteed and US government sponsored agencies.
The US government was downgraded from AAA to AA by S&P on 5 August 2011, although not by Moodys or Fitch.
These securities are reflected here.
3 Includes assets eligible for discounting at central banks.
Key point In view of the continuing uncertain market conditions, the liquidity portfolio was maintained above the Groups target level of 150 billion at 155.3 billion, with an average balance in 2011 of 161.4 billion.
In anticipation of challenging market conditions, the composition was altered to become more liquid and conservative, as cash and balances at central banks rose to 45% of the total portfolio at 31 December 2011, from 35% at 31 December 2010.
Liquidity and funding metrics The Group continues to improve and augment liquidity and funding risk management practices, in light of market experience and emerging regulatory and industry standards.
The Group monitors a range of liquidity and funding indicators.
These metrics encompass short and long-term liquidity requirements under stress and normal operating conditions.
Two key structural ratios are described below.
Loan to deposit ratio and funding gap The table below shows the Groups loan:deposit ratio and customer funding gap, including disposal groups.
Customer Loan:deposit ratio funding gap Group Core Group % % bn 2011 108 94 37 2010 118 96 77 2009 132 103 137 Note: 1 Loans are net of provisions, excluding repos.
For Group before RFS MI only for 2009.
Key points The Groups loan:deposit ratio improved 1,000 basis points to 108% The customer funding gap almost halved with Non-Core contributing during 2011, as loans declined and deposits grew.
27 billion of the 40 billion reduction.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 122 Net stable funding ratio The table below shows the Groups net stable funding ratio NSFR, estimated by applying the Basel III guidance issued in December 2010.
The Group is aiming to meet the minimum required NSFR of 100% over the longer term.
This measure seeks to show the proportion of structural term assets which are funded by stable funding, including customer deposits, long-term wholesale funding and equity.
One of the main components of the ratio entails categorising retail and SME deposits as either more stable or less stable.
The Groups NSFR will also continue to be refined over time in line with regulatory developments.
It may be calculated on a basis that is not consistent with that used by other financial institutions.
2 Deferred tax, insurance liabilities and other liabilities.
3 Prepayments, accrued income, deferred tax and other assets.
Key points The NSFR increased by 10% in the year to 111%, with the funding cushion over term assets and undrawn commitments increasing from 4 billion to 51 billion.
Available stable funding decreased by 12 billion in the year as a result of a 30 billion reduction in long-term wholesale funding, including the move into short-term of approximately 20 billion of balances under the CGS.
This was offset by a 19 billion increase in qualifying deposit balances, including classification of certain deposits as more stable, as some assumptions and methodologies were refined.
Term assets decreased in the year by 38 billion primarily reflecting Non-Core disposals and run-offs.
The decrease in other assets is primarily due to the closure of certain equities businesses in Global Banking & Markets and other asset movements.
RBS Group 2011 123 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Liquidity and funding risk continued Special purpose entities The Group arranges securitisations to facilitate client transactions and The Group sponsors and arranges own-asset securitisations, whereby undertakes securitisations to sell financial assets or to fund specific the sale of assets or interests in a pool of assets into an SPE is financed portfolios of assets.
The Group also acts as an underwriter and depositor by the issuance of securities to investors.
The pool of assets held by the in securitisation transactions involving both client and proprietary SPE may be originated by the Group, or in the case of whole loan transactions.
In a securitisation, assets, or interests in a pool of assets, programmes purchased from third parties, and may be of varying credit are transferred generally to a special purpose entity SPE which then quality.
Investors in the debt securities issued by the SPE are rewarded issues liabilities to third party investors.
SPEs are vehicles established for through credit-linked returns, according to the credit rating of their a specific, limited purpose, usually do not carry out a business or trade securities.
The majority of securitisations are supported through liquidity and typically have no employees.
They take a variety of legal forms - facilities, other credit enhancements and derivative hedges extended by trusts, partnerships and companies - and fulfil many different functions.
financial institutions, some of which offer protection against initial defaults As well as being a key element of securitisations, SPEs are also used in in the pool of assets.
Thereafter, losses are absorbed by investors in the fund management activities to segregate custodial duties from the fund lowest ranking notes in the priority of payments.
Investors in the most management advice provided by the Group.
senior ranking debt securities are typically shielded from loss, since any subsequent losses may trigger repayment of their initial principal.
The Group applies the guidance in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation - Special Purpose The Group also employs synthetic structures, where assets are not sold Entities in determining whether or not to consolidate an SPE.
SPEs are to the SPE, but credit derivatives are used to transfer the credit risk of the consolidated where the substance of the relationship between the Group assets to an SPE.
Securities may then be issued by the SPE to investors, and the SPE is such that the SPE is controlled by the Group.
In on the back of the credit protection sold to the Group by the SPE.
determining whether the SPE is controlled by the Group, the Group considers whether the activities of the SPE are being conducted on its Residential and commercial mortgages and credit card receivables form behalf so that it obtains benefits from its operation: whether the Group the types of assets generally included in cash securitisations, while has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of corporate loans and commercial mortgages typically serve as reference the SPEs activities: whether the Group has rights to obtain the majority obligations in synthetic securitisations.
of the benefits of the SPE: and whether the Group retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets so as to The Group sponsors own-asset securitisations primarily as a way of obtain benefits from its activities.
As a result of applying these principles, diversifying funding sources.
The Group purchases the securities issued the Group does not consolidate those SPEs where its interests in the in own-asset securitisations and may pledge as collateral for repurchase SPE do not provide the Group with a majority of the benefits and or agreements with major central banks.
residual or ownership risks and therefore the SPE is not controlled by the Group.
SPEs that are in substance controlled by the Group are Refer to Note 30 on the consolidated accounts on page 396 for the asset consolidated.
The Group accounts for its interests, for example, holdings categories, together with the carrying value of the assets and associated of securities issued and liquidity commitments, in SPEs it does not liabilities for those securitisations and other asset transfers, other than consolidate in accordance with its accounting policy for these items.
conduits refer to page 125, where the assets continue to be recorded on the Group's balance sheet.
RBS Group 2011 124 Conduits The Group sponsors and administers a number of asset-backed The Groups involvement in conduits takes a number of forms.
It may: commercial paper ABCP conduits.
A conduit is a SPE that issues commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of Sponsor an ABCP programme i. e. establish the programme and assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed approve the sellers permitted to participate in the programme and by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or funding the asset pools to be purchased by the programme: from liquidity facilities.
Commercial paper is typically short-dated, usually up to three months.
Administer an ABCP programme: Group-sponsored conduits can be divided into multi-seller conduits and Provide the ABCP conduit with liquidity facilities: own-asset conduits.
In determining whether or not to consolidate a conduit the Group applies the same criteria as to SPEs.
Liquidity Provide the ABCP conduit with a programme-wide credit commitments from the Group to the conduit exceed the nominal amount enhancement facility: or of assets funded by the conduit as liquidity commitments are sized to cover the funding cost of the related assets.
Purchase commercial paper from an ABCP conduit.
The ways the Group may be involved with conduits and other special Total assets and other aspects relating to the Groups consolidated purpose entities are described on page 124. accounts are set out below.
2 Programme-wide credit enhancement PWCE is an additional programme-wide credit support which would absorb first loss on transactions where liquidity support is provided by a third party.
3 Maximum exposure to loss quantifies the Groups exposure to its sponsored conduits.
It is determined as the Groups liquidity commitment to its sponsored conduits and additional PWCE which would absorb first loss on transactions where liquidity support is provided by third parties.
Historically, PWCE has been greater than third party liquidity.
Therefore the maximum exposure to loss is total deal specific liquidity.
4 Liquidity commitments from the Group to the conduit exceed the nominal amount of assets funded by the conduit given that liquidity commitments are sized to cover the accrued funding cost of the related assets.
Key points During 2011, both multi-seller and own-asset conduit assets The Groups maximum exposure to loss on its multi-seller conduits decreased, as deals terminated and Non-Core assets were sold.
is 16.7 billion 2010 - 22.8 billion: 2009 - 25.2 billion, being the The total assets held by Group-sponsored conduits were 13.1 total amount of the Groups liquidity commitments plus the extent of billion at 31 December 2011 2010 - 20.0 billion: 2009 - 27.4 the programme-wide credit enhancement of conduit assets for which billion.
facilities were not provided by third parties.
The average maturity of ABCP issued by the Groups conduits at 31 The Group holds a single own-asset conduit, which has assets December 2011 was 42.6 days 2010 - 69.4 days: 2009 - 58.4 days.
The Groups maximum exposure to loss on own-asset conduits was 1.1 billion in 2011 2010 - 4.1 billion: The maturity of the commercial paper issued by the Groups 2009 - 9.1 billion, with no ABCP outstanding at that date 2010 - conduits is managed to mitigate the short-term contingent liquidity 2.2 billion: 2009 - 7.7 billion.
risk of providing back-up facilities.
The Groups limits sanctioned for such liquidity facilities in 2011 totalled approximately 16.8 billion for Multi-seller conduits accounted for 93% of the total liquidity and multi-seller conduits 2010 - 22.6 billion: 2009 - 25.0 billion.
credit enhancements committed by the Group at 31 December 2011 2010 - 84%: 2009 - 73%.
The Groups multi-seller conduits have The weighted average life of the funded assets was 1.9 years at 31 continued to fund the vast majority of their assets solely through December 2011 2010 - 2.3 years: 2009 - 1.9 years.
RBS Group 2011 125 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Liquidity and funding risk continued Conduits continued The Group has not utilised its own-asset conduit with a committed liquidity of 26 billion 2010 - 26 billion to access the Bank of Englands open market operations for contingent funding purposes.
This conduit is not included above, or in the tables on pages 126 and 127.
Collateral analysis, profile, credit ratings and weighted average lives relating to the Groups consolidated conduits are detailed below.
The liability is included in the time contractual maturity.
The balances in the table below do not agree band that contains the earliest possible date on which the conditions directly with the consolidated balance sheet, as the table includes all could be fulfilled, without considering the probability of the conditions cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments, presented being met.
The tables have been prepared on the following basis: For example, if a structured note is automatically prepaid when an equity index exceeds a certain level, the cash outflow will be included in the less The contractual maturity of on-balance sheet assets and liabilities than three months period, whatever the level of the index at the year end.
highlights the maturity transformation which underpins the role of banks The settlement date of debt securities in issue, issued by certain to lend long-term, but to fund themselves predominantly by short-term securitisation vehicles consolidated by the Group, depends on when cash liabilities such as customer deposits.
This is achieved through the flows are received from the securitised assets.
Where these assets are diversified funding franchise of the Group across an extensive retail, prepayable, the timing of the cash outflow relating to securities assumes wealth and SME customer base, and across a wide geographic network.
that each asset will be prepaid at the earliest possible date.
As the In practice, the behavioural profiles of many assets and liabilities exhibit repayments of assets and liabilities are linked, the repayment of assets in greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
securitisations is shown on the earliest date that the asset can be prepaid, as this is the basis used for liabilities.
Financial assets have been reflected in the time band of the latest date on which they could be repaid, unless earlier repayment can be The principal amounts of financial assets and liabilities that are repayable demanded by the Group.
Financial liabilities are included at the earliest after twenty years or where the counterparty has no right to repayment of date on which the counterparty can require repayment, regardless of the principal are excluded from the table, as are interest payments after whether or not such early repayment results in a penalty.
The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
2 The Group has given commitments to provide funds to customers under undrawn formal facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend subject to certain conditions being met by the counterparty.
The Group does not expect all facilities to be drawn, and some may lapse before drawdown.
Held-for-trading assets of 763 billion and liabilities of 708 billion 2010 - 665 billion assets, 586 billion liabilities: 2009 - 651 billion assets, 568 billion liabilities have been excluded from the table in view of their short-term nature.
