Essential reading Our approach to business We have three over-riding goals: to serve customers well: to restore RBS to a sustainable and conservative risk profile: and to rebuild sustainable value for all shareholders.
There are important inter-dependencies between these goals.
We cannot serve customers well if the Group is not safer and more resilient.
We cannot be sustainable without rebuilding shareholder value.
And we cannot rebuild shareholder value if we do not serve customers well.
So while each of these goals is important on its own, we will succeed only if we consistently achieve them together.
Restoring RBS to a sustainable and Rebuilding sustainable Serving customers well conservative risk prole value for all shareholders How we do business Serving our customers well is the Restoring RBS to a sustainable It will take some time to rebuild We deliver products and services cornerstone of our strategy.
We and conservative risk profile is sustainable value for all to millions of customers around have embedded it in our crucial.
In 2011, we made our shareholders.
So it is important that operational objectives, our capital and liquidity positions businesses provide a strong we are consistent in the way Customer Charters and in our stronger.
foundation for the Group, we do business from how we How we do business framework, generating a 10.5% return on manage our risks, to how we which we describe on these In addition: equity in 2011.
We are confident treat our customers and our pages.
Because serving we continued to improve how that our core businesses will employees.
To achieve this, we customers well matters to us, we manage risk: generate strong value in their own have made six statements about we measure how we are doing.
the Group Board agreed the right and as a cohesive whole.
how we aspire to do business.
We are encouraged that in most Groups risk appetites: We outline how they are each We do not always match our of our core franchises we made we catalogued and measured performing against their own aspirations but these are the gains on a variety of measures in the risks we face and targets, and together to deliver standards we set ourselves.
But we are not complacent.
assessed how they might our Strategic Plan, on pages These relate to: our customers, Our customers needs change relate to each other: and 13 to 15. our people, our reputation, the over time and good service today we enhanced our risk control security of our environment, the does not guarantee good service frameworks.
risks we take, and our finances.
We face strong competitors in all of our markets.
So, we work hard to improve the service we give our customers.
RBS Group 2011 Customers We understand our customers We know who we are dealing with We treat our customers fairly We treat all customer information as confidential Finances People We manage our We value our people finances carefully We recruit, develop and reward We use the Groups capital people based on their ability and resources efficiently to do the job We account for and report We manage our people our transactions properly responsibly and fairly Reputation We conduct ourselves in a way that protects our reputation Risk We work within all relevant laws and regulations We understand and manage We are a responsible and engaged the risks we are taking member of the community We identify and manage the level We conduct our business of risk we are prepared to take in a sustainable manner We deliver essential customer services and critical business processes at all times Security We operate in a secure environment We protect access to our premises, systems and data We operate our processes, systems and controls to minimise loss from fraud or error RBS Group 2011
