Our business and our strategy Progress on our Strategic Plan Strategy and How are we going to do this?
business objectives Franchises with substantial competitive strength RBS to be based on enduring Track market positions and customer satisfaction in all core businesses.
customer franchises, with Income growth each business capable of Focus on businesses capable of delivering sustainable growth and achieve market-level growth in each.
generating a sustainable return in excess of its cost of equity 12% Cost control Deliver on the Groups cost programmes, whilst making essential investments in our businesses.
Achieve a cost:income ratio that places RBS among the most efficient of its global peers.
Rigorous capital and cost allocation Accurately deploy the Groups capital and allocate appropriate costs to focus the Divisions on returns, as well as on profit growth.
Reduced balance sheet scale RBS to deliver its strategy from Continue to fide-risk and shrink the Groups Non-Core balance sheet.
Careful control of future asset growth to support a stable risk profile and Core customers profitably.
balance sheet, with each banking business self-funding Funding programme Limit over-reliance on wholesale markets to meet the Groups funding requirements, while building up an 1:1 loan:deposit ratio appropriate liquidity reserve.
Generate a stable deposit base to fund each business.
Stable and robust capital support Focus on implementing state of the art risk controls, run-off of excess risk concentrations and maintenance of strong equity capital.
Focused on retail and commercial banking The chosen business mix Activity focused on UK, US and Ireland and supported by significant business investment plans.
to produce an attractive blend of profitability, stability and sustainable growth Concentrate on the core strengths of our wholesale businesses The restructuring of RBSs wholesale businesses is already underway, refocusing the business in its core franchises, with disciplined deployment of capital to support its targeted client base.
Exit Non-Core business lines Expeditious run-off or sale of businesses and asset portfolios while maximising the value obtained for the Group.
Publish targets for risk return balance RBS management hallmarks Demonstrate execution effectiveness by setting clear performance targets for risk and returns, and give regular updates on progress against them.
to include an open, investorfriendly approach, discipline and proven execution Improve levels of disclosure effectiveness, strong risk Rebuild confidence and trust with investors by combining clear performance targets with improved disclosure.
management and central Set customer franchise targets for every business Maintain excellent customer service as a core objective of the Group, now defined with reference to a series of targets.
focus on the customer Management change At the centre of its efforts to rebuild the Group, RBS is dedicated to maintaining the strength of its Board and senior management teams.
Strong risk management Embed the new set of management disciplines to ensure that the RBS of the future is adequately protected, notably by its risk management processes and frameworks.
1 RBS Group 2011 Our progress so far Medium-term target All our principal Core businesses sustain Our focus is to build the success of the Group on customer-driven businesses with substantial competitive strengths in positions amongst the leaders in their markets.
We continue to track our market positions and to target competitive opportunities.
2011 was a challenging year, as economic conditions in many of the markets the Group operated in deteriorated from 2010.
However, our Core Retail & Commercial businesses remained resilient, with income broadly flat compared with 2010 adjusting for the sale of Global Merchant Services in November 2010.
Each core business is being reshaped to provide improved and, importantly, enduring performance and, we believe, will be strongly positioned to achieve income growth as world markets and economies normalise.
The Groups cost reduction programme delivered over 3 billion of annualised cost savings by the end of 2011, ahead of where we expected to be by 2013.
Lower programme spend than originally projected has allowed us to reinvest savings into enhancing systems infrastructure to support improvements in customer service, enhance product offerings and Core cost: income ratio 55% respond to regulatory changes.
The Core cost:income ratio was 60% for 2011, slightly higher than 2010, reflecting weaker income performance in GBM, but significantly down from a peak of 97% in 2008.
The Group has clearly defined targets for the medium-term, updated to reflect the changed economic and regulatory environment since the introduction of our strategic plan in 2009.
Therefore, in the medium term, each of our businesses Originally implemented in 2009 and onwill be expected to more than cover its cost of equity in line with the overall Group target of 12%, be self-funded, have a going to reflect revised Group targets.
targeted average cost:income ratio of between 50 55% and to operate within the bounds of an appropriate risk appetite.
Divisional progress will continue to be monitored.
The Groups funded balance sheet fell to 977 billion in 2011.
Non-Core reduced its funded assets to 94 billion, ahead of the 96 billion target set for the year.
Non-Cores funded balance sheet has reduced by 64% from the December 2008 Group leverage below 18x, in line with portfolio of 258 billion.
Our Tier 1 leverage ratio increased slightly to 16.9% in 2011 from 16.8% in 2010, below our medium-term target.
We significantly improved our Group loan-to-deposit ratio to 108% by the end of 2011, compared with 118% a year earlier.
Our Core businesses achieved a loan:deposit ratio of 94% by the end of 2011, taking in more than 1 of deposits for every 1 of loans made.
Group loan:deposit ratio of c. 100% We continued to reduce our reliance on short-term wholesale funding.
Excluding derivatives collateral, short-term wholesale funding fell from 130 billion in 2010 to 102 billion by the end of 2011.
Our liquidity reserves were 155 billion at the end of 2011, above our medium-term target.
Our Core Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.6% at the end of 2011, which although marginally lower than a year earlier, is above Core Tier 1 capital ratio 10% our upwardly revised medium-term target and positions the Group well to deal with future regulatory changes in capital requirements.
Retail and commercial businesses generated 64% of the Core operating profit for 2011.
We announced in January 2012 that we are restructuring our wholesale businesses in light of the emergence of significant new pressures since the 2009 Approximately three quarters of Group Strategic Plan was agreed.
This restructure will increase our focus on our retail and commercial businesses in the UK, US profit and revenue to come from retail and and Ireland.
In the UK, we increased our business lending by 22% in 2011, exceeding our business lending targets as agreed under Project Merlin.
GBM operating profit fell by 54% in 2011 compared with 2010, with the year characterised by volatile and deteriorating, credit markets, as the European sovereign debt crisis worsened.
GBM operating profit represented 26% of Core Group operating profit for 2011.
The wholesale restructure announced in January 2012 seeks to prioritise our resources on those Markets to account for approximately one businesses where we are best placed with our customers and can operate most profitably for shareholders.
quarter of Group profit and revenue.
GBM third party assets, excluding derivatives, were down 35 billion compared with 31 December 2010 and are targeted to reduce by a further c. 60 billion to c. 300 billion over the implementation period of the restructure.
Run-down and disposals decreased Non-Cores funded balance sheet to 94 billion by the end of 2011, below the revised year end target of 96 billion and significantly ahead of the original strategic plan target of 118 billion.
NonCores funded balance sheet is now less than 10% of the Groups funded balance sheet, compared with 21% when the Run-down of the Non-Core Division.
In 2011, Non-Core also focused on accelerating its fide-risking programme and reducing capital exposures to help improve the financial resilience of the Group as a whole.
In 2009, we announced clearly defined financial targets and in 2011 we re-visited these targets in light of significantly changed economic and regulatory environments.
We remain committed to reducing risk and increasing sustainable returns in customer-driven businesses.
Our quarterly reporting provides updates on our progress.
Performance against the Groups strategy, can be tracked at our rbs.
We provide financial information to the market quarterly.
We continue to track customer satisfaction scores and market position metrics for each of our core businesses and target All implemented in 2009 and ongoing.
We believe we are making progress, but there is still much we need to achieve, and providing our customers consistently high quality service remains a key priority in our Strategic Plan.
During 2011, the Group appointed three new non-executive directors to the Board.
Alison Davies and Baroness Noakes were appointed with effect from 1 August 2011 and are now members of the Group Remuneration Committee and Group Audit Committee respectively.
Tony Di Iorio was appointed with effect from 1 September 2011 and is now a member of the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee.
We are committed to restoring the Group to a sustainable and conservative risk profile.
The RBS risk management framework, and our risk management teams, are clearly aligned with this Group priority.
For an overview of how this is working in practice, see pages 17 and 18.
