Additional information Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible employees are Where not provided elsewhere in the Report of the directors, the following entitled to acquire shares in the company, and shares are held in trust for additional information is required to be disclosed by Part 6 of Schedule 7 participants by The Royal Bank and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and as Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of Reports Regulations 2008. participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares and preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust, The Royal Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust and The Royal the UK or can be found on the Groups website www.
Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust hold shares on behalf of the Groups employee share plans.
The voting rights are On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of exercisable by the Trustees, however, in accordance with investor ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person or protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every holder would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
have one vote for every share held.
On a poll, holders of cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall Awards granted under the companys employee share plans may be met have four votes for every share held.
The voting rights of holders of nonthrough a combination of newly issued shares and shares acquired in the cumulative preference shares are set out in Note 27 on the consolidated market by the companys employee benefit trusts.
The notices of Annual General Meetings and General Meetings specify the deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
All of the companys employee share plans contain The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.01% and the provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and non-cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.73% of the total options may vest and become exercisable on change of control, subject voting rights of the company respectively, the remainder being where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at represented by the ordinary shares.
that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be Directors imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The names and brief biographical details of the directors are shown on Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FSA, certain employees of the pages 253 to 256. company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys shares.
Sandy Crombie, Philip Hampton, Stephen Hester, Penny Hughes, Joe MacHale, John McFarlane, Brendan Nelson, Art Ryan, Philip Scott and The rules governing the powers of directors, including in relation to Bruce Van Saun all served throughout the year and to the date of signing issuing or buying back shares and their appointment are set out in the of the financial statements.
It will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting that the directors be granted authorities to allot shares Alison Davis and Baroness Noakes were appointed as non-executive under the Companies Act 2006.
The companys Articles of Association directors on 1 August 2011.
Tony Di Iorio was appointed as a nonmay only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of executive director on 1 September 2011.
Colin Buchan retired as a nonshareholders.
executive director on 5 August 2011, having served just over nine years on the Board.
John McFarlane will step down from the Board on 31 A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers March 2012. of shares while shares are subject to the plans or the terms under which the shares were awarded.
All directors of the company stand for re-election annually and, with the exception of John McFarlane, all directors will stand for election or reThe rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2012. shares are set out in Note 27 on the consolidated accounts.
Except in relation to the Dividend Access Share, the company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no persons holding securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the company.
