Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Introduction : Stress testing Stress testing describes the evaluation of a banks financial position Portfolio analysis, using historical performance and forward-looking under severe but plausible stress scenarios.
Stress testing refers to the indicators of change, uses stress testing to assess potential exposure to application of individual stress tests and the broader framework under events and seeks to quantify the impact of an adverse change in factors which these tests are developed, evaluated and used within the Groups that drive the performance and profitability of a portfolio.
decision-making process in the context of the wider economic environment.
Industry-wide stress tests The Group takes part in a number of industry-wide stress tests, in Internal stress tests particular, the European Banking Authority Stress Test and IMF UK The Groups stress testing framework is designed to embed stress testing Financial Sector Assessment Program, results of which were published in as a key risk management technique into mainstream risk reporting, July 2011.
These confirmed that the Group remains well capitalised with capital planning and business processes at both Group and divisional a strong Core Tier 1 capital ratio and a strong Total capital ratio under levels.
both baseline and adverse scenarios.
During 2011, the Group also undertook the FSA anchor scenario test.
The Executive Risk Forum see Risk governance on page 103 is the main body overseeing the Groups stress testing approach, processes In December 2011, the European Banking Authority published the results and results.
The forum is primarily responsible for reviewing and of its recapitalisation exercise - a review of banks actual capital positions challenging the results of any Group-wide stress test and ensuring that, on sovereign exposures - showing the Group had no overall capital where necessary, appropriate management actions are undertaken.
The shortfall after including the sovereign capital buffer.
Board Risk Committee will provide oversight and challenge as appropriate.
Group Policy Framework Achieving and sustaining a robust control framework in line with those of Stress testing forms part of the Groups risk and capital management the Groups strongest international peers is critical to achieving the framework and is a major component of the Basel III requirements.
It successful delivery of the Groups risk objectives.
highlights to senior management potential adverse unexpected outcomes related to a mixture of risks and provides an indication of how much With this goal in mind, the Group Policy Framework GPF has been capital might be required to absorb losses should adverse scenarios revised and broadened.
The GPF consolidates a large number of materialise.
individual policies under a consistent and structured overarching framework for conduct, control and governance.
It provides clear Stress testing is used at both divisional and Group levels to assess risk guidance and controls on how the Group does business, linked to its risk concentrations and estimate the impact of stressed earnings, appetite, its business conduct and compliance responsibilities and its impairments and write-downs on capital as well as the liquidity and focus on delivering a control environment consistent with best practice funding position of the Group.
It determines overall capital adequacy against relevant external benchmarks.
under a variety of adverse scenarios.
The GPF and related initiatives aim to ensure that: A series of stress events are monitored on a regular basis to assess the potential impact of a severe yet plausible event on the Group.
There are the Group has clear control standards and ethical principles to cover four core types of scenario stress testing: the risks that it faces to support effective risk management and meet regulatory and legal requirements: macroeconomic stress testing, which considers the impact on both earnings and capital for a range of scenarios: policies are followed across the Group and compliance can be clearly evidenced, assessed and reported by line management: and enterprise-wide stress testing, which considers scenarios that are not macroeconomic in nature but are sufficiently broad to entail the control environment is monitored and overseen through good multiple risks or affect multiple divisions and are likely to affect governance.
earnings, capital and funding: Communication and training programmes are provided to all relevant staff cross-divisional stress testing, which includes scenarios that affect as the policies are embedded, ensuring that staff are aware of their multiple divisions due to their sensitivity to a common risk factor: and responsibilities.
The GPF is structured to ensure that policy standard owners and sponsors review their policies on a regular basis, with any divisional and risk-specific stress testing, which is undertaken to identified shortfalls against industry best practice documented and support risk identification and management.
addressed within an agreed time frame.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 102 The GPF was introduced in 2009.
Enhancements applied in 2011 The GPF will continue to be improved and embedded.
The results of included the following: assurance activity, monitoring and analysis of the internal and external environment will be used to reassess the policy standards on a regular the Groups policy standards, which comprise the GPF, were basis.
rewritten to ensure they clearly express the mandatory controls required to mitigate the key risks the Group faces: Risk governance The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate all of the Groups policy standards were benchmarked against governance in every aspect of the business, including risk management.
relevant external reference points such as peer organisations to A key aspect of the Group Boards responsibility as the main decision challenge and verify the content of the policy standards.
Where making body at Group level is the setting of Group risk appetite to ensure identified, further improvements to the policy standards are now that the levels of risk that the Group is willing to accept in the attainment being implemented: of its strategic business and financial objectives are clearly understood.
for each policy standard, appropriate risk based assurance activity To enable the Group Board to carry out its objectives, it has delegated was introduced to ensure each division is appropriately controlled authority to senior Board and executive committees, as required and and compliance with policy can be demonstrated: and appropriate.
A number of key committees specifically consider risk across the Group, as set out in the diagram below.
risk appetite has its own policy standard within the GPF that clearly sets out roles and responsibilities in relation to the implementation of the risk appetite framework and provides assurance that risks are being actively managed within approved levels and tolerances.
Group Board Executive Board Risk Group Audit Group Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Executive Divisional Risk and Credit Group Risk Forum Audit Committees Group Asset and Group Risk Liability Management Committee 2 Committee 1 comprises independent non-executive directors Notes: 1 The Capital and Stress Testing Committee is a sub-committee of the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee.
2 The following specialist sub-committees report directly to the Group Risk Committee: Global Markets Risk Committee, Group Country Risk Committee, Group Models Committee, Group Credit Risk Committee and Operational Risk Executive Committee.
In addition, Divisional Risk Committees report to the Group Risk Committee.
