Pension risk Stress testing and modelling The Group is exposed to risk from its defined benefit pension schemes to Throughout 2011, various pension risk stress testing initiatives were the extent that the assets of the schemes do not fully match the timing undertaken, focused both on internally defined scenarios and on and amount of the schemes liabilities.
Pension scheme liabilities vary scenarios undertaken to meet integrated EBA, IMF and FSA stress with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, pensionable salaries testing requirements.
On an annual basis, the Internal Capital Adequacy and the longevity of scheme members as well as changes in legislation.
Assessment Process is also modelled: this entails assessing changes in The Group is exposed to the risk that the market value of the schemes pension asset and liability values over a 12-month horizon under various assets, together with future returns and any additional future contributions stresses and scenarios.
could be considered insufficient to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
In such circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to make Governance additional contributions to the schemes.
A key component of the pension risk framework is the Pension Risk Committee, which was established in 2011 and has the authority to The RBS Group Pension Fund Main scheme is the largest of the articulate the Groups view of risk appetite for the various RBS pension schemes and the main source of pension risk.
The Pension Risk Committee also serves as a formal link operates under a trust deed under which the corporate trustee, RBS between the Group and the Trustee of the Groups largest pension Pension Trustees Limited, is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Royal schemes on risk management asset strategy and financing issues and, Bank of Scotland plc and the trustee board comprises six directors during 2011, facilitated an agreement between the two on mechanisms selected by the Group and four directors nominated by members.
for reducing risk within the RBS Group Pension Fund.
The trustee is solely responsible for the investment of the Main schemes Improvements in 2011 and next steps assets which are held separately from the assets of the Group.
As part of the continuing development of the pension risk management Significant changes to asset strategy are discussed with the Groups framework within RBS Group, key achievements in 2011 focused on Pension Risk Committee which was established in 2011.
The Group and improved stress testing and risk governance mechanisms.
The the trustee must agree on the Main scheme funding plan.
framework will continue to be developed in 2012 with improvements in risk reporting and monitoring, modelling and stress testing capability In October 2006, the Main scheme was closed to new employees.
In along with the embedding of the pension risk governance structure November 2009, the Group confirmed that it was making changes to the implemented in 2011.
Main scheme and a number of other defined benefit schemes including the introduction of a limit of 2% per annum or the annual change in the Main scheme Consumer Price Index, if lower to the amount of any salary increase that The most recent funding valuation, at 31 March 2010, was agreed during will count for pensionable purposes.
It showed that the value of liabilities exceeded the value of assets by 3.5 billion at 31 March 2010, a ratio of assets to liabilities of 84%.
In Risk appetite and investment policy are agreed by the trustee with order to eliminate this deficit, the Group has agreed to pay additional quantitative and qualitative input from the scheme actuaries and contributions each year over the period 2011 to 2018.
The trustee also consults with the Group to obtain contributions started at 375 million per annum in 2011, increasing to its view on the appropriate level of risk within the pension fund.
400 million per annum in 2013 and from 2016 onwards will be further increased in line with price inflation.
Further details are given in Note 4 of Risk management framework the consolidated accounts.
From a sponsor perspective, the Group manages this risk using a framework that encompasses risk reporting and monitoring, stress The assets of the Main scheme, which represent 84% of Group pension testing, modelling and an associated governance structure that helps plan assets at 31 December 2011, are invested in a diversified portfolio of ensure the Group is able to fulfil its obligation to support the defined quoted and private equity, government and corporate fixed interest and benefit pension schemes to which it has exposure.
index-linked bonds, and other assets including property and hedge funds.
The trustee has taken measures to partially mitigate inflation and interest Reporting and monitoring rate risks both by investment in suitable physical assets and by entering The Group maintains an independent review of risk from a sponsor into inflation and interest rate swaps.
The Main scheme also uses perspective within its pension funds.
It achieves this through underlying derivatives within its portfolio to manage the allocation to asset classes regular pension risk reporting and monitoring to the Group Board, Group and to manage risk within asset classes.
Board Risk Committee and Group Risk Committee on the material pension schemes that the Group has an obligation to support.
RBS Group 2011 245 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Pension risk continued The table below shows the sensitivity of the Main schemes assets and liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee Benefits to changes in interest rates and equity values at the year end, taking account of the current asset allocation and hedging arrangements.
Change Change Increase in net in value in value of pension of assets liabilities obligations m m m At 31 December 2011 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 106 200 94 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 557 911 354 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 104 1,118 1,014 Fall in equity values of 10% 935 935 At 31 December 2010 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 67 193 126 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 355 799 444 Fall in credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields 98 1,005 907 Fall in equity values of 10% 1,083 1,083 unaudited RBS Group 2011 246
