Divisional review Global Banking & Markets Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating profit before impairment losses m 1,610 3,515 Impairment losses m 49 151 Operating profit m 1,561 3,364 John Hourican Chief Executive, Return on equity % 7.7 16.6 Global Banking & Markets Serving customers well offshore currency so that we can take Building sustainable value advantage of its increasing use.
The Chinese Market conditions were difficult in 2011. weekly newspaper, The Economic Observer Operating profit fell by 54% to 1,561 million, We focused on giving our clients the solutions named us Best Offshore RMB House.
driven by a 25% decline in revenue, much they needed.
Sometimes we did that by of this reflecting the deterioration in credit changing how we work to best serve our We used technology to provide new services markets in the second half of the year as the TM clients and we also harnessed new to our clients.
RBS Agile uses criteria that European sovereign debt crisis intensified.
We maintained leading clients specify to undertake foreign exchange Our return on equity was 7.7%, down from positions in our chosen markets.
trades automatically on their behalf.
That 16.6% in 2010. allows them to manage currency risks and We worked closely with our clients to help strategy during difficult market conditions.
In light of the changed market and regulatory them build their businesses and create value The trading app we created for the Apple iPad environment, we have re-focused our strategic for their own customers.
gives people on the move access to our priorities for the longer term.
We are combining analysis, commentary and trading ideas.
our wholesale Banking business with the The Housing Finance Corporation HFC makes international arm of Global Transaction loans to housing associations that provide Our customers valued the work we did for Services to create a Markets business and an affordable houses to tenants.
We helped the them and rewarded us accordingly.
We were International Banking unit.
We will continue to HFC to take advantage of low borrowing costs named Global Securitisation House of the offer world-class debt financing, transaction through the sale of a 32-year bond.
The HFC Year and EMEA Loan House of the Year by services and risk management, while seeking lent the money to seven housing associations the International Financing Review.
We also to reduce our use of wholesale funding and so that they could fund affordable housing.
achieved number one rankings in sterling making our capital work harder to improve our denominated bonds Dealogic, in global return on equity.
Heathrow is one of the worlds busiest airports.
e-trading of high-frequency accounts With our help, BAA, its operator, raised US$1 Euromoney FX Survey and in US dollar sterling billion to invest in improvements.
This was the foreign exchange options Risk Interdealer.
first bond the company had sold in US dollars and the first secured UK corporate transaction Our European Structured Retail businesses were in US dollars.
named the Quality Leader in Europe by a study of 164 third-party distributors carried out by RBS closed a transaction of more than 2 billion Greenwich Associates.
Our expertise in assetfor Bank of Ireland that assisted it in meeting backed securities ABS debt markets earned its requirements under the Prudential Liquidity us the best bank for ABS and best bank for ABS Assessment Review PLAR and was an research accolades from Credit Magazine.
important step in the normalisation of funding markets for the group.
Subsequently, the bank successfully secured a significant external Building a sustainable risk prole equity investment from a consortium of North American investors.
We reduced our reliance on unsecured funding.
Third party assets fell from 396.7 billion in In China, we raised capital for our clients in 2010 to 361.7 billion.
The 3% increase in the Hong Kong renminbi bond market and risk-weighted assets reflected the impact of enhanced the products we offer in this regulatory changes, largely offset by risk management and efficient capital deployment.
