Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management Introduction In the final quarter of 2011, the Executive Risk Forum ERF approved a This section focuses on each of the key types of risk that RBS Group change to the management of the credit portfolio, delegating greater faces - explaining how the Group manages these risks and highlighting authority to the Group Chief Credit Officer as chair of the functional credit the enhancements made as a result of progress under the Groups committees that analyse and recommend the limits to the ERF.
With ongoing initiatives to strengthen its approach to risk management.
effect from October 2011, the Group Chief Credit Officer chairs a single Credit Risk Committee, with the authority to approve limits for the majority Credit risk of portfolios across the Group.
The ERF retains its strategic role as the All the disclosures in this section pages 134 to 160 are audited unless most senior risk committee outside the Group Board and will continue to otherwise indicated by an asterisk.
approve material portfolio concentrations and higher risk portfolios such as commercial real estate.
This change strengthens individual Credit risk is the risk of financial loss owing to the failure of a customer to accountability across the risk organisation and encourages the meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
The quantum and engagement of business leaders in first line of defence risk activity.
nature of credit risk assumed across the Groups different businesses vary considerably, while the overall credit risk outcome usually exhibits a Risk appetite high degree of correlation with the macroeconomic environment.
Credit concentration risk is managed and controlled through a series of frameworks designed to limit concentration by product asset class, Organisation sector, single name and country.
These are supported by a suite of The existence of a strong credit risk management function is vital to Group-wide and divisional policies, setting out the risk parameters within support the ongoing profitability of the Group.
The potential for loss which business units may operate.
Information on the Groups credit through economic cycles is mitigated through the embedding of a robust portfolios is reported to the Group Board by way of the divisional and credit risk culture within the business units and through a focus on the Group-level risk committees.
importance of sustainable lending practices.
The role of the credit risk management function is to own the credit approval, concentration and Throughout 2011, GCRs emphasis was on embedding the new risk credit risk control frameworks and to act as the ultimate authority for the management frameworks introduced in 2009 and 2010 and on ensuring approval of credit.
This, together with strong independent oversight and alignment with the strategic risk objectives being pursued across the challenge, enables the business to maintain a sound lending environment Group.
Risk appetite has been expressed by the Group Board by within risk appetite.
reference to earnings volatility and stable capital and these principles underpin the frameworks that GCR has established, and is continuing to Responsibility for development of Group-wide policies, credit risk refine, to manage the Groups concentration risks in the Core balance frameworks, Group-wide portfolio management and assessment of sheet, by product asset class, sector, single name and country.
provision adequacy, sits within the Group Credit Risk GCR function under the management of the Group Chief Credit Officer.
Execution of In the two years since the new concentration framework was rolled out these policies and frameworks is the responsibility of the risk across the Group, the ERF has reviewed all material industry and product management functions, located within the Groups business divisions.
portfolios and agreed a risk appetite commensurate with the franchises These divisional credit risk functions work together with GCR to ensure represented in these reviews.
In particular, limits have been reviewed and that the Group Boards expressed risk appetite is met, within a clearly re-sized, to refine the Groups risk appetite in areas where it faces defined and managed control environment.
The credit risk function within significant balance sheet concentrations or franchise challenges.
The each division is managed by a Chief Credit Officer, who reports jointly to product asset class, sector, single name and country limits are now firmly a divisional Chief Risk Officer and to the Group Chief Credit Officer.
embedded in the risk management processes of the Group and form a Divisional activities within credit risk include credit approval, transaction pivotal part of the Risk functions engagement with the businesses on the and portfolio analysis, early problem recognition and ongoing credit risk appropriateness of risk appetite choices.
The new sector and asset class limits have been informed by the work GCR is additionally responsible for verifying compliance by the divisions undertaken to stress the portfolios and historical loss experience.
In with all Group credit policies.
addition, they factor in the future consequences for risk and return in asset classes likely to be affected by the introduction of new regulatory capital rules under Basel III.
