Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Compliance risk continued The Board has ultimate responsibility for managing any impact on the Anti-Money Laundering reputation of the Group arising from its operations.
The Group During 2011, RBS continued to enhance its Anti Money Laundering Sustainability Committee established at the beginning of 2010 sets the AML Change Programme across the Group.
Key developments include: overall strategy and approach for the management of Group sustainability.
However, all parts of the Group take responsibility for A new cohesive target operating model to support the capability reputation management.
required and reviewed divisional AML capabilities against the target operating model to identify and analyse gaps: The risk is viewed as material given the central nature of the Groups market reputation in the strategic risk objectives.
A framework for understanding and managing compliance and conduct risk, including the introduction of a clear Group-level Business risk conduct risk appetite statement and the design of a new conduct risk Business risk is the potential risk of revenues being lower than expected policy framework: and and or operating costs being higher than expected.
It is influenced by a variety of factors, including pricing, sales volumes, input costs, An enhanced global whistle-blowing service Right Call that allows regulations and the prevailing market and economic environment.
all employees, irrespective of location, to escalate any concerns outside of their normal line management.
Whistle-blowing call The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to business risk, subject to its volumes have increased since the launch and the new framework is wider strategic objectives e. g. return on equity.
As a large financial a further positive step to help the Group identify and manage services group, it recognises and values the potential diversification compliance risk.
benefits associated with differences in the nature and timing of potential business risk across its portfolio of businesses.
Reputational risk Reputational risk is the risk of brand damage arising from financial and Business risk is identified, measured and managed through the Groups non-financial events due to a failure to meet stakeholders expectations of bi-annual strategic planning cycles.
Expected profiles for revenues and the Groups performance and behaviour.
costs are determined, on a bottom-up basis, through strategic plans and expectations of the external environment.
These profiles are tested Such loss in reputation has the potential to put the entire business at risk.
against a range of stress scenarios and factors to identify the key risk It could also lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, costly litigation or drivers behind any potential volatility, along with management actions to a decline in the customer base.
Reputational risk can arise from actions taken by the Group or a failure to The Group Board has ultimate responsibility for the impact of any take action, such as failing to assess the environmental, social or ethical volatility in revenues and costs on the Groups performance.
Business impacts of clients or projects to which the Group has provided products or risk is incorporated within the Groups risk appetite target for earnings services.
volatility, with an assessment of volatility in revenues and costs a key component in determining whether the Group and its underlying The Group seeks to safeguard its reputation by considering the impact on businesses are within risk appetite.
the value of its franchise from how it conducts business, its choice of customers and the way stakeholders view the Group.
Managing the The management of business risk lies primarily with divisional and Groups reputation is the joint responsibility of all employees, and business unit strategic teams, with oversight at the Group level from the reputational considerations should, as part of standard practice, be Finance, Strategy and Risk functions.
Elements of business risk e. g. integrated into the Groups day-to-day decision making structures.
regulatory changes also overlap with other areas and are managed by Currently the Group manages reputational risk through a number of the appropriate risk functions.
functions, such as divisions, Group Communications, Group Sustainability and an Environmental, Social and Ethical ESE risk The risk is viewed as material given the central nature of unexpected management function.
The latter function is responsible for assessing changes in revenues and costs on the Groups ability to achieve its ESE risks associated with business engagements and business divisions.
