Risk coverage The main risk types faced by the Group are presented below, together with a summary of the key areas of focus and how the Group managed these risks in 2011.
Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2011 Capital, liquidity The risk that the Group has Potential to disrupt the The Group plans for and maintains an adequate amount and mix and funding risk insufficient capital or is unable business model and stop of capital consistent with its risk profile.
This ensures that in any to meet its financial liabilities normal functions of the Group.
foreseeable scenario the Group holds minimum capital to meet as they fall due.
the standards and requirements of investors, regulators and Potential to cause the Group depositors.
The amount of capital required is determined through to fail to meet the supervisory risk assessments and stress testing.
Active run-off of capital intensive assets in Non-Core and other Significantly driven by credit risk mitigation left the Core Tier 1 ratio strong at 10.6%, despite a risk losses.
21 billion uplift in RWAs from the implementation of CRD III in December 2011.
Maintaining the structural integrity of the Groups balance sheet requires active management of both asset and liability portfolios as necessary.
Strong term debt issuance and planned reductions in the funded balance sheet enabled the Group to strengthen its liquidity and funding position as market conditions worsened.
Refer to pages 116 to 130. Credit risk The risk that the Group will Loss characteristics vary The Group manages credit risk based on a suite of including incur losses owing to the materially across portfolios.
credit approval and risk concentration frameworks and counterparty risk failure of a customer to meet associated risk management systems and tools.
It also continues its obligation to settle Significant link between losses to reduce the risk associated with legacy exposures through outstanding amounts.
and the macroeconomic further reductions in Non-Core assets.
During 2011, asset quality continued to improve, resulting in loan Can include concentration risk impairment charges 21% lower than in 2010 despite continuing - the risk of loss due to the challenges in Ulster Bank Group Core and Non-Core and concentration of credit risk to a corporate real estate portfolios.
The Group continued to make specific product, asset class, progress in reducing key credit concentration risks, with credit sector or counterparty.
exposures in excess of single name concentration limits declining 15% during the year and exposure to commercial real estate declining 14%.
Country risk The risk of material losses Can arise from sovereign All country exposures are covered by the Groups country risk arising from significant events, economic events, management framework.
This includes active management of country-specific events.
political events, natural portfolios either when these have been identified as exhibiting disasters or conflicts.
signs of stress through the Groups country Watchlist process or when it is otherwise considered appropriate.
Portfolio reviews are Potential to affect parts of the undertaken to align country risk profiles to the Groups country Groups credit portfolio that are risk appetite in light of economic and political developments.
directly or indirectly linked to the country in question.
Sovereign risk increased in 2011, resulting in rating downgrades for a number of countries, including several eurozone members.
This resulted in an impairment charge recognised by the Group in 2011 in respect of available-for-sale Greek government bonds.
In response, the Group further strengthened its country risk appetite setting and risk management systems during the year and brought a number of advanced countries under limit control.
This contributed to a reduction in exposure to a range of countries.
RBS Group 2011 107 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Introduction : Risk coverage continued Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2011 Market risk The risk arising from changes Frequent small losses which A comprehensive structure is in place aimed at ensuring the in interest rates, foreign are material in aggregate.
Group does not exceed its qualitative and quantitative currency, credit spreads, equity tolerance for market risk.
prices and risk related factors Infrequent large material losses such as market volatilities.
The Groups market risk policy statements set out its qualitative tolerance for market risk.
They define the governance, responsibilities and requirements for the identification, measurement, analysis, management and communication of the market risk arising from the Groups trading and nontrading investment activities.
The Group Market Risk limit framework expresses the Groups quantitative tolerance for market risk.
The Group limit metrics capture, in broad terms, the full range of market risk exposures, ensuring the risk is appropriately defined and communicated.
During 2011, the Group continued to manage down its market risk exposure in Non-Core and reduce the asset-backed securities trading inventory such that the trading portfolio became less exposed to credit risk.
Insurance risk The risk of financial loss Frequent small losses which The Groups framework for managing insurance risk, with through fluctuations in the are material in aggregate.
associated risk appetite and policy frameworks, is designed to timing, frequency and or ensure insurance risks are appropriately identified, controlled, severity of insured events, Infrequent large material managed, monitored, reported and mitigated.
relative to the expectations at losses.
Procedures are in place to address any issues, such as breaches of risk appetite that are identified through monitoring and reporting activities.
If a breach occurs, an action plan to address the issue is developed, implemented and monitored to ensure the risk is adequately mitigated or a decision is taken to accept it.
During 2011, focus on insurance risk appetite resulted in the fide-risking and significant re-pricing of certain classes of business and exiting some altogether.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from Frequent small losses.
The objective of operational risk management is to manage it inadequate or failed processes, to an acceptable level.
Processes to achieve this objective take people, systems or from Infrequent material losses.
into account the cost of minimising the risk against the external events.
During 2011, the Group took steps to enhance its management of operational risks.
This was particularly evident in respect of risk appetite, the Group Policy Framework, risk assessment, scenario analysis and statistical modelling for capital requirements.
The level of operational risk remains high due to the scale of structural change occurring across the Group, the pace of regulatory change, the economic downturn and other external threats, such as e-crime.
Refer to pages 236 to 239. unaudited RBS Group 2011 108 Risk type Definition Features How the Group managed risk and the focus in 2011 Compliance risk The risk arising from nonAdverse impacts on strategy, Management of compliance risk entails early identification and compliance with national and capital structure, business effective management of changes in legislative, regulatory and international laws, rules and models and operational other requirements that may affect the Group.
It also requires active engagement with regulators, close Financial cost of adapting to analysis of emerging regulatory themes, and interaction with changes in laws, rules or rule-makers and legislators.
regulations or of penalties for non-compliance.
Within the GPF, compliance risk policies define minimum standards to which all businesses must adhere.
GPF policies are supplemented, where appropriate, by divisional policies to meet local product or market requirements.
During 2011, the Group managed the increased levels of scrutiny and legislation by enlarging the capacity of its compliance, anti-money laundering and regulatory affairs teams and taking steps to improve its operating models, tools, systems and processes.
Reputational risk The risk of brand damage Potential to put the entire The Group Sustainability Committee and risk committees arising from financial and nonbusiness at risk.
Otherwise, continue to assess reputational risk issues.
In 2011, an financial events arising from the could lead to negative publicity, Environmental, Social and Ethical ESE Risk Policy was failure to meet stakeholders loss of revenue, costly litigation developed with sector ESE risk appetite positions drawn up to expectations of the Groups or a decline in customer base.
assess the Groups appetite to support customers in sensitive performance and behaviour.
sectors including defence, oil and gas.
This also included the Can arise from actions taken by establishment of divisional reputational risk committees.
the Group or a failure to take action.
Stakeholder engagement was broadened with the implementation of formal sessions between the Group Sustainability Committee and relevant advocacy groups and non-governmental organisations.
Refer to page 244. Business risk The risk of lower-than-expected Influenced by many factors such Forecasts of revenues and costs are tested against a range of revenues and or higher-thanas pricing, sales volume, input stress scenarios to identify key risk drivers and the appropriate expected operating costs.
costs, regulations and market actions to address and manage them.
Business risk is incorporated within the Group's risk appetite target for earnings volatility that was set in 2011.
Pension risk The risk that the Group will Funding position can be volatile The Group manages pension risk from a sponsor perspective have to make additional due to the uncertainty of future using a framework that encompasses risk reporting and contributions to its defined investment returns and the monitoring, stress testing, modelling and an associated benefit pension schemes.
projected value of schemes governance structure that helps ensure the Group is able to liabilities.
fulfil its obligation to support the defined benefit pension schemes to which it has exposure.
In 2011, the Group focused on improved stress testing and risk governance mechanisms.
This included the establishment of the Pension Risk Committee and the articulation of its view of risk appetite for the various Group pension schemes.
Each risk type maps into the Groups risk appetite framework and contributes to the overall achievement of its strategic objectives with underlying frameworks and limits.
The key frameworks and developments over the past year are described in the relevant sections of the following pages.
