Interest rate risk The banking book consists of interest bearing assets, liabilities and Limits on IRRBB are proposed by the Group Treasurer for approval by derivative instruments used to mitigate risks which are accounted for on the Executive Risk Forum annually.
an accrual basis, as well as non-interest bearing balance sheet items, which are not subjected to fair value accounting.
The Group uses a variety of approaches to quantify its interest rate risk.
IRRBB is measured using a version of the same value-at-risk VaR The Group provides financial products to satisfy a variety of customer methodology that is used for the Groups trading portfolios.
Loans and deposits are designed to meet customer income exposures are measured in terms of sensitivity over time to objectives with regard to repricing frequency, tenor, index, prepayment, movements in interest rates.
Additionally, Citizens measures the optionality and other features.
When aggregated, they form portfolios of sensitivity of the market value of equity to changes in forward interest assets and liabilities with varying degrees of sensitivity to changes in rates.
With the exception of Citizens and GBM, divisions are required to However, mismatches in these sensitivities give rise to net interest manage IRRBB through internal transactions with Group Treasury, to the income NII volatility as interest rates rise and fall.
For example, a bank greatest extent possible.
Residual risks in divisions must be measured with a floating rate loan portfolio and largely fixed rate deposits will see its and reported as described below.
NII rise as interest rates rise and fall as rates decline.
Due to the longterm nature of many banking book portfolios, varied interest rate repricing Group Treasury aggregates exposures arising from its own external characteristics and maturities, it is likely the NII will vary from period to activities and positions transferred to it from divisions.
Where appropriate, period, even if interest rates remain the same.
New business volumes Group Treasury nets off-setting risk exposures to determine a residual originated in any period will alter the interest rate sensitivity of a bank if exposure to interest rate movements.
Hedging transactions using cash the resulting portfolio differs from portfolios originated in prior periods.
and derivative instruments are executed to manage IRRBB exposures, within the GALCO approved VaR limits.
The Group assesses interest rate risk in the banking book IRRBB using a set of standards to define, measure and report the market risk.
It is the Citizens and GBM manage their own IRRBB exposures within approved Groups policy to minimise interest rate sensitivity in banking book limits to satisfy their business objectives.
portfolios and where interest rate risk is retained, to ensure that appropriate measures and limits are applied.
Key measures used to IRRBB VaR for the Groups retail and commercial banking activities at a evaluate IRRBB are subjected to approval of divisional Asset and Liability 99% a confidence level was as follows: Management Committees ALCOs and the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO.
Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m 2011 63 51 80 44 2010 58 96 96 30 2009 86 101 123 53 A breakdown of the Groups IRRBB VaR by currency is shown below.
2011 2010 2009 Currency m m m Euro 26 33 32 Sterling 57 79 111 US dollar 61 121 42 Other 5 10 9 Key points Interest rate exposure at 31 December 2011 was considerably The reduction in US dollar VaR reflects, in part, changes in lower than at 31 December 2010 but average exposure was 9% holding period assumptions following changes in Non-Core higher in 2011 than in 2010. assets.
RBS Group 2011 131 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Balance sheet management: Interest rate risk continued Sensitivity of net interest income The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate The following table shows the sensitivity of NII, over the next twelve movements, which could reduce future net interest income NII in the months, to an immediate upward or downward change of 100 basis Groups businesses, whilst balancing the cost of such activities on the points to all interest rates.
In addition, the table includes the impact of a current net revenue stream.
Hedging activities also consider the impact gradual 400 basis point steepening and a gradual 300 basis point on market value sensitivity under stress.
flattening of the yield curve at tenors greater than a year.
This scenario differs from that applied in the previous year in both the severity of the rate shift and the tenors to which this is applied.
2011 2010 2009 Potential favourable adverse impact on NII m m m 100 basis points shift in yield curves 244 232 510 100 basis points shift in yield curves 183 352 687 Bear steepener 443 Bull flattener 146 Key points The Groups interest rate exposure remains slightly asset sensitive, The reported sensitivity will vary over time due to a number of driven in part by changes to underlying business assumptions as factors such as market conditions and strategic changes to the rates rise.
The impact of the steepening and flattening scenarios is balance sheet mix and should not therefore be considered predictive largely driven by the investment of net free reserves.
