Divisional review RBS Insurance Performance highlights 2011 2010 Net premium income m 3,969 4,311 Net claims m 2,772 3,932 Operating profit loss m 454 295 Paul Geddes Chief Executive, Combined operating ratio % 100 121 RBS Insurance Return on equity % 10.3 6.8 Serving customers well NIG, our commercial broker business, restructuring our Green Flag rescue service, increased its gross written premium by 4% enabling members to benefit from greater Whether it's a major flooding event, a snow compared with 2010.
They also unveiled a new visibility of the Green Flag brand on UK roads.
storm in winter, an earthquake or an erupting brand identity, which underpinned the work volcano, our combined efforts make us experts they have done to improve their product Operating profit rose by 749 million in 2011, in dealing with crises.
Last year we were on offering and service to brokers within their key principally due to the non-repeat of the bodily the ground in Tottenham just a few days after it segments.
Direct Line for Business, our direct injury reserve strengthening in 2010, fidewas hit by the riots to share our expertise with SME insurer, continued to perform well, risking of the motor book, exit of certain those in need, and we made sure, via achieving 100,000 policies for its residential business segments and more benign weather constituency MPs, that those affected in other property owners product.
Gross written premium fell by 5% as areas knew the best way to submit their claims.
we reduced volumes in unattractive markets.
We also serve our customers by campaigning Our return on equity was 10.3% compared We are transforming how we handle on important issues.
During the year, we: with a loss of 6.8% in 2010. customers claims.
We have a new claims system which will help to capture and process continued our work with Brake, the road We continued to make good progress on plans enhanced information about the claim, safety charity, and commissioned reports to divest from the RBS Group, in line with the enabling a more pro-active process of which we hope will reduce road deaths and obligation to meet the European Commissions management and settlement for customers.
This includes preparing This multi-million pound investment will take sponsored Brakes Parliamentarian of the the standalone systems and functions that will place over three years.
Already, we are Year Award for MPs who campaign on road be required as a separate business.
processing all Churchill home claims, and safety: and motor claims for Direct Line, Churchill and continued to campaign for higher fines for Privilege on the new system.
We signed a five-year deal with Sainsburys Finance, marking a significant new partnership Building sustainable value for us, to provide underwriting, sales, service and claims management for their car We remained the largest personal lines motor insurance customers.
and home insurer in the UK, all built around strong brands such as Direct Line, Churchill We also concluded a deal with Nationwide and Privilege and we continued to provide Building Society which will see our contract for support and reassurance to millions of UK the provision of home insurance expand to motorists through our Green Flag breakdown include post-sales service and claims recovery service.
Direct Line Italy is also now management.
the number one direct insurer in the country, partly assisted by the first full year of its sales We launched Select from Direct Line, which is agreements with FGA Capital, a joint venture a new product for customers who need higher between Fiat and Credit Agricole.
levels of cover for their home insurance.
It was also our first product in the premium segment We continued to enhance our efficiency: of the market.
After the launch of Select from Direct Line, we also began providing premium combining our four legal underwriting home, motor and travel insurance for the identities into one: clients of Coutts & Co. exiting seven more sites, bringing our total exited to 15 since 2010: and RBS Group 2011 27
