Provisioning for retail customers credit portfolios, typically to mitigate credit concentrations in relation to an Within UK Retail and Ulster Bank, provisions are assessed in accordance individual obligor, a borrower group or a collection of related borrowers.
with the Groups provisioning policies refer to Impairment loss provision methodology on pages 202 and 203.
For the non-performing population, The use and approach to credit risk mitigation varies by product type, a collective assessment is made.
Within the performing book, latent loss customer and business strategy.
Minimum standards applied across the provisions are held for those losses that are incurred but not yet Group cover: identified.
The suitability of qualifying credit risk mitigation types and any The majority of mortgage accounts subject to forbearance in these conditions or restrictions applicable to those mitigants: divisions remain in the performing book but are identified and monitored separately from other performing accounts.
They are subject to higher The means by which legal certainty is to be established, including provisioning rates than the remainder of the performing book currently required documentation and all necessary steps required to approximately five times higher in UK Retail and approximately eight establish legal rights: times higher in Ulster Bank.
These rates are reviewed quarterly in UK Retail and monthly in Ulster Bank.
Once forbearance is granted, the Acceptable methodologies for initial and any subsequent valuations account continues to be assessed separately for latent provisioning for 24 of collateral and the frequency with which collateral is to be revalued months UK Retail only or until the forbearance period expires.
After that and the use of collateral haircuts: point, the account is no longer separately identified for latent provisioning.
Actions to be taken in the event that the value of mitigation falls Non-performing mortgage accounts that have been granted forbearance below required levels: carry the same provision rate as non-forborne accounts.
In Citizens, the amount of recorded impairment depends upon whether Management of the risk of correlation between changes in the credit the loan is collateral dependent.
If the loan is considered collateral risk of the customer and the value of credit risk mitigation: dependent, the excess of the loans carrying amount over the fair value of the collateral is the impairment amount.
If the loan is not deemed Management of concentration risks, for example, by setting collateral dependent, the excess of the loans carrying amount over the thresholds and controls on the acceptability of credit risk mitigants present value of expected future cash flows is the impairment amount.
and on lines of business that are characterised by a specific collateral type or structure: and Credit risk mitigation Introduction Collateral management to ensure that credit risk mitigation remains The Group employs a number of structures and techniques to mitigate legally effective and enforceable.
Netting of debtor and creditor balances is undertaken in accordance with relevant regulatory and internal policies.
Exposure on Collateral and other credit enhancements received over-the-counter derivative and secured financing transactions is further Within its secured portfolios, the Group has recourse to various types of mitigated by the exchange of financial collateral and the use of market collateral and other credit enhancements to mitigate credit risk and standard documentation.
Further mitigation may be undertaken in a reduce the loss to the Group arising from the failure of a customer to range of transactions, from retail mortgage lending to large wholesale meet its obligations.
These include: cash deposits: charges over financing.
This can include: structuring a security interest in a physical or residential and commercial property, debt securities and equity shares: financial asset: use of credit derivatives, including credit default swaps, and third-party guarantees.
The existence of collateral may affect the credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation structures: and use of pricing of a facility and its regulatory capital requirement.
When a guarantees and similar instruments for example, credit insurance from collateralised financial asset becomes impaired, the impairment charge related and third parties.
Such techniques are used in the management of directly reflects the realisable value of collateral and any other credit enhancements.
RBS Group 2011 141 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management: Credit risk continued The security charges may be floating or fixed, with the type of security Credit risk mitigation continued likely to impact i the credit decision: and ii the potential loss upon Corporate exposures default.
In the case of a general charge such as a mortgage debenture, The type of collateral taken by the Groups commercial and corporate balance sheet information may be used as a proxy for market value if the businesses and the manner in which it is taken will vary according to the information is deemed reliable.
activity and assets of the customer.
The Group does not recognise certain asset classes as collateral: for Physical assets - these include business assets such as stock, plant example, short leasehold property and equity shares of the borrowing and machinery, vehicles, ships and aircraft.
Collateral whose value is correlated to that of the obligor is assets qualify as collateral only if they can be unambiguously assessed on a case-by-case basis and, where necessary, overidentified, located or traced, and segregated from uncharged assets.
Assets are valued on a number of bases according to the type of security that is granted.
The Group uses industry-standard loan and security documentation wherever possible.
Non standard documentation is typically prepared by Real estate - the Group takes collateral in the form of real estate, external lawyers on a case-by-case basis.
The Groups business and which includes residential and commercial properties.
The loan credit teams are supported by in-house specialist documentation teams.
amount will typically exceed the market value of the collateral at origination date.
The market value is defined as the estimated The existence of collateral has an impact on provisioning.
Where the amount for which the asset could be sold in an arms length Group no longer expects to recover the principal and interest due on a transaction by a willing seller to a willing buyer.
loan in full or in accordance with the original terms and conditions, it is assessed for impairment.
If exposures are secured, the current net Receivables - when taking a charge over receivables, the Group realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account when assesses their nature and quality and the borrowers management assessing the need for a provision.
No impairment provision is and collection processes.
The value of the receivables offered as recognised in cases where all amounts due are expected to be settled in collateral will typically be adjusted to exclude receivables that are full on realisation of the security.
2010 2011 Corporate risk elements in lending and potential problem loans Loans Provisions Loans Provisions excluding commercial real estate m m m m Secured 7,782 3,369 6,526 2,564 Unsecured 2,712 1,836 2,769 1,762 Commercial real estate The table below analyses commercial real estate lending by loan-to-value LTV.
Due to market conditions in Ireland and to a lesser extent in the UK, there is a shortage of market based data.
In the absence of external valuations, the Group deploys a range of alternative approaches including internal expert judgement and indexation.
The credit quality of these exposures is consistent with that of the performing portfolio overall.
Other non-performing loans of 1.9 billion are subject to the Groups standard provisioning policies.
RBS Group 2011 142 Wholesale market exposures As set out in the table below, the Group receives collateral for reverse repurchase transactions and for derivatives, typically in the form of cash, quoted debt securities or equities.
The risks inherent in both types of transaction are further mitigated through master bilateral netting arrangements.
Industry standard documentation such as master repurchase agreements and credit support annexes accompanied by legal opinion, is used for financial collateral taken as part of trading activities.
2011 2010 2009 bn bn bn Reverse repurchase agreements 100.9 95.1 76.1 Securities received as collateral 1 98.9 94.3 74.0 Derivative assets gross exposure 529.6 427.1 441.5 Counterparty netting 441.6 330.4 358.9 Cash collateral held 37.2 31.1 33.7 Securities received as collateral 5.3 2.9 3.6 Note: 1 In accordance with normal market practice, at 31 December 2011 95.4 billion 2010 - 93.5 billion: 2009 - 73.0 billion had been resold or re-pledged as collateral for the Groups own transactions.
Retail exposures Within the Groups retail book, mortgage and home equity lending using the relevant house price index the Halifax Quarterly Regional portfolios are secured by residential property.
The Groups portfolio of US House Price Index in the UK, the Case-Shiller Home Value Index in the automobile loans is secured by motor cars or other vehicles.
Student US, and the Central Statistics Office Residential Property Price Index and loans and credit card lending are all unsecured.
The vast majority of the Nationwide House Price Index in Ireland.
personal loans are also unsecured.
For automobile lending in the US, new vehicles are valued at cost and All borrowing applications, whether secured or not, are subject to used vehicles at the average trade-in value.
At 31 December 2011 this appropriate credit risk underwriting processes including affordability portfolio amounted to 4.8 billion 2010 - 5.1 billion: 2009 - 5.7 billion, assessment.
Pricing is typically higher on unsecured than secured loans.
all of which was fully secured and predominantly over 99% in the For secured loans, pricing will typically vary by LTV.
Higher LTV products performing book.
are typically subject to higher interest rates commensurate with the associated risk.
The existence of collateral has an impact on provisioning levels.
Once a secured loan is classified as non-performing, the realisable value of the The value of a property intended to secure a mortgage is assessed underlying collateral and the costs associated with repossession are during the loan underwriting process using industry-standard used to estimate the provision required.
Property values supporting home equity lending reflect either an individual appraisal or valuations generated by statistically valid automated valuation models.
Property values are updated each quarter Residential mortgages The table below shows period end LTVs for the Groups residential mortgage portfolio split between performing and non-performing and calculated on a value basis.
Loan balances are as at the end of the year whereas property values are calculated using the appropriate index at 30 September 2011.
