Business review Risk and balance sheet management Risk and balance sheet management In this section pages 100 to 249 of the Business review, certain Strategic risk objectives information has been audited and is part of the Groups financial statements as permitted by IFRS 7.
Other disclosures are unaudited and z are labelled with an asterisk.
In this section, the 2009 data relate to the Group before RFS Holdings minority interest RFS MI.
Key risk appetite measures Introduction z All the disclosures in this section pages 100 to 109 are unaudited as Risk frameworks and limits indicated by an asterisk.
z Risk management plays an integral role in the delivery of the Groups strategic goal to be a safe and secure banking group.
The Day-to-day risk management implementation of a stronger and more effective culture of risk management and control provides the platform necessary to address historical vulnerabilities, rebuild upon the Groups core strengths and position it on a sustainable and profitable path for future growth.
In 2011, the Group made significant progress in strengthening its Financial strength and resilience are at the heart of the Groups Strategic approach to risk management in an external environment that remained Plan.
The Group has defined this level of robustness as that which is challenging.
capable of achieving and sustaining a standalone credit rating i. e. The task of setting a comprehensive risk appetite and aligning it with the without government support that is in line with those of its strongest Groups business strategy demands a clear understanding of the types of international peers.
risk the Group faces and their potential size.
With this goal in mind, over the past year the Group has developed a catalogue of the risks it faces a Given this central aim, in 2009 the Group Board set out four key strategic risk taxonomy and undertaken a Group-wide material risk assessment to risk objectives, aligned to the Groups Strategic Plan.
These are to: analyse the scale of each risk and the potential interactions between them for a detailed discussion of risk appetite, see page 101. maintain capital adequacy: to ensure that the Group has sufficient and easily accessible capital resources to meet regulatory The delivery of proactive and effective risk management relies on high requirements and to cover the potential for unexpected losses in its quality data inputs on which to make assessments.
It also requires robust asset portfolio: forward-looking measurement and stress testing capabilities see stress testing on page 102.
Both of these areas continue to be enhanced and deliver stable earnings growth: to ensure that strategic growth is improvements embedded across the Group.
based around a longer-term risk versus reward consideration, with significantly lower volatility in underlying profitability than was seen Risk control frameworks are used to identify and address concentrations over the previous five years: of risk.
These systems are reinforced by a Group Policy Framework see page 102, which was enhanced during 2011, with assurance activity ensure stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity: such that ongoing to ensure the policy standards it comprises remain appropriate.
the Group has sufficient funding to meet its obligations, taking account of the constraint that some forms of funding may not be Effective risk management also requires a robust governance framework.
available when they are most needed: and During 2011, the roles and responsibilities of the Executive Risk Forum and its supporting committees were reviewed and more clearly defined maintain stakeholder confidence: to ensure that stakeholders have see pages 104 to 106. confidence in the Groups recovery plan, its ability to deliver its strategic objectives and the effectiveness of its business culture and The Group has launched a common set of values for the risk community operational controls.
that impact directly on behaviours and help to engender a risk management function that is widely respected and valued across the Each objective is essential in its own right, but also mutually supportive of Group.
A Group-wide policy that explicitly aligns remuneration with the others.
effective risk management has also been put in place.
The focus is now on fully embedding the Groups strategy for risk These strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the Group-level management into the day-to-day management of its businesses, as well business strategy and the frameworks, limits and tolerances that are as preparing the Group to face future challenges in a rapidly evolving used to set risk appetite and manage risk in the business divisions on a external environment.
More detailed discussions on how the Group day-to-day basis.
strengthened its approach to risk management in 2011 and the areas of focus going forward is contained within the relevant sub-sections on the following pages.
