Our business and our strategy Q&As on progress When we speak to our investors, some questions are asked more often than others.
Below we provide a selection of those frequently asked questions and answers.
Why have you made changes to your headwinds currently point to a slower recovery What is the trend Q Q wholesale businesses?
Will you be with interest rates low for longer than previously in your margins?
making further changes, including expected.
This, together with stringent The net interest margin in our Retail & selling businesses?
regulatory changes, means that it could take Commercial businesses increased by seven RBS wholesale businesses are a vital part of longer to reach some of our strategic plan basis points in 2011.
The expansion was the Group.
They are important contributors in targets than we had previously expected.
supported by a recovery in asset margins their own right.
They are linked with our other across a number of our businesses.
banking businesses closely in a way that helps We remain confident of unlocking the Countering this, liability margins have us to serve all our customers better, makes us performance potential in our underlying remained under pressure, reflecting the more profitable as a whole and gives greater franchises and earning a return for our increasing cost of wholesale funding and stability and resilience to the Group.
shareholders above the cost of capital in strong competition for customer deposits.
Market conditions and regulatory changes, What is your exposure to Q including the Independent Commission on When will I receive European sovereign debt?
Q Banking, adversely affected the outlook for a dividend?
We have focused on actively managing down our wholesale business as it was structured.
RBS is subject to dividend restrictions our exposure to sovereign bonds of southern imposed by the European Commission that peripheral European countries Greece, Italy, As a result, we announced in January 2012 prevent us from paying dividends on ordinary Portugal and Spain, which we had acquired that we will exit from business areas that are shares, B shares and hybrid securities, unless from ABN AMRO in 2007.
In 2011, we reduced unprofitable and where we have weaker we have a legal obligation to pay.
Once this our exposure by over 90%.
We are also scaling restriction has passed, the Board will be free exposure is low at 0.3 billion, equivalent to back resources in areas where market to declare dividends as it deems appropriate less than 0.1 percentage points of our Core developments threaten our ability to fund and subject to normal market practice.
Reflecting our conservatism, ourselves sustainably and profitably.
we have written down the value of our Greek Further consideration should be given to the bond holdings by 1.1 billion, marking our We are restructuring our pre-existing GBM and Dividend Access Share held by the UK position to 21% of its original value.
The result will be: Government.
This commands a dividend on the B shares it owns at the higher of 7%, or We clearly have significant exposure to the a Markets business serving the clients of 2.5 times the ordinary dividend.
This could Republic of Irelands economy through Ulster all Group businesses: be a barrier to resuming ordinary dividends Bank where total lending was 48.5 billion at an International Banking unit which will in the near-term and could be subject to a 31 December 2011.
We remain committed to incorporate the existing GBM corporate discussion with the Government at some time our core Ulster Bank franchise but have placed banking business with the international in future.
14 billion of loans in our Non-Core division.
elements of the existing GTS business: and We are managing this portfolio down over time the domestic corporate customers, What is the trend in your and, where assets are currently nonQ previously served by GTS, will be managed impairment charge?
performing, they are being appropriately by our domestic corporate banking The level of Group impairments, excluding provisioned.
businesses in the UK, Ireland and the US.
Greek sovereign debt impairment, fell by 20% in 2011, reflecting our risk reduction efforts What conditions are necessary and steady underlying improvements in the Q for you to return to profitability?
Clearly challenges It remains the Group's ambition to get back to remain across the economies we serve.
As a being a safe, normal company.
Our intention is consequence we remain cautious on future to do so as soon as practicable.
Economic improvements in impairment trends.
