Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Risk management continued Stress testing and scenario analysis All the disclosures in this section pages 236 to 246 are unaudited as Stress testing and scenario analysis take place on a regular basis to indicated with an asterisk.
support both the divisions individual capital assessment and the agreed risk appetite.
It is also employed prior to the deployment of new Insurance risk products lines of business.
Insurance risk is the largest inherent risk faced by RBS Insurance.
It arises through fluctuations in the timing, frequency and or severity of Monitoring and reporting insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
It A clear framework is in place for the monitoring and reporting of can be caused by any of the following core activities: insurance risk within RBS Insurance, with well-defined processes and procedures for the escalation and management of risks and issues.
Pricing and underwriting: Key insurance risks are monitored monthly at the Insurance Risk Forum Claims management: and loss ratio committees, with comprehensive management information being presented regularly i. e. monthly or quarterly at the Executive Reserving: and Committee, the Board and the divisional risk and audit committees.
In addition, comprehensive reporting of pricing strength occurs on a monthly basis.
Significant enhancements have also been made in the RBS Insurance has continued to develop its approach to risk reporting and monitoring of claims management and reserving.
Further management, including enhancing its risk function, to help ensure that enhancements are underway, including the launch of a risk management insurance risks are better identified, controlled, managed, monitored, system in late 2011. reported and mitigated.
This is being achieved through the embedding of an enterprise-wide risk management framework, with associated risk Mitigation appetite and policy frameworks.
These are expected to have the following The business has well-defined procedures in place to address any benefits: issues, such as breaches of risk appetite, that are identified through monitoring and reporting activities.
In such cases, an action plan to a consistent and disciplined approach to risk management: address the issue is developed, implemented and monitored through the appropriate bodies, with a view to ensuring the risk is adequately a universal view of risk across the business: mitigated or a considered decision at the correct levels is taken to accept it.
the ability to influence decision-making and shape behaviours: Operational risk a reduction in loss events: Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
It is an the improved use and allocation of capital: and integral and unavoidable part of the Groups business as it is inherent in the processes it operates to provide services to customers and meet enhanced return on risk adjusted capital.
Steps taken in 2010 and 2011 to enhance risk management have Operational risk management resulted in RBS Insurance showing improved results in 2011 relative to The objective of operational risk management is not to remove 2010, although refocusing the divisions risk appetite has reduced operational risk altogether, but to manage it to an acceptable level, taking business volumes.
into account the cost of minimising the risk against the resultant reduction in exposure.
Strategies to manage operational risk include avoidance, Governance and culture transfer, acceptance and mitigation by controls.
RBS Insurance has developed a robust governance structure to control the way it manages insurance risk.
This structure includes various forums The Group made significant improvements in its operational risk and committees with associated delegated authorities for the framework during 2011, enhancing its management of operational risks.
This is particularly evident in respect of risk appetite, the Group Policy Framework, risk assessment, scenario analysis and statistical modelling Control and management for capital requirements.
Further development will continue in 2012.
The internal economic capital model is rigorously controlled, with robust validation processes applied to the inputs, the model and all outputs to Details of these, and other elements of operational risk management, ensure that such data may be used confidently by the business in its including developments undertaken and planned, are set out below along decision-making processes.
with the key processes through which the Group manages operational risk.
