Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, the term International Financial Reporting Standards company or RBSG means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the European RBS, RBS Group or the Group means the company and its Union IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements of the Group subsidiaries, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee The company publishes its financial statements in pounds sterling or of the IASB as adopted by the European Union together IFRS.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions and also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
thousands of millions of pounds sterling, respectively, and references to pence represent pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. dollars or $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by the Group, the abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands of millions Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander together, the of dollars, respectively, and references to cents represent cents in the Consortium Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding US.
The abbreviation represents the euro, the European single N. V. currency, and the abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, respectively.
On 6 February 2010, the businesses of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. acquired by the Dutch State were legally demerged to a newly Certain information in this report is presented separately for domestic and established company, ABN AMRO Bank N. V. which on 1 April 2010 was foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily consist of the UK domestic transferred to ABN AMRO Group N. V. itself owned by the Dutch State.
Foreign activities comprise the Group's Following legal separation, RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO transactions conducted through those offices in the UK specifically Holding N. V. has one operating subsidiary, The Royal Bank of Scotland organised to service international banking transactions and transactions N. V. RBS N. V., a fully operational bank within the Group.
RBS N. V. is conducted through offices outside the UK.
independently rated and regulated by the Dutch Central Bank.
Certain assets within RBS N. V. continue to be shared by the Consortium The geographic analysis in the Business Review, including the average Members.
balance sheet and interest rates, changes in net interest income and average interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have On 19 April 2011, the Group announced the proposed transfers of a been compiled on the basis of location of office - UK and overseas.
substantial part of the business activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank.
Management believes that this presentation provides more useful Subject to, among other matters, regulatory and other approvals and information on the Group's yields, spreads and margins of the Group's procedures, it is expected that the transfers will be implemented on a activities than would be provided by presentation on the basis of the phased basis over a period ending 31 December 2013.
A large part of the domestic and foreign activities analysis used elsewhere in this report as it transfers is expected to have taken place by the end of 2012. more closely reflects the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this context includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted On 17 October 2011, the Group completed the transfer of a substantial through the offices in the UK which service international banking part of the UK activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank pursuant to Part transactions.
VII of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The results, assets and liabilities of individual business units are Approximately 98% of the issued share capital of RFS Holdings B. V. is classified as trading or non-trading based on their predominant activity.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting misclassification is not material.
RBS Group 2011 33 Presentation of information continued Managed results The financial information on a managed basis, prepared using the gain on redemption of own debt: Groups accounting policies, shows the underlying performance of the Group which excludes certain one-off and other items.
This information is strategic disposals: provided to give a better understanding of the results of the Groups operations.
bonus tax: There are no significant differences between managed and statutory bank levy: results other than the presentational aspects discussed below.
The 2009 balance sheet information has been presented excluding those ABN gains on pensions curtailment: AMRO businesses subsequently transferred to other Consortium Members previously labelled as pro forma.
This provides a more interest rate hedge adjustments on impaired available-for-sale meaningful comparison.
Greek government bonds: Consistent with the manner in which the Group is managed, Group write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets: and operating profit on a managed basis excludes: RFS Holdings minority interest RFS MI.
movements in fair value of own debt: Statutory results Asset Protection Scheme: The statutory results of the Group include the one-off and other items in the appropriate captions in the income statement.
Payment Protection Insurance costs: Reconciliations between managed and statutory results are detailed on sovereign debt impairment: pages 96 to 99. amortisation of purchased intangible assets: Glossary A glossary of terms is provided on pages 476 to 483. integration and restructuring costs: RBS Group 2011 34
