Risk appetite The Groups focus on setting a clear risk appetite and embedding a a strong risk management culture, in which risk is clearly and strong culture of risk management and control is designed to ensure it is meaningfully aligned with business behaviours and outcomes: able to proactively identify and reduce risk exposures and has the resilience to respond effectively to any unforeseen shocks.
a close collaborative partnership between the risk, strategy, treasury and finance functions that facilitates a broader internal debate on The Groups risk appetite identifies and establishes the level and type of key issues: and risks that it is able and willing to take in order to: clear accountability by each division and business unit for the level meet its strategic objectives - this includes the Groups stated of risk it is prepared to take to achieve its business objectives.
objective of achieving and sustaining a standalone credit rating in line with those of its strongest international peers: and Group-wide stress testing is used to assess whether strategic plans are consistent with risk appetite and to measure the key drivers of risk down meet its wider obligations to stakeholders - the Groups Strategic to business unit level, with mitigating actions identified whenever the risk Plan is built on the core foundations of serving its customers well, profile is considered to be outside or close to acceptable levels see acting responsibly and creating sustainable value for its page 102. shareholders.
Design to delivery A clear risk appetite provides a greater understanding across the Group The Groups risk appetite has been set by the Group Board and is now of the acceptable levels of risk for each business.
Significant progress has been made in establishing the platform from which the Group can focus on its key business strengths underlying framework and rolling it out across the Group and its divisions.
and competitive advantages over the long-term.
The key channels through which risk appetite is cascaded throughout and Approach and key principles embedded in each division are: The Strategic Plan set key performance indicators for capital, leverage, liquidity and funding, aligned with the Groups strategic objectives.
It also divisional risk appetite statements - each division has developed its established a Non-Core division to manage, dispose of and run-off assets own risk appetite statement, which is based on the four strategic risk that the Group was seeking to exit from, which by definition were outside objectives and is appropriate for its business plans but also aligned its appetite.
with the Groups risk appetite targets: Building on these core foundations, the Group has developed a risk control frameworks and limits - risk control frameworks set clear framework that sets and implements an appropriate risk appetite for the guidance on acceptable limits and tolerances for all material risk Group and its main businesses, supported by a regular monitoring and types e. g. credit, market and country risk, aligned with the Groups review process.
risk appetite targets: Under this framework, risk appetite targets - based on both the Group operational and conduct risk appetite - the Group has quantitative and qualitative aspects of risk - have been set by the Group developed a robust control environment to ensure it conducts its Board, aligned with Group and divisional strategic objectives.
These activities in accordance with its regulatory and other obligations: and targets support and augment the strategic, financial and risk controls that are already in place and help to shape the way the Group operates at all culture, values and remuneration - a programme of communication, levels.
Clear roles and responsibilities are established to measure, engagement and training is being rolled out across the Group to cascade and report performance against risk appetite and to provide engender a wide understanding of the purpose of risk appetite.
assurances that business is being conducted within approved risk limits and tolerances.
The Group regards the implementation of its risk appetite framework as an essential step in driving the cultural change required to achieve its The development of this framework has been based on the following best strategic objectives and a dynamic, ongoing process.
The Board Risk practice principles: Committee see the Report of the Board Risk Committee on pages 268 to 271 reviews both the targets and the framework on a regular basis, to strong leadership from the Group Board in establishing and setting ensure they remain aligned to strategic objectives, business risk appetite and in ensuring its purpose is understood and its use performance, emerging risks and changes in the external environment.
promoted as good business practice: RBS Group 2011 101
