Business review continued Competition The Group faces strong competition in all the markets it serves.
Banks In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International balance sheets have strengthened whilst loan demand has been competes with other UK and international banks to offer offshore banking subdued as many customers have sought to delever and the UK services.
Coutts and Adam & Company compete as private banks with economy has remained weak.
Competition for retail deposits remains UK clearing and private banks, and with international private banks.
intense as institutions continue to target strong and diverse funding Competition in wealth management remains strong as banks maintain platforms for their balance sheets.
their focus on competing for affluent and high net worth customers.
Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK is from RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and, to a more UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions who are also active limited extent, in commercial insurance.
There is strong competition from and offer combined investment and commercial banking capabilities.
In a range of insurance companies which now operate telephone and asset finance, the Group competes with banks and specialist asset internet direct sales businesses.
Competition in the UK motor market finance providers, both captive and non-captive.
In European and Asian remains intense, and price comparison internet sites now play a major corporate and institutional banking markets the Group competes with the role in the marketplace.
These sites are now extending their scope to large domestic banks active in these markets and with the major home insurance and other lines.
RBS Insurance also competes with local international banks.
insurance companies in the direct motor insurance markets in Italy and Germany.
In the small business banking market, the Group competes with other UK clearing banks, specialist finance providers and building societies.
In Ireland, Ulster Bank competes in retail and commercial banking with the major Irish banks and building societies, and with other UK and In the personal banking segment, the Group competes with UK clearing international banks and building societies active in the market.
The banks and building societies, major retailers and life assurance challenging conditions in the Irish economy persist and many of the companies.
In the mortgage market, the Group competes with UK domestic Irish banks have required State support and are engaged in clearing banks and building societies.
The ambitions of non-traditional significant restructuring actions.
players in the UK market remain strong, with new entrants active and potentially seeking to build their platforms by acquiring businesses made In the United States, Citizens competes in the New England, Mid-Atlantic available through restructuring of incumbents.
The Group distributes life and Mid-West retail and mid-corporate banking markets with local and assurance products to banking customers in competition with regional banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also competes independent advisors and life assurance companies.
in the US in large corporate lending and specialised finance markets, and in fixed-income trading and sales.
Competition is principally with the large In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card issuers are US commercial and investment banks and international banks active in active in addition to the UK banks.
In addition to physical distribution the US.
The economic recovery in the US is proving weaker than channels, providers compete through direct marketing activity and the expected and loan demand is weak in Citizens markets.
