Essential reading Highlights RBS has completed the first three years of its recovery plan.
Over that period, the Groups results across our key goals customers, risk and value have shown good progress against the plan targets we put together in 2009.
But there is plenty more we still have to do.
We are rebuilding RBS for our shareholders but we know we have wider responsibilities to the communities in which our customers and our people live and work, and to the wider world.
That is why we take sustainability seriously.
2011 Financial Results For RBS, sustainability is built on five pillars 1 Core operating profit 6,095m Fair banking 1 Group operating profit 1,892m We helped 18,000 first-time buyers into new homes in the UK Loss before tax 766m We served more than 400 communities using our 2 Core return on equity 10.5% 19 mobile branches 3 Core cost:income ratio 60% Supporting enterprise Core Tier 1 ratio 10.6% We provided more than 40p in every 1 lent to UK small and medium-sized businesses 4 Loan:deposit ratio 108% We opened nearly 120,000 new start-up accounts across 5 Short-term wholesale funding 102bn the UK 6 Liquidity portfolio 155bn Employee engagement Group net interest margin 1.92% We gave over 50,000 employees more than 235,000 hours off work to volunteer in their community 1 Operating profit before tax, movements in the fair value of own debt, Asset Protection Scheme, Payment Protection Insurance We recruited over 8,000 16-24 year olds across the Group costs, sovereign debt impairment and related interest rate hedge adjustments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, bonus tax, bank levy, writeSafety and security down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS Holdings minority interest.
2 Based on indicative Core attributable profit taxed at standard Our reportable injury rate has fallen by 44% rates and Core average tangible equity per the average balance sheet c. 75% of Group tangible equity based on Our free online protection software has been risk-weighted assets at 31 December 2011.
3 Cost:income ratio is based on total income excluding downloaded over 6.4 million times movements in the fair value of own debt, Asset Protection Scheme, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals and RFS Holdings minority interest, and operating expenses excluding Payment Protection Insurance costs, amortisation of Citizenship and environmental sustainability purchased intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, bonus tax, bank levy, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and RFS Holdings minority interest and after We invested 72 million in the communities in netting insurance claims against income.
which we operate 4 Net of provisions and including disposal groups.
6 Eligible assets held for contingent liquidity purposes including We lent more than two-thirds of our energy project cash, Government issued securities and other eligible finance in the UK to renewables securities with central banks.
