Divisional review Wealth Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating profit before impairment losses m 346 322 Impairment losses m 25 18 Operating profit m 321 304 Rory Tapner Chief Executive, Assets under management, excluding deposits bn 30.9 33.9 Wealth Return on equity % 18.7 18.9 Serving customers well We know that many of tomorrows clients will Coutts, as well as our modernity and be entrepreneurs.
That means we need to relevance.
Our Wealth business is founded on good understand what makes them tick.
And they Our business relies on the quality of our advice and high levels of service.
That is what need to know we are committed to them and people and we made a number of senior our clients want.
We will be: celebrate their achievements.
hires to strengthen our capabilities.
Human when our clients need advice or a We turned the windows of our head office in Operating profit increased by 6% on 2010 to service they should be able to speak to us, The Strand into a giant billboard to mark 321 million, driven by an 11% growth in either in person or by telephone.
income, partially offset by increases in Cosmopolitan they will find us in many of We sponsored the Entrepreneur of the Year expenses and impairments.
Income increased the worlds great cities, old and new.
by 121 million with a 24 basis points Connected we operate across much of the Our report on the role of non-executive improvement in lending margins, strong globe and our increasingly sophisticated directors was another stage in our thought treasury income and increases in lending and technology allows clients to reach us and us leadership activities.
Non-interest income rose 3%, to serve them.
with investment income growing 2% despite Many of our clients are philanthropists.
It might seem odd that a business that relies runs forums for philanthropy where clients can on personal service places so much emphasis share ideas and experiences.
These insights Expenses increased by 97 million, largely on the role technology plays in what we do.
can help clients to plan a giving strategy that driven by adverse foreign exchange However, our desire to provide exceptional makes a real difference.
movements and headcount growth to service service was in danger of being let down by the increased revenue base.
systems that were past their best.
That is why we invested in the Avaloq platform.
Building a sustainable risk prole Assets under management declined 9%, with fund outflows contributing 3% of the decrease With Avaloq, we will have a single source We remained an important source of funds and market conditions making up the balance.
That allows us for the Group.
Customer deposits grew to work more effectively as a team.
More by 3% to 38.2 billion in a competitive importantly, it should free resources so that environment and our loan:deposit ratio we can devote more time to the personal declined modestly to 44%.
In turbulent markets, many clients want to Building sustainable value make sure they preserve their wealth.
Coutts We took a number of steps to prepare Wealth managed portfolios are one of the most for the future.
Part of the performance of our lower risk mandates We began to implement our strategic plan, reflected decisions we took.
These included: focusing on the Private Banking, Private Wealth and Private Office markets in the UK, a reduction in euro exposure: and Europe and the Middle East, and Asia.
diversification into gold and longer duration Coutts refreshed brand expresses our very high quality bonds.
special way of working and thinking.
It communicates the history and heritage of 22 RBS Group 2011
