Divisional review Business Services and Central Functions Ron Teerlink Bruce Van Saun Nathan Bostock Elaine Arden Chief Administrative Group Finance Head of Restructuring Group Human Officer Director and Risk Resources Director Business Services From property to technology and mobile Legal, Secretariat and banking to smarter ways of working in Group Regulatory Aairs Business Services provides services that operations, Business Services looks to Our Legal, Secretariat and Group Regulatory allow the rest of RBS to concentrate on innovate continuously, finding solutions that Affairs functions help to set the framework serving our customers.
improve the service our customers receive and within which the Group can deliver sustainable helping the Group control its costs.
They operate commercially but retain Our work with UK Retail in delivering the their independence and professional flagship NatWest branch in Westfield Mall, judgement so they can drive a culture of legal Stratford the gateway to Londons 2012 Central Functions and regulatory compliance and good Olympic Park was an emblem of what we governance to protect the Groups franchise.
Finance Finance is responsible for the external Communications Its the first branch with our new modular, reporting of the Group's performance and Communications manages our relationships sustainable design and includes helpful financial position, including regulatory and with external stakeholders and makes sure we technology such as a Select A Service central bank reporting.
We have greatly keep our employees informed about system that directs customers to get the right improved the quality and transparency of developments in the business.
RBS wants to solution first time, reducing waiting times and RBS's external reporting.
be open to stakeholders and, during the year, increasing satisfaction.
Communications helped elected officials, The Treasury function drove the safety and commentators and others gain a better Our property team helped to develop the soundness agenda with improvements in the understanding of our business and our plans.
Group's liquidity, funding and capital.
Our technology team introduced Select A Our Strategy and Corporate Finance function Service, free WiFi and digital media services.
focuses on Group strategy, capital allocation Our legal teams made sure the branch was and disposals.
Risk Management Whats more, we delivered the new branch from Risk Management owns and develops the risk a blank shell in 11 weeks and under budget.
management frameworks and tools which the Group uses.
It oversees the identification and The feedback from customers and employees management of risks.
In 2011, the Group alike has been positive.
The Westfield branch adopted its risk appetite framework and we showcases a new approach to branch banking began to embed Economic Capital and Stress and it complements other things we are doing to Testing into our Annual Business Planning cycle.
work together, helping UK Retail to meet their Customer Charter promises.
Human resources HR is responsible for creating performance Building sustainable value through people and sets the strategic agenda We helped the Group to reduce its costs.
for recruitment, development and remuneration.
We exited more than 20 buildings that In 2011, we heard from 81% of our workforce were no longer cost effective, saving through our global annual opinion survey, over 20 million.
successfully hired hundreds of new graduates Our new telephony system has already and delivered over 150 restructure projects reduced costs by more than 86 million.
LEAN initiatives have delivered savings of 55 million.
