Divisional review US Retail & Commercial Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating profit before impairment losses m 804 823 Impairment losses m 325 517 Ellen Alemany Operating profit m 479 306 Chief Executive, Citizens and Return on equity % 6.3 3.6 Head of Americas Serving customers well We increased the number of customers who continued discipline around deposit pricing bank with us online, a key driver of customer and the positive impact from the balance In 2011, we continued to position our company retention.
sheet restructuring programme combined with to help our customers, colleagues and Our retail customer satisfaction scores remain strong commercial loan growth.
We view that as our higher than the average of our peer group.
purpose for being in business, and our team Non-interest income fell 2%.
Higher gains on has taken significant steps to help us achieve We have also built Citizens into a leading the sale of securities and higher account and this goal.
We want to meet the growing transaction fees partially offset the impact of needs of our clients, and we want people to legislative changes on debit card and deposit We are intent on providing customers with a know us for our innovative thinking and global fees.
Thats why we introduced capabilities.
Commercial Banking invested in our Customer Commitments, built around and developed a number of specialty Our return on equity increased from 3.6% feedback from our customers.
Our four core channels, including healthcare, technology, to 6.3%.
commitments are: not-for-profits, franchise finance and sponsor finance, to help achieve these goals.
We plan to build on the progress we have we listen and get to know you: made by focusing our efforts on five priorities.
we value your time and business: we put you in control: and Building a sustainable risk prole Employ a high performing and engaged we will earn your trust.
The economic environment has been Deliver a differentiated customer experience.
Our colleagues are bringing these particularly challenging for the US banking Serve customers as their primary banking commitments to life.
YourPlace Banking brings industry and new regulations have had a partner.
the bank right to our customers and helps negative impact on revenue.
Through diligent Ensure a balanced and effective control them manage their money.
It provides financial execution of our strategic plan, we have environment.
education, financial reviews and planning worked to address these challenges and Deliver financial results consistent with a tools.
This smart, no-cost feature gives strengthen our financial position.
customers convenient access to banking where and how they want it.
As at 31 December 2011, Citizens Financial We believe this will position us to create even Groups Tier 1 Common Capital ratio of more value for our customers, colleagues and We also took steps to become more effective 13.85% ranked at the top of its peer group.
communities and live our brand, which and efficient.
We formed a Consumer Banking Asset quality improved throughout the year, emphasises that good banking is good division by combining our retail and consumer which resulted in a lower provision for loan citizenship.
supports ongoing efforts to become our customers primary bank.
Our progress was recognized by Standard and Poors, which upgraded our credit rating These and other efforts have led to positive from Ato A in late November.
Citizens Financial Group grew demand Building sustainable value deposits in 2011 while reducing higher-cost Operating profit increased by 57% to 479 term deposits.
Net interest income fell by 1%.
Net We have increased the number of deposit interest margin improved by 21 basis points customers who hold loan products for ten to 3.06% reflecting changes in deposit mix, consecutive quarters.
