Divisional review UK Corporate Performance highlights 2011 2010 Operating profit before impairment losses m 2,199 2,224 Impairment losses m 785 761 Operating profit m 1,414 1,463 Chris Sullivan Chief Executive, Return on equity % 12.4 12.1 UK Corporate Serving customers well We helped more than 100,000 businesses Auto Decisions uses external risk data to to start-up, by: improve the quality and consistency of our Our customers are at the heart of what we do.
providing two years free banking, business decisions for smaller value transactions.
We carried out over 5,000 hours of research, planning software and an online start-up We also reduced our real estate exposure.
listening to what customers want so we can course: better deliver what they need.
answering more than 4,000 calls on our Impairments grew by 3% to 785 million due Start-up Hotline, offering free advice and mainly to increased specific impairments.
In response to what they told us, we launched a complementary business plan review Ahead for Business.
It is our promise to small service: and Deposits increased by 1% to 100.9 billion, and medium-sized enterprises that By doing partnering with Capital Enterprise and the helping our loan to deposit ratio to improve business with us, our customers can be London Mayors office to sponsor business from 110% to 106%.
confident of realising their ambitions.
boot camps, providing intensive support to budding entrepreneurs.
We will honour this promise by providing Building sustainable value business expertise, sharing customers For established businesses, we: ambitions and making banking simple, made 100 million of new loans available Operating profit decreased by 3% to 1,414 so they can focus on their business.
through our Franchise Fund: million.
Net interest income was broadly flat at gave businesses access to 1 billion in the 2,585 million and the net interest margin Our Working with You initiative commits our fourth quarter through Lombards UK improved by seven basis points to 2.58%.
Business and Commercial relationship Capital Expenditure Fund: and Non-interest income fell by 4% because of managers, and their leaders, to spend at least led the league tables in debt capital markets lower GBM cross-sales and fee income, two days each year working in our customers and loan markets in deals done for larger although that was partly offset by increased businesses.
That helps us to see customers corporates.
income from Invoice Finance and Lombard.
challenges through their eyes and understand their ambitions.
We use that knowledge to tailor In February 2010, we signed a lending Our return on equity increased from 12.1% to the support and expertise we provide.
agreement with the UK Government.
Under 12.4%, due to slightly lower capital usage.
Between June and the end of the year, Project Merlin, UK Corporate, GBM, Ulster we carried out over 4,600 of these visits.
Bank and Wealth contributed to the total gross new lending extended to UK businesses in In April, we spoke at the British Chambers of 2011.
We increased total gross new lending to Commerce conference.
We promised them businesses by 22% in 2011 compared with that, RBS will put proper, qualified bankers 2010, with lending to SME customers up by back on the street.
One way we are doing 4%, exceeding our Merlin intentions.
RBS that is by investing in our people.
accounted for well over 40% of Merlin SME lending, above our market share.
We launched our relationship manager accreditation programme, endorsed by the Chartered Banker Institute, to improve our Building a sustainable risk prole peoples knowledge and professionalism.
By the end of 2011, most of our relationship We redesigned our lending decision process, managers had gained full accreditation under which will reduce risks while improving the initial phase of the programme.
customer service and cutting costs.
Expert Lender simplifies credit underwriting while RBS Group 2011 21
