EXECUTIVE TEAM The Executive Team comprises the Executive Directors whose biographies are on page 40 and the following senior executives: PAUL DONALDSON VANESSA EVANS Group Broker Relationship Acting Group Customer and Sales Director and Human Resources Director Paul was appointed Group Broker Relationship Vanessa joined RSA in 2005 as UK Human and Sales Director in July 2011.
Paul has over Resources Business Partner Director for Claims 35 years experience in the insurance industry, and Finance.
In 2006 she was appointed as having joined RSA in 1976.
He has held a number Human Resources Director for the newly of leadership roles in RSA, including CEO for the created Emerging Markets Region.
In September Republic of Ireland and most recently Managing 2008, she was promoted to UK Human Director, Commercial in RSAs UK business.
Resources Director and since September 2011, has been acting Group Customer and Human Resources Director.
Prior to working at RSA, Vanessa was HR Director Global Retail at Lego and before that Head of HR for Gap, 2 the international clothing retailer.
TIMOTHY MITCHELL ROWAN SAUNDERS Group Underwriting and Claims Director Chief Executive, Canada Tim was appointed Group Underwriting and Rowan was appointed CEO of Canada in Claims Director in November 2007 when he September 2003.
Since joining RSA in 1987, joined the Group.
Tim has nearly 40 years Rowan has held leadership positions in the experience in the insurance industry.
He joined areas of underwriting, marketing, sales and RSA from Zurich Financial Services where finance.
He is past Chair of the Board of senior underwriting roles included three years Directors of the Insurance Bureau of Canada as Global Chief Underwriting Officer for IBC and sits on the board of Codan A S. General Insurance.
Tim has also held senior Previously he was Vice President, Personal management roles at AIG and Continental Insurance for RSA and also held the position Insurance.
Tim is a member of the Cheltenham of Vice President, Western Assurance Co. an Ontario-focused niche insurer.
Notes: was previously President of Agilon Financial, 1.
Orlagh Hunt went on maternity leave from an affiliated company of RSA Canada, where 20 September 2011 and has since decided she he was responsible for the companys strategic will leave the Group in September 2012. development, operations and overall 2.
Vanessa Evans was acting Group Customer and Human Resources Director from 20 September 2011 financialperformance.
and took over the role permanently from 1March 2012.
42 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MIKE HOLLIDAY-WILLIAMS ORLAGH HUNT ANNE JGER Chief Executive, Scandinavia Group Customer Group Chief Auditor and Human Resources Director Mike Holliday-Williams joined RSA in 2006 and Orlagh joined the Group as Human Resources Anne has been with the RSA Group since was appointed CEO of Scandinavia in February Director for International in September 2003 and 2001.
She was appointed Group Chief 2011.
Mike is also CEO of Codan A S and CEO of was appointed Group Human Resources Auditor in September 2008, having been Trygg-Hansa.
Prior to this, he was the Managing Director in October 2006, also being responsible Regional Chief Auditor for International, Director for RSAs UK Personal Lines operation, for Group Customer since 2011.
Anne has more than 25 which includes MORE TH N and was previously previously Head of Human Resources for AXA years experience within finance, assurance, the Managing Director of RSAs UK Retail Sun Life and has worked at Walkers and Tesco in risk management and corporate governance business.
Before joining RSA, Mike worked in the a variety of Human Resources areas.
Anne was previously CFO at Maersk 1 energy, telecoms and retail sectors, beginning his managementroles.
Data now part of IBM for two years and career at WH Smith Ltd, before subsequently spent 13 years with KPMG as a State moving to various Centrica owned businesses, Authorised Public Accountant, where she including British Gas andOnetel.
was involved in work with publicly listed companies, M&A and restructuring.
DEREK WALSH DAVID WEYMOUTH PAUL WHITTAKER Group General Counsel Group Operations and Risk Director Chief Executive, Emerging Markets and Group Company Secretary Derek joined the Group as Group General Currently Group Operations and Risk Director, Paul was appointed Chief Executive of Counsel and Group Company Secretary in July David joined the Group in June 2007.
Immediately Emerging Markets in 2006, having been Group 2010 and has over 17 years experience in the prior to that David spent two years consulting Human Resources Director since April 2003 insurance industry.
From 2002, he served as blue chip and government organisations and when he joined RSA.
He has over 20 years Group General Counsel at Benfield Group acting as an independent board member in the senior management experience in the financial Limited, where he was responsible for the global US and UK.
David had spent 27 years with the services sector including three years at AXA legal, company secretarial and compliance teams.
Barclays Group, where senior roles included CEO and ten years at GE Capital, including work Prior to that, Derek held positions in law firms for Mid-Market Banking, Chief Operating Officer in Asia and EasternEurope on acquisition Pinsent Curtis now Pinsent Masons, McKenna for Corporate Banking and Group Chief integration and businessdevelopment.
& Co now CMS Cameron McKenna and Information Officer.
He was also on the Group Executive Committee.
David is also currently Norton Rose.
a Non-Executive Director at the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 43
