BOARD OF DIRECTORS JOHN NAPIER SIMON LEE GEORGE CULMER Chairman age 69 Group Chief Executive age 51 Chief Financial Officer age 49 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John Napier joined as a Non-Executive Simon Lee was appointed as Group Chief George Culmer joined the Board as Chief Financial Director in January 2003 and became Executive in November 2011 having been Chief Officer in May 2004 and is a member of the Chairman of the Board in March 2003.
Executive of the Groups International region Group Executive Team and the Board Risk Previous roles include Chairman of Kelda since April 2003 and an Executive Director since Committee, which he chaired until June 2009.
Group plc water utility, stepping down after January 2007.
Previous roles include 17 years Previous roles include Head of Capital its sale and subsequent fide-listing from the with the National Westminster Group, in the Management of Zurich Financial Services London Stock Exchange.
He has previously UK and US, including time as Chief Executive, insurance and Chief Financial Officer of its UK been Chairman of Booker plc cash and carry Natwest Offshore and Head of US operation.
Before that he spent ten years with and Managing Director of Hays plc business RetailBanking.
George will leave the Group in May services and AGB Research plc international 2012 to join Lloyds Banking Group as Group External appointments market research and information services.
External appointments External appointments Committee membership None currently held.
Chairman of Aegis Group plc media and was Investment Committee also interim Chief Executive of Aegis Group Committee membership Board Risk Committee plc from December 2008 until May2010.
Investment Committee Board Risk Committee Committee membership Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Investment Committee ADRIAN BROWN EDWARD LEA Chief Executive, UK age 47 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director age 70 Skills and experience Adrian Brown was appointed as an Executive Skills and experience Director in July 2011 having been Chief Executive Edward Lea was appointed as a Non-Executive of the UK since September 2008.
Adrian is a Director in July 2003 and was appointed Senior qualified management accountant and has Independent Director in January 2011.
Previous been with the RSA Group since 1989.
He was roles include Finance Director of BUPA, ASDA previously the UK Chief Operating Officer with and MFI and Chairman of Redbourn responsibility for Claims, Sales and Service, IT and Group Limited.
Change across Personal and Commercial lines, External appointments and prior to that he was UK Director of Personal KEY: Director of Powertraveller Limited and Lines, leading the launch of MORE TH N. CHAIRMAN MacIntyre Care charity.
External appointments EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Committee membership Adrian is also a Director of Employers Liability Group Audit Committee Chairman NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Tracing Office and DKH Legacy Trust.
Remuneration Committee Committee membership Nomination Committee Full biographies can be found on: No committee memberships.
com boardofdirectors 40 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ALASTAIR BARBOUR NOEL HARWERTH MALCOLM LE MAY Independent Non-Executive Director age 59 Independent Non-Executive Director age 64 Independent Non-Executive Director age 54 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Alastair Barbour was appointed as a Non-Executive Noel Harwerth was appointed as a NonMalcolm Le May was appointed as a NonDirector in October 2011.
Alastair retired from Executive Director in March 2004.
Previous Executive Director in March 2004.
In the last 20 years of his 36 year roles include Chief Operating Officer of Citibank roles include CEO Investment Banking Europe career with the firm, in the UK and overseas, he led International plc finance and Director of at UBS, Deputy Chief Executive of Morley Fund their financial services team in Scotland with a primary Impellam Group plc support services.
Management Investment Fund Manager, focus on insurance and investment management.
Deputy CEO of ING-Barings finance, Chief External appointments Executive of Matrix Corporate Capital LLP and External appointments Director of Logica plc IT and outsourcing, President Europe at JER Partners Property.
Non-Executive Director of Standard Life European Harry Winston Diamond Corporation mining Private Equity Trust plc, CATCo Reinsurance and retail and Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo External appointments Opportunities Fund and Liontrust Asset Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Non-Executive Director of Pendragon plc Management plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute Limited finance.
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Board Risk Committee Chairman Investment Committee Chairman Group Audit Committee Group Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Investment Committee Board Risk Committee JOHN MAXWELL JOSEPH STREPPEL JOHANNA WATEROUS Independent Non-Executive Director age 67 Independent Non-Executive Director age 54 Independent Non-Executive Director age 62 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John Maxwell was appointed as a Non-Executive Johanna Waterous was appointed as a Jos Streppel was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2003.
Previous roles include Non-Executive Director in May 2008.
Previous Director in October 2011 and has a Executive Director of Prudential Group plc, roles include Chairman of Tate Enterprises and comprehensive understanding of the insurance Chairman of DXServices plc mail, Director over 20 years with McKinsey & Company, market globally and good knowledge of of Provident Financial plc financial services and with roles including Co-leader of the Global international and emerging markets.
He was Homeserve plc support services and Director Marketing and Sales Practice and Leader of Chief Financial Officer of Aegon until 2009 and General of The Automobile Association Limited.
their UK Consumer Practice and the European has extensive financial services expertise.
External appointments External appointments External appointments Director of London Finance and Investment Chairman of KPN, the former incumbent Non-Executive Director of WM Morrison Group plc and a member of the Institute of telecom carrier of The Netherlands, Deputy Supermarkets plc, Director of RBG Kew Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Chairman of Van Lanschot, a Dutch private Enterprises Limited, an Operating Partner of banking and asset management firm and Committee membership Duke Street LLP and Chairman of Sandpiper CI.
Chairman of the Monitoring Committee of Remuneration Committee Chairman the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Committee membership Nomination Committee Group Audit Committee Investment Committee Committee membership Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Investment Committee Investment Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 41
