RISK REVIEW OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS IS UNDERPINNED BY OUR STRONG RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT The Board Risk Committee ensures 1st line Management We ensure risk is managed to minimise losses that material risks are identified and that Setting strategy, performance measurement, and take opportunities for profitable growth.
appropriate arrangements are in place to establishment and maintenance of internal manage and mitigate those risks effectively control and risk management in the business.
The Group operates under a common in line with risk appetite.
framework through which risk management 2nd line Risk oversight and control is embedded throughout GROUP RISK APPETITE Operating a formal Risk Management the Group.
The Group risk appetite is set and monitored System within which the Group policies at a Group, regional and business level and is and minimum standards are set The Board is responsible for the Groups reviewed annually and signed off by the Board Oversight and challenge across the Group.
Risk Management System and for defining Risk Committee and Group Board.
It sets the Groups risk appetite.
business volumes for certain higher risk 3rd line Independent assurance insurance classes, stipulates loss retention Providing independent and objective Executive management is responsible for limits, reinsurance protection, targets for assurance of the effectiveness of the Groups implementing systems and controls that credit rating and solvency margins.
systems of internal control established by manage our risk exposures in line with the first and second lines of defence.
Each Group business RISK FRAMEWORK is required to follow a consistent process The Group operates a three lines of defence to identify, measure, manage, monitor model for the oversight and management of and report its risks.
risk as follows: Governance structure the principal committees are shown below BOARD GROUP BOARD RISK GROUP AUDIT INVESTMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CONTROL & INTERNAL MODEL GROUP GROUP ASSET GOVERNANCE REGIONAL AUDIT GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RISK, GROUP GROUP REGIONAL INVESTMENTS RESERVING TRANSACTION RISK COMMITTEES & TREASURY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP GROUP ICA & CAPITAL SOLVENCY II REINSURANCE DISCLOSURE ALLOCATION STEERING CREDIT COMMITTEE STEERING GROUP COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 30 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW We ensure risk is managed to minimise losses and take opportunities for profitable growth.
David Weymouth, Group Operations and Risk Director PRINCIPLES GROUP RISK POLICY STATEMENTS Our policy statements set out the minimum Simple objectives Create value for all stakeholders standards to be maintained by the Groups Focus on general insurance in our selected markets operations to manage their risks in a way Commitment to sustainable, profitable performance.
that is consistent with the risk appetite.
Clear risk appetite Underwriting and operating excellence RISK CATEGORIES Strong control environment Risks are viewed under categories that Tight financial management broadly correspond to those used in the Protecting and managing the Groups reputation.
Financial Services Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers INSPRU and Robust governance, Comprehensive policy, procedures and controls Senior Management Arrangements, control and reporting Clear delegation of authorities Systems and Controls SYSC.
Additional Robust lines of defence information is provided in the Risk Regular and relevant reporting and assurance processes.
Some of the key current practices and tools for each risk category are set out overleaf Strong culture Board set tone from the top of open communication alongside our risks and uncertainties.
and engagement Putting the customer at the centre of what we do High quality and engaged staff.
2011 UPDATE During the year we have maintained our transition into the Solvency II regulatory Further developed and embedded focus on risk management, strengthening environment by our processes to identify and measure and developing our processes, controls - actively responding to the changing emerging risks, including specific risk and capabilities across the Group through insurance regulatory architecture across analysis on such issues as the weakening the following activities the UK and Europe European economies - working with regulators to demonstrate Further developed our global programme ORGANISATION AND CULTURE our approach in meeting requirements of comprehensive stress and scenario Visible Executive ownership of risk - educating our business on its changing testing, reinforcing our understanding management principles and practices, roles and responsibilities.
of our risk profile and the effectiveness as demonstrated in the Board Risk of our control environment.
Analysis Committee and Regional Risk Committees, SYSTEMS AND PROCESS considered our financial and operational which have clearly defined terms of Developed and implemented a resilience to the Euro sovereign debt crisis.
reference and agendas Governance Risk and Compliance tool Reinforced our three lines of defence model, enabling a consistent assessment of risk PEOPLE which clearly articulates the second line role across the three assurance functions of Our risk experts helped to of the Risk Function Risk, Financial Control and Internal Audit develop excellence across the Group Promoted risk informed decision making, Enhanced the alignment of our Risk We continue to strengthen our insurance which is focused on achieving a desired Management System to our strategic and financial risk management capabilities outcome and considers both risk and reward objectives and Solvency II through training and recruitment.
Continued solid progress made on our regulatory requirements Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 31 RISK REVIEW CONTINUED RISKS CATEGORIES Risks Primary activities Key tools for managing INSURANCE RISK Pricing, acceptance and management of risks Reviews of individual insurance portfolios Our insurance risk strategy has arising from our contracts with customers Regional and Group Reserving enabled us to continue delivering Claims development and reserving Committees held to determine a strong underwriting results.
recommended level of outstanding claims and aggregate outstanding claims reserves Scenario modelling that is appropriate for the size and complexity of our portfolios Investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
REINSURANCE RISK Reinsurance strategy and appetite Group Reinsurance policy aligned Our reinsurance buying and recommended to the Board with strategy and appetite management expertise has allowed us by the Board Risk Committee Analysis of major treaty purchases to manage our insurance exposure and Purchase of the worldwide programme using various modelling tools losses such as those arising from natural of global and local treaties Monitoring and control of the Groups catastrophes during 2011, including the Reinsurance counterparty management.
reinsurance activity earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand Monitoring of the reinsurance markets and the floods in Thailand and Australia.
Reinsurance counterparties approved by the Group Reinsurance Credit Committee.
OPERATIONAL RISK Effective and reliable operation of processes Risk and control self-assessments We have completed various Business continuity and disaster recovery Key risk indicators to assess and manage Group-wide assessments and Information security management operational risk roll-out activities to strengthen Monitoring and control to prevent Scenario analyses to assess operational our operations.
events that have occurred elsewhere and potential exposure to the Group Incident management, near misses and loss reporting.
CREDIT, MARKET Investment strategy and portfolio Controls to ensure that exposure & LIQUIDITY RISK management is managed within risk appetite We continue to proactively manage Risk analysis Value-At-Risk, Risk Monitoring of exposure against limits our financial risks despite the Contribution and Sensitivity Analysis set out in the Investment guidelines challenging economic climate.
Treasury activities such as Group liquidity Portfolio analytics and hedge effectiveness Requirements to maintain a minimum Scenario and Stress Testing level of cash or highly liquid assets Group Financial Risk policies aligned Committees overseeing the Groups with strategy and appetite investment strategy and risk limits.
REGULATORY RISK Ensuring compliance in all Active engagement with regulators Our response to regulatory changes geographical locations, with Close monitoring of and compliance has helped safeguard diverse regulatory requirements regulatory requirements our business and we remain at the Response to regulatory changes.
Compliance framework with consistent forefront of UK firms in respect of monitoring methodology our Solvency II application process.
Monthly reporting of significant regulatory developments and mitigation of emerging risks.
32 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES Risks Potential impact Mitigation PROLONGED Exposure reduction impacts Diversified portfolio providing exposure to markets ECONOMIC premium levels at different levels of development and insurance cycle DOWNTURN Increased claims frequency.
Limited exposure to economically triggered contracts KPI dashboard utilised to support early corrective action Maintain focus on underwriting discipline and targeted profitable growth Continuous action on rate and expenses.
ADVERSE FINANCIAL Impact on investment portfolio Retain focus on high quality, low risk investment strategy MARKETS and investment income due to lower Action taken to balance risk and return includes interest rates and market volatility.
increasing our holdings in non government bonds, bond duration and having a significant percentage of our equity portfolio protected by derivatives.
RATING Inability to charge adequate rates Diversified portfolio by geography and line of business ENVIRONMENT places downward pressure on Each portfolio has a rate plan which is regularly reviewed underwriting results.
Focus on underwriting and profitable growth Actively shift capacity to where we see the best returns Continue to invest in technical skills, sales and marketing capabilities.
ADVERSE LOSS Catastrophic losses arising from Underwriting strategy set to ensure risks written EXPERIENCE insurance events are well diversified and within risk appetite Increasing frequency and severity Regular portfolio reviews to monitor underwriting of large losses performance Deterioration in long tail reserves.
Emerging trends in large losses, frequency and severity are investigated and corrective action taken Reinsurance programmes limit net losses Conservative reserving policy ensuring that claims reserves will be more likely than not to result in positive prior year development.
INSURANCE RISKS Adverse impact on operating results The Group operates under a clear risk appetite OUTSIDE GROUPS due to increased volatility.
set by the Board which is monitored at Group RISK APPETITE and regional level Underwriters are licensed only to write risks within specified limits based on their own experience Reviews assess each portfolio against key performance and risk indicators.
Portfolios that trigger these indicators are investigated.
Corrective measures are implemented where required.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 33
