38 Directors profiles Chairman 5 Kevin Parry 50 Chief Financial Officer 1 Michael Miles, OBE 75 was appointed a non-executive Director on 1 January 2003 and Chairman became Chief Financial Officer on 1 January 2009.
He qualified Chairman of the Nominations Committee was appointed a as a chartered accountant with KPMG and became a Partner non-executive Director and Chairman of the Board on 1 January and later a Managing Partner at KPMGs London office.
He will retire as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2012 Chief Executive of Management Consulting Group plc and is Annual General Meeting.
He has previously served as Chairman currently the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the of the Swire Group in Hong Kong, Cathay Pacific Airways, Audit and Risk Committee of Intermediate Capital Group PLC Johnson Matthey plc and BP Pension Trustees Limited.
He was and Deputy Chairman of the Royal National Childrens previously an executive Director and later an adviser to John Foundation.
He was also a non-executive Director of BP plc and is a non-executive Director of GEMS III Limited and 6 Massimo Tosato 57 GEMS Oriental and General Fund II Limited.
He is an adviser to Executive Vice Chairman and the Board of Alexander Proudfoot.
Global Head of Distribution Executive Directors joined Schroders in 1995 and was appointed a Director in August 2001.
Before joining Schroders he was a Founding 2 Michael Dobson 59 Partner and Chief Executive Officer of Cominvest SpA.
a Chief Executive Partner and Managing Director of Euromercantile SpA.
He was an Independent Director of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro and a joined the Board of Schroders as a non-executive Director in Member of the City of Londons International Regulatory April 2001 and became Chief Executive in November of that Strategy Group.
He is currently a Member of the International year.
He was previously Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Advisory Board of Columbia Business School, Vice President of Group and a Member of the Board of Managing Directors of the European Fund and Asset Management Association and a Deutsche Bank AG.
He is a Member of the Advisory Committee Trustee of the Parasol Unit Foundation for Contemporary Art, of the staff retirement plan of the International Monetary Fund.
3 Alan Brown 58 Non-executive Directors Chief Investment Officer 7 Ashley Almanza 48 joined Schroders in 2005 and was appointed a Director in July Independent non-executive Director of that year.
He will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
He previously worked for member of the Audit and Risk Committee and Nominations Morgan Grenfell, Posthorn Global Asset Management, Committee was appointed a Director on 2 August 2011.
He will PanAgora Asset Management and State Street Global Advisors.
join the Remuneration Committee at the conclusion of the 2012 Amongst other external positions, he is Chairman of the Carbon Annual General Meeting.
He held a number of senior roles at BG Disclosure Project, Chairman of the CERGE-EI US Foundation Group including Managing Director, UK, Europe and Central and a non-executive Director of Pool Reinsurance Company Asia and was Chief Financial Officer between 2002 and 2011.
Limited and of the Investment Management Association.
He is He is currently an Executive Vice President and Member of BG an Alternate Member for the Investment Management Groups Group Executive Committee.
He is a past Chairman of Association on the Takeover Panel.
The Hundred Group of Finance Directors and is a Member of the Advisory Board of the Oxford University Centre for Business 4 Philip Mallinckrodt 49 Taxation.
He is a chartered accountant and has an MBA from London Business School.
Group Head of Private Banking joined Schroders in 1994 and was appointed a Director on 1 January 2009.
He previously worked for Credit Suisse First Boston.
From 2000 to 2002 he worked for Citigroup Investment Banking and rejoined Schroders in 2002.
He was Head of Corporate Development until 2007 before taking on the role of Group Head of Private Banking.
He is a Member of the International Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution.
1 2 3 4 1 Michael Miles, OBE 2 Michael Dobson 3 Alan Brown 4 Philip Mallinckrodt 5 Kevin Parry 6 Massimo Tosato 5 6 7 7 Ashley Almanza Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 39 8 Andrew Beeson 67 11 Lord Howard of Penrith 66 Senior Independent Director Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee Committee was appointed a Director on 20 November 2008. and the Nominations Committee was appointed a Director on He will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 1 October 2004.
He will become Chairman of the Company a Member of the Audit and Risk Committee at the conclusion and the Nominations Committee at the conclusion of the 2012 of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
He was previously the Annual General Meeting at which time he will cease to be a Deputy to the Chairman of Lehman in Europe until 1998 and member of the Remuneration and Audit and Risk Committees.
was the Partner in charge of international fixed income at Phillips He was the Founder and Chief Executive of the Beeson Gregory & Drew.
He is Chairman of Tarchon Capital Management LLP, Group and subsequently Chairman of Evolution Group plc, which manages portfolios of hedge funds for institutions and following its merger with Beeson Gregory.
He was a Founder high net worth individuals.
He is a Member of the Advisory Director of IP Group Plc, and also founded what is now known Board of Ondra Partners.
as the Quoted Company Alliance.
He is a non-executive Director of Westhouse Holdings plc and Datawind UK plc.
12 Merlyn Lowther 58 Independent non-executive Director 9 Luc Bertrand 61 Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and a member of Independent non-executive Director the Nominations Committee was appointed a Director on 1 April member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations 2004.
She joined the Bank of England Economics Division in Committee was appointed a Director on 1 March 2006.
He will 1975 and held various senior management positions within the become Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the Bank including Personnel Director, Deputy Chief Cashier and 2012 Annual General Meeting.
He started his career with Chief Cashier.
She retired from the Bank in 2004.
She is Bankers Trust and held various corporate finance positions in currently a Trustee of The Henry Smith Charity and of the New York, London and Amsterdam between 1974 and 1980.
She became a Director He is Chairman of the Executive Committee of Ackermans & van of The Co-operative Bank plc in September 2011.
Haaren N. V. having previously held the position of Managing Director.
He is an Independent Director of ING Belgium and a 13 Bruno Schroder 79 number of other profit and not-for-profit companies.
He is the Non-executive Director Chairman of the Gubema Belgian Governance Institute and is also on the Advisory Council of INSEAD Belgium.
member of the Nominations Committee was appointed a Director in 1963.
He previously worked for Schroder Gebrder Bank in Hamburg before joining the Schroder Group in London 10 Robin Buchanan 59 where he worked in the Commercial Banking and Corporate Independent non-executive Director Finance divisions of J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, London.
He is the great great grandson of Johann Heinrich Schrder, member of the Audit and Risk Committee and of the co-founder of the Schroders business in 1804.
He is a director Nominations Committee was appointed a Director on 4 March of a number of private limited companies.
He served as the senior partner of Bain & Company Inc in the UK until 2007 and remains a Senior Adviser.
He has previously been a non-executive Director of Liberty International plc and Shire plc.
He was Dean and President of London Business School and remains a Director of the Schools Corporate Governance Centre.
He is a Member of the Trilateral Commission of the International Advisory Council of Recipco, the Remuneration Committee of Coller Capital Ltd.
He is a Member of the Supervisory Board of LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He is Chairman of Michael Page International plc.
8 9 10 8 Andrew Beeson 9 Luc Bertrand 10 Robin Buchanan 11 Lord Howard of Penrith 12 Merlyn Lowther 11 12 13 13 Bruno Schroder Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
