12 Business model Overview Schroders has two operating segments: Asset Management and Private Banking.
The non-operating Group segment is focused on capital management, governance and corporate management.
Asset Management Assets under management: 171.3 billion Investment expertise across equities, fixed income, multi-asset and alternative asset classes Employs over 2,550 people Provided through segregated mandates Three divisions: Investment, Distribution and fund ranges in over 20 countries and Infrastructure M1 Fitch Asset Management Rating Private Banking Assets under management: 16.0 billion Highly personalised investment management service Employs 340 people Customised investment solutions geared Tier 1 capital ratio of 23 per cent.
to client-specific financial goals Group Manages 837 million of the Groups Allocates capital to seed new investment Investment capital strategies before bringing them to the Institutional or Intermediary market Asset Management We have over 175 fund managers, 170 analysts Asset Management includes three divisions: and 45 traders based in 20 investment centres Investment, Distribution and Infrastructure.
globally, offering international as well as local investment products.
Investment All investment activities are managed with the aim The Investment division comprises our portfolio of delivering performance which meets or exceeds management, research and dealing functions across client objectives within specific risk parameters.
We a broad product range covering equities, fixed income, primarily assess investment performance relative to multi-asset and alternatives.
We have a broad range benchmark and peer group over a three-year period.
ofproducts that meet investor demand at different phases of the economic and market cycle.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs7-18.
indd 12 13 03 2012 00:22 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 13 Our operating segments Asset Management Private Banking Investment Distribution Infrastructure Investment Deposit taking management and cash Product development Equities Fixed Income management Multi-asset Alternatives Product specialist sales resources Custody and Specialised execution lending services Channel sales specialists, client servicing, marketing and communications Client service through our worldwide offices Private Banking in seven locations Institutional clients Intermediary clients Private Banking clients Corporate pension plans Banks Charities Insurance companies Independent financial advisers Family offices Official Institutions Insurance companies High net worth individuals Individual pension plans Platforms Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs7-18.
indd 13 13 03 2012 00:22 14 Business model Asset Management Equities Multi-asset Our equity products range from single country to We offer a comprehensive range of customised regional and global funds, small and mid-cap funds solutions, pooled products and advisory services.
We and defensive strategies which reduce market risk.
specialise in providing a consultative, solutions-based approach for clients, which efficiently diversifies risk.
Fixed Income Our global fixed income capability employs Alternatives fundamental and quantitative approaches and is Our alternatives business includes property, emerging based on research-intensive, globally-integrated, market debt, commodities and agriculture funds, as credit and macro capabilities.
well as private equity funds of funds.
Product range Asset classes Equities Fixed Income Multi-asset Alternatives Assets under 79.0 billion 34.8 billion 34.8 billion 22.7 billion management Number of 247 104 68 161 investment employees Investment Asia Pacific Aggregate and Customised solutions Agriculture capabilities Australia multi-strategy Liability-driven Commodities A range of assets Emerging markets Cash liquidity investments Currencies investing in: Europe Credit Multi-asset strategies Emerging market Global Global Structured investments debt Japan Government Funds of hedge funds Quantitative equities High yield Gold and precious UK Tax-exempt metals US Private equity funds offunds Property Equities assets under management Fixed Income assets under management Australia 8% Americas 20% Americas 6% UK 13% QEP 14% Asia Pacic 15% Asia Pacic 14% Japan 3% Australia 8% Emerging markets 17% 79.0bn 34.8bn Europe 19% Global 14% UK 14% Europe 9% Global 26% Multi-asset assets under management Alternatives assets under management Australia 3% Property 37% Europe 4% Structured 4% Private equity 5% Multi-manager 4% UK 40% Agriculture and commodities 26% 34.8bn 22.7bn Emerging market debt 20% LDI 23% Americas 6% Funds of hedge funds 12% Asia Pacic 16% Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 15 Distribution Luxembourg and UK funds.
Domestic ranges in Distribution employs over 600 people across the othercountries are important to address local tax, UK, continental Europe, the US, Latin America, Asia regulatory or client requirements.
Pacific and the Middle East, specialising in sales, client service, marketing, product development and Institutional clients product management, and serving both Institutional We position our Institutional offering towards products and Intermediary sales channels.
and solutions that build on traditional strengths.
of our Institutional clients are outside Distribution works closely with Investment and is the UK.
We have won major new mandates from responsible for the development of our investment insurance companies and official institutions, products, focusing particularly on the risk reward diversifying further our assets under management.
features and ensuring that we produce products that We are also leveraging our multi-asset capabilities deliver the intended results.
We monitor gaps in our for defined contribution pension schemes.
product range, launching new products and retiring products that are no longer in demand.
Intermediary clients The breadth of our distribution and investment We work closely with both local and global distributors capabilities worldwide allows us to provide local and across Europe, Asia and the Americas to develop international investment products to a range of local products for different stages of the market cycle.
have seen significant growth in Intermediary over the last decade reflecting the increasing importance of the In addition to Institutional segregated mandates, we individual in the savings market, our wide product operate fund ranges in around 20 countries, with over range, strong investment performance and close 590 separate funds.
The majority of our assets are in relationships with distributors.
Distribution Institutional clients Intermediary clients Charities Banks Corporate pension plans Independent financial advisers Endowments Insurance companies Government funds Online platforms Insurance companies Private banks Local authority pension plans Private wealth managers Sovereign wealth funds Location by client domicile Location by client domicile Americas 17% Americas 10% UK 27% UK 39% 108.4bn 62.9bn Asia Pacic 34% Asia Pacic 26% Continental Europe 29% Europe 18% Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs7-18.
indd 15 13 03 2012 00:22 16 Business model Asset Management continued Infrastructure Asset Management revenue and costs The Infrastructure division employs over 1,000 people Asset Management revenue primarily comprises in information technology, operations, finance, risk feescharged as a percentage of assets under management, human resources, legal, compliance management.
The level of assets under management and internal audit.
We continue to invest in talent and changes as a result of net new business, changes in technology in order to support our investors evolving market levels and investment performance needs, enhance our client service and collaboration Revenue is also earned from performance fees capabilities, advance our risk management solutions calculated on excess returns overagreed targets, and meet new regulatory requirements.
transactional and other related revenue.
The revenue margin on assets under management is affected by the business mix with, for example, higher fees typically earned on equity mandates and lower fees earned on fixed income and multi-asset mandates, and fees in Intermediary exceeding Institutional.
Costs include fixed and variable remuneration plus overhead costs associated with office accommodation, technology, regulation and infrastructure.
Asset Management achieved net revenue of 1,041.5 million 2010: 996.2 million and profit before tax of 389.4 million 2010: 381.0million.
For additional information on financial performance of Asset Management, see page90.
We continue to invest in talent and technology inorder to support our investors evolving needs.
indd 16 13 03 2012 15:45 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 17 Business model Private Banking Private Banking offers investment management Infrastructure and specialist banking services to high net worth Private Banking is supported by a centralised individuals, family offices and charities from offices in administration capability in Zurich.
London, Zurich, Geneva, Cayman Islands, Guernsey, Milan and Singapore.
Private Banking revenue and costs Private Banking net revenue comprises fees charged Client service as a percentage of assets under management, net Dedicated relationship management is core to our interest income and fees for specialist banking proposition, tailoring our service to clients individual services.
Private Banking costs include fixed and variable Our investment proposition for high net worth remuneration plus overhead costs associated with individuals includes accessing the full range of office accommodation, technology, regulation and investment skills within Asset Management as infrastructure.
well as capabilities from third party providers.
The Private Banking segment achieved revenue of 114.3 million 2010: 103.3 million and profit before tax of 23.8 million 2010: 10.1 million.
For more information on the financial performance of Private Banking, see page 91.
Private Banking The business model draws on in-house expertise Locations and third party managers, working closely with Cayman Islands clients and their professional advisers Geneva Guernsey Services offered London Advisory and discretionary asset management Milan on behalf of high net worth individuals and family Singapore offices Zurich Cash management and deposit taking Custody and execution services Specialised lending Dedicated relationship management is core toour proposition, tailoring our service inPrivate Banking to clients individual needs.
indd 17 13 03 2012 00:22 18 Business model Group segment The Group segment includes the offices of the Seed capital is one way that the Group innovates Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and grows organically as it funds new investment as well as executives involved in the management of strategies, building a track record of performance in investment capital.
Where possible, market risk is hedged.
Group capital comprises operating capital required for regulatory and operational purposes and investment Group segment revenue and costs capital.
Investment capital is tangible capital in excess Revenue comprises income and net gains on of regulatory and operational requirements.
It is used investment capital.
Costs relate to the offices of the in seeding new investment strategies and is also Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, invested in private equity and property investments Group capital and treasury, the Board and other costs some of which are illiquid and relate to legacy such as audit and insurance.
investments of the Group, as well as discretionary investments, as determined by the Group Capital The Group segment net revenue was a loss of Committee.
3.2 million 2010: gain of 51.8 million and costs were 12.8 million 2010: 46.7 million.
After taking Investment capital is managed to provide a LIBOR account of interest income of 14.8 million return with low volatility.
Individual investments are 2010: 6.4 million and the loss from a private equity diversified across asset classes that are judged to be associate of 4.7 million 2010: profit of 4.3 million, compatible with the investment objectives.
Positions the segment incurred a loss before tax of 5.9 million are taken within limits approved by the Board.
The Group segment can take positions in the asset classes outlined below, subject to limits as to quantum For more information on the financial and value at risk.
performance for the year, see page 91.
Group capital Approved asset classes Investment capital Cash Hedge funds 10% Commodities Cash 11% Corporate debt Other 2% Currency Emerging market debt Equities Fixed income 29% Funds of hedge funds Government securities Multi-asset 837m Private equity Property Seed capital 21% Legacy private equity 9% Multi-asset 9% Absolute return emerging market debt 9% Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 3 Business review Market review 20 Operating review 22 Key risks and mitigations 25 Corporate responsibility 33 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs019-024.
