20 Market review The graphs show 2011: financial markets the indexed movement Equities world indices performance 2011 was a challenging year for many investors.
The in key financial markets year began with cautious optimism, with the global during 2011.
FTSE 100 S&P 500 Nikkei economy benefiting from strong earnings growth and MSCI World MSCI Europe better than expected economic data towards the end 115 of 2010.
However, major economies struggled to build 110 on this positive momentum.
The structural problems that the 2008 2009 credit crisis revealed remained 105 unresolved: and rising oil prices, the earthquake and 100 tsunami in Japan, and then the Eurozone debt crisis, 95 all interrupted the expected recovery.
90 Equities were volatile during 2011 and although corporate earnings performed relatively well, 85 marketsentiment was poor due to the high level 80 ofmacroeconomic uncertainty.
The MSCI World 75 indexincreased 2 per cent.
in the first half of the Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec year, before falling 15 per cent.
during the third 10 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 quarter, mainly during the period of the debt ceiling debate in the US and the escalation of theEurozone debt crisis, before recovering partially inthe last quarter Fixed Income performance of the year.
index In the second half of the year, equity market conditions US benchmark 10 year govt.
index were similar to 2008 2009, with low levels of liquidity Merrill Lynch global high yield and attention focused on political developments.
Merrill Lynch global investment European indices had a particularly difficult year, given 120 the issues in the Eurozone, but the UK FTSE 100 index 115 ended the year ahead of the MSCI World Index, partly due to its more defensive composition of stocks.
110 105 Government bonds were the strongest performer 100 in 2011 with ten-year US Treasuries returning 14 per cent.
for the year, despite the downgrade by 95 rating agency Standard & Poors from AAA to AA.
90 Political changes in the Middle East in the first quarter 85 of the year led to a sharp rise in energy prices, helping 80 the Dow Jones UBS Commodity index to perform well 75 early in the year.
However, downgrades to commodity Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec demand forecasts, with weak GDP data from the US 10 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 and Europe, combined with tightening monetary policy in China, resulted in most commodities ending the year significantly lower.
Alternatives performance Dow Jones UBS Commodity Index FTSE AU UK Property NAV Price index Sterling Dow Jones CS Hedge Fund Index US$ 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 75 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 10 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 21 Longer-term trends To address decumulation needs, demand is The following key trends are affecting the asset increasing for capital protected products and management industry: incomegeneration as clients seek to minimise risks and increase income.
This trend has accelerated as a Separating alpha and beta result of the financial crisis and significant market Investors continue to look to separate sources of volatility in recent years.
Passive products have attracted To address these investment needs, asset managers increasing inflows but the demand for alpha has also need to develop their product offering to include led to growth in emerging market and global equities, outcome-orientated, absolute return and benchmarkalternative products and multi-asset strategies as unaware strategies for all client segments.
savers look to diversify their investment portfolios in pursuit of higher returns.
Accessing savings flows in emerging economies In 2011, global wealth was estimated in excess of Demographic changes US$ 230 trillion, with 62 per cent.
held in Europe Longer-term, global demographic trends are and North America.
However, wealth accumulation changing the outlook for savings.
The ratio of in emerging markets is more significant with average non-working to working age individuals in the major growth rates of around 15 to over 25 per cent.
This western economies will increase in the next 30 to 40 reflects the divergence between economic growth, years.
This will have a major impact on the cost of savings patterns and demographics in developed state-provided pensions and individuals will need to and emerging countries over the last decade.
save more during their working lives.
The potential shortfall in pension provision provides an opportunity The increase in wealth in these markets means that for asset managers.
the majority of new savings flows are expected to arise from emerging economies, particularly Asia, The increasing longevity of an ageing population due to the growth of China and rapidly increasing is forcing the closure of defined benefit pension wealth accumulation in the region.
This includes schemes, which historically fuelled the growth of sovereign wealth funds and central banks that institutional asset management.
This has driven the are an increasingly important institutional market move to defined contribution pension schemes and segment, as well as corporate pension funds and the growing importance of individual and so called retail investors.
Accessing the individual retail investor, either directly or via intermediaries, will Regulation become increasingly important for asset As a result of the financial crisis, wide-ranging managementfirms.
regulatory reform is under way globally to address The retirement of the baby boomer generation, issues from systemic risks to investor protection, which owns approximately 60 per cent.
of global transparency and governance.
Asset managers, wealth, is also creating a major opportunity as this particularly globally diversified firms, need to meet generation uses its assets to finance retirement.
This the increased cost of more complex regulation is known as decumulation and accounts for nearly and balance the competing demands of 40 per cent.
of gross flows into the financial sector of different regulators.
Currently, banks and insurance Protecting investors from unnecessary risk is a key companies see the majority of these flows and they part of regulatory reform.
This has resulted in a variety are an increasingly important sales channel in of initiatives such as the Retail Distribution Review reaching a growing customer base.
RDR in the UK, expected to be effective from 2013, that looks to remove provider bias in the advice Demand for liability-driven investment process, improve consumer choice and enhance and outcome-orientated solutions professional standards.
In Europe, the focus includes These demographic changes create demand for proposed changes to the Markets in Financial asset-liability management and outcome-orientated Instruments Directive MiFID to enhance transparency solutions.
Defined benefit pension funds are and provide greater protection in relation to more increasingly looking to match assets and liabilities complex products and the Packaged Retail through the use of liability-driven investment.
Investment Products Initiative PRIPs to improve Othersare beginning to think about implementing disclosure.
aglide-path strategy, gradually to fide-risk their portfolios as defined benefit schemes close, Changes are also proposed to product regulation.
time horizons shorten and funds become mature.
In Europe, the proposed changes under the revised MiFID include giving regulators authority to ban products.
Asset managers are having to update their governance, risk and fiduciary processes in response to these regulatory changes.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs019-024.
