Directors Report the levels of effective equity gearing and gross gearing Business Review are monitored closely by the board and manager.
The The companys current investment policy company applies a ceiling on effective equity gearing The company carries on business as a global growth of 120%.
While effective equity gearing will be employed investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, over in a typical range of 100% to 120%, the company retains the longer term, with above-average returns through a the ability to lower equity exposure below 100% if diversified portfolio of international equities and to achieve deemed appropriate: dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
the company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds: and In order to achieve this objective, the company invests the company may not make investments in respect of in an integrated global portfolio constructed through an which there is unlimited liability.
investment process whereby assets are primarily allocated on the basis of the investment merits of individual stocks Investment policy implementation rather than those of regions, sectors or themes.
During the year under review, the assets of the company were invested in accordance with the companys investment policy.
The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically For details of how the companys absolute performance and will contain 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
relative performance compared to its comparator indices, The portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector please refer to the Management Review on pages 6 to 12. and geographic location of investments in order to spread investment risk.
A full list of holdings is disclosed on page 14 and detailed analyses of the spread of investments by industry sector Whilst performance is compared against major global and and geographic region are shown on pages 6, 7 and 9.
UK indices, the composition of indices has no influence on Further analyses of changes in asset distribution by industry investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
sector and geographic region over the year and the sources As a result, it is expected that the companys investment of gains and losses are shown on pages 6 and 7.
Attributions portfolio and performance may deviate from the comparator of NAV relative performance, by industry and region, against indices.
a global equity index are shown on page 10.
Since the companys assets are invested globally and At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 100. without regard to the composition of any index, there are The top ten holdings comprised 16.1% of total assets no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures to 2010: 19.8%.
specific geographic regions, industry sectors or unlisted investments.
However, such exposures are reported in detail Details of the extent to which the companys objective to, and monitored by, the board at each board meeting in has been achieved and how the investment policy was order to ensure that adequate diversification is maintained.
implemented are provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Management Review on Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the pages 6 to 12. aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its investment objective, from time to time the company will Articles of association and proposed change hold certain financial instruments comprising equity and non-equity shares, fixed income securities, interests in to the companys investment policy limited partnerships, structured products and cash and Article 134 of the companys articles of association contains liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives for the investment restriction that the company may not make hedging or tactical investment purposes with the prior any investment imposing unlimited liability on the company.
authorisation of the board and subject always to the The companys current investment policy set out above also investment restriction which prohibits the company from provides that the company may use derivatives for hedging making any investment in which there is unlimited liability.
or tactical investment purposes with the prior authorisation The company has the ability to enter into contracts to of the board and subject always to the investment restriction hedge against currency risks on both capital and income.
which prohibits the company making any investment in which there is unlimited liability.
Please see the underlined The companys investment activities are subject to the wording on page 17 which denotes the amendment to the following limitations and restrictions: companys investment policy.
under the companys articles of association, up to 40% of the companys total assets on the last audited balance The board believes that it is in the best interests of sheet may be used to make investments of up to a the company for it to be able to sell, as well as to buy, maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one index futures which may give rise to unlimited liability company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, but in practice have a liability which can be quantified on individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value the basis of reasonable assumptions.
The removal of the of total assets, at the time the investment is made: absolute investment restriction on investments with unlimited liability from the companys articles and investment policy will remove any doubt as to the companys ability to sell, as well as to buy, these derivative instruments.
16 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued In seeking this change the board has in mind the desirability Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the of being able to sell index futures on occasions when it wishes aim of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its quickly and cheaply to reduce the companys exposure to investment objective, from time to time the company will a particular equity market or markets.
The board will not hold certain financial instruments comprising equity and sell such futures where the exposure to which the company non-equity shares, fixed income securities, interests in would be committed by that transaction would be beyond limited partnerships, structured products and cash and the scale of the companys holdings in the markets of the liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives, other index or indices in question.
While the company will hold than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or securities which are constituents of the index or indices in tactical investment purposes.
The company may only sell question any such holdings will not necessarily mirror the index futures for efficient portfolio management purposes.
Nonetheless, it is expected that the breadth and For the avoidance of doubt, any derivative instrument may diversification of the companys listed equity investments only be used with the prior authorisation of the board.
The mean that the practical risk of an unlimited liability arising company has the ability to enter into contracts to hedge from such future contracts is extremely remote.
Moreover, against currency risks on both capital and income.
the company will have the right to close out its exposure at anytime of its choosing.
The company will also be able The companys investment activities are subject to the to continue to buy index futures and options in accordance following limitations and restrictions: with its investment policy.
under the companys articles of association, up to 40% of the companys total assets on the last audited balance The effect of resolution 11 therefore, will be to remove the sheet may be used to make investments of up to a absolute investment restriction regarding unlimited liability maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one from the companys articles of association and the companys company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, investment policy with effect from the passing of resolution individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value 11 will permit a broader use of derivative instruments.
The of total assets, at the time the investment is made: companys amended investment policy would be as follows: the levels of effective and potential gearing are monitored closely by the board and manager.
The company applies Proposed investment policy a ceiling on effective gearing of 120%.
While effective The company carries on business as a global growth gearing will be employed in a typical range of 100% to investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, over the 120%, the company retains the ability to lower equity longer term, with above-average returns through a diversified exposure below 100% if deemed appropriate: portfolio of international equities and to achieve dividend the company has a policy not to invest more than growth ahead of UK inflation.
15% of total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds: and In order to achieve this objective, the company invests the company may not make investments in respect of in an integrated global portfolio constructed through an which there is unlimited liability except that the company investment process whereby assets are primarily allocated may sell index futures for efficient portfolio management on the basis of the investment merits of individual stocks purposes.
rather than those of regions, sectors or themes.
A copy of the new articles will be available for inspection The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically at the offices of Dickson Minto W. S. Broadgate Tower, will contain 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
20 Primrose Street, London EC2A 1EW during normal The portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector working hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and and geographic location of investments in order to spread public holidays excepted from the date of the notice of investment risk.
the AGM until its conclusion and on the date of the AGM at the Roxburghe Hotel from 15 minutes prior to the AGM Whilst performance is compared against major global until its conclusion.
and UK indices, the composition of indices has no influence on investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
Additional limitations on borrowings As a result, it is expected that the companys investment Under the companys articles of association, the directors portfolio and performance may deviate from the comparator control the borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries indices.
to ensure that the aggregate amount of borrowings does not, unless approved by an ordinary resolution of shareholders, Since the companys assets are invested globally and exceed the aggregate of the reserves excluding unrealised without regard to the composition of any index, there capital profits of the company and its subsidiaries, as are no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures published in the latest accounts.
In addition, the directors are to specific geographic regions, industry sectors or unlisted entitled to incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary course investments.
However, such exposures are reported of business of up to 10% of the companys issued share in detail to, and monitored by, the board at each board capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no longer meeting in order to ensure that adequate diversification than six months.
Report & Accounts 2011 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 17 Directors Report continued articles of association may be amended by the passing of Principal risks and uncertainties a special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the approval The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business of a majority of not less than 75%.
are as follows: investment and market price risk: Rights to the capital of the company on winding up interest rate risk: liquidity risk: Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the company foreign currency risk: and in the event of a winding up after the companys other credit risk.
These and other risks facing the company are reviewed Voting regularly by the audit committee and the board.
Further On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person information is given in Note 17 to the accounts on pages or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every member 37 to 42. present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
Performance Deadlines for exercising voting rights The management provides the board with detailed If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, speak information on the companys performance at every board and vote at a meeting on his behalf, a valid appointment meeting.
Performance is measured in comparison with the is made when the form of proxy together, where relevant, companys peers and comparator indices.
with a notarially certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority under which the form of proxy is signed is Key Performance Indicators are: received by the companys registrar not less than 48 hours NAV total return: before the start of the meeting or the adjourned meeting NAV total return against comparators: at which the proxy is appointed to vote or, in the case of a NAV and share price total return against peers: poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later discount with debt at market value: than 24 hours before the time appointed for taking the poll.
dividend growth against UK inflation: and In calculating these time periods, no account is taken of any total expense ratio.
day or part thereof that is not a working day.
Dividends Buybacks The board may declare dividends, including interim The companys buyback policy is intended to keep the dividends, but no dividend is payable except out of the discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating companys revenue returns or in excess of the amount NAV for the purposes of the buyback policy, the companys recommended by the directors.
Neither unrealised borrowings are taken at their market value so as to ensure appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits arising that future repurchases of shares will take into account from the sale of capital assets are available for dividend.
changes in the value of the borrowings brought about by movements in long-term interest rates.
During the year ended The directors recommend a final dividend of 5.80p per 31 October 2011, the company bought back for cancellation share payable on 6 February 2012.
With the interim dividend a total of 3,864,000 shares representing 3.3% of shares in of 4.60p already paid in July 2011, this makes a total of 10.40p issue at 31 October 2010, at a cost of 19,321,000. for the year.
Based on shares in issue at 31 October 2011 the final dividend will cost 6,626,000.
The total dividend At the AGM on 28 January 2011 authority was granted to for the year will cost 11,899,000. repurchase up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that date.
The number of shares authorised for repurchase was Status 17,516,553.
Share buybacks from the date of the AGM to The company is a self-managed investment trust and is an the companys year end amounted to 2,616,000 shares investment company within the meaning of the Companies or 2.24 percentage points of the 14.99% authority.
HM Revenue and Customs approved the company as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation New basis for valuing the companys Tax Act 2010 up to the accounting period ended 31 October borrowings 2010.
This approval is subject to any subsequent enquiry The company has for several years estimated the market by HM Revenue and Customs.
The company continues value of its borrowings using an assumption of a one to satisfy the conditions for such approval and approval is percentage point spread above the relevant benchmark expected for the accounting period ended 31 October 2011. gilts.
The persistent drop in gilt yields has inflated the value of the borrowings and lowered the NAV.
Given the current Share Capital gulf between government and corporate bond yields, the General board believes that it is appropriate to adopt a new basis for The company had 114,238,926 shares in issue on 31 October valuing borrowings from the beginning of the new financial 2011.
The rights attaching to shares in the company are set year which will give a less distorted measure of the market out in the companys articles of association.
The companys value of the borrowings.
The new valuation basis uses the 18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued redemption yield of the relevant existing reference gilt The company maintains insurance in respect of directors plus a margin derived from the spread of AA UK corporate and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf of the bond yields 15 year over UK gilt yields 15 year.
The companys articles of association provide The reference gilt for the secured bonds is the 6% UK that any director or other officer of the company may be Treasury Stock 2028 and the reference gilt for the perpetual indemnified out of the assets of the company against any debenture stocks is the longest dated UK Treasury stock liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the listed in the Financial Times.
company to the extent permitted by law.
Substantial Shareholdings Directors Interests At 12 December 2011, the company had been notified of The interests of the directors and their families in the the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
companys capital are as follows: % of Shares of 25p issue 31 October 31 October at date of Beneficial interests 2011 2010 Shares notification Douglas McDougall 60,000 60,000 AXA Investment Managers SA 13,702,595 12.0 Francis Finlay 60,000 60,000 Lloyds Banking Group 6,346,502 5.1 Hamish Buchan 22,325 22,325 Legal & General 5,100,886 3.9 James MacLeod 22,849 22,708 Russell Napier 14,000 14,000 Directors The companys policy on the appointment of directors There were no changes in the directors interests between is shown on the companys website.
The directors of the company on 31 October 2011 and Corporate Governance their biographical details are shown on page 15.
Compliance The board has reviewed the principles set out in the UK The performance of each director was appraised by the Corporate Governance Code and believes that the way the nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans company is governed is consistent with these principles.
performance was appraised in his absence by the other Throughout the year, the company complied with the directors and the results were communicated to him.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code including The board believes that each director is independent section 1 except that: of the management in character and judgement and there is no senior independent director: and there are no relationships with the company or its the chairman is a member of the audit committee.
employees which might compromise this independence.
The directors consider that, as all directors are independent In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate and non-executive, there is no compelling case for having Governance Code, all directors are standing for re-election a senior independent director.
The board considers the at the AGM.
Douglas McDougall and Francis Finlay have chairman to be independent in character and judgement served as directors for more than nine years.
After formal and therefore there is no reason for Douglas McDougall not performance evaluation, the board confirms that Douglas to be a member of the audit committee.
The UK Corporate McDougall and Francis Finlay continue to perform effectively Governance Code is available from the Financial Reporting and with great commitment and it recommends their Council www.
The board The appointments of Douglas McDougall and Francis Finlay The board normally meets eight times throughout the as directors run for one year at a time.
Hamish Buchan year while the audit and remuneration committees meet was appointed in November 2003, James MacLeod was three times each.
The nomination committee meets at appointed in September 2005 and Russell Napier was least annually.
appointed in July 2009 each for initial terms of three years subject to their re-election by shareholders at the first AGM There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board which after their appointment.
Hamish Buchans appointment includes investment strategy, accounting and financial was renewed in November 2006 and November 2009 and controls, dividends and announcements, capital structure, James MacLeods appointment was renewed in September gearing and major contracts.
Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Day to day management, including the selection of investments, is delegated to the companys executive management which reports directly to the board.
Report & Accounts 2011 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19 Directors Report continued Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with committee are subject to approval by the board.
The a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information companys articles of association provide for a maximum on the companys transactions, financial position and level of total remuneration of 250,000 in the aggregate performance.
There is a procedure for directors to seek payable to directors in any financial year.
independent professional advice at the expense of the company and training is available to directors as required.
The company aims to provide levels of employee remuneration which reward responsibility and achievement The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of the and are comparable with other fund management company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might organisations operating in Scotland.
Remuneration is have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the reviewed annually.
Each director submits a list of potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other board Every employee is entitled to a salary and other benefits members consider these and recommend whether or not including a contributory pension scheme.
In addition, each potential conflict should be authorised.
No situation there is a discretionary performance-related bonus scheme.
arose during the year whereby an interest of a director For investment staff, bonuses payable depend, inter alia, conflicted with the interests of the company.
on individual performance, the companys NAV total return and the NAV total return relative to comparator indices The following table shows the attendance of directors and peers.
For other staff, bonuses depend, inter alia, at board and committee meetings during the year to on individual performance and share price total return.
Notice periods for all members of staff range from three to twelve months.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Relations with shareholders Number of meetings 8 3 3 1 The company recognises the value of good communication Douglas McDougall 7 3 3 1 with its shareholders.
The management meets regularly Francis Finlay 6 n a n a 1 with private client stockbrokers and the companys major institutional shareholders.
The board receives regular Hamish Buchan 8 3 3 1 briefings from the companys broker.
Newsletters are sent James MacLeod 8 3 3 1 to shareholders during the year and are posted on the Russell Napier 8 n a n a 1 companys website.
The annual general meeting of the company is the main Nomination committee forum at which shareholders can ask questions of the board There is a nomination committee comprising the whole and the management.
All shareholders are encouraged to board.
The committee meets at least annually to review attend the AGM and to vote on the resolutions which are the structure, size and composition of the board and is contained in the Notice of Meeting on page 47 and which is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates posted to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
It has Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are encouraged written terms of reference which are shown on the to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy voting figures are companys website.
given at the end of the meeting.
Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at another as a director is not eligible for election at a general meeting time should write to the chairman.
unless a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting gives the company secretary at least six clear days written Accountability and audit notice of his intention to propose the relevant nominee The responsibilities of the directors and auditor in respect for election, along with a notice in writing signed by the of the financial statements are given below and on page 43. nominee confirming his willingness to be elected.
The audit committee has written terms of reference which Remuneration committee are shown on the companys website.
Its duties include The board has appointed a remuneration committee risk assessment, reviewing internal controls, the companys to recommend pay and conditions for the board and accounting policies, financial statements prior to their employees.
It has written terms of reference which are release and the companys procedures on whistleblowing.
shown on the companys website.
The committee is also responsible for all aspects of the companys relationship with its external auditor including: Directors fees are set with a view to attracting individuals reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the annual audit: of appropriate calibre and experience, taking into account the auditors remuneration: the time commitment required and the level of fees paid the terms of engagement: and by similar investment trusts.
No other benefits are provided the level of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditor.
Fees recommended by the remuneration 20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued The committee also ensures that the level of non-audit Directors responsibilities work does not compromise the auditors independence.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual The accounts of the company have been prepared on a report and financial statements in accordance with going concern basis.
It is the opinion of the directors that, applicable law and regulations.
as most of the companys assets are readily realisable and exceed its liabilities, it is expected that the company will United Kingdom company law requires the directors to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Under that law, the directors have elected to prepare the financial statements The company does not have an internal audit function in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted as the audit committee believes that the companys Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards straightforward structure and small number of employees and applicable law.
Under company law, the directors must do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they committee annually.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the returns and cash flows for that year.
The board is responsible for ensuring that the company has in place an effective system of internal controls In preparing those financial statements, the directors are designed to maintain the integrity of accounting records required to: and to safeguard the companys assets.
The board select suitable accounting policies and then apply has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code by them consistently: establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and managing the significant risks the company faces.
and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have This process, which has existed throughout the year, is been followed subject to any material departures in accordance with Internal Control: Revised Guidance for disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code published prepare the financial statements on a going concern in October 2005 The Turnbull Guidance.
In compliance with basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board reviews the company will continue in business.
effectiveness of the companys system of internal control at six-monthly intervals.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain The boards monitoring covers all controls, including the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk accuracy at any time the financial position of the company management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports and enable them to ensure that the financial statements from management and considering whether significant comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and remedied or require more extensive monitoring.
During the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
course of its review of the system of internal control, the board has not identified, nor been advised of, any material The directors are responsible for the maintenance and failings or weaknesses.
Therefore a confirmation in respect integrity of the corporate and financial information included of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
Legislation in the United Kingdom The audit committee assists the board in discharging its governing the preparation and dissemination of financial review responsibilities.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
There are procedures in place to ensure that: The audit committee has reviewed the matters within its all transactions are accounted for accurately and terms of reference and reports as follows: reported fully to the board: it has approved the financial statements for the year the management observes the authorisation limits set to 31 October 2011: by the board: it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys there is clear segregation of duties so that no investment internal controls and risk management: transaction can be completed by one person: it has reviewed the need for a separate internal audit control activities are regularly checked: and function: legal and regulatory obligations are met.
it has recommended to the board that a resolution be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of the The board recognises that such systems can only provide external auditor and it has considered the proposed reasonable, but not guaranteed, assurance against material terms of their engagement: misstatement or loss.
it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the external auditor: and it has satisfied itself that the terms of the business review are consistent with the financial statements.
Report & Accounts 2011 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 21 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Auditor Board recommendation Re-appointment of auditor The board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys the AGM are all in the best interests of the company and of auditor, and to authorise the directors to fix its remuneration, shareholders as a whole and recommends that shareholders will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditor Resolutions 1 to 9 are self explanatory.
Resolution 10, It is the companys policy to allow the auditor unlimited set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting access to its records.
The directors confirm that, so far as on page 47, seeks to renew the authority to repurchase each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information shares until 30 April 2013.
The principal reasons for such of which the companys auditor is unaware and they have repurchases are to enhance the net asset value of the taken all the steps which they should have taken as directors shares by repurchasing shares for cancellation at prices in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit which, after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for information and to establish that the companys auditor remaining shareholders and to allow implementation is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given of the companys share buyback policy.
and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the Payment of Creditors authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the It is the companys policy to agree in advance the terms of average of the middle market quotations for the shares business with suppliers and then to abide by those terms.
as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over the five business days immediately As the company has no trade creditors, no disclosure can preceding the date of purchase and, ii the higher price be made of creditor days at the year end.
of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid.
The minimum price which may be Donations paid is 25p per share.
No charitable or political donations were made during the year 2010: same.
As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Chapter 15 of the Listing Rules resolution 11 seeks the authority to By order of the board amend the companys articles of association and investment policy to give the company the ability to sell, as well as buy, index futures where the exposure to which the company would be committed by that transaction would not be beyond the scale of the companys holdings in the markets Steven Hay of the index or indices in question.
Company Secretary 16 December 2011 Resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions that require to be passed by a three-quarters majority of votes cast at the AGM.
Voting Policy The management reviews resolutions put to general meetings of the companies in which it invests and, wherever practicable, will cast its vote, usually by proxy.
Socially Responsible Investing When investments are made, the primary objective is to achieve the best investment return while allowing for an acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this objective, various factors that may impact on the performance are considered and these may include socially responsible investment issues.
If it is considered that a companys social, environmental or ethical record will adversely affect financial performance and result in poor returns, then an investment will not be made in the company.
22 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011
