MANAGERS REVIEW Managers Review The global economy has seldom been stronger.
The pace of glitz, leverage and inequalities so beloved of Anglo-American economic change has never been greater.
We suspect that this will finance capitalism.
We do not think this is merely a moment of only accelerate over the next decade.
This has profound implications simple cyclical optimism.
Fortified by a recent visit to Berlin we for investors.
Preoccupation with unpredictable short term oscillations consider it likely that Germany can enjoy growth rates above 3% in economies and markets has opened up a deep gulf between the for several years to come as the recovery broadens into increased crucial determinants of economic progress and speculative capital expenditure and even consumption.
We think that German behaviour.
It seems most unlikely that the future of the global industry has patiently priced itself back into international economy and of intelligent stock selection lies in an ability to competitiveness, re-oriented its trade towards rising nations and pontificate about Greek, Irish and Portuguese debt.
One of the established enviable brand leadership in key sectors.
Meanwhile virtues of a global investment trust with access to long term capital governments of both left and right have maintained national fiscal ought to be its ability to transcend such fashions.
order whilst the populace has resisted the lure of property inflation.
That many German banks have failed to operate with similar sense What happened in the year under review?
is a persistent failure but one that is unlikely to undermine overall Once again the inexorable development of China is our startingprosperity.
It seems to us that much of this follows the model of the point.
It seems to us that the transition from a low-cost exporting revival of Scandinavian economies in the last 10 years after tough behemoth to a consumer of first resort and a crucible for innovative struggles against debt and competitiveness problems.
These corporate models was the key story of last year.
Whilst we suggested economies are now thriving.
As yet last year that this might eventually happen we are surprised by just we have been more successful in identifying individual corporate how fast the change appears to be occurring.
In the course of 2010 successes in Sweden Atlas Copco once again and Denmark China became the home of the worlds fastest computer, the worlds Novozymes than in Germany itself.
fastest train and the worlds largest genome sequencing institute.
The decade ahead Most importantly of all the startling results obtained by the Shanghai region in the OECD backed PISA educational survey revealed just Thus far we have described the world in traditional national terms.
how quickly China is upgrading its human capital.
This demands that Whilst the current prospects of China and Germany justify this our mental models of the Chinese economy need constant revision.
approach we suspect that the next decade will require a gradual This is directly relevant for our portfolio.
After a year of extraordinary retreat from such convenient labels.
Scottish Mortgage has spent share price performance our largest holding is now the Chinese much of the last decade shifting from an indulgent home-market bias.
It and our sixth largest equity position As late as 2005 our four largest holdings were all UK listed in Tencent are representative of the dynamism, scale and national companies none of which we now own nor regret selling.
characteristics of the Chinese internet.
Such companies are offering We have succeeded in moving to a genuinely global perspective challenges to the US business models that have been so dominant in but the comparative simplicities of this beneficial change are now the innovation of the last century.
At one level there has always been a potential weakness: the fund management industry has a tendency to Whilst the continuing ascent of the Chinese economy has been the link national economic circumstances and corporate performance dominant feature of the last year the greatest surprise has been the more tightly than underlying reality permits.
Such institutional biases extraordinary revival of the German economy.
This has received are containable but the future seems likely to hold more serious remarkably little attention amidst the travails of far smaller and far challenges to our current investment methodology.
For years it has been popular to belittle the virtues of the sober German approach in contrast to the 08 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Baidu 2 Atlas Copco Pre-eminent Chinese internet search company.
1 2 characteristic to search for in our investment process is a management Dominant cities mentality and business model flexibility that can thrive amidst rapidly Corporate prospects are simultaneously becoming more local and changing conditions.
From Jeff Bezos and his conscious policy of more global.
We are finding intense low cost experimentation to exploit technological that an increasing percentage of our investment ideas and holdings improvements at Amazon to the re-thinking of sourcing policies that are concentrated in a smaller and smaller number of cities or at most has so aided the dramatic international expansion of Inditex Zara we regions.
Dramatic corporate success seems to be much more think that such attitudes are the key to building competitive advantage frequently achieved in a limited number of locations combining over the years ahead.
Relying on leadership inertia will fail.
openness to innovation, educational prowess, social liberalism and access to supportive finance.
If we can understand the way this Cloud computing process seems to work and identify the 2030 cities that are the key The combination of managerial excellence with accelerating exemplars then we stand a better chance of investing successfully.
technological progress has taken us in some new directions in recent This does not mean that we will ignore other locations but it does months.
We have come to the view that cloud computing now has the require us to comprehend the cultures of these cities rather than ability both to cut costs and improve service levels across the corporate seeking refuge in outmoded generalizations such as emerging and government sectors as expanded upon in the Trip Note that markets.
In specific terms it is why we are in the process of opening follows this Review.
This development is very likely to be at the cost of a Shanghai research office.
It is also why if this experiment proves traditional hardware and software giants but presents very substantial successful we would be more likely to look to replicate it in San opportunities for new entrants.
We have gradually been building a Francisco rather than in a more immediately obvious candidate city holding in salesforce.
It seems to us to be the single company with like Rio fide Janeiro.
the breadth of product and ambition that might make it the dominant company in the industry over the next decade.
We think that the The all-important pace of change market preoccupation with a high immediate multiple of earnings is Whilst the origins of corporate wealth may well be dominated by very myopic.
We also admire the efforts of Rackspace to make itself a comparatively small number of cities the speed and power of the highest service option within cloud outsourcing.
It has done this technological change is likely to overwhelm such considerations.
If principally by thoughtful motivation of employees including by share the current rates of exponential change continue or even accelerate options that are spread much more broadly than is commonly the case.
in fields as diverse as genetics, robotics, data availability, nanotechnology and synthetic biology then the importance of New directions in healthcare geography may be subsumed in greater challenges.
Companies, A year ago we argued that healthcare was ripe for sweeping societies and indeed humanity will be intensely strained by the pace change.
We also expressed frustration that we had made limited of change.
Geographic boundaries may become relatively progress in identifying companies that could lead this transformation.
Machines are not concerned by geography.
It will We continue to view the historic pharmaceutical and medical supply almost certainly be another blow to believers in conventional risk companies as likely to be casualties rather than beneficiaries of this metrics.
It will eventually defy belief that largeness and safety were development.
With healthcare providers finally proving less once closely equated.
Tragically BP and Tokyo Electric Power should generous, with research budgets ever more squeezed to maintain have given pause for thought amongst proponents of this notion in earnings and with many of the supposed clinical advances of the 201011 but there is little sign of such open-mindedness.
last decade looking increasingly questionable we think problems Our emphasis on the ferocious pace of change may well appear abound.
Internally these companies are victims of their own immense abstruse and abstract but we are already finding that the most critical bureaucracies.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Intuitive Surgical 2 Illumina Surgeon console used for robotic surgery.
A global leader in gene sequencing systems.
1 2 2011 Intuitive Surgical, Inc. 2011, Illumina Inc. All rights reserved.
To our relief we are now starting to find attractions in a different California Arizona Trip Note group of healthcare companies.
We have continued to add to our The most complex order management system that exists today, holding in Intuitive Surgical the robot surgery leader.
It may make operating a vast supply chain and distribution infrastructure, can be the human surgeons seem quaint and redundant as the years go by.
If you have ever shopped on Amazon.
com We have recently started buying Illumina which is the dominant then you have already done it.
Interacting with computer software supplier of tools for the genomics industry.
This is a field where through a web browser is a model that has application well beyond progress in science and price is so rapid that we think it is mistaken retailing consumer goods and is paving the way for a sea change in to worry that thus far it has not delivered significant clinical benefits.
The longstanding idea of delivering IT services remotely Again these are both companies that are convinced of the need for known as Cloud Computing is finally turning in to reality and in the continuing innovation and prepared to spend boldly in pursuit of process is creating some exciting investment opportunities.
With these changes in mind I went to Arizona and California to Conclusion develop our thinking as to who the beneficiaries could be.
The trip also provided an opportunity to meet a number of people from other As should have become apparent we are increasingly disillusioned holdings on the west coast of the United States, a part of the world by the dominant preoccupations and methodologies of the financial that boasts some of the most innovative companies we can invest in.
We do not believe that following the endless twists and turns of macroeconomic gyrations, quarterly earnings or market Salesforce.
com is based in downtown San Francisco with offices sentiment offers good odds of success.
This is speculation not looking out onto the Bay Bridge and cable car station.
It surprises us how little the chaos of recent years has founded in 1999 by its larger-than-life CEO Marc Benioff, a serial deterred others from such highly competitive pursuits.
We are entrepreneur, author and philanthropist.
Benioff set out to attack the delighted if others think that they can play these games more behemoths of the enterprise software market such as SAP, Microsoft successfully than history suggests.
Instead we base our investment and his former employer, Oracle.
His approach has been to use the inclinations on the comparatively predictable forces of technological Internet to deliver a service, as opposed to the traditional approach change and the re-emergence of great civilizations.
Since we of selling software and an expensive implementation package.
The believe still more strongly in the increasing power of these twin benefit for consumers is that they can dramatically reduce their forces than last year we once again suggest that the probability is computer hardware requirements and the associated in-house that if the Managers prove reasonably competent then the long term management expertise.
coms model prospects should be bright.
The computer power required to support this customer base is around 3% of what would be required using a traditional hardware software approach.
We cannot predict how much enterprise technology spending could one day JAMES ANDERSON find its way onto salesforce.
coms platform but recent developments Manager of Scottish Mortgage have seen the company expanding well beyond its original sales 12 May 2011 management remit and the opportunity exists to become many times larger than it is today.
10 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 salesforce.
com 2 Inditex Pioneer in developing cloud computing.
Zaras, via del Corso, Rome flagship store.
1 2 Whilst the cost savings from this technology change represent a presented.
To understand how Amazons web services business major opportunity to increase efficiency in the corporate sector, it is works, it is necessary to step back and think about the infrastructure the potential for unleashing creativity on a much wider scale that underlying the cloud computing model.
Businesses shut down their seems most exciting.
When a company interacts with its customers computer servers and run their applications on pooled equipment in through the Internet and the supporting IT infrastructure can be remote locations.
Nicholas Carr in his book The Big Switch draws outsourced, small businesses with a good idea can achieve out the many parallels with the period one hundred years ago when astonishing scale in a very short time.
I met a number of young companies stopped producing their own power and plugged into businesses which are not yet listed but may, in the future, make it into the newly built electric grid.
The economies of scale and efficiency Scottish Mortgages portfolio.
Their achievements are quite different that this process produced have direct relevance to the changes in from what we have seen before.
Take Groupon, which is a local computing we are seeing today.
The centralised power plants of the advertising and group shopping business.
It had four hundred electric grid have an equivalent in the vast data centres that are subscribers in November 2008.
This required to supply the computing power for cloud-based growth would not have been possible without the rapid spread of an applications.
Amazon has already developed the software and idea through the Internet combined with the ability to outsource all services to run such facilities based on more than a decade of work the infrastructure required to support such a huge subscriber base to for its own website.
It is able to deliver performance, reliability and another company in this case, Amazon.
coms web services security on a very large scale which is what cloud-based operation.
We are seeing a trend for young businesses with no legacy IT systems, such as games producer Zynga and One striking aspect of the move to cloud computing is the way users movie distributor Netflix, choosing to use Amazons services rather are taking matters into their own hands.
It is no longer necessary to than investing time and energy in building their own IT departments.
commission a colleague in the IT department to buy in hardware and software and configure it before one can start experimenting.
The other big player in the provision of cloud infrastructure is also Instead, users with limited technological knowledge can immediately held within Scottish Mortgages portfolio.
Rackspace has taken a deploy powerful software.
The subscription nature of these services different approach from Amazon.
Where Amazon provides the nuts means limited upfront spending and the cost of experimentation is and bolts for a customer to build their own system, Rackspace has vastly reduced.
This should provide a boost to productivity and it focused on providing a high level of service.
Some companies will also prompts us to change our mental model of how competition in embrace this new model and be comfortable using online tools to technology works.
We had previously believed that high switching build their services, but others will find it more challenging and costs for customers would mean incumbent IT providers had an require assistance.
It is this second group of business which enduring competitive advantage.
This now seems much less clear Rackspace is targeting.
Excellent customer service has been and was, in part, behind the decision to sell our holdings in SAP something of a rarity in the IT business: even Apples inspirational and Cisco.
leader, Steve Jobs, suggested we were holding our telephones wrongly, rather than admitting there were problems with his product.
We think that in cloud computing, as in many areas, we can learn If Rackspace is able to deliver consistently in this area then its from watching the actions of those corporate leaders whose opinions addressable market should be substantial.
It came as no surprise that Jeff Bezos, CEO of Amazon, was one of the first to identify this idea and the opportunities it SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 First Solar 2 Novozymes Ground mounted solar panels at Toledo Zoo, Ohio.
Novozymes enzyme production in Kalundborg, Denmark.
Bioreactors transform waste streams into fertiliser which is then used by nearby farms.
1 2 Whilst the principal focus of the trip was on cloud computing, this However, this may well be dwarfed by First Solars planned was also an opportunity to follow up on outstanding questions at installation in Ordos, China, with a memorandum of understanding some of our other holdings.
Googles headquarters also known as signed for a 2GW plant, equivalent in output to a large coal or the Googleplex is a leafy 60 acre complex in Mountain View nuclear generation facility.
looking out over San Francisco bay.
The quirky campus with its free We think the shift to cloud computing will become one of the more bicycles, solar panels and life size replica of SpaceShipOne houses important trends in technology over the coming years.
This should one of the most innovative engineering businesses we have seen in create significant opportunities for a number of companies, many of recent years.
We think Googles growth potential remains significant which are located in the San Francisco bay area.
Innovation as the migration of advertising dollars towards online formats continues to increase the addressable market for many technology continues and there remains a large gap between consumption of businesses and we think this is a fertile area for identifying attractive online media and the associated advertising spend.
Its culture seems growing businesses.
very unusual in the corporate world in that it is prepared to experiment with new technologies and businesses without fear of failure, even when that failure is very public.
Amongst the companys experiments has been the development of an operating system for TOM SLATER mobile phones and this has turned out to be prescient.
Googles Deputy Manager of Scottish Mortgage market share in smartphones has surged from a negligible level two 12 May 2011 years ago to around 1 3rd of the US market today.
As the Internet moves increasingly away from desktop computers to mobile devices, Google looks very well placed to build a new and complementary stream of profits.
The application of technology-driven productivity gains to industries that have historically seen a slower pace of evolution is throwing up some very interesting opportunities.
One such area is renewable energy.
We have found it challenging to identify renewable energy businesses that posses sustainable competitive advantages but think one such is First Solar.
As befits a solar panel manufacturer, First Solar is located in the Sonoran Desert, Arizona.
Since 2004, the company has reduced the cost of solar energy generation by over 20% per annum.
The compounding effect of this is powerful, with a cumulative cost reduction over that period of 75%.
With this kind of progress, you do not have to look very far into the future to see an end to subsidies for this technology and, with it, a tipping point in usage.
The solar industry is also achieving far greater acceptance with mainstream utilities, as illustrated by the imminent construction project at Gila Bend, Arizona.
This will be the largest solar plant to date with an output of 280MW, enough to power 77,000 homes.
