DIRECTORS REPORT The principal reasons for such share buy backs are: Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Rights i to manage imbalances between the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares which may exacerbate any discount Resolution 10, which is being proposed as a special resolution, of the quoted market price to the published net asset value per seeks to give the Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in share: and treasury see above for cash up to a maximum of 6,412,997 in aggregate representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital ii to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by excluding treasury shares of the Company as at 11 May 2011 purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
without first being required to offer such shares to existing The shares in question were purchased at a price after allowing for shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
costs below the net asset value.
As a result of such purchases the net This power will last until the Annual General Meeting of the asset value of the Company has increased by approximately 0.14%.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares excluding treasury The Directors consider that the power proposed to be granted by shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 10 is advantageous should the shares trade at a premium to net asset value and natural liquidity is unable to meet demand.
Resolution 9, which is being proposed as a special resolution, The Directors do not intend to use this power to sell shares on a non seeks to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
of its own ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The Company may hold bought back shares in treasury and then: At 11 May 2011 the Company held 27,826,279 treasury shares, representing 10.8% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent under treasury shares.
the 2006 Act : or The Directors believe that granting the power to sell treasury shares b cancel such shares or any of them.
in the above circumstances is in the best interests of shareholders as Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to the a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the net asset value per ordinary share.
Treasury shares do not receive distributions and the Company will Articles of Association not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
Article 108 of the Companys Articles of Association provides that The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual the fees paid to, and benefits in kind received by, the Chairman for General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% his services in such office and the fees paid to, and benefits in kind of the Companys ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares received by, a Director for his services in such office should not at the date of the passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at exceed in aggregate 45,000 and in aggregate 30,000 per the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012. annum respectively or such higher amounts as the Company may Any such shares purchased shall either be cancelled or held in from time to time by ordinary resolution determine.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the current fee is 36,000 and each Directors fee is currently 24,000 Financial Services Authority, the maximum price exclusive of with an additional 3,000 for the Chairman of the Audit expenses that may be paid on the exercise of the authority shall be Committee.
The Board has concluded that following a review of the an amount equal to level of Directors fees during the year, fees should be increased to the higher of: 40,000 for the Chairman and 27,000 for each Director with the i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London additional fee of 3,000 for the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days It is also proposed that the Articles be amended to replace the immediately preceding the date of purchase: and maximum amount per annum that the Directors may be paid individually with the provision that in aggregate the maximum level ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the of Directors fees are not to exceed 300,000 per annum, or such highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of higher amount as the Company may by ordinary resolution Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing determine.
Accordingly, Resolution 11, is being proposed in the the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy back Notice of Annual General Meeting.
programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments No.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company will be available for inspection at the offices of Dickson Minto W. S. The minimum price again exclusive of expenses that may be Broadgate Tower, 20 Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EW and at paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made the registered office of the Company, Calton Square, I Greenside within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN during normal business hours on any The Company does not have any warrants or options in issue.
week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from Your attention is drawn to Special Resolution 9, in the Notice of the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting the Notice Annual General Meeting.
until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
