DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
Professor JA Kay Directors John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, academic, JPHS Scott author and commentator on business, government and economic John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international investment issues.
John was appointed a Director in 2008, he is a Visiting banker who maintains a number of interests in the investment trust Professor at the London School of Economics, a director of Law sector.
John was appointed a Director in 2001 and became Debenture Corporation p. l. c. Value and Income Trust PLC and a Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is a former executive director member of the Scottish Governments Council of Economic Advisers.
of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty years with Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks corporate advisory FC McBain activities and its Asian businesses.
He is currently a director of various Fiona McBain is chief executive of Scottish Friendly Assurance, companies including Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc, JP Morgan a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial services group Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, Miller Insurance Services, Schroder with over 500,000 policyholders.
Fiona was appointed a Director Japan Growth Fund plc and Alternative Asset Opportunities PCC in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in 1998, Fiona, a Limited.
In addition, he is chairman of Dunedin Income Growth chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential plc and Arthur Investment Trust PLC and deputy chairman of Endace Limited.
Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some time working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK and in the United MM Gray States.
She is also a director of the Association of Financial Mutuals.
Michael Gray, the Senior Independent Director, joined the Board in 2004 after a successful career in printing and technology WG McQueen industries where he gained valuable global business experience.
Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, As chairman and chief executive he led the growth of McQueen brings to the Board first class financial and banking expertise, International over a 17 year period as it evolved from being a as a former finance director of the Bank of Scotland.
Gordon was printing company into a global enterprise providing a range of appointed a Director in 2001.
Until 2003 he was an executive support services to technology companies.
On McQueens director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, where his acquisition, he became senior vice president of Sykes Enterprises main role was chief executive, Treasury.
He is a director of JP Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing services company.
Morgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
He retired from Sykes in 1999 and currently has many business, community, charity and sporting interests and responsibilities including being a member of the Advisory Board of The Winning Scotland Foundation and of The Scottish Governments Rural Development Council.
06 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS John Scott Michael Gray John Kay Fiona McBain Gordon McQueen Managers and Secretaries Management Details Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as investment managers and investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm secretaries to the Company.
The management contract can be Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries terminated at six months notice.
to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Management Fee Baillie Gifford & Co are one of the largest investment trust managers Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.32% of total assets in the UK and currently manage eight investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, purposes, calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of Baillie Gifford total over 74 billion at 31 March 2011.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment management firms in the UK, with 35 partners and a staff of over 670.
The Manager of Scottish Mortgages portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of Baillie Gifford, Head of Global Growth and a former Chief Investment Officer.
The Deputy Manager is Tom Slater, also a member of Baillie Giffords Global Growth Team.
The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07
