06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our capabilities Support services Transforming delivery... 1 Underlying operating profit We are one of the UKs largest support services companies providing all the services needed to manage, maintain 120.8m and operate buildings and infrastructure, 2010: 110.4m notably for large property estates and for 1 transport and utility services networks.
Percentage of total underlying operating profit 49% 2010: 50% 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and share of Joint Ventures net financial expense and taxation.
Having the ability to combine our extensive support services capabilities In the UK public sector, we are a major supplier of integrated facilities to provide customers with fully integrated, nationwide solutions is a key management services to central and local government, notably in the strength that helps to differentiate Carillion from our competitors.
It is defence, heath, education and general office accommodation sectors.
also fundamental to our success in delivering Public Private Partnership In Canada, we have a growing business, driven by our success in winning PPP projects.
PPP projects, especially in the health sector, for which we provide facilities management services.
Energy services The acquisition of Carillion Energy Services CES formerly Eaga plc in Infrastructure April 2011, extended our support services offering to include energy We have long-term asset management and maintenance contracts for efficiency services.
Rising energy costs and Government legislation to roads, railways and public utility services networks.
In the UK, we provide reduce carbon emissions have made energy services an increasingly integrated management and maintenance services for motorways and important part of the integrated solutions we provide.
The acquisition trunk roads for the Highways Agency, and also for local road networks on of CES has also taken the Group into new growth markets for energy behalf of Local Highway Authorities.
In Canada, we have leading positions services, namely for private housing and for Local Authority and Social in the Ontario and Alberta road maintenance markets.
In the rail sector, Landlord housing.
our main customers are Network Rail and Transport for London.
The long-term support services contracts we have some of them for We provide a wide range of asset management and maintenance services more than 30 years provide good visibility of future revenues and to the telecommunications, water, gas and electricity supply industries.
make a major contribution to the resilience of our business mix.
We also have in-house engineering and architectural design and project Property management capabilities, which play an important role in supporting the We provide an extensive range of support services for property, notably delivery of integrated solutions for buildings and infrastructure, notably for integrated facilities management solutions for public and private sector PPP projects.
customers with large, complex property estates.
We have strong positions in a number of market sectors, particularly for customers in the financial services, commercial, utilities, media and telecommunications sectors.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07... through innovative, value for money solutions 1.
In 2011, Carillion extended its contract to provide facilities management services for the Nationwide Building Societys administration estate to include the Societys 800 retail branches in the UK.
As a result of acquiring CES, we were also able to extend the scope of the services we provide to include energy management and efficiency, one feature of which is the installation of a 50kW solar photo voltaic system to generate electricity to power the Societys head office.
This is just one of many examples where we are extending the scope of our facilities management contracts to include energy management and efficiency services, in response to increasing demand from our commercial and non-domestic customers.
In 2011, Carillion renewed its contract to provide facilities management services for Virgin Medias UK national estate.
This reflected the successful partnership between Carillion and Virgin Media through which service provision has been transformed by focusing on improving both the efficiency of service delivery as well as a high-quality customer experience.
Reducing Virgin Medias energy consumption is also an important element of the services being provided by Carillion.
2. financial statements governance our performance WHAT WE DO about us
