08 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our capabilities Public Private Partnerships projects Transforming delivery... 1 Underlying operating profit We are a leader in Public Private Partnership PPP projects, both in the UK and in Canada.
PPP projects 19.9m 1 use private sector finance to deliver 2010 : 23.4m a wide range of asset-based services 1 for central and local government.
Percentage of total underlying operating profit 8% 2010: 10% 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and share of Joint Ventures net financial expense and taxation.
Our success is based on our ability to combine our expertise in private Secure accommodation finance with our support services and construction capabilities to win In the UK, we have delivered four prisons and secure training centres and and deliver fully integrated solutions for PPP projects, in which we invest sold our equity investments in all of these projects.
Carillion also built the equity and for which we secure construction contracts and long-term landmark Government Communications Headquarters at Cheltenham, support services contracts.
one of the largest, technically complex and secure accommodation PPP projects to be delivered in the UK to date.
Once the construction phase is complete and projects have moved successfully into the operational phase, we have the option of selling Education our equity investments and reinvesting the proceeds in new projects.
We have built a strong track record in the education sector, where we have delivered, or are in the process of delivering, around 160 new Health schools and academies.
Some 50 of these schools and academies have In the UK, we are currently delivering our fifteenth PPP healthcare facility, been funded by private finance and include the provision of support the new Southmead Hospital in Bristol.
We secured support services services.
contracts for 12 of these facilities, making Carillion a leading supplier of non-clinical services to the National Heath Service.
Roads We have delivered a total of six PPP road projects, two of which included Defence long-term management and maintenance services that remain in our Carillion has three major PPP defence projects for the UK Ministry of support services portfolio.
The largest of these is Allenby Connaught, a 35-year concession contract that commenced in 2006 to rebuild Army accommodation across Canada the South of England and to provide support services for the estate over Canada also uses private finance to deliver public buildings and the life of the concession.
This is known as the Alternative Financing Procurement AFP model and is similar to the PPP procurement model used in the UK.
Carillion is a leader in the AFP market, especially in the health sector, having delivered two of the first hospitals in Canada the Royal Ottawa and the new William Osler Hospital in Brampton, Ontario, for which we also have long-term facilities management contracts.
Currently, we have a further five AFP projects under construction in Ontario, including four major hospitals for which we will also provide long-term support services.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09... of public infrastructure and services 1.
In 2011, a Carillion joint venture Hospital Infrastructure Partners was awarded a 1.7 billion, 30-year contract to finance, design build and operate the new Oakville Hospital in Ontario, Canada, using the Alternative Financing Procurement AFP model, which is similar to the UKs Public Private Partnership model.
Oakville Hospital is Carillions sixth AFP hospital in Canada.
We will invest 28 million of equity in this project, as well as delivering construction, facilities management and life-cycle maintenance services over the 34-year life of the contract.
The new hospital has been designed to meet high standards of sustainability, a key strength that helps to differentiate Carillion from its competitors.
The new Southmead Hospital in Bristol is being delivered as a Public Private Partnership project.
In addition to financing and building the new hospital, at a capital cost of some 430 million, Carillion will invest 48.7 million of equity in this project and provide facilities management and life-cycle maintenance services over the 30-year life of the contract.
The new state-of-the-art 800-bed hospital will also be the most sustainable major acute hospital in the UK, with low energy utilisation and a carbon footprint below the government target.
2. financial statements governance our performance WHAT WE DO about us
