40 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors The Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Philip Green was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the Non-Executive Director in June 2011.
He is a member of the Audit, Operating and financial review, the Corporate Governance report Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
and the Remuneration report, which are incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
The Board appointed Andrew Dougal a Non-Executive Director in October 2011.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member Principal activities and business review of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Carillion is one of the UKs leading integrated support services companies, with a substantial portfolio of Public Private Partnership David Garman served as the Senior Independent Non-Executive projects and extensive construction capabilities.
The Group has Director until he stood down from the Board in May 2011.
David operations in the UK, the Middle East and North Africa and in Canada.
was appointed to the Board of Carillion plc in September 2004 and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and future Audit and Nominations Committees.
developments is contained in the Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review and the Operating and financial review.
Vanda Murray succeeded David Garman as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The following specific issues are discussed in the sections shown in brackets David Maloney served as an Non-Executive Director until he stood down from the Board in October 2011.
David was appointed to the achievements in respect of the Groups Key Performance Indicators Board of Carillion plc in November 2005 and was Chairman of the KPIs in 2011 and the KPIs set for 2012 Group Chief Executives Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations and review see pages 16 to 23 Remunerations Committees.
financial performance in 2011 Operating and financial review see pages 24 to 33 John McDonough was Group Chief Executive until he retired from the principal operational risks and risk management Group Chief Board and Company on 31 December 2011.
Executives review see pages 20 and 21 treasury policy and financial risk management Operating and The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of financial review see page 32 the Company are shown in the Report of the Directors on page 42. social, community and environmental issues Sustainability review see pages 34 to 37 Indemnity resources and employees Group Chief Executives review see To the extent permitted by the Companies Acts, the Company may page 19 and Report of the Directors see pages 40 and 41. indemnify any Director, Secretary or other officer of the Company against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against Analysis of revenue and net assets by operating segment and any liability.
The Company purchased and maintained throughout 2011 geographical location are given in note 2 on pages 65 to 68.
Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Share capital Conflicts of interest Carillion has only one class of shares, with one vote for every share.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an Profits and dividends interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the The consolidated income statement is shown on page 56.
The Board considers that the procedures it has in place for before tax was 142.8 million 2010: 167.9 million.
reporting and considering conflicts of interest are effective.
A 2011 interim dividend of 5.3 pence per ordinary share 2010: Key contractual arrangements 4.8 pence was paid in November 2011.
It is proposed to pay a There are no persons with whom the Group or Company has final dividend of 11.6 pence per ordinary share 2010: 10.7 pence on contractual or other arrangements, whom are deemed to be essential 15 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business to the business of the Group or Company.
The payment of these 2011 interim and final dividends amounts to 71.5 million 2010: 62.0 million.
Employees Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing in note 6 on page 70. shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in the Company by buying further shares.
If required, a DRIP application Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, form is available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 110 for sustainable profitable growth, professional delivery and innovation contact details.
help to differentiate Carillion from its competitors by creating a culture in which everyone in Carillion is encouraged to understand the needs Directors of their customers and to work in partnership with customers and The Directors of the Company who served during 2011 are shown on suppliers to deliver high-quality, value for money services.
page 50 of the Remuneration report.
Biographical details for each Director at 31 December 2011 are given on pages 38 and 39.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Group is committed to improving their skills through training and In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance development and through nurturing a culture in which employees feel Code, all Directors will offer themselves either for election or valued for the contributions they make to the Company and motivated re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2012.
Richard to achieve their full potential.
Adam and Richard Howson have contracts of service which are subject to one years notice of termination by the Company.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees through employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion People Forums, which give employees an opportunity to express their strives continually to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in views on business issues.
The main objectives of the People Forums relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members are to of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment that enables them to continue improve employee information and consultation their employment.
help employees feel more involved and valued support the continued education and development of employees The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy improve business performance by improving the awareness of are to employees to the business climate in which they operate help employees to be responsive and better prepared for change.
have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity of customers and society in general Team Talks, which are held monthly, provide Carillion employees with improve safety and quality provided by a balanced and productive a face-to-face communication with their line managers and facilitate workforce two-way communication, discussion and feedback.
They focus on local reduce staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels issues and key corporate messages.
One-to-one meetings between provide a fair working environment in which discrimination will not individual employees and their line managers are also held to discuss be tolerated performance and progress in order to help all employees to develop create a working environment free from discrimination, harassment, and reach their full potential.
victimisation and bullying work towards finding ways for under-represented groups to fully Employees can also exchange best practice information via realise their potential within Carillion and take reasonable steps to BusinessXchange on the Group intranet.
help such groups ensure that all employees are aware of the Equal Opportunities Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its cutting edge programmes and Diversity Policy and to provide any necessary ongoing training to integrate safety into every aspect of the Groups operations and to to enable them to meet their responsibilities under it improve its environmental performance, including the understanding recognise the merits of developing a workforce that incorporates the and application of the principles of sustainability.
Further information many diverse skills and backgrounds available from within the total on Health & Safety is given in the Group Chief Executives review population and, accordingly, will strive to be an organisation that on page 18 and on Sustainability in the Sustainability review on pages will recognise, value and understand diversity and provides all 34 to 37. employees with opportunities to develop and reach their full potential Capital and shareholders ensure that all applicants are treated fairly during recruitment As at 31 December 2011, the issued share capital of the Company processes and in accordance with relevant legislation and Codes comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
Details of Practice of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are given in regularly review procedures and selection criteria for promotion to Notes 23 and 25 on pages 82 and 83 to the consolidated financial ensure that individuals are selected and treated according to their statements which form part of this report.
Details of the share individual abilities and merits.
schemes in place are also provided on pages 52 to 53 of the Remuneration Report.
Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication with employees through both formal and informal processes.
As part On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on a holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to regular basis for all employees.
vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have one vote The views of employees on matters affecting their interests and the for every ordinary share held.
success of Carillion are also sought through The Great Debate, People Forums, Team Talks, and one-to-one meetings between The notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for employees and their line managers.
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
All The Great Debate is a major exercise, which has been undertaken proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in by the Group in each of the last eight years, involving a wide range of relation to each resolution are announced and published on the employees that form a statistically significant sample.
The results of Companys website after the meeting.
each Great Debate are used to inform and guide the development of work related initiatives as part of Carillions strategy to be an employer There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the of choice.
The Great Debate forms part of the Groups ongoing Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are programme to imposed from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial engage with employees to improve motivation and morale Services Authority, Directors and certain officers and employees of the empower employees to contribute to the Groups development both Group require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares as an employer and as a business of the Company.
demonstrate Carillions commitment to listening to, and responding to, the views of its employees.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
finAnCiAl stAtements goveRnAnCe ouR peRfoRmAnCe whAt we do About us 42 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors continued Substantial share interests Property As at 29 February 2012, the Company had received formal notification There are differences between market and book values of interest in of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under the land held as fixed assets, however, the differences are not material in Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: relation to the affairs of the Group.
% of issued Financial instruments Nature of interest share capital held Information on the Carillion Groups use of financial instruments, Schroders plc Indirect 9.26 financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is Contracts for Difference 0.01 given in note 27 on pages 85 to 90 of the consolidated financial statements.
Total 9.27 Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct 5.123 Directors share interests Indirect 3.057 Ordinary shares Total 8.18 The beneficial interests of the Directors, their immediate families and connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company as at Templeton Global Advisors Ltd Indirect 5.22 31 December 2011 are shown below.
Ameriprise Financial, Inc and its group Direct 0.063 Indirect 4.822 As at As at Fully paid 50p 1 January 2011 31 December 2011 Total 4.885 ordinary shares owned: Number Number F&C Asset Management plc Indirect 4.47 Executive Director Legal & General Group Plc Direct 3.67 Richard Adam 138,019 232,203 HBOS plc Direct 1.25 Richard Howson 2,533 41,845 Indirect 2.013 John McDonough 635,093 780,844 Total 3.263 Non-Executive Directors Philip Green NA 10,000 UBS Investment Bank Direct 3.12 Andrew Dougal NA 5,000 Steve Mogford Nil Nil Carillion has received formal notification under the Disclosure and Vanda Murray 12,300 12,300 Transparency Rules that the two Eaga Partnership Trusts hold a Philip Rogerson 39,630 39,630 combined total of 25,511,644 Carillion plc shares representing 5.9 per cent of the issued share capital.
These two Trusts provide Philip Green was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2011 and Andrew Dougal on shares for the Carillion Energy Services Share incentive Plan.
John McDonough retired from the Board and the Company on 31 December 2011.
See page 53 for more details.
There has been no change in Directors interests in the period Policy for payment of suppliers 1January 2012 to 29 February 2012.
The Groups policy is that its individual businesses should agree terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and that payment Additional information for shareholders be made on these terms, providing suppliers meet their obligations With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole does not Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate apply a general payment policy as this would not be practicable or Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
appropriate, given the diverse nature of the transactions undertaken The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of by its business units.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The powers of the Board are described in the Corporate Governance report on pages 43 to 48.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 67 days at 31 December 2011 60 days at 31 December 2010.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 2 May 2012 Change of control at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as loan and Accounts.
agreements and share incentive plans.
Included in the AGM business is the proposal to renew the authority Carillions main credit facilities, including the 737.5 million Syndicated for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2011, Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility dated 4 February 2011, contain the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of a provision such that in the event of a change of control any lender 39,964,143 of its own shares.
may, within a 30-day consultation period and if it so requires, notify the Company that it wishes to cancel its commitment.
Any such Auditor cancellation of commitment and the repayment of any outstanding Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise borrowings will occur on the date falling three days after the expiry the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the of the consultation period.
Charitable and political contributions Approved by order of the Board.
Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to 200,000 2010: 200,000.
The primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Transformation Trust, The Wildlife Trust, the British Occupational Health Research Foundation, Business in the Community, CRASH, RedR and Walking with Wounded.
R F Tapp Secretary The Carillion Group also contributes more than one per cent of profits 29 February 2012 per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to community activities and is a corporate member of Business in the Community.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review.
