10 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our capabilities Middle East construction services Transforming delivery... 1 Underlying operating profit We have around 40 years experience in the Middle East and delivered some of the regions most prestigious buildings and 49.1m infrastructure projects.
2010: 47.5m 1 Percentage of total underlying operating profit 20% 2010: 21% 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and share of Joint Ventures net financial expense and taxation.
In the Middle East, we have built strong relationships with a small number Dubai of high-quality, financially robust customers with long-term investment In Dubai, Al Futtaim Carillion has an outstanding track record for programmes, for whom quality and value for money are paramount.
This delivering high quality projects, including Dubai Festival City, Motor City, strategy has enabled us to deliver a consistently strong financial infrastructure for the Downtown Dubai development and infrastructure performance in the region.
Activity levels in Dubai fell significantly as a result of the global economic downturn, but have recently begun to recover slowly, Abu Dhabi with Dubai contributing some 11 per cent of our Middle East construction Since extending the operations of Al Futtaim Carillion to Abu Dhabi in revenue in 2011.
We continue to target new work selectively in Dubai and 2008, our business there has grown substantially and in 2011 it in 2011 Al Futtaim Carillion won a number of new contracts, the largest of contributed 43 per cent of our total Middle East construction services which was a 112 million contract to build the Al Jalila Childrens Speciality revenue.
Since completing our first project in Abu Dhabi in 2009, the Hospital.
prestigious 500-bedroom Yas Hotel that forms the centrepiece of Abu Dhabis Formula 1 Grand Prix circuit, we have won a series of further Egypt major projects.
These include Stage 3 of the UAE University, which we Al Futtaim Carillion extended its operations to Egypt in 2008 specifically to completed in 2011, a new headquarters for the Abu Dhabi Investment build the 2 billion Cairo Festival City development for our Joint Venture Authority and the Al Muneera development, both of which are nearing partner, Al Futtaim.
In 2011, this project contributed 16 per cent of our completion, and New York University, on which we continue to make Middle East construction services revenue as work on the Cairo Festival good progress.
Oman Qatar Our business in Oman, Carillion Alawi, has a long history of delivering In 2011, we continued to diversify geographically, winning our first high-profile projects to exacting standards, including the Guest Palace contract in Qatar a 395 million contract for the Heart of Doha Qasr Al Alam, the Grand Mosque and the Royal Opera House, which was Development for Msheireb Properties.
This contract, which was won in completed in 2011.
Current projects include the Majlis, a new parliament joint venture with Qatar Building Company, will generate some 316 building, the National Museum and an extension to Muscat Airport, which million of revenue for Carillion.
Qatar has major investment programmes involves the construction of a new control tower and ancillary facilities.
in a number of sectors where Carillion has strong capabilities, including In 2011, Carillion Alawi continued to grow and contributed some 30 per heritage, health, education and infrastructure, which offer substantial cent of our total construction services revenue in the Middle East.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11... for the most prestigious projects in the world 1.
In 2011, Carillion Alawi completed the magnificent Royal Opera House in Muscat also pictured on the front cover of this report, Oman, for the Oman Royal Court Affairs.
Built at a capital cost of some 120 million, this state-ofthe-art concert and theatre facility seats 1,000 people and can accommodate the full-range of performing arts, including music and drama as well as opera.
This is the first facility of its kind in the Middle East and the outstanding quality of the external and internal finishes, together with beautiful landscaping, make the Royal Opera House one of the finest buildings in the world.
The prestigious 550 million Al Muneera project, which forms part of the 10 billion Al Raha Beach development in Abu Dhabi, is being built by Al Futtaim Carillion.
Al Muneera comprises a 14-storey office development, 16 apartment buildings of between 11 and 14 floors, 148 town houses and 11 villas.
2. financial statements governance our performance WHAT WE DO about us
