12 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our capabilities Construction services excluding the Middle East Transforming delivery... 1 Underlying operating profit We have a strong and selective construction capability in the UK and in Canada, focused on large, 57.9m higher added value contracts for 2010: 41.2m long-term customers.
1 Percentage of total underlying operating profit 23% 2010: 19% 1 Before Group eliminations and unallocated items, intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and share of Joint Ventures net financial expense and taxation.
Having a strong construction capability, which, together with our UK construction capabilities in private finance, design, support services and sustainability, A significant proportion of our UK construction revenue already comes enables us to offer fully integrated solutions for buildings and from PPP projects.
For example, currently we are building two major PPP infrastructure.
projects for the Ministry of Defence Allenby Connaught, which involves building and refurbishing Army accommodation across the South of This gives us a competitive advantage in optimising the whole-life cost of England, and the Royal School of Military Engineering.
We also continue providing, maintaining and operating assets such as schools, hospitals, to be a leading supplier to the schools building programme, which military accommodation, prisons, roads and railways an essential includes some PPP projects, and to the health sector.
We also provide requirement for Public Private Partnership PPP projects.
construction services for other long-term customers where quality, delivery and our sector-leading sustainability credentials differentiate In the UK, we began re-scaling our construction business in 2010, through our offering.
being even more selective in respect of the contracts for which we bid.
Our objective is to increasingly base our capabilities around delivering Our largest sectors of the UK infrastructure market are roads and railways.
integrated solutions for PPP projects and support services customers and Our construction capabilities in these sectors are also key to our success in high-quality added-value contracts for long-term customers.
As a result, winning and delivering PPP projects, long-term maintenance contracts for we expect to reduce our UK construction revenue from its 2009 level roads and railways and contracts for the Highways Agencys managed of 1.8 billion to around 1.2 billion in 2012, compared to its current motorways programme.
level of 1.3 billion, and to reinforce our position as a leader in delivering integrated solutions.
Canada In Canada, where our business was established some 50 years ago, we In Canada, our ability to deliver integrated solutions has helped us to have strong construction capabilities, both for buildings and infrastructure.
establish a leading position in delivering public sector buildings and We delivered two of the first privately financed hospitals to be built in infrastructure using the Alternative Financing Procurement AFP model, Canada, both of which are fully operational, and for which Carillion has which is similar to the UKs Public Private Partnership procurement model.
We have since won four more AFP We expect the new 10-year AFP investment programme to be a key driver hospital projects, together with an AFP contract to provide a new Forensic of growth over the medium term, supporting our objective of doubling Services and Coroners Complex in Toronto.
Carillion is also delivering our revenue in Canada to around 1 billion per annum.
other high-profile construction projects, including the 360 million refurbishment and extension of Torontos Union Station.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13... of buildings and infrastructure 1.
In 2011, Carillion completed the International Broadcast Centre and Main Press Centre for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Located in the Northwest corner of the Olympic Park, close to the community of Hackney Wick in East London, the Centre will provide accommodation for 20,000 journalists during the Games.
Sustainable construction was also a major feature of this project.
For example, through processing and recycling waste we made a net saving of 4,177 tonnes of carbon on the project, which exceeded the 3,479 tonnes of carbon produced by the energy used in its construction.
As the main contractor for the 157 million Library of Birmingham project, Carillion is providing design and construction services to deliver one of the finest libraries in the world for Birmingham City Council.
Carillion is also building a new Birmingham Repertory Theatre as an integral part of this prestigious development, which is making a major contribution to the regeneration of Birmingham City Centres Westside and Centenary Square.
2. financial statements governance our performance WHAT WE DO about us
