Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the Annual Report and Status of Company Accounts and the audited consolidated Financial Statements of the The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Companies Act 2006. Business Review Principal Activities The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of the The Company is a financial services holding company, with principal Business Review can be found in the following sections: interests in the provision of wealth management advice and services to the clients of the Group.
A full review of the activities of the Group and the basis on which the Company generates or preserves Principal risks and The Risk and Risk uncertainties Management section on pages value over the longer-term is given in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 4 to 7.
Performance and development Chief Executives Statement on Substantial Shareholders of the business during the year pages 4 to 7 and the Financial As at 31December2011, the Company had been notified of the and position at the end of the Commentary on pages 12 to following interests disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and year 26.
Transparency Rule 5: Information on likely future Chief Executives Statement on Lloyds Banking Group LBG 288,366,379 58.988% developments page 7 and the Financial Prudential 28,047,643 5.69% Commentary on pages 16, 24 and 25.
The Company was not notified of any changes to these interests Directors and Officers The Corporate Governance during the period 1 January 2012 to 21 February 2012.
Indemnity and Insurance Report on page 60.
Details of the relationship agreement between Lloyds Banking Group Financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators on plc and the Company are set out on page 60.
Environmental, employee and The Corporate Social The interests of the Directors, their families and any connected social community matters Responsibility Report on pages persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on 38 to 49. page 76.
Share Capital arrangements essential to the Structure of the Companys Capital business of the Company As at 31 December 2011, the Companys issued and fully paid up share capital was 493,422,751 ordinary shares of 15 pence each.
All Results and Dividends ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and can The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on page 80 be held in uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the movement and profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders in the issued share capital during the year are provided in Note 29 to amounted to 106.8 million.
An interim dividend of 3.2 pence per the financial statements on page 118. share, which equates to 15.7 million, was paid on 14September2011 2010: 2.025 pence per share 9.8 million.
The Directors The full rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the recommend that shareholders approve a final dividend of 4.8 pence Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles can per share, which equates to 23.7 million 2010: final dividend of be amended by a Special Resolution of the members of the Company 3.975 pence per share 19.4 million to be paid on 16May2012 to and copies can be obtained from Companies House.
Holders of shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30March ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and 2012.
Accounts, attend, speak and exercise voting rights and appoint proxies to attend General Meetings.
The Directors have decided to introduce a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP in respect of the final dividend payable on 16May2012.
Voting Rights In light of this, the Directors have decided to terminate the previous At any General Meeting, on a show of hands, each member who is scrip dividend scheme and no scrip alternative will be offered in present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been respect of the final dividend, or any future dividend paid by the duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a resolution has one Company in 2012.
Details of the new DRP scheme will be sent to vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shareholders in March2012.
shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
52 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance Forms appointing a proxy sent by the Company to shareholders, in Directors relation to any General Meeting, must be received by the Company Details of the Directors as at 21February2012 and their biographies not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding of the are shown on pages 50 and 51.
Brief particulars of the Directors meeting or adjourned meeting.
membership of the Board Committees are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 58 to 64.
Restrictions on Voting Rights If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under Vivian Bazalgette and Iain Cornish were appointed as Independent Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the Non-executive Directors on 1July2011 and 1October2011 relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder respectively and will seek election by shareholders at the Annual may not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or General Meeting in May 2012. vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to Mike Wilson retired as Executive Chairman and as a Director of the shareholders meetings.
Charles Gregson, an existing Non-executive Director, was appointed as Non-executive Chairman If those default shares represent at least 0.25% of their class, any on 1January 2012. dividend payable in respect of the shares will be withheld by the Company and subject to certain limited exceptions no transfer, DerekNetherton and MichaelSorkin retired from the Board on other than an excepted transfer, of any shares held by the member in 31December2011.
Sarah Bates succeeded MichaelSorkin as the certificated form will be registered.
Restrictions on Share Transfers The Companys Articles of Association require that any Director There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out in appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy must stand for the Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers made in reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and that, at each favour of more than four joint holders and transfers held in Annual General Meeting, all those Directors who were elected or certificated form.
Directors may decline to recognise a transfer, last re-elected at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the unless it is in respect of only one class of share and lodged and duly third calendar year before the current year, shall retire from office stamped with the Transfer Office.
The Directors may also refuse to byrotation.
Directors can be removed from office by an ordinary register any transfer of shares held in certificated form which are not resolution of shareholders or in certain other circumstances as set out fully paid.
Directors may also choose to decline requests for share in the Articles of Association.
transfers from a US Person as defined under Regulation S of the United States Securities Act 1933 that would cause the aggregate However, in accordance with the recommendations of the UK number of beneficial owners of issued shares who are US Persons to Corporate Governance Code, the whole Board of Directors will exceed 70. retire by rotation at the AGM in 2012.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that the Non-executive Directors seeking re-election The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for continue to be effective in their roles on the Board and its such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors may Committees and have demonstrated their continued commitment from time to time determine in respect of any class of shares.
Further details on the Directors are set out in the Directors biographies on pages 50 and 51 and in the Notice The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders ofMeeting.
that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Except as stated in the Remuneration Report, no Director has, or has had during the year under review, any material interest in any Power of the Directors contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Details of all Executive Directors service contracts are set out in the Company and their powers are subject to any regulations of the Remuneration Report on pages 71 and 72.
Articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations as may be prescribed by Special Resolution of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, specific employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to Companys share schemes may, in certain circumstances, cause share borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have the power to awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels set and approved atakeover.
by shareholders in General Meetings.
This also applies to the Directors allotting equity securities otherwise than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rules.
53 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report continued Creditors Payment Policy Annual General Meeting The payment of supplier invoices is made on the Companys behalf by The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 8 May 2012 St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited SJPMS, a at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J subsidiary company.
It is SJPMSs policy to pay creditors in 7BQ at 11.00am.
accordance with the DTIs Better Payment Practice Code, copies of which can be obtained from the Better Payment Practice Groups Authority to Purchase Own Shares website at www.
SJPMSs average number of days At the Annual General Meeting in 2011, shareholders granted purchases outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 31 December authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its 2011 was 20 days 2010: 18 days.
The authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012, or 18 months from the date Charitable and Political Donations granted, whichever is earlier.
During the year, the Company did not Charitable contributions made by the Group to the St. Jamess Place purchase any of its own ordinary shares.
The Directors will propose Foundation during the year totalled 1,400,000 2010: 1,200,000. the renewal of the authority to purchase own shares at the Contributions during the year to other charitable organisations forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A list of charitable donations made by the Foundation is available on request.
Further details on the Going Concern Foundation are included in the Corporate Social Responsibility The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to Report on pages 38 to 43. affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review, as referred to on page 52.
The financial position It is the Groups policy not to make any donations to political parties of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing within the meaning of the definitions set out in the Political Parties, facilities are described in the Financial Commentary on pages 12 to Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and sections 362 to 379 of the 26.
In addition, the Notes on pages 105 and 110 and the Risk and Companies Act 2006.
The Group did not make any political Risk Management section on pages 28 to 36 include: the Companys donations during the year 2010: Nil.
objectives: policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and Employees its exposures to credit risk and liquidity.
Full details of the Groups approach to employee involvement, training, development and communication can be found in the As shown on page 23 of the Financial Commentary, the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 43 to 45. capital position is strong and well in excess of regulatory requirements.
The long-term nature of the business results in Significant Contracts and Change of Control considerable positive cash flows, arising from existing business.
As a The Company has a number of contractual arrangements which it consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed considers essential to the business of the Company.
Specifically, these to manage its business risks successfully.
are committed loan facilities totalling 45million and arrangements with third party providers of administration services.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the A change of control of the Company may cause some agreements to foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going which the Company is party to alter or terminate.
These include concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further information on the bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
basis of preparation of these accounts can be seen in Note 1 to both the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting The group had committed facilities totalling 45 million as at Standards and Parent Company Accounts on UK GAAP basis.
21February 2012 which contain clauses which require lender consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be given, a Statement of Directors Responsibilities change of control would trigger mandatory prepayment of This statement is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on thefacilities.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
54 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors, at the date of approval of this report, confirms that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain relevant audit information and ensure that the auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors The auditors  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution that they be re-appointed until the end of the 2013 Annual General Meeting willbe put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 8May2012.
On behalf of the Board D Bellamy A Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 21 February 2012 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
