Board of Directors CHAIRMAN ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS 5.
David Lamb 55 I David joined the Company in 1992 and was 1.
David Bellamy 58 appointed to the Board in 2007.
David is the Charles joined the Board in January 2010 as an Chief Executive Managing Director with responsibility for independent Non-executive Director and was David joined the Company in 1991 and was marketing, business development and the appointed Non-executive Chairman with appointed to the Board in 1997, before Companys fund range.
He is a member of effect fromJanuary2012.
He is Chair of the becoming Chief Executive in 2007.
He the Investment Committee and a Trustee of Nomination Committee and is a member of previously fulfilled a number of roles at the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
David is the Audit Committee.
Jamess Place including Group also a Director of the Association of Private executive Chairman of ICAP plc and CPP Operations Director and Managing Director.
Client Investment Managers and Group plc and a Non-executive Director of David has worked in the financial services Stockbrokers.
He is a graduate of City Caledonia Investments plc and International industry since 1973 and is a Trustee of the University, London and a Fellow of the Personal Finance plc from which he will step St. Jamess Place Foundation.
He has extensive board and senior management experience in 3.
Andrew Croft 47 NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS the UK and overseas and served on the boards Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and has of United Business Media plc, Provident been Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
Sarah Bates 53 I Rem Financial plc and MAI plc.
Charles graduated qualified as a Chartered Accountant at Independent Non-executive Director in History and Law from Trinity Hall,  in 1988 and has a Sarah joined the Board as an independent Cambridge and has an MA in Law.
He degree in Accounting and Economics from Non-executive Director in 2004 and became qualified as a solicitor in 1972.
Andrew is also a Senior Independent Director in January Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
She is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the 4.
She is a NonIan is the Managing Director responsible for executive Director of Development the Partnership.
He has worked in the Securities plc and of four listed investment financial services industry since 1986 and trusts.
Sarah is Chairman of the Association joined the Company in 1991.
He was of Investment Companies, Chairman of appointed to the Board in 2003.
He has a Stena Line UK Pension Fund Trustees and degree from Lancaster University and an MA of the Cancer Research UK Pension Fund from Leicester University.
Ian is also a Investment Committee.
Sarah is also an Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
adviser to, or member of, various other investment committees.
50 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance 7 8 3 4 11 9 10 2 6 1 5 Sarah graduated in Philosophy and Law from consumer finance sectors.
He is a NonEngland and Wales, an Associate of the UK Trinity Hall, Cambridge and has an MBA executive Director of Invista Real Estate Chartered Institute of Taxation and a Fellow from the London Business School.
Investment Management Holdings plc, a of the Institute of Risk Management.
Mike Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a lectures and writes on risk management, 7.
Vivian Bazalgette 61 I Rem graduate of Imperial College, London.
Independent Non-executive Director Vivian joined the Board on 1July2011 as an 9.
Roger Walsom 58 R Rem Independent Non-executive Director and Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director succeeded Sir Mark Weinberg as Chairman Iain joined the Board as an Independent Roger was appointed to the Board as an of the Investment Committee in July 2011.
independent Non-executive Director in He is also a member of the Remuneration He is a member of the Audit, Risk and 2005.
He is a member of the Risk and Committee.
He is a Non-executive Director Nomination Committees.
He was Chief Remuneration Committees.
After several of Henderson High Income Trust plc, Executive of the Yorkshire Building Society years in thefinancial services industry, Roger Brunner Investment Trust plc and Perpetual from July2003 until December2011, having graduated in Law from Southampton Income & Growth Investment Trust plc.
Iain also served as University and qualified as a solicitor in Vivian is currently a Governor of Dulwich a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel from 1980.
He became a partner at Ashurst, a College, a Member of the Advisory Board of 2007 to 2011, becoming Chairman in 2009. leading City law firm, in 1988.
He retired Greenwich Hospital and advises the BAE Prior to joining the Society, he was a Senior from Ashurst in 2005 and is currently a Systems Plc Pension Fund and the Investment Consultant in KPMGs Strategy Services Non-executive Director of Invesco Income Committee of the Nuffield Foundation.
Consultancy Practice, specialising in banking Growth Trust plc, the Miller Insurance Vivian has an English degree from and finance sector consultancy projects.
Broking Group and an AshurstCambridge.
Mike Power 54 R A N Non-executive Director of the Pensions 8.
Steve Colsell 47 Independent Non-executive Director Regulator.
Non-executive Director Mike joined the Board as an independent Key Steve was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in 2005.
He chairs A Member of the Audit Committee non-independent Non-executive Director in the Audit and Risk Committees and is a I Member of the Investment Committee 2009 to represent Lloyds Banking Group member of the Nomination Committee.
He N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Risk Committee plc.
He is Finance Director of Group is Professor of Accounting at the London Rem Member of the Remuneration Committee Strategic Initiatives & International Banking School of Economics and Political Science Ages are as at the date of the AGM on 8 May 2012. at Lloyds Banking Group.
Steve has held a and Director of the Centre for Analysis of number of senior finance and strategy roles Risk and Regulation.
He is a Fellow of the in the life, general insurance, banking and Institute of Chartered Accountants in 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
