Our Business Who We Are and What We Do the fact that some 90% of new investments come from existing clients or from referrals and introductions from them.
Once invested, clients tend to stay invested and were extremely pleased with the consistent, year on year, retention of funds under management of 95%.
Our Marketplace We specialise in meeting the financial needs of people who have created more capital, or who earn higher incomes than average, and where circumstances are therefore more complicated than usual.
We provide a highly professional service delivering reliable and personal service designed to suit individual requirements.
The UK comprises one of the highest populations of high net worth individuals in Western Europe.
The majority of these individuals will have an increasing need for advice asfinancial markets become ever more complex, and governments and employers continue to transfer the burden of provision to the individual.
Who We Are The St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group was How We Operate founded in 1991.
St. Jamess Place plc was listed on the We believe we remain uniquely positioned to continue London Stock Exchange in 1997 and is now a FTSE 250 tosucceed in our market because of the two fundamental company with over 28billion of client funds under principles that have underpinned our business from dayone: management, specialising in the provision of face-to-face the strength of the relationship between our advisers and wealth management advice to individuals, trustees and their clients: and our approach to investment management.
We provide advice to clients based on their individual needs and circumstances, adapting our advice The St. Jamess Place Partnership asrequirements change over time to ensure that The members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership play the recommendations remain appropriate.
leading role in delivering our wealth management service.
The Partners, so called because of the way they work in What We Do partnership with their clients, have, on average, over 17 Our relationship-based approach is greatly valued by our years experience in their field and include some of the most clients, no more so than in the current period of financial experienced and able professionals working in wealth uncertainty.
There is an increasing demand for trusted management today.
advice from experienced advisers backed by a strong organisation and brand.
Whilst all of our Partners are experienced advisers, some have expertise in specific and highly technical areas.
If an What Makes Us Different individuals circumstances require additional expertise, The relationships between Partners and clients endure Partners will consult with, and if necessary introduce, a because they are founded on mutual respect and trust, specialist colleague.
Partners often work alongside other with the emphasis on building and maintaining a long-term professional advisers, providing a complementary service relationship.
The success of our approach can be seen from and a fresh perspective.
8 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review We have chosen to promote our services exclusively Stamford Associates share their extensive research of the through the Partnership.
This reflects the confidence we global investment markets with a small number of have in our Partners ability to provide clients with sound companies.
We are particularly proud to have them on our financial advice and to build and maintain long-term team, as St. Jamess Place is the only company they work working relationships with them.
with that provides wealth management advice to private individuals or Trustees.
Being able to call upon the services of an adviser who understands an individuals The Committee meets regularly to review performance personal circumstances enables them to benefit from a and consider detailed reports from each investment source of trusted advice as their financial needs evolve over manager.
If a change in the marketplace calls for the the years.
addition of another manager, the Committee will select one.
Equally, if the Committee loses confidence in the We are committed to supporting our Partners ongoing ability of an existing manager it will replace them.
professional development to ensure that they remain appropriately qualified and technically able.
As a result, we We remain committed to monitoring and reviewing all of are happy to guarantee the suitability of the advice that our fund managers to ensure we generate the optimum they give when recommending any of the wealth return for our clients investments.
During 2011, the management products and services provided by companies Investment Committee made seven new fund manager in the St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group.
Our Approach to Investment Management The new managers and mandates appointed were: Successful investment is critical to future financial wellbeing, but it is a field which presents a unique problem: Philip Brides of BlackRock Alternative Assets Fund future performance is unpredictable.
As a result, when Nimesh Patel of BlackRock Global Equity Fund clients choose an investment manager, no matter how Simon Todd and Michael Nickson of Majedie Asset successful, they can never be sure that they have made the Management Global Equity Fund right choice.
And even if they have, it may not continue to Sunil Thakor and David Levanson of Sands Capital be the right choice over the years to come.
Management Global Equity Fund William Browne, John Spears, Tom Shrager and Robert We believe that our approach to investment management Wyckoff of Tweedy Browne Company addresses these challenges.
We do not place clients money Global Equity Fund in the hands of our own team of investment managers: Chris Bartram and Phillip Rodger of Orchard Street indeed, we have no investment managers of our own.
Investment Management Property Fund Instead, we are free to choose any investment manager Howard Gleicher of Aristotle Capital Management from any fund management firm anywhere in the world.
NorthAmerican Fund The responsibility of selecting the range of funds and fund The Committee also oversaw the development and managers that are made available to St. Jamess Place clients launch of seven portfolios to support and strengthen the at any one time falls upon the St. Jamess Place Investment St. Jamess Place advice process.
Committee, advised by the respected independent investment research consultancy, Stamford Associates.
We remain committed to monitoring and reviewing all of our fund managers to ensure we generate the optimum return for our clients investment and expect to make further new appointments, of both managers and mandates, in 2012.
