94 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 The Board is accountable for Board of directors ensuring that, as a collective body, it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to perform its role effectively.
It provides leadership through oversight, review and by providing guidance whilst setting the strategic direction.
1 2 3 4 5 6 789 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 95 a result of his length of service and commitment 1.
Jaspal Bindra provides an in-depth knowledge of the Chairman Group Executive Director Groupwhich is invaluable to the Board, the Sir John joined the Board in 2007 as Deputy Jaspal was appointed to the Board on 1 January AuditCommittee, the Board Risk Committee, Chairman and was appointed Chairman in 2010 and is based in Hong Kong.
He joined the Nomination Committee and the 2009.
Sir John is also chairman of Burberry Standard Chartered in 1998 and has held senior GovernanceCommittee.
Group plc and Experian plc, and between 2000 positions in the Group such as Global Head of and 2006 he was chief executive of GUS plc, Client Relationships for Wholesale Banking and 4.
Richard Meddings having joined the board in 1997.
He has a strong Chief Executive officer for India.
Before joining Group Finance Director financial services and retailing background and Standard Chartered, Jaspal was with UBS Richard was appointed Group Finance Director chairmanship experience, is committed to Investment Banking.
He began his career with in November 2006, having joined the Board as supporting his local community and has a Bank of America in 1984 and worked there a Group Executive Director in November 2002. long-standing interest in education.
For 10 years across treasury markets and consumer banking He is based in London and is responsible for he was the chairman of the board of governors in India and Singapore.
Jaspal also leads Finance, Group Corporate Treasury, Risk, Group of Nottingham Trent University.
He has been a Standard Chartereds award-winning work on Strategy and Group Corporate Development.
trustee of the Djanolgy City Academy in diversity and inclusion.
As chairman of the Groups Immediately prior to his appointment as Group Nottingham since 1999, is deputy lieutenant Diversity and Inclusion Council, he is responsible Finance Director, Richard had been Group of Nottinghamshire and in April 2011 became for the Groups strategy and programmes Executive Director for growth and governance High Sheriff of Nottinghamshire.
Sir John designed to support employees, customers and across Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan, Europe brings extensive international experience and communities.
He is a board member of Vital and the Americas.
Before that he was Group exemplary governance credentials.
He was Voices Global Partnership in the US, a member Executive Director with responsibility for risk, knighted in 2011 for services to business and of Employers Forum on Disability in the UK, and group special assets management and legal thevoluntary sector.
Age 63. also sits on the board of governors of XLRI and compliance.
Before joining Standard School of Business & Human Resources, India.
Chartered, Richard was chief operating officer, Age 51.
Peter Sands Barclays Private Clients and prior to that he Group Chief Executive was group financial controller at Barclays PLC.
Peter was appointed Group Chief Executive 7.
Richard Delbridge Richard was group finance director of Woolwich on20 November 2006.
He joined the Board as Non-Executive Director PLC before the acquisition of Woolwich PLC by Group Finance Director on 14 May 2002 and is Richard joined the Board on 1 January 2010.
In this role his responsibilities based in London.
Before his appointment as is a non-executive director of University College included finance, strategy, investor relations, Group Chief Executive he was responsible for London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
In risk, compliance and treasury.
Richard is a Finance, Strategy, Risk and Technology and 1976, he joined JP Morgan and was group non-executive director of 3i Group plc and Operations.
Prior to joining Standard Chartered, comptroller and later managing director of the is a member of the Governing Council of the Peter was a director with worldwide consultants London ofces.
In 1989, he was appointed International Chamber of Commerce UK.
McKinsey & Company, where he worked director, group finance, at Midland Bank plc, Richard is chairman of Seeing is Believing, extensively in the banking and technology later becoming group finance director, HSBC a Standard Chartered community investment sectors in a wide range of international markets.
In 1996, Richard was appointed project, which prevents avoidable blindness Peter is also lead non-executive director of the director and group chief financial officer of forthousands of individuals around the world.
board of the Department of Health.
National Westminster Bank Plc, a position Age 54. heheld until April 2000.
Richards previous non-executive director positions include Tate 3.
Steve Bertamini &Lyle PLC, JP Morgan Cazenove, Fortis NV, Senior Independent Group Executive Director Balfour Beatty plc, Gallaher Group plc, Innogy Non-Executive Director Steve joined Standard Chartered as Group Plc and Egg Plc.
He was a council member and Rudy joined the Board on 19 February 2001.
He Executive Director and Chief Executive officer, treasurer of the Open University for eight years is also Senior Independent Director.
Rudy is a Consumer Banking on 19 May 2008 and was until 2009.
Richard brings with him banking and non-executive director of Legal and General appointed to the Board on 1 June 2008.
Group Plc, AstraZeneca PLC and of United became the executive sponsor for employee Parcel Service, Inc, a member of the supervisory volunteering for the Group in 2010.
Before his board of the Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce 8.
Jamie Dundas appointment at Standard Chartered he spent 22 and non-executive chairman of Moorelds Eye Non-Executive Director years with GE, most recently as chairman and Hospital.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Jamie became a member of the Board on chief executive officer of GE North East Asia.
nv and a member of the board of 15 March 2004 and is chairman of Jupiter Fund was also responsible for GEs acquisition and the Financial Reporting Council.
Jamie was previously chief merger business in the Asia-Pacic region from previously financial director of Unilever PLC executive of UK property company MEPC and 2004 and president of GE Capital Asia from andUnilever NV until his retirement.
He joined finance director of the Airport Authority Hong January 2001.
Prior to that, Steve was chief Unilever in 1968 and from 1989 to 1998 he was Kong.
He is deputy president and former executive officer of GE Australia and New based in East Asia, latterly as business group chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support, Zealand.
He led the establishment of GEs president North East Asia based in Singapore.
the UKs largest cancer care charity, and consumer finance business in Asia in 1993 and He joined the board of Unilever as strategy and non-executive director of The Francis Crick was its managing director from 1994 to 1998. technology director and became a member of Institute.
He began his career as a merchant Steve is based inSingapore.
Age 47. the executive committee in May 1998.
Rudy banker withMorgan Grenfell, where he became hasdemonstrated excellent chairmanship skills deputyhead of banking.
Jamie brings to the as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as Board significant high level experience inHongKong and a strong background in banking, including a deep understanding ofthewholesale banking marketplace.
96 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Board of directors continued In addition to his responsibilities at Standard 9.
Ruth Markland Chartered, Shankar is a member of the board of Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore and Dr Han is a former prime minister of the Republic Ruth was appointed to the Board on the board of trustees of SINDA.
He is also a of Korea and joined the Board on 1 January 3 November 2003.
She is chairman of the board member of the Singapore Governments 2010.
He has a distinguished political, of trustees of the WRVS and a non-executive National Integration Council.
Age 54. diplomatic and administrative career serving as director of The Sage Group plc.
She was deputy prime minister and minister of finance, appointed to the supervisory board of Arcadis 16.
Paul Skinner foreign affairs, and industry and trade before NV in May 2009.
Previously, Ruth was managing Non-Executive Director serving as prime minister in 2008 and 2009. partner, Asia for international law rm Freshelds Paul was appointed to the Board on Healso served as Korean ambassador to the Bruckhaus Deringer, responsible for the rms 3 November 2003.
He is chairman of United States, chief of staff to the president, eight ofces in Asia between 1996 and 2003.
Infrastructure UK, a division of HM Treasury, president of the 56th Session of the United Prior to that Ruth worked for Freshelds in and a non-executive director of the Tetra Laval Nations General Assembly, special envoy of the London and Singapore.
She first joined Group and LAir Liquide SA.
In addition, Paul UN Secretary-General on Climate Change and Freshelds in 1977 and became a partner in is a member of the public interest body of PwC.
chairman of the 2009 OECD Ministerial Council 1983.
Ruth has significant expertise in Asia He was appointed a UK business ambassador Meeting in Paris.
He is currently on the UN and a deep understanding of the regulatory by the UK Government in 2008.
Secretary-Generals Advisory Board on Water environment.
He was previously chairman of Rio Tinto Plc and Sanitation, is the founding chair of the from 2003 to 2009 and was also a director of High-Level Expert Panel on Water and 13.
John Paynter The Shell Transport and Trading Company plc Disaster UNSGAB, as well as the chairman Non-Executive Director and group managing director of the Royal of the Global Green Growth Institute and John joined the Board on 1 October 2008.
Dutch Shell Group of companies, where he was International Advisory Board of the International He is a non-executive director of Jardine Lloyd chief executive officer of its global oil products Forum of China.
Dr Han is based in Korea and Thompson Group plc, chairman of Standard Life business.
He worked for Shell for 37 years in the brings with him valuable knowledge of Asia and Investment Holdings and a non-executive UK, Greece, Nigeria, New Zealand and Norway.
Age 75. director of Standard Life Plc.
He was appointed He also served as a member of the Defence a senior advisor to Greenhill & Co. Inc. on 1 April Board of the Ministry of Defence and as 10.
Val Gooding, CBE 2009 and was previously vice chairman of chairman of the Commonwealth Business Non-Executive Director JP Morgan Cazenove.
He joined Cazenove in Council.
Val was appointed to the Board on 1 January 1979, was appointed partner in 1986, and later 2005.
Val is chairman and non-executive headed corporate finance, Cazenoves largest 17.
Oliver Stocken director of Premier Farnell plc.
Following Cazenoves merger with Non-Executive Director non-executive director of the Lawn Tennis JP Morgan in 2005, John was appointed vice Oliver joined the Board on 1 June 2004.
He is Association, lead non-executive director of chairman where his responsibilities were chairman of Home Retail Group plc, Stanhope thedepartmental board at the Home Ofce predominantly externally facing, acting on behalf Group Holdings Limited, the MCC and the anda member of the advisory committee of of major clients and handling all aspects of the trustees of the Natural History Museum.
Val was formerly a broking relationship.
John brings a wealth of Previously, Oliver was deputy chairman of 3i non-executive director of the BBC, a trustee of experience in the elds of corporate broking, Group plc and was group finance director at the British Museum, and chief executive officer financial advisory and institutional investor Barclays PLC until September 1999.
He joined of BUPA, the independent health and care knowledge.
He has a deep understanding Barclays Merchant Bank in 1979 as head of company.
She joined BUPA in 1996 and was of financial markets and the corporate sector.
corporate finance and became managing appointed chief executive officer in 1998, Age 57. director in 1984.
He joined the board of BZW stepping down in May 2008.
Prior to that, she at its inception, later becoming finance director.
spent most of her career with British Airways.
Mike Rees He started his career with Arthur Andersen and She joined British Airways in 1973 and became Group Executive Director later joined N M Rothschild, where he became head of marketing in 1992 before being Mike was appointed to the Board on 4 August a director in corporate finance.
Olivers financial, appointed as director of business units in 1993.
He is based in London and is Chief banking and international experience makes him Her last role with British Airways was director, Executive officer, Wholesale Banking.
Mike a valuable contributor to the Board.
She was previously a non-executive joined Standard Chartered in 1990 as the Chief director at J Sainsbury plc, BAA, Cable and Financial officer for Global Treasury, then in Wireless Communications plc and Compass plc 18.
Annemarie Durbin October 1994 he was appointed Regional and has also sat on the board of the Association Group Company Secretary Treasurer in Singapore, responsible for the of British Insurers ABI.
Val will be appointed as Annemarie joined Standard Chartered in 1995.
South East Asia Treasury businesses.
In late a non-executive director of XL Group plc with She has held senior roles in Wholesale Banking, 2000, Mike was appointed Group Head of effect from 26 April 2012.
One of Britains most including Head of Financial Institutions for Europe Global Markets.
In November 2002, he was internationally recognised businesswomen, Val and Africa, and had global responsibility for the promoted to the new role of Chief Executive has a high level knowledge of financial services Development Organisation client segment.
officer, Wholesale Banking, responsible for all and regulation marketing and customer service Annemarie has held Consumer Banking head Commercial Banking products in addition to his as well as people management and corporate roles in the Philippines and Thailand and has responsibilities for Global Markets products.
Age 61. been Chief Executive officer in both countries.
Mike is a member of the International Advisory Since returning to the UK in 2006, Annemarie Board of Mauritius.
Age 56. hasheld a number of group support function 11.
Simon Lowth roles including Head of Resourcing and Reward Non-Executive Director 15.
V. Shankar within Human Resources and Group Head of Simon joined the Board on 1 May 2010.
He is an Group Executive Director Corporate Affairs.
Annemarie was appointed executive director and chief financial officer of Shankar joined the Board on 1 January 2012.
Group Company Secretary and Group Head AstraZeneca PLC and formerly finance director Based in Dubai, he is Chief Executive officer, of Secretariat in 2007.
In February 2012 this role at Scottish Power PLC following two years as Europe, Middle East, Africa and Americas.
He expanded to cover the Groups Corporate Real executive director, corporate strategy and also serves as Executive Chairman of Principal Estate Services function.
As finance director, Simon led Finance and Chairman of The Standard Scottish Powers group-wide performance and Chartered Private Bank.
He is non-executive risk management processes, and played a director of Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC.
Before critical role in the strategic transformation of joining Standard Chartered in September 2001, Scottish Power.
Simons move to Scottish Shankar was with Bank of America in Asia and Power in 2003 followed 15 years experience the USA for 19 years and his last position was with worldwide consultants, McKinsey & asmanaging director, head of Asia-Pacic Company, latterly as a senior director investment banking and chief executive officer responsible for the rms UK industrial practice.
of BA Asia Limited based in Hong Kong.
At McKinsey & Company, Simon advised leading multi-national companies onawide range of strategic, financial and operational issues.
