16 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Our performance in our markets Diverse sources of income growth inprior years and the increasing trade ows in Asia to build Our strategy onits people and product capabilities and deepening Continued focus on Asia, Africa and the customer relationships.
These markets offer growth Korea andwe know them intimately.
Korea houses one of our largest distribution networks, with 408 branches and 2,444 ATMs including alliance ATMs.
We continue to enhance and reshape our distribution Our performance infrastructure, and in December 2011 launched two innovative Smart Banking Centre outlets in Seoul.
2011 performance in t Our income stream is highly diversied, Consumer Banking in particular was challenged due to a with five of our markets delivering over labour strike and the impact of an Early Retirement $1 billion inincome Programme.
The Wholesale Banking business also encountered a challenging trading environment but continued t All geographies, with the exception of to direct business ow within the network.
India, delivered positive income growth Other Asia Pacic with HongKong and Singapore delivering Our presence in this region spreads across 11 markets, income growth in excess of 20 per cent including China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Taiwan.
Income isdiversied across both businesses, with all major markets t Wholesale Banking operating profit except Taiwan delivering positive income momentum in crossed $5 billion for the first time Consumer Banking.
Across the region we continue to maintain a strong distribution network, particularly in China t Singapore generated over $1 billion 81outlets and 159 ATMs, Taiwan 88 branches and 406 in profit, and Hong Kong surpassed ATMs and in Indonesia through our joint venture investment $1.5billion for the first time inPermata Bank over 270 branches.
Wholesale Banking revenues grew in most of our major markets as we benefited from the geopolitical importance of the region.
China We are headquartered in London and have operated experienced good growth across both businesses as we forover 150 years in some of the worlds most dynamic focused on building core banking relationships and expanding markets, leading the way in Asia, Africa and the Middle in growth cities, and generated increasing levels of income East.
We offer the knowledge of a local bank with the across the franchise.
capabilities of an international institution.
India Our income stream is highly diversied, with five of our India, where we have had a presence for over 150 years, had individual markets delivering over $1 billion of income.
Consumer Banking income was adversely impacted by rising interest rates in response to high ination Hong Kong coupled with increased competition and regulatory changes.
With a network of 77 branches and 237 ATMs, Hong Kong Wholesale Banking was also impacted by increased continues to be one of our largest geographies in terms of competition and a relatively depressed business sentiment operating income and profits.
Operating profit rose by 41 per given governance issues in the broader economy.
In particular, cent to over $1.5 billion in 2011.
It continues to be our most this impacted the Capital Markets and Corporate Finance liquid market, growing both the loan and deposit book and businesses.
Across India, we have a distribution network gaining market share across products in both businesses.
Our banking operations and Hong Kong is also our gateway to mainland China, acting as a SCOPE, our shared service centre in Chennai, accounts for conduit and an enabler for products and services both into and over a quarter of our global headcount.
This has led to us building further on the Chinese currency, the renminbi RMB, ow business in particular.
Middle East and Other South Asia MESA The UAE remains our largest market within this region.
Among Singapore other markets, Pakistan and Bangladesh in particular have seen Our global Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking strong income growth.
Wholesale Banking income was businesses are headquartered in Singapore.
Singaporemarginally up, benefiting from growth in the Commodities based staff make up 8 per cent of our employees.
Client income was, however, adversely the Singapore branch surpassed $1 billion in profits, with impacted as margin compression offset volume gains.
Consumer Banking delivering double-digit growth across Consumer Banking benefited from an improved Wealth allsegments and products.
Wholesale Banking revenues Management performance in addition to increases in deposit continued to grow strongly as a result of investment spend Group overview Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 17 Percentage of total Group profit before taxation by region in 2011 Hong Kong 23% Singapore 15% Korea 3% Other Asia Pacic 21% India 12% Middle East and Other South Asia 12% Africa 9% Americas, UK & Hong Kong continues to be one of our Europe 5% largestgeographies in terms of operating income and profits volumes in key markets.
Islamic Banking continues to be anarea Banking performance in the past couple of years.
Consumer of focus with revenues up strongly across both businesses, with Banking also delivered double-digit income growth benefiting Consumer Banking following a Saddiq First strategy and from improved Wealth Management and SME performance.
Wholesale Banking delivering a number of significant corporate finance sukuk, or Islamic bond, transactions.
Americas, UK & Europe The Group is headquartered in London in close proximity Africa toour lead regulator, the Financial Services Authority.
This The Group is present in 14 sub-Saharan markets and is region continues to be strategically important for the Group, ahighly respected, well established household name, with both from a corporate governance and business generation deep-rooted local knowledge and experience.
Wholesale Banking activities dominate this in this geographic segment is highly diversied, with markets region, which originates cross-border business with clients such as Kenya, Ghana and Zambia being key contributors in into our broad international network.
We also continue to build addition to Nigeria, which continues to be our largest market our Private Banking offering focusing on lending products as inthe region.
Earning quality has also been enhanced, with appetite for Wealth Management and structured product client ow business replacing income from big ticket corporate offerings continued to be impacted by the bearish sentiment finance deals, which had been the hallmark of the Wholesale inwestern markets.
Hong Kong Other Total operating income $17,637 million Operating income Asia Pacic Total operating income growth 10% $3,049 million Operating income $3,553 million Operating income growth 22% Operating income growth 12% Singapore Americas, Middle East India Africa Korea UK & Europe and Other Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income $1,718 million $2,186 million Operating income South Asia $1,805 million $1,340 million $1,767 million Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income $2,219 million Operating income growth 11% growth 8% growth 1% growth 26% growth 16% Operating income growth 2% 18 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Amman, Jordan Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 19 20 The Group in 2011 Operating and 26 Consumer Banking 34 Wholesale Banking financial review 42 People 46 Sustainability 50 Risk review 87 Capital
