152 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report It is intended that shareholders on the UK register and and the financial statements of the Company and its HongKong branch register will be able to elect to receive subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2011. shares credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash dividend.
Details of the dividend arrangements will be Business review sent toshareholders on or around 23 March 2012.
Indian We are required to present a fair review of our business during Depository Receipt holders will receive their dividend in the financial year ended 31 December 2011, our position at Indianrupees only.
year-end and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that we face.
Share capital The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was This review enables shareholders to assess how the directors increased by 35,896,222 during the year.
11,425,223 ordinary have performed their duty under the Companies Act 2006, shares were issued under the Companys employee share to promote the success of the Company.
plans at prices between nil and 1,436.42 pence.
24,470,999 The information that fulls the requirements of the Business ordinary shares were issued under the Companys share review can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages dividend scheme.
Further details can be found in note 35 4and 5, the Group Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 11, tothe financial statements.
the Group, Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking The Company has one class of ordinary shares that carries sections of the Business review on pages 20 to 41, the Risk norights to xed income.
On a show of hands, each member review on pages 50 to 86 and the Key performance indicators present has the right to one vote at our general meetings.
on pages 12 and 13, all of which are incorporated into this Onapoll, each member is entitled to one vote for every report by reference.
$2nominal value of share capital held.
Principal activities The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares represents The Company is the holding company for the Group.
The 79.58 per cent of the total issued nominal value of all share Group operates globally and is principally engaged in the capital.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a business of retail and commercial banking and the provision holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed of other financial services.
by the general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any Areas of operation agreements between holders of the Companys shares that Our Group comprises a network of more than 1,500 branches may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on and outlets in 71 markets.
Further details on the branches can voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control be found on our website www.
overthe Companys share capital and all issued shares arefully paid.
Results and dividends We recommend a final dividend of 51.25 cents 2010: Authority to purchase own shares 46.65cents on 29 February 2012 for the year ended At the Annual General Meeting AGM held in May 2011, 31December 2011.
This, together with the interim dividend our shareholders renewed the Companys authority to already paid, makes a total dividend for 2011 of 76.00 cents make market purchases of up to 235,072,287 ordinary 2010: 70.00 cents.
The impact of the rights issue in 2010 shares, equivalent to approximately 10per cent of issued has been explained in note 13 to the financial statements.
ordinary shares as at 17 March 2011, andup to all of the issued preference share capital.
These authorities were not The final dividend, if approved at the 2012 Annual General used during the year and remained in force at 31 December Meeting AGM, will be paid in either sterling, Hong Kong 2011.
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by dollars or US dollars on 15 May 2012 to shareholders on the The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on 16 April 2008 UK register of members at the close of business in the UK as supplemented by modications agreed by The Stock 10.00pm London time on 9 March 2012, and to shareholders Exchange of Hong Kong Limited on 30 April 2009 and on the Hong Kong branch register of members at the opening 25 July 2011 respectively, the Company will comply with the of business in Hong Kong 9.00am Hong Kong time on applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to holding 9March 2012.
The final dividend will be paid in Indian rupees of any shares in treasury and with the conditions of the waiver, on 15 May 2012 to Indian Depository Receipt holders on the in connection with any shares it may hold in treasury.
Indian register at the close of business in India on 9 March Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities at the 2012, in accordance with the Deposit Agreement.
forthcoming AGM, and will receive details within the Notice of AGM.
No treasury shares were held during the year.
Further details can be found in note 35 to the financial statements.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 153 Relevant audit information Board members As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit The present members of the Board, together with their information of which the Group statutory auditor KPMG Audit biographical details, are shown on pages 94 to 96.
The directors have taken all reasonable steps V. Shankar joined the Board as an executive director on to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure that the 1January 2012.
Group statutory auditors are aware of such information.
Re-election of directors Going concern At our AGM to be held on Wednesday 9May 2012, all of Having made appropriate enquiries, we consider that the our Board of directors will stand for re-election.
Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue operational businesses for the foreseeable future Directors induction and ongoing development and therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in To ensure that directors have the requisite knowledge and preparing the financial statements.
understanding to enable them to challenge effectively, we provide them a personalised approach to induction, training Sufciency of public oat and development.
Further details of this can be found in As at the date of this report, the Company has maintained the the Corporate governance report on page 101. prescribed public oat under the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited Our Board receives regular updates on the views of our the Hong Kong Listing Rules based on the information institutional shareholders and stakeholders.
Our Board openly publicly available to the Company and within the knowledge seeks the views of our shareholders and during the year, the ofthe directors.
Chairman, Group Chief Executive officer, Group Finance Director, all of our executive directors and two of our Fixed assets non-executive directors met with 21 of our top 25 investors.
Details of additions to xed assets are presented in note 26 Rudy Markham is the Senior Independent Director.
Shareholders may discuss any issues or concerns with the Senior Independent Director where they have been unable Major interests in shares and voting rights to resolve them through existing channels for investor As far as the directors are aware as at 29 February 2012, communications.
Temasek Holdings Private Limited Temasek is the only shareholder that had an interest of more than 10 per cent in Directors interests the Companys issued ordinary share capital carrying a right The directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the to vote at any general meeting.
Company as at 31 December 2011 are shown in the directors The Company has been notied by the following companies remuneration report on pages 126 to 151. oftheir interests in the total voting rights of the Company: Conrmation of Independence The Company considers all of the non-executive directors Percentage Percentage Number of of voting of voting to be independent and has received from each of them an ordinary rights rights annual conrmation of independence pursuant to Rule 3.13 Shareholder shares direct indirect of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Temasek Holdings 432,746,145 18.152 Private Limited Compensation for loss of ofce Aberdeen Asset 163,774,076 6.87 Details concerning the provisions for providing compensation Management PLCs to directors for loss of ofce or employment can be found on Fund Management page 144 of the directors remuneration report.
Operating Subsidiaries Qualifying third-party indemnities BlackRock, Inc 165,824,190 6.96 The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors Legal & General Group 81,652,322 3.425 onterms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Plc L&G Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes Temasek Holdings Private Limiteds interests is held indirectly through ofsection 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly DoverInvestments Pte.
Ltd inforce during the course of the financial year ended 31December 2011, and remain in force at the date of Loan capital thisreport.
Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are set out in note 32 to the financial statements.
154 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Report of the directors continued Risk management In addition, in 2010 The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Limited granted the Company a number of waivers from strict the significant risks that we face is in place.
Its objectives, compliance with the reporting and annual review requirements policies and procedures, including the policy for hedging risk, in respect of Ongoing Banking Transactions with Temasek our exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, are associates that the Company has not been able to identify and covered in the Risk review on pages 50 to 86 of this report.
the requirements to enter into a xed-term written agreement Company-only risks are managed as a part of overall and set a maximum aggregate annual value in relation to the Grouprisks.
Ongoing Banking Transactions with Temasek or any of its associates the Ongoing Banking Transactions Waivers.
The significant contracts and agreements independent shareholders approved the Ongoing Banking At no time during the year did any director hold a material Transactions Waivers at the 2010 AGM for a period of three interest in any contracts of signicance with the Company or years until 7 May 2013. any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The Company is not party In addition, in 2011 The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or granted the Company a waiver the 2011 Waiver from strict terminate following a change of control of the Company.
compliance with the reporting and annual review requirements for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2012 in respect of Related party transactions the Ongoing Banking Transactions between Temasek itself Details of transactions with directors and ofcers and other and the Company on the conditions that: related parties are set out in note 47 to the financial statements.
t the nature and magnitude of the Ongoing Banking Transactions with Temasek itself remains insignicant in Connected continuing connected transactions 2011 and 2012 By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the t the Company will inform The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and Limited if the transactions are no longer insignicant or there connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the is any significant change in circumstances, at which time UK Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited will reassess of Hong Kong Limited respectively together known as the whether to continue the waiver Rules.
Neither Temasek nor its associates are related parties for the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures IAS 24.
By operation of the above exemptions and waivers, the Company confirms that to the best of its knowledge and The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable belief after due inquiry, the Company does not have any treatment to Temasek or its associates as dened under the transactions with Temasek or its associates that would require Rules as a result of such shareholding to the detriment of announcements, reporting, annual review or independent other shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions that shareholders approval in 2011. the Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or its associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or are If none of the exemptions under the Hong Kong Listing Rules subject to a specic waiver, they may require a combination of or the waivers obtained from The Stock Exchange of Hong announcements, reporting and independent shareholders Kong Limited is applicable in relation to a transaction with approval.
Temasek or its associates, the Company will continue to comply with the applicable announcement, reporting, annual One of the most significant changes to the Hong Kong Listing review and independent shareholders approval requirements.
Rules from the Companys perspective was the introduction on 3 June 2010 of a new exemption the Passive Investor Pursuant to the conditions attached to the 2011 Waiver, the Company will continue to monitor the aggregate amount of the Exemption from the connected transaction and continuing transaction requirements for transactions with associates Ongoing Banking Transactions with Temasek itself through the transaction processing systems and notify The Stock of apassive investor Rules 14A.
The Company considers that Temasek meets the criteria for a Exchange of Hong Kong Limited if the magnitude increases signicantly.
Therefore, any connected transactions or continuing connected transactions The Group has internal systems, processes and procedures in of a revenue nature in the ordinary and usual course of place to identify and monitor the non-exempt connected and business and on normal commercial terms with an associate continuing connected transactions.
These are reviewed and of Temasek are exempt from the announcement, reporting, updated periodically and their adequacy and effectiveness is annual review and independent shareholders approval assessed by Group Internal Audit.
requirements of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 155 Compliance and regulatory matters The Board Risk Committee has responsibility for overseeing On 8 April 2011, the Group acquired a 100 per cent interest the management of the Companys fundamental prudential in GE Money Pte Limited, a leading specialist in auto and risks as well as reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys unsecured personal loans in Singapore, for a total cash risk management framework.
The Audit Committee monitors consideration of $695 million, recognising goodwill of the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, compliance $199million.
On 2 September 2011, the Group acquired a 100 per cent The Risk review on pages 50 to 86 describes the Groups interest in Gryphon Partners Advisory Pty Ltd and Gryphon risk management structure.
Our business is conducted Partners Canada Inc for a total consideration of $53 million.
within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy Under International Financial Reporting Standard 3, however, statements, written procedures and control manuals.
This only $28 million of this consideration is deemed to relate to ensures that there are written policies and procedures to the cost of investment: for accounting purposes the balance identify and manage risk, including operational risk, country is deemed to represent remuneration and is charged to the risk, liquidity risk, regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, income statement over the period to 2015.
Goodwill of market risk and credit risk.
The Board has established $11million was recognised on this transaction.
a management structure that clearly defines roles, responsibilities and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities Further details are given in note 24 to the financial statements.
Executive risk committees regularly review the Groups risk prole.
Conicts of interest In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we have The performance of the Groups businesses is reported established a robust process requiring directors to disclose regularly to senior line management and the Board.
proposed outside business interests before any are entered Performance trends and forecasts, as well as actual into.
This enables prior assessment of any conict or potential performance against budgets and prior periods, are conict of interest and any impact on time commitment.
Financial information is prepared Nomination Committee reviews actual or potential conicts of usingappropriate accounting policies, which are applied interest, and recommendations on authorisation are made to consistently.
Operational procedures and controls have the Board.
Authorisations are reviewed twice a year by the been established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely Nomination Committee to consider if they continue to be processing of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
These controls include appropriate segregation of duties, appropriate, and also to revisit the terms upon which they were provided.
theregular reconciliation of accounts and the valuation of assets and positions.
Internal control Employee policies and engagement The effectiveness of our internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, the Group We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships with our employees.
They receive clear and Management Committee, and Group Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups timely communications from senior management to ensure that they understand the financial and economic factors that system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2011 and reported on its review to the Board.
Committees review was supported by an annual business We employ nearly 87,000 people from 130 nationalities self-certication process, which was managed by Group across 71 markets.
As part of our approach to employee Internal Audit.
engagement, we operate Group share plans.
All employees Group Internal Audit monitors compliance with policies and are invited to participate in our all-employee Sharesave standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures schemes and share in our success.
Further details of the across the Group through its programme of business audits.
Sharesave schemes are given in the Directors remuneration The work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas of report on page 139 and in note 37 to the financial statements.
greatest risk as determined by a risk-based assessment Our employment policies are designed to accommodate the methodology.
relevant social, statutory and market conditions and practices prevailing in each country in which we operate.
We are Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, the Chairman and to the Group Chief Executive.
The findings committed to equality of opportunities and diversity for all regardless of gender, race, age, physical ability, religion or of all adverse audits are reported to the Audit Committee, the Chairman and to the Group Chief Executive where immediate sexual orientation.
This applies equally to recruitment and to the promotion, development and training of people corrective action is required.
156 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Report of the directors continued We recognise our social and statutory duty to employ disabled Environmental, social and governance responsibilities people and have followed a policy in the United Kingdom by The Group complies with the guidelines issued by the providing, wherever possible, the same employment Association of British Insurers on responsible investment opportunities for disabled people as for others.
If employees disclosure and is committed to the communities and become disabled, every effort is made to ensure their environments in which it operates.
The Board is responsible employment continues, with appropriate training where for ensuring that high standards of responsible business are necessary.
maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
We have established and maintained policies and We have measured employee engagement for the last procedures in relation to environmental, social and 11 years using the annual employee engagement survey.
Details of these procedures This survey provides important feedback to managers and canbefound on ourwebsite.
teams and internal research has demonstrated a strong relationship between high engagement and increased Through our risk management structure and control business performance.
In 2011, 95 per cent of employees framework, the Board receives regular and adequate participated in the survey and this reects the strong information to identify and assess significant risks and commitment of our employees to voice their opinions and opportunities arising from ESG matters.
specifically, the Brand demonstrate trust in the process.
and Values Committee BVC, which is appointed by the Board and includes the Chairman of the Board and Group Chief Major customers Executive, reviews the Groups sustainable business priorities, Our five largest customers together accounted for 3.2 per cent and oversees the Groups development of and delivery against of our total interest income and other operating income in the public commitments regarding which activities and or year ended 31 December 2011. businesses it will and will not encourage in line with the Herefor good brand promise.
Creditor payment policy The BVC is informed by the Group Risk Committee and Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing, and then Group Head of Corporate Affairs, who is the risk control owner bringing attention to, terms and conditions with their suppliers for reputational risk, including those associated with ESG in the economies in which they operate.
Our policy is to pay matters.
At the country level, the Country Head of Corporate creditors in accordance with these agreed terms and Affairs is the risk control owner and the risk committee RC conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
or, where there is no RC, the management committee is The Company is a holding company and does not trade.
All employees are responsible for day-to-day identication and management Therefore, it is not considered meaningful to give a number of days purchases outstanding for the Company as at ofreputational risk.
Quarterly reviews of risks and reporting arecarried out at country, regional and Group levels.
For our operation in the United Kingdom, there were 34 days purchases outstanding as at Whereareputational risk is identied, the risk is escalated inaccordance with clearly documented internal 31December 2011. reportingprocedures.
Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure Key areas of risk are those associated with customers The Groups 2011 financial statements have been prepared operations and their potential impact on the environment and in accordance with the principles of the British Bankers local communities.
The Board recognises its responsibility Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
to manage these risks and that failure to manage them adequately would have an adverse impact on our business.
Group code of conduct These risks are recognised in reaching nancing decisions The Board has adopted a Group code of conduct relating explicitly identied in our credit policies, and in the provision to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and this is of advisory and other financial services.
We have developed supported by the Groups core values.
The Group code a series of position statements covering high-impact sectors of conduct has been communicated to all directors and and key issues, outlining the environmental and social employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards we encourage our clients to observe.
We have standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to adopted the Equator Principles that set procedures, based customers, staff and regulators in the communities in on the International Finance Corporation guidelines, for which the Group operates.
recognising and mitigating the environmental and social impacts associated with Project Finance and related advisory services.
The principles have been embedded in the Groups policy and procedures on Environmental and Social Risk in Project Finance Application of the Equator Principles.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 157 We continue to review and, where appropriate, strengthen our Environment and climate change policy financial crime risk policies, procedures and training.
In 2011, We understand that without a stable climate, energy, food and due to the coming into force of the UK Bribery Act on 1 July, water security become increasingly difficult to achieve, which new Anti-Bribery policy, procedures and training were rolled in turn can have a detrimental impact to our business.
Our out to the entire Group.
There was also considerable change, environment and climate change strategy emphasises the partly attributable to the Arab Spring, in the number and type interconnectedness of issues around food, energy and of sanctions imposed by the UK and US governments, which watersecurity, against a backdrop of climate change.
Our required a prompt and comprehensive response from the Environment and Climate Change ECC Policy was Group to ensure compliance.
developedin 2009 and focuses on four central themes: The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
t operational impacts minimising the direct impact of our operations, including air travel, paper use, water and energy Community investment consumption We are committed to building a sustainable business and a t commercial opportunities and sustainable finance more sustainable society, and recognise our responsibility managing environmental and social risks in our nancing: to invest in the communities in which we operate.
We made developing new business in renewable energy and a total investment of $54.4 million to charities, community environmental finance organisations and causes across our footprint during the year.
This sum included direct financial support of $17.8 million and t engagement ensuring that internal and external indirect contributions, such as employees time, the donation stakeholders are fully engaged to embed our strategy of non-monetary goods and donations worth $37.8 million t reporting ensuring the continual efcacy of the ECC policy raised by our employees.
In order to further increase our and strategy through providing delivery assurance transparency around this data, in 2010 we introduced an online data collection tool, along with some standard charity Further details of our policies can be found on our website.
on-boarding guidelines across all markets in order to collate quality-assured data about the types of initiatives we are Electronic communication involved in.
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with all shareholders.
Our directors are in Community investment activity focuses on a number of major regular contact with our institutional shareholders and general programmes Living with HIV, Seeing is Believing, Nets for presentations are made when we announce our financial Life and Goal Womens Empowerment as well as a range results.
The AGM presents an opportunity to communicate of local initiatives.
These are underpinned by employee with all shareholders.
Further details of community projects can be found on page 49.
Our shareholders are encouraged to receive our corporate documents electronically.
The annual and interim financial HIV AIDS policy statements, notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all We are committed to addressing the social and health available electronically.
If you do not already receive your issues that confront our employees, their families and the corporate documents electronically and would like to do communities in which we operate.
HIV AIDS directly and soinfuture please contact our registrars at the address indirectly impacts our staff and, therefore, our business.
HIV AIDS policy has been adopted across all the countries in Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the which we operate and applies to all staff and their families in a resolutions being put to the AGM through our registrars manner consistent with existing medical cover.
As of the end website at www.
com of 2010, we had exceeded our commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative to educate one million people on HIV and Annual General Meeting AIDS, with total education pledges of 1.6 million.
In 2011, Our AGM will be held at 12.00pm London time 7.00pm Hong wefocused on supporting our partner organisations and Kong time on Wednesday 9 May 2012 at The Honourable sharing our HIV education materials with other organisations Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London, free of charge.
A copy of our HIV AIDS policy is available on EC1Y2BQ.
Details of the business to be conducted are our website.
contained inthe notice of meeting.
158 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Report of the directors continued Non-audit services By way of non-exhaustive illustration of the application of the The non-audit services policy the policy was reviewed and principles set out in the policy, the following types of non-audit approved by the Audit Committee in 2011.
The policy is based services are: on a number of core principles.
The overriding principle is to t likely to be permissible under the policy: ensure that our Group Statutory Auditor, KPMG Audit Plcs KPMG, independence and or objectivity as the audit rm audit related services as dened by the APB the Group isnot or could not be seen to be compromised by the would also extend this to work on investor circulars in appointment of KPMG to provide particular non-audit most foreseeable circumstances services.
Subject to this overriding principle, the Audit an objective view as to whether the Group has applied Committees view is that KPMG can be of value in a wider external laws and regulations appropriately, such as range of activities than just financial statement audit, and checks over regulatory compliance KPMG should be allowed to tender, subject to the Accounting testing the robustness of controls infrastructure Principles Boards APB ethical standards and the terms of due diligence over potential purchases or sales the policy.
However, the policy makes it clear that KPMG t not permissible under the policy: should not be regarded as the automatic or first rm of choice for non-audit services and consideration should always any services that are prohibited or to the extent they are begiven to the use of other rms.
The policy requires a restricted by the Auditing Practices Boards published conservative approach to be taken to the assessment guidance from time to time ofrequests for KPMG to provide non-audit services.
aggressive tax or regulatory structuring proposals: any services where fees are paid on a contingent basis The APB sets out various threats to audit independence inwhole or in part including self-interest, self review, familiarity, taking of a consulting services, which actively assist in running management role or conducting advocacy.
In particular, thebusiness in place of management as opposed to maintaining KPMGs independence from the Group requires providing or validating information, which management itto avoid taking decisions on the Groups behalf.
It is also then utilises in the operation of the business recognised as essential that management retain the decision making capability as to whether to act on advice given by Details relating to KPMGs remuneration as the Group KPMG as part of a non-audit service.
This means not just statutory auditor and a description of the broad categories of theability to action the advice given, but to have sufficient the types of non-audit services provided by KPMG are given knowledge of the subject matter to be able to make a innote 8 to the financial statements on page 185.
The two reasoned and independent judgement as to its validity.
significant engagements of KPMG to provide non-audit Accordingly, the Group is required take a conservative services are described on page 111 and 112. approach to interpreting the potential threats to auditor independence and require commensurately robust Auditor safeguards against them, if a non-audit service is to The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group bepermitted.
statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, which includes monitoring our use of the auditor for After due consideration, the Audit Committee decided not non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit toreduce the policy to a prescribed list of non-audit services fees paid.
Following a review of the independence and that KPMG is permitted to provide.
Rather, each request effectiveness of our Group statutory auditor, a resolution will forKPMG to provide non-audit services will be assessed be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to reappoint onitsown merits.
The Audit Committee believes that such KPMG.
Each director believes that there is no relevant acase-by-case approach best accommodates i the need information of which our Group statutory auditor is unaware.
forthe appropriate rigour and challenge to be applied to each Each has taken all steps necessary as a director to be aware request for KPMG to provide non audit services whilst ii of any relevant audit information and to establish that KPMG preserving sufficient exibility for the Group to engage KPMG ismade aware of any pertinent information.
to provide non-audit services where it is able to deliver particular value to the Group and where the proposed services By order of the Board can be provided without compromising KPMGs objectivity and independence.
KPMGs objectivity is of particular value to the Group in the context of providing non-audit services which relate to the provision of an independent view, benchmarked either against external laws, regulations or requirements or the Annemarie Durbin audit rms own knowledge of best practices.
The policy also Group Company Secretary specifically incorporates the APBs recommended prohibitions 29 February 2012 and restrictions on the types of non-audit services that are able to be provided by the audit rm.
