26 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Consumer Banking Here for customers Our strategy Steve Bertamini Our strategy is based on three pillars: Group Executive Director and t Differentiated country business models with Chief Executive Consumer Banking a focus on high value segments t Distinctive customer focused value propositions t Back to basics focus on cost, risk management and liquidity Our priorities in 2012 t Continue implementing our strategy to drive sustainable growth t Accelerate online channel usage and customer acquisition t Maintain balance sheet momentum t Drive standardisation to improve service, Our strategy continues to deliver as productivity and controls evidenced by our financial performance and t Maintain disciplined risk, cost and continued strong improvement in customer performance management metrics.
Our business is increasingly aligned to our customers needs and we continue to invest for long-term growth.
Key highlights Operating income $6,791m 2010: $6,079m Net Promoter Score NPS Index 49.0 Secured lending as % of the total book More than 74 % 08 09 10 11 2010: more than 75% Net Promoter Score and NPS are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems Inc. Bain & Company, and Fred Reichheld.
Standard Chartered uses Bain methodology recalibrated for financial services to calculate NPS.
12 12 25 25 39 39 49 Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 27 Key changes in 2011 t Launched service t Three core bundles guarantees in 19 countries launched in 10 countries, with one in three customers t Brought together our choosing bundled solutions highvalue segments toaccelerate growth Strategy continues to deliver We see significant room for growth in our markets and within Consumer Banking CB delivered strong results, with our customer base and we will continue to invest in order to doubledigit income and operating profit growth, as underpin future income momentum.
We nished the year with we completed the first phase of our transition from a positive relative performance against competitors, all elements product-led to a customer-focused organisation in 2011. of the new strategy in play, and achieved strong improvement in customer metrics.
CB delivered record income and grew operating profit by 26 per cent to over $1.6 billion.
Aligned to customer needs Our balance sheet remained well positioned with balanced In 2010 we launched our Customer Charter the Charter growth in assets and liabilities.
Putting customer needs at the which sets out our commitment to provide fast, friendly and heart of our strategy has enabled us to grow at a double-digit accurate service, solve customer financial needs and reward rate across all our segments.
their total relationship with us.
This is central to achieving our aspiration to become the bank that our customers Our focus on risk management resulted in a 10-year historic recommend to their friends, family and colleagues.
low in terms of basic points of loan loss.
This, combined with disciplined cost management, created headroom for further investments inourdistribution network, frontline staff and marketing spend during 2011.
Next Generation Banking Redening the customer experience In addition to card personalisation, we Consumers are looking for personalised experiences and they offer rewards personalisation where customers can choose particular spend want to be treated as individuals.
We have taken a proactive approach categories toearn up to 10 times the number of reward points.
in developing solutions that meet customers needs and offer a great Another unique feature is the Wishlist tool, lifestyle experience.
which allows customers to create personal Design and usability is no longer an option account settings for building savings goals, in financial services, but a core requirement.
trackers and deadlines with a social media This does not just apply to the digital function for sharing progress with friends channels though these are set to and family.
In India, we have virtual bankers dominate banking in the next decade available 24 7 to chat online in real time: our butto the entire distribution chain.
customers have the option to select a call back time that is convenient for them.
With our newly developed next generation capabilities, such as our branches and We have focused on adding value to customers lives in addition to the products online and mobile offerings, we have Todays consumers have a changed our approach to our customers by we offer.
Breeze Living, for example, lets us very different set of needs: engage broadly with consumers in ways offering them financial services in ways that digital innovation, mobile matter and make a difference to their lives.
that are not just about banking.
It is a mobile application that we developed to technology and customer Mobile device sophistication, network letboth customers and non-customers speed and innovation are converging to demand are driving a capture and share merchant discounts place banking straight into consumers onthe move.
complete transformation hands whether they prefer to bank online or in our branches.
With this in mind, in We will continue to develop and design inthe way people bank.
addition to Breeze Mobile, we developed newproducts, features, tools and services Breeze Places a mobile application that to meet changing customer needs.
Now, helps consumers nd our branches, ATMs more than ever, we have a chance to make and cash deposit machines.
banking a true enabler in peoples lives by helping to give customers greater control This year we launched Breeze Banking with oftheir money.
individuality at the heart of the offering.
28 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Consumer Banking continued The launch of the Charter was followed by the launch of Personal Banking has shown steady momentum in 2011 and Standard Chartered Bank Way SCB Way, our standardised our Consumer Finance business continued to perform well, sales, service and relationship management model that brings growing income by over 25 per cent.
Overall the segment the Charter to life and enables sales staff to build and deepen grew income by 10 per cent.
We launched a new strategy customer relationships through needs based conversations.
andCVP for Personal Banking to provide solutions to our customers everyday banking needs.
Our Employee Banking In 2011 we made further progress in aligning our business to proposition is now in 22 countries with over 1,000 companies the needs of our customers, fully embedding the Charter and signed up in2011.
SCB Way throughout our business, training and processes.
Across all segments we continued to reinforce our frontline SCB Way is now in 22 countries and the training and coaching and hire more Relationship Managers to further strengthen sessions have reached over 8,000 staff in almost 1,000 and deepen our customer relationships.
Overall, we delivered a total of 4.8 training days perstaff member in 2011.
Our first call resolution rate improved, customer complaints continued to decrease, and we increased the number of We continued to roll out our distinctive Customer Value products sold per customer.
We also materially improved Propositions CVPs for private, small and medium-sized turnaround time for opening new accounts and rolled out enterprises SMEs, and Priority Banking customers.
We 42customer service guarantees across 19 countries.
also developed new CVPs for Personal and Islamic Banking customers.
Our NPS for 2011 jumped 10 points from 39 in 2010 to 49 reecting the progress we have made in bringing the Charter In April we brought together our high value segments under to life in tangible ways for our customers.
one umbrella High Value Client Coverage HVCC to leverage the complementary CVPs of the Private, SME, We use NPS to measure the success of our Customer Priority, and Islamic Banking segments to drive synergies Charter.
An increase in NPS has been shown to correlate with and accelerate growth.
achieving deeper sustainable customer relationships.
We ask our customers How likely are you to recommend Standard HVCC delivered double-digit income growth in all segments, Chartered to a friend or colleague?.
We believe that ultimately and is a key differentiator in our markets.
Client referrals and an increased NPS will deliver greater shareholder value.
interactions increased between SME, Private Bank and Wholesale Banking, resulting in deepening of client Investing for long-term growth relationships.
This new approach has also enhanced service To accelerate the pace of our transformation we continued levels for our customers and provided attractive career to improve our distribution network, opening, refurbishing or opportunities for staff across the HVCC segments.
relocating more than 60 branches, and refreshed or replaced t Private Bank income grew by 21 per cent in 2011 and over 400 ATMs.
We also have over 150 Express Banking continues to be ranked in the top ten private banks in Asia.
Centres, with fully automated customer services and which We won multiple awards including Best Global Private Bank are roughly a third of the size of our normal branches.
at the Financial Times and Investors Chronicle Awards.
We continued rolling out our Next Generation branches and t SME income grew by 14 per cent and loans grew by 9 per applying our customer-focused approach to enhance and cent.
Our SME Banking CVP has been launched across improve the customer experience.
In fact, our customers gave nine markets and serves customers in 30 countries, helping us valuable feedback and helped us in the design.
The result is businesses and economies to grow.
Through our fewer barriers between staff and customers.
The new design international network we continue to enable our customers features touch sensitive screens for browsing that allow to take advantage of existing and emerging trade corridors.
customers to email digital brochures to themselves, free Wi-Fi, video conferencing with specialist advisors, and comfortable t Priority Banking income grew by 10 per cent.
The CVP is waiting areas where our staff meet the needs of our customers now present in 23 markets and is centred on differentiated using laptops and iPads.
We have had a great response from benets, solutions and service.
We have further expanded customers and the media and now have over 160 Next our international services and established booking centres Generation branches across 13 markets with a further six in six markets to facilitate cross-border transactions.
markets planned for 2012. t Our Islamic Banking proposition Saadiq offers Shariah After launching Breeze Mobile, our first iPhone and iPad compliant solutions through Saadiq counters, with banking application in Singapore and Malaysia in 2010, we dedicated staff in conventional and dedicated branches have expanded this offering across multiple platforms and across six markets.
extended its reach to India, China and Hong Kong.
Further market launches are planned for 2012.
New developments Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 29 include a wider range of next generation online capabilities In addition to our innovative new segment-led offerings, we such as Breeze Banking, Breeze Places and Breeze Living.
continued to extend our product range to meet customers needs and introduced integrated bundled solutions such as Our strengthened internet and mobile banking offering was our Home Sweet Home, EZ Banking and Employee Banking recognised at the Global Finance Awards when we were suites of products across our key markets.
These three core named as the Worlds Best Internet Bank.
This was in addition bundles have been launched in 10 countries, with about one to winning Asias Best Internet Bank and Best Design for a inthree customers choosing bundled solutions.
We also Global Banking Website for the second year in a row.
This programme, which We continued to invest heavily in training and now have is a first in our markets, rewards customers for all aspects of 15Consumer Banking Training Academies across our their banking relationship and is designed to further deepen markets.
By embedding the Charter and SCB Way in the our relationships with our customers.
waywe work we ensure that our people truly understand Our strategy continues to deliver.
Our business is increasingly theirrole in delivering on our Charter promises.
aligned to the needs of our customers and we are well positioned to navigate the challenges and opportunities ahead.
We will continue to invest for long-term growth while maintaining disciplined risk, cost and performance management.
Consumer Banking The following tables provide an analysis of operating profit by geography for Consumer Banking: 2011 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Consumer Other Asia & Other UK & Banking Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 1,326 924 1,153 1,613 482 723 422 148 6,791 Operating expenses 702 503 1,023 1,104 352 487 268 166 4,605 Loan impairment 71 29 166 117 32 89 17 3 524 Other impairment 5 1 6 12 Operating profit loss 553 392 41 392 98 146 131 21 1,650 2010 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Consumer Other Asia & Other UK & Banking Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 1,116 728 1,058 1,478 493 691 381 134 6,079 Operating expenses 721 384 797 1,085 336 458 254 141 4,176 Loan impairment 45 33 139 122 56 159 19 5 578 Other impairment 4 1 5 2 12 Operating profit loss 350 311 118 270 101 74 103 14 1,313 An analysis of Consumer Banking income by product is set out below: 2011 vs 2010 2011 2010 Better worse Operating income by product $million $million % Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending 2,422 2,044 18 Wealth Management 1,272 1,138 12 Deposits 1,409 1,202 17 Mortgages and Auto Finance 1,478 1,513 2 Other 210 182 15 Total operating income 6,791 6,079 12 30 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Consumer Banking continued Performance in 2011 Product performance CB continued to execute a strategic repositioning of its Income from Cards, Personal Loans and Unsecured Lending business during 2011.
Operating income increased $712 grew $378 million, or 18 per cent, to $2,422 million, with million, or 12 per cent, to $6,791 million.
On a constant increased volumes more than offsetting margin compression.
currency basis, income grew 9 per cent.
Operating profit grew We selectively increased unsecured lending, particularly $337 million, or 26 per cent, to $1,650 million.
On a constant inHong Kong, Singapore and Korea.
This was supported currency basis, the increase was 24 per cent.
Whilst CB has byincreased marketing in these countries and the recorded four consecutive halves of income growth, the introductionof innovative product features, such as second half operating profit was affected by softening Wealth the360Reward Programme.
Management revenues across most geographies asinvestor Wealth Management income grew by $134 million, or sentiment was impacted by weaker markets.
Expenses also 12 per cent, to $1,272 million, primarily due to the sale of increased in the second half of the year over the first half foreign exchange products and insurance, reecting investor reecting the non-recurrence of the recovery onstructured appetite on the back of relatively better economic indicators notes booked in the first half: continuing investment: and a and equity market performance.
In the second half of the year, charge of $189 million in relation to the Korea Early however, weaker investor sentiment caused by events in the Retirement Plan ERP.
West impacted the sale of structured products and unit trusts Income in CB is diverse, well spread and has good andmoderated growth for the full year.
momentum, with all geographic segments, except India, Interest rate increases in a number of markets led to improved growing income.
In particular, those countries in which we deposit margins, particularly in CASA, which increased by invested in 2010 have performed strongly in 2011, namely 20basis points.
This, together with increased volumes across Hong Kong, Singapore, China, Malaysia and Indonesia.
both CASA and TD products, more than offset a decline in TD Net interest income increased by $546 million, or 14 per cent, margins as competition increased, and contributed to to $4,584 million, largely driven by increased volumes.
Asset growthof 17 per cent in Deposits income.
margins remained under pressure, particularly in the mortgage Mortgages and Auto Finance income fell by $35 million, or book, and Term Deposit TD margins also continued to be 2per cent, to $1,478 million, reecting continuing pressure under pressure as competition intensied in a number of our onmortgage margins, as competition, regulation and interest markets.
However, increasing interest rates enabled higher rates increased in most of our markets, impacting Korea in Current Accounts and Savings Accounts CASA margins, particular.
This was partially offset by volume growth due to which helped offset the impact of broader margin the acquisition of the GE Money Auto Finance business in compression.
The business continued to focus on liquidity Singapore, which contributed $59 million.
and managing its deposits mix.
CASA balances remain robust, and constitute 56 per cent of Consumer Banking The Other product classication primarily includes SME deposits compared with 59 per cent at the end of 2010. related trade and transactional income and has grown 15percent, driven by Foreign Exchange and Cash Non-interest income at $2,207 million was $166 million, or Management, with Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore and 8per cent, higher compared with 2010.
This was largely driven Chinaperforming particularly well.
by Wealth Management and SMEs.
Expenses were up $429 million, or 10 per cent, to $4,605 Geographic performance million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses were up 8 per Hong Kong cent.
The growth in expenses included provisions of $189 Income was up $210 million, or 19 per cent, to $1,326 million, million relating to the ERP in Korea, which was partly offset by with good volume growth across asset and liability products in $96 million of recoveries on certain structured notes payouts addition to slightly improved liability margins, although asset made in prior periods.
2010 also included a $95 million margins remained under pressure.
Income from Credit Cards provision for settlements in respect of certain other structured and Personal Loans grew strongly, up 22 per cent, as we notes.
Excluding these items, the growth in expenses reected increased market share in Credit Cards supported by a investments in relationship managers and front ofce staff, successful marketing campaign.
Income from SMEs also increased marketing spend and enhancements to branches increased as we continued to drive growth in the trade book.
Liability growth continued, with higher deposit volumes and Loan impairment fell by $54 million, or 9 per cent, to increased CASA margins offsetting lower Time Deposits $524million, and the macroeconomic environment across margins as competition intensied.
During the year we also ourfootprint remained good.
The impairment charge also launched a number of innovative products, such as the benefited by $84 million from the sale of a number of loan DualCurrency ATM Card, in addition to expanding our range portfolios during the year.
Excluding this impact, impairment of renminbi services.
Wealth Management income was up increased modestly reecting the selective and cautious 26percent, with growth seen over a broad range of growth in unsecured lending in certain markets.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 31 Operating expenses were down $19 million, or 3 per cent.
offset by increased volumes resulting in strong income 2010 included $95 million of provisions in respect of regulatory growth.
WealthManagement improved considerably during settlements related to structured notes, which was not the year registering significant growth as we focused on repeated in 2011.
Excluding this, expenses increased by expanding Wealth Management products and services.
12per cent due to investments in front ofce staff, branch Deposit income benefited from improved CASA margins and investments and increased marketing spend.
volume growth following successful marketing campaigns.
Working profit was up $229 million, or 58 per cent, to Operating expenses increased $119 million, or 31 per cent, to $624million.
Loan impairment was higher at $71 million, $503 million with investments in frontline staff, marketing and reecting higher volumes and growth in unsecured lending.
infrastructure to underpin future income momentum, together Operating profit rose $203 million, or 58 per cent, to with ow through costs from prior years investments and the $553million.
acquisition of GE Money Pte Limited.
On a constant currency basis, operating expenses were 21 per cent higher.
Singapore Working profit was up $77 million, or 22 per cent, at $421 Income was up $196 million, or 27 per cent, to $924 million.
Despite the 14 per cent growth in customer advances, On a constant currency basis, income grew 20 per cent, loan impairment was marginally down by $4 million, or 12 per especially in Cards, where we increased market share as we cent, to $29 million, as we continued to manage risk tightly in focused on selectively growing unsecured lending, and also an improved credit environment.
Operating profit was higher reecting the acquisition of GE Money Pte Limited.
Mortgage by $81 million, or 26 per cent, at $392 million.
On a constant margins remain compressed although this was more than currency basis, operating profit was higher by 22 per cent.
Service Guarantees Bringing the Customer Charter to life In an increasingly commoditised In 2011 SME Banking was the first to launch market, the way we serve our a series of guarantees across five markets customers and our focus on for key services such as trade nancing continually improving the customer and unsecured business loans for our experience are key differentiators customers.
In Singapore, we have forour brand.
reducedthe turnaround time for Business Instalment Loans from ten to twodays and Our service guarantees are time-bound SME trade services from 14to two days.
assurances to serve our customers needs Our personal loan guarantees are within a set timeframe.
We have backed these commitments by either making available in ten markets including Indonesia, Bangladesh, Uganda, Botswana and donations to charity or crediting a customers account if we do not meet Bahrain, with a further ten planned for 2012.
We have also launched credit card thespecied timeframes.
guarantees, which will be extended to more They represent a tangible way to markets in 2012.
Our mortgage guarantees demonstrate our commitment to the are now in seven markets, including Hong Our service guarantees were Charter as we deliver fast, friendly and Kong Mortgage Master where our staff accurate service whilst solving our launched as a way to bring provide mortgage solutions seven days a customers financial needs and building week, with a one-day service guarantee.
our Customer Charter to life.
In total we have launched 42 guarantees The first service guarantee we launched across 19 markets and plan to continue was our eight-minute service pledge.
An expanding these across our markets.
industry first in many countries, this pledge is now across nine markets including those in Greater China.
It reinforces our commitment to instil a strong service culture and demonstrates that we value ourcustomers time.
In 2012, we will be extending our eight-minute service pledge in afurther eight markets.
32 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Consumer Banking continued Korea Operating expenses in Other APR were up $19 million, or Income was up $95 million, or 9 per cent, to $1,153 million.
On a constant currency basis, a constant currency basis income was up 4 per cent despite expenses fell 4 per cent.
Excluding the benefit of recoveries the labour strike in the second half of 2011. Credit Cards and onpayouts made in respect of structured notes in prior years, Personal Loans showed good growth, up 24 per cent, as we current year expenses were up $115 million, or 11 per cent.
strategically focused on unsecured lending, coupled with Expenses across the region were driven by focused higher margins on Personal Loans.
SME income grew on investment as we grew frontline staff and enhanced theback of trade and deposit income driven by increased infrastructure.
China expenses were up 17 per cent at $321 cross-sell opportunities.
Wealth Management increased million, as we continued to expand our distribution network, 3percent, although growth moderated in the second half of opening 19 new branches and increasing frontline staff.
the year reecting the impact of softening investor sentiment.
Other APR working profit was up $116 million, or 30 per cent, Liability income grew strongly as CASA margins improved to $509 million.
On a constant currency basis, working profit following interest rate rises during the year.
Mortgage income increased 24 per cent.
Loan impairment was down by was down 18 per cent, as price-led competition intensied, $5 million, or 4 per cent, to $117 million, reecting tight driving margins down 32 basis points compared with 2010. underwriting standards and recoveries on the sale of largely Mortgage volumes were also lower as we strategically unsecured loan portfolios in Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand, reduced mortgage acquisitions in part due to regulatory which offset market specic events in the region.
delivered an operating profit of $392 million, up 45 per cent Operating expenses grew $226 million, or 28 per cent, to from 2010 39 per cent on a constant currency basis, with $1,023 million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses were Taiwan and Malaysia being the most significant contributors.
23 per cent higher, largely due to a $189 million charge for the The operating loss in China was $108 million, up from ERP.
Excluding this, expenses were 5 per cent higher, as a $78 million in 2010, as we continued to invest in the franchise.
result of the ow through from investments in reshaping our distribution network and rebranding.
India Income was down $11 million, or 2 per cent, to $482 million.
Working profit was 50 per cent lower at $130 million.
On a On a constant currency basis, income was at.
Income has constant currency basis, this was 52 per cent lower.
Loan been impacted by rising interest rates and increased levels of impairment was up $27 million, or 19 per cent, to $166 million competition compressing lending margins.
This has particularly on the back of growth in unsecured lending, partially offset by impacted Mortgage income, although this was partially recoveries on loan sales.
Operating profit was down $159 mitigated by repricing initiatives.
Deposit income was up million to a loss of $41 million.
Excluding the impact of the 31per cent, driven by improved liability margins and increased ERPcosts, operating profit was up 25 per cent.
time deposit volumes as we enhanced our internet and mobile banking capabilities.
Wealth Management income was lower, Other Asia Pacic Other APR impacted by weaker markets during the year.
Income was up $135 million, or 9 per cent, to $1,613 million.
Operating expenses were higher by $16 million, or 5 per cent, On a constant currency basis, income grew 4 per cent.
Allmajor markets except Taiwan saw positive income at $352 million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses were higher by 7 per cent, reecting inationary pressures and momentum.
Income in China was up 12 per cent to $228million, with strong growth in SME volumes, on sustained investment in the franchise to support future growth, offset by benets from premises rationalisation.
thebackof expansion in growth cities: improved deposit margins: and higher Wealth Management income, particularly Working profit was down $27 million, or 17 per cent, to $130 in unit trust and index-linked structured deposits.
Loan impairment was, however, signicantly lower by however, saw income fall by 6 per cent to $421 million as $24 million, or 43 per cent, at $32 million as a result of the Wealth Management income was impacted by uncertain focus on secured lending and improved portfolio quality.
global investment markets and asset margin compression.
Operating profit was lower by $3 million, or 3 per cent, at This was partially offset by volume-led income growth in $98million.
On a constant currency basis, operating profit Personal Loans.
Mortgage volumes were impacted in the was1 per cent lower.
second half of the year by tightening regulation.
Income inMalaysia was up 21 per cent to $358 million, benefiting from growth in Personal Loans and increased SME volumes reecting improved market penetration.
Indonesia also showed strong income growth of 22 per cent.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 33 Middle East and Other South Asia MESA Americas, UK & Europe Income was up $32 million, or 5 per cent, to $723 million, Income rose $14 million, or 10 per cent, to $148 million withthe growth primarily within the UAE and Pakistan.
UAE as wecontinued to focus on offering our product suite to income grew 7 per cent due to good sales across Personal international citizens from Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Loan and Mortgage products and higher Wealth Management The business in this region is primarily Private Banking in fees, although SME margins were lower, in part due to the nature.
Whilst low interest rates continue to impact margins, run-off of certain higher yielding portfolios.
Income in Pakistan these partly recovered during the year, driving growth in was up 11 per cent due to strong deposit growth.
UAE income secured lending and Mortgage income together with growth was partly offset by lower income in Qatar, as increased volumes.
Wealth Management revenues grew, regulatory restrictions impacted asset volumes and asset although demand for structured investment products was andliability margins.
impacted by market uncertainty in the region.
Operating expenses in MESA were higher by $29 million, Operating expenses increased $25 million, or 18 per cent, or6per cent, at $487 million.
UAE expenses were up 6 per to $166 million as staff costs increased on the back of our cent as we invested to develop the franchise and increasing continued investment in relationship managers across the frontline staff.
Pakistan expenses were higher by 9 per cent region together with costs incurred in exiting certain Private onthe back of increased staff costs.
Impairment was lower by $2 million, or 40per cent.
The operating loss increased from $14 million Working profit for MESA was up $3 million, or 1 per cent, to$21 million.
Loan impairment continued to fall and was considerably lower at $89 million, down 44 per cent compared with 2010, primarily in the UAE, reecting tighter underwriting criteria, an improved economic environment and a bias to secured lending.
Consequently, MESA almost doubled operating profit compared with 2010, up $72 million to $146million.
Africa Income was up $41 million, or 11 per cent, at $422 million.
Ona constant currency basis, income was up 18 per cent, with strong momentum in Personal Loans, Wealth Management and SME volumes although asset and liability margins continued to be under pressure.
CASA footings grew strongly, up 17 per cent.
Nigeria, Kenya and Botswana drove income growth, with income in Nigeria up 20 per cent, benefiting from increasing liability margins.
Kenya remains ourlargest revenue generator in the region.
Operating expenses were higher by $14 million, or 6 per cent, at $268 million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses were 12per cent higher, reecting higher staff costs and investments to strengthen the distribution network in Nigeria.
Working profit in Africa was higher by $27 million, or 21 per cent, at $154 million.
Loan impairment was down 11 per cent to $17 million.
Operating profit was up $28 million, or 27 per cent, to $131 million.
On a constant currency basis, operating profit increased 37 per cent.
