50 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review Maintaining discipline in risk management Standard Chartereds balance sheet remains strong and diversied.
We also remain highly liquid.
We have a robust risk governance structure and an experienced risk team.
Risk prole t No individual country accounts for more than Diversied portfolio 20 per cent of our loans and advances to customers oroperating income t We have low exposure to sovereigns and banks in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, and our exposure to commercial real estate, asset backed securities and leveraged loans is non-material from a Group perspective t More than 74 per cent of Consumer Banking assets are secured and more than 64 per cent of Wholesale Banking loans and advances are short-term t We have a strong advances-to-deposit ratio Strong liquidity position t We remain a net provider of liquidity to interbank markets t Our customer deposit base is diversied by type and maturity t We have a substantial portfolio of liquid assets that can be realised if a liquidity stress occurs t We have a clear statement of risk appetite, which is Robust risk governance approved by the Board and sets the risk parameters structure and experienced within which our businesses operate senior team t We have a Board Risk Committee, consisting exclusively of non-executive directors, which reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and controls t We have a very experienced senior risk team and our risk committees are staffed by the Groups most senior leaders t We have a robust risk management framework that assigns accountability and responsibility for the management and control of risk Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 51 The following parts of the Risk review form part of the audited financial statements: from the start of the Risk management section on page 54 to the end of the Operational risk section on page 86, with the exception of the Asset backed securities section on page 75.
Risk overview Our liquidity in 2011 benefited from continued good inows Standard Chartered has a dened risk appetite, approved by ofcustomer deposits, which helped us to maintain a strong the Board, which is an expression of the amount of risk we are advances-to-deposits ratio.
Liquidity will continue to be prepared to take and plays a central role in the development deployed to support growth opportunities in our chosen of our strategic plans and policies.
We also regularly conduct markets.
We manage liquidity in each of our geographical stress tests to ensure that we are operating within our locations, ensuring that we can meet all short-term funding approved risk appetite.
requirements and that our balance sheet remains structurally sound.
Our customer deposit base is diversied by type and Through our proactive approach to risk management maturity and we are a net provider of liquidity to the interbank we constantly seek to reshape our portfolios and adjust money markets.
We have a substantial portfolio of marketable underwriting standards according to the anticipated conditions securities that can be realised in the event of liquidity stress.
In 2011, we maintained our cautious stance overall but continued to selectively increase our exposures We have a well-established risk governance structure in certain markets.
Our balance sheet and liquidity have and anexperienced senior team.
Members of our Group remained strong and we are well positioned for 2012.
Management Committee sit on our principal risk committees, which ensures that risk oversight is a critical focus for all our Our lending portfolio is diversied across a wide range of directors, while common membership between these products, industries and customer segments, which serves committees helps us address the inter-relationships tomitigate risk.
We operate in 71 markets and there is no betweenrisk types.
single market that accounts for more than 20 per cent of loans and advances to customers, or operating income.
Risk performance review Our cross-border asset exposure is diversied and reects Following the significant improvement seen in 2010, credit our strategic focus on our core markets and customer conditions in 2011 have remained broadly stable despite segments.
Approximately 48 per cent of our loans and an uncertain external environment.
Impairment charges advances to customers are of short maturity, and within remained stable in Wholesale Banking and Consumer Wholesale Banking more than 64 per cent of loans and Banking impairment reached a low in the first half of 2011, advances haveatenor of one year or less.
More than witha slight increase in the second half of the year.
74 per cent of Consumer Banking assets are secured.
In Consumer Banking the total loan impairment charge for We have low exposure to countries impacted by the upheaval 2011 remains low as a percentage of loans and advances, in the Middle East and North Africa.
Exposures in Bahrain, and benefited from increased recoveries during the year from Syria, Egypt, Libya and Tunisia represent less than 0.5 per a number of loan sales.
Excluding the impact of this, individual cent of our total assets.
impairment charges still improved overall, largely due to lower We also have low exposure to asset classes and segments provisions in MESA and India in particular as credit conditions outside of our core markets and target customer base.
Most other regions saw modest increases We have no direct sovereign exposure to Greece, Ireland, in line with portfolio growth and mix.
We continue to be Italy, Portugal or Spain.
Our total gross exposure to all disciplined in our approach to risk management and proactive counterparties in these countries, more than half of which in our collection efforts to minimise account delinquencies.
relates to currency and interest rate derivatives, is 0.5 per cent Following the significant reductions in the level of impairment of total assets.
Our direct sovereign exposure as dened by in Wholesale Banking seen in 2010 compared with 2008 the European Banking Authority EBA to the remainder of the 2009, the low level of provisioning has continued into 2011. eurozone is immaterial.
Please refer to page 76 for details.
Portfolio indicators have remained broadly stable throughout Our commercial real estate exposure accounts for less than the period reecting the improved credit environment in our 2 per cent of our total assets.
Our exposure to leveraged footprint.
The largest provisions taken in the period have been loans and to asset backed securities ABS each account for against already impaired accounts in the Middle East region.
less than 1 per cent and 0.3 per cent of our total assets, Portfolio impairment provisions have been reduced in most respectively.
markets except India, where uncertainties in specic sectors of the economy have led to an increase in portfolio provision in Market risk is tightly monitored using Value at Risk VaR the period.
methodologies complemented by sensitivity measures, gross nominal limits and loss triggers at a detailed portfolio Total average VaR and trading book average VaR in 2011 has level.
This is supplemented with extensive stress testing been at similar levels to 2010. Commodities average VaR in that takes account of more extreme price movements.
2011 is 16 per cent higher than in 2010.
This reects increased volatility in the commodities markets in 2011.
52 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Principal uncertainties Risk Description Mitigants Deteriorating t Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions can t We balance risk and return taking account of macroeconomic have an impact on our performance via their changing conditions through the economic conditions in influence on personal expenditure and cycle footprint consumption patterns: demand for business t We monitor economic trends in our markets countries products and services: the debt service burden very closely and continuously review the of consumers and businesses: the general suitability of our risk policies and controls availability of credit for retail and corporate borrowers: and the availability of capital and liquidity funding for our business Changes in t The nature and impact of future changes in t We keep a close watch on key regulatory regulations economic policies, laws and regulations are not developments in order to anticipate changes and laws predictable and may run counter to our strategic and their potential impact on our performance interests.
These changes could also affect the t Both unilaterally and through our participation volatility and liquidity of financial markets, and in industry forums we respond to consultation more generally the way we conduct business papers and discussions initiated by regulators and manage capital and liquidity and governments.
The focus of these is to develop the framework for a stable and sustainable financial sector and global economy Financial t Financial market volatility or a sudden dislocation t We assess carefully the performance of our markets could affect our performance, through its impact financial institution counterparties, rate them dislocation on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in our internally according to their systemic available-for-sale and trading portfolios or the importance, adjusting our exposure accordingly availability of capital or liquidity t We maintain robust suitability and t Financial market instability also increases the appropriateness processes likelihood of default by our corporate customers and financial institution counterparties Geopolitical t We face a risk that geopolitical tensions or t We actively monitor the political situation in all events conict in our footprint could impact trade ows, of our principal markets, and conduct regular our customers ability to pay, and our ability to stress tests of the impact of such events on our manage capital across borders portfolios, which inform assessments of risk appetite and any need to take mitigating action Risk of fraud t The risk of fraud and other criminal activities t We have a broad range of measures in place to is growing as criminals become more monitor and mitigate this risk sophisticated and as they take advantage of t Controls are embedded in our policies and the increasing use of technology in society procedures across a wide range of the Groups activities, such as origination, recruitment, physical and information security Exchange rate t Changes in exchange rates affect the value of t We actively monitor exchange rate movements movements our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign and adjust our exposure accordingly currencies, as well as the earnings reported by t Under certain circumstances, we may take our non-US dollar denominated branches and the decision to hedge our foreign exchange subsidiaries exposures in order to protect our capital ratios t Sharp currency movements can also impact from the effects of changes in exchange rates trade ows and the wealth of clients, both of which could have an impact on our performance Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 53 Principal uncertainties A key uncertainty relates to the way in which governments and We are in the business of taking selected risks to regulators adjust laws, regulations and economic policies in generate shareholder value, and we seek to contain response to macroeconomic and other systemic conditions.
and mitigate these risks to ensure they remain within The financial crisis of 2008-09 has spurred unprecedented our risk appetite and are adequately compensated.
levels of proposals to change the regulations governing However, risks are by their nature uncertain and the financial institutions and further changes to regulations remain management of risk relies on judgments and under consideration in many jurisdictions that are expected to predictions about the future.
have a significant impact, such as changes to capital and liquidity regimes, changes to the calculation of risk weighted The key uncertainties we face in the coming year are set assets, derivative reform and the US Foreign Account Tax out below.
This should not be regarded as a complete and Compliance Act.
comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties that we may experience.
The nature and impact of future changes in laws, regulations and economic policies are not predictable and could run Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions counter to our strategic interests.
We support changes to in footprint countries laws, regulations or codes of practice that will improve the Macroeconomic conditions have an impact on personal overall stability of the financial system.
However, we also have expenditure and consumption, demand for business products concerns that certain proposals may not achieve this desired and services, the debt service burden of consumers and objective and may have unintended consequences, either businesses, the general availability of credit for retail and individually or in terms of aggregate impact.
Proposed corporate borrowers and the availability of capital and changes could affect the volatility and liquidity of the financial liquidityfunding for our business.
All these factors may markets and, consequently, the way we conduct business and impactour performance.
These effects may directly or indirectly impact our financial performance.
The world economy is facing continuing uncertainty.
The sovereign crisis in the eurozone area is evolving rapidly and is Both unilaterally and through our participation in industry still far from being resolved.
The continuing political stalemate forums, we respond to consultation papers and discussions in the US also limits the potential strength of a US recovery.
initiated by regulators, governments and other policy makers.
We also keep a close watch on key regulatory developments Our exposure to leveraged loans and eurozone sovereign debt inorder to anticipate changes and their potential impact.
However, we remain alert to the risk of secondary Anumber of changes have been proposed under Basel III but impacts from events in the West on financial institutions, other significant uncertainty remains around the specic application counterparties and global economic growth.
and the combined impact of these proposals, in particular These uncertainties have increased the likelihood of economic their effect at the Group level via the implementation of slowdown in our footprint countries.
Larger economies such changes to European Union legislation the package of as India and China are likely to be less affected in the event of reforms commonly referred to as the Capital Requirements a euro-led global slowdown than more open economies such Directive IV CRD IV.
Similarly, the Group awaits regulatory as Singapore, Hong Kong and South Korea.
conrmation of detailed rules underpinning OTC Derivative reforms across our markets.
In particular, the extraterritorial Ination appears to have peaked in most of the countries in applicability of aspects of the Dodd-Frank legislation and other which we operate and in some cases has started to trend reforms in the United States are likely to influence regulation in down.
This and other factors equip the authorities in our other markets and we will analyse these developments to significant footprint countries with the policy exibility to ensure our affected businesses remain both competitive support growth.
We balance risk and return taking account of changing On 19 December 2011, the UK Government published its initial conditions through the economic cycle, and monitor response to the Report of the Independent Commission on economic trends in our markets very closely.
We also Banking, chaired by Sir John Vickers.
We do not believe that continuously review the suitability of our risk policies the proposals to ring-fence operations as currently set out andcontrols.
will affect the Group, since they apply primarily to UK retail activities.
The proposals for additional levels of primary loss Regulatory changes and compliance absorbing capacity are still subject to consultation and the Our business as an international bank is subject to a impact cannot yet be fully assessed.
A number of the other complexregulatory framework comprising legislation, details of the regime will not become clear until HM Treasury regulation and codes of practice, in each of the countries develops the detailed policy throughout 2012. inwhich we operate.
54 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued We have a commitment to maintain strong relationships sophisticated and as they take advantage of the increasing with governments and regulators in the countries in which use of technology.
At any time the Group may be in discussion We seek to be vigilant to the risk of internal and external crime with a range of authorities and regulatory bodies in different in our management of people, processes, systems and in our countries on matters that relate to its past or current business dealings with customers and other stakeholders.
These discussions may lead to financial penalties broad range of measures in place to monitor and mitigate this or other enforcement actions that are not usually material to risk.
Controls are embedded in our policies and procedures the Group.
across a wide range of the Groups activities, such as As reported previously, the Group is conducting a review of origination, recruitment, physical and information security.
its historical US sanctions compliance and is discussing that review with US enforcement agencies and regulators.
The Exchange rate movements Group cannot predict when this review and these discussions Changes in exchange rates affect, among other things, the will be completed or what the outcome will be.
value of our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, as well as the earnings reported by our non-US Financial markets dislocation dollar denominated branches and subsidiaries.
Sharp There is a risk that a sudden financial market dislocation, currency movements can also impact trade ows and the perhaps as a result of further deterioration of the sovereign wealth of clients, both of which could have an impact on our debt crisis in the eurozone, could signicantly increase general performance.
financial market volatility, which could affect our performance We monitor exchange rate movements closely and adjust our or the availability of capital or liquidity.
These factors may have exposures accordingly.
Under certain circumstances, we may an impact on the mark-to-market valuations of assets in our take the decision to hedge our foreign exchange exposures in available-for-sale and trading portfolios.
The potential losses order to protect our capital ratios from the effects of changes incurred by certain clients holding derivative contracts during in exchange rates.
The effect of exchange rate movements on periods of financial market volatility could also lead to an the capital adequacy ratio is mitigated to the extent that there increase in disputes and corporate defaults.
At the same are proportionate movements in risk weighted assets.
time, financial market instability could cause some financial institution counterparties to experience tighter liquidity The table below sets out the period end and average currency conditions or even fail.
There is no certainty that Government exchange rates per US dollar for India, Korea and Singapore action to reduce the systemic risk will be successful and it may for the periods ending 31 December 2011 and 31 December have unintended consequences.
2011 2010 We closely monitor the performance of our financial Indian rupee institution counterparties and adjust our exposure to Average 46.63 45.72 these counterparties as necessary.
We maintain robust Period end 53.03 44.68 appropriateness and suitable processes to mitigate the risk of client disputes.
Korean won Average 1,107.84 1,156.34 Geopolitical events Period end 1,151.56 1,134.61 We operate in a large number of markets around the world, Singapore dollar and our performance is in part reliant on the openness of Average 1.26 1.36 cross-border trade and capital ows.
We face a risk that Period end 1.30 1.28 geopolitical tensions or conict in our footprint could impact trade ows, our customers ability to pay, and our ability to As a result of our normal business operations, Standard manage capital or operations across borders.
Chartered is exposed to a broader range of risks than those We actively monitor the political situation in all our principal principal uncertainties mentioned above and our approach markets, such as the recent upheaval in the Middle East and to managing risk is detailed on the following pages.
We conduct stress tests of the impact of extreme but plausible geopolitical events on our performance and the Risk management potential for such events to jeopardise our ability to operate The management of risk lies at the heart of Standard within our stated risk appetite.
One of the main risks we incur arises from extending credit to customers through our trading and Risk of fraud lending operations.
Beyond credit risk, we are also exposed The banking industry has long been a target for third parties to a range of other risk types such as country cross-border, seeking to defraud, to disrupt legitimate economic activity, market, liquidity, operational, pension, reputational and other orto facilitate other illegal activities.
The risk posed by such risks that are inherent to our strategy, product range and criminal activity is growing as criminals become more geographical coverage.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 55 Risk management framework Acting within an authority delegated by the Board, the Effective risk management is fundamental to being able to Board Risk Committee BRC, whose membership generate profits consistently and sustainably and is thus a consists exclusively of non-executive directors of the Group, central part of the financial and operational management has responsibility for oversight and review of prudential risks of the Group.
including but not limited to credit, market, capital, liquidity, operational and reputational.
It reviews the Groups overall risk Through our risk management framework we manage appetite and makes recommendations thereon to the Board.
enterprise-wide risks, with the objective of maximising Its responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness risk-adjusted returns while remaining within our risk appetite.
and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems As part of this framework, we use a set of principles that and controls, considering the implications of material describe the risk management culture we wish to sustain: regulatory change proposals, ensuring effective due diligence on material acquisitions and disposals, and monitoring the t Balancing risk and return: risk is taken in support of the activities of the Group Risk Committee GRC and Group requirements of our stakeholders, in line with our strategy Asset and Liability Committee GALCO.
and within our risk appetite The BRC receives regular reports on risk management, t Responsibility: it is the responsibility of all employees to including our portfolio trends, policies and standards, stress ensure that risk-taking is disciplined and focused.
We take testing, liquidity and capital adequacy, and is authorised to account of our social responsibilities and our commitments investigate or seek any information relating to an activity within to customers in taking risk to produce a return its terms of reference.
t Accountability: risk is taken only within agreed authorities The Brand and Values Committee BVC oversees the brand, and where there is appropriate infrastructure and resource.
values and good reputation of the Group.
It ensures that the All risk-taking must be transparent, controlled and reported management of reputational risk is consistent with the risk t Anticipation: We seek to anticipate future risks and ensure appetite approved by the Board and with the creation of awareness of all known risks long-term shareholder value.
t Competitive advantage: We seek to achieve competitive Overall accountability for risk management is held by the advantage through efficient and effective risk management Standard Chartered Bank Court the Court, which comprises and control the Group executive directors and the other senior executive of Standard Chartered Bank.
Risk governance The Court delegates authority for the management of risk to Ultimate responsibility for setting our risk appetite and for the the GRC and the GALCO.
effective management of risk rests with the Board.
1 Group risk committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Standard Chartered Bank Court Board Committees Group Asset & Liability Committee Group Risk Committee Liquidity Management Consumer Banking Wholesale Bank ing Committee Risk Committee Risk Committee Capital Management Group Market Group Credit Committee Committee Risk Committee Tax Management Group Operational Other Risk Committees Committee Risk Committee 1 More information on Board committees can be found under Corporate governance on page 108 56 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Risk policy framework Risk types e. g. Credit, Market, Operational, Liquidity and Reputational Global Policies and Procedures Wholesale and Consumer Banking Policies and Procedures Countries Local Policy Addenda and Procedures The GRC is responsible for the management of all risks other managers, relevant oversight function or committee and than those delegated by the Court to the GALCO.
The GRC committees of the Board.
is responsible for the establishment of, and compliance with, GIA provides independent assurance of the effectiveness of policies relating to credit risk, country cross-border risk, managements control of its own business activities the first market risk, operational risk, pension risk and reputational risk.
line and of the processes maintained by the Risk Control The GRC also defines our overall risk management framework.
As a result, GIA provides The GALCO is responsible for the management of capital and assurance that the overall system of control effectiveness is the establishment of, and compliance with, policies relating to working as required within the Risk Management Framework.
balance sheet management, including management of our liquidity, capital adequacy and structural foreign exchange The Risk function and interest rate risk.
The GCRO directly manages a Risk function that is separate from the origination, trading and sales functions of the Members of the Court are also members of both the GRC businesses.
The GCRO also chairs the GRC and is a member and the GALCO.
The GRC is chaired by the Group Chief Risk of the Group Management Committee.
The GALCO is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
Risk limits and risk exposure approval authority The role of the Risk function is: frameworks are set by the GRC in respect of credit risk, t To maintain the Risk Management Framework, ensuring it country cross-border risk, market risk and operational risk.
remains appropriate to the Groups activities, is effectively The GALCO sets the approval authority framework in respect communicated and implemented across the Group and for of liquidity risk.
Risk approval authorities may be exercised by administering related governance and reporting processes risk committees or authorised individuals.
t To uphold the overall integrity of the Groups risk return The committee governance structure ensures that risk-taking decisions, and in particular for ensuring that risks are authority and risk management policies are cascaded down properly assessed, that risk return decisions are made from the Board through to the appropriate functional, transparently on the basis of this proper assessment, and divisional and country-level committees.
Information regarding are controlled in accordance with the Groups standards material risk issues and compliance with policies and t To exercise direct Risk Control Ownership for Credit, standards is communicated to the country, business, Market, Country Cross-Border, Short-term Liquidity and functional and Group-level committees.
Operational risk types Roles and responsibilities for risk management are dened The Group appoints Chief Risk Ofcers CROs for its two under a Three Lines of Defence model.
Each line of defence business divisions and principal countries and regions.
CROs describes a specic set of responsibilities for risk management at all levels of the organisation full the same role as the GCRO, and control.
in respect of the business, geography or legal entity for which The first line of defence is that all employees are required to they are responsible.
The roles of CROs are aligned at each ensure the effective management of risks within the scope of level.
Business, function The Risk function is independent of the origination, trading and geographic governance heads are accountable for risk and sales functions to ensure that the necessary balance in management in their respective businesses and functions, risk return decisions is not compromised by short-term and for countries where they have governance responsibilities.
This is particularly important The second line of defence comprises the Risk Control given that revenues are recognised from the point of sale while Owners, supported by their respective control functions.
Risk losses arising from risk positions typically manifest themselves Control Owners are responsible for ensuring that the risks over time.
within the scope of their responsibilities remain within appetite.
In addition, the Risk function is a centre of excellence that The scope ofa Risk Control Owners responsibilities is dened provides specialist capabilities of relevance to risk by a given Risk Type and the risk management processes that management processes in the wider organisation.
These responsibilities cut across the Group and are not constrained by functional, business and Risk appetite geographic boundaries.
The major risk types are described We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise in the individually in the following sections.
interests of all our stakeholders.
The third line of defence is the independent assurance Risk appetite is an expression of the amount of risk we are provided by the Group Internal Audit GIA function.
willing to take in pursuit of our strategic objectives, reecting Its role is dened and overseen by the Audit Committee.
our capacity to sustain losses and continue to meet our The findings from GIAs audits are reported to all relevant obligations arising from a range of different stress trading management and governance bodies accountable line conditions.
Assurance Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 57 We define our risk appetite in terms of both volatility of Credit risk is managed through a framework that sets out earnings and the maintenance of minimum regulatory capital policies and procedures covering the measurement and requirements under stress scenarios.
We also define a risk management of credit risk.
There is a clear segregation of appetite with respect to liquidity risk and reputational risk.
duties between transaction originators in the businesses and approvers in the Risk function.
All credit exposure limits are Our quantitative risk prole is assessed through a bottom-up approved within a dened credit approval authority framework.
analytical approach covering all of our major businesses, countries and products.
Credit policies The Groups risk appetite statement is approved by the Board Group-wide credit policies and standards are considered and and forms the basis for establishing the risk parameters within approved by the GRC, which also oversees the delegation of which the businesses must operate, including policies, credit approval and loan impairment provisioning authorities.
concentration limits and business mix.
Policies and procedures specic to each business are The GRC and GALCO are responsible for ensuring that our established by authorised risk committees within Wholesale risk prole is managed in compliance with the risk appetite set and Consumer Banking.
These are consistent with our by theBoard.
Group-wide credit policies, but are more detailed and adapted to reect the different risk environments and portfolio Stress testing characteristics.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the financial and management capability of Standard Chartered Credit rating and measurement to continue operating effectively under extreme but plausible Risk measurement plays a central role, along with judgment trading conditions.
Such conditions may arise from economic, and experience, in informing risk taking and portfolio legal, political, environmental and social factors.
It is a primary area for sustained investment and senior management attention.
Our stress testing framework is designed to: Since 1 January 2008, Standard Chartered has used the t Contribute to the setting and monitoring of risk appetite advanced Internal Ratings Based IRB approach under the t Identify key risks to our strategy, financial position and Basel II regulatory framework to calculate credit risk capital.
reputation For IRB portfolios, a standard alphanumeric credit risk t Examine the nature and dynamics of the risk prole and grade CG system is used in both Wholesale and Consumer assess the impact of stresses on our profitability and Banking.
The grading is based on our internal estimate of business plans probability of default over a one-year horizon, with customers or portfolios assessed against a range of quantitative and t Ensure effective governance, processes and systems are qualitative factors.
The numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and inplace to co-ordinate and integrate stress testing some of the grades are further sub-classied A, B or C. Lower t Inform senior management credit grades are indicative of a lower likelihood of default.
t Ensure adherence to regulatory requirements Credit grades 1A to 12C are assigned to performing customers or accounts, while credit grades 13 and 14 are Our stress testing activity focuses on the potential impact of assigned to non-performing or defaulted customers.
macroeconomic, geopolitical and physical events on relevant geographies, customer segments and asset classes.
Our credit grades in Wholesale Banking are not intended to replicate external credit grades, and ratings assigned A Stress Testing Committee, led by the Risk function with by external ratings agencies are not used in determining our participation from the businesses, Group Finance, Global internal credit grades.
Nonetheless, as the factors used to Research and Group Treasury, aims to ensure that the grade a borrower may be similar, a borrower rated poorly by earnings and capital implications of specic stress scenarios an external rating agency is typically assigned a worse internal are fully understood.
The Stress Testing Committee generates credit grade.
and considers pertinent and plausible scenarios that have the potential to adversely affect our business and considers Advanced IRB models cover a substantial majority of our impact across different risk types and countries.
exposures and are used extensively in assessing risks at a customer and portfolio level, setting strategy and optimising Stress tests are also performed at country and business level.
Credit risk IRB risk measurement models are approved by the Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a responsible risk committee, on the recommendation of the counterparty to meet its obligations to pay the Group in Group Model Assessment Committee MAC.
The MAC accordance with agreed terms.
Credit exposures may arise supports risk committees in ensuring risk identication and from both the banking and trading books.
measurement capabilities are objective and consistent, 58 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued so that risk control and risk origination decisions are properly there is a decline in the clients position within the industry, informed.
Prior to review by the MAC, all IRB models are financial deterioration, a breach of covenants, nonvalidated in detail by a model validation team, which is performance of an obligation within the stipulated period, separate from the teams that develop and maintain the or there are concerns relating to ownership or management.
Models undergo a detailed annual review.
Reviews Such accounts and portfolios are subjected to a dedicated are also triggered if the performance of a model deteriorates process overseen by Early Alert Committees in countries.
materially against predetermined thresholds during the Client account plans and credit grades are re-evaluated.
In ongoing model performance monitoring process.
addition, remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
Remedial actions include, but are not limited to, exposure reduction, Credit approval security enhancement, exiting the account or immediate Major credit exposures to individual counterparties, groups movement of the account into the control of Group Special of connected counterparties and portfolios of retail exposures Assets Management GSAM, our specialist recovery unit.
are reviewed and approved by the Group Credit Committee GCC.
The GCC derives its authority from the GRC.
In Consumer Banking, portfolio delinquency trends are monitored continuously at a detailed level.
Individual All other credit approval authorities are delegated by the GRC customer behaviour is also tracked and is considered for to individuals based both on their judgment and experience lending decisions.
Accounts that are past due are subject and a risk-adjusted scale that takes account of the estimated to a collections process, managed independently by the Risk maximum potential loss from a given customer or portfolio.
Charged-off accounts are managed by specialist Credit origination and approval roles are segregated in all but a recovery teams.
In some countries, aspects of collections and very few authorised cases.
In those very few exceptions where recovery functions are outsourced.
they are not, originators can only approve limited exposures within dened risk parameters.
The small and medium-sized enterprise SME business is managed within Consumer Banking in two distinct customer Concentration risk sub-segments: small businesses and medium enterprises, Credit concentration risk is managed within concentration caps differentiated by the annual turnover of the counterparty.
The set by counterparty or groups of connected counterparties, by credit processes are further rened based on exposure at risk.
country and industry in Wholesale Banking: and tracked by Larger exposures are managed through the Discretionary product and country in Consumer Banking.
Additional targets Lending approach, in line with Wholesale Banking are set and monitored for concentrations by credit rating.
procedures, and smaller exposures are managed through Programmed Lending, in line with Consumer Banking Credit concentrations are monitored by the responsible risk procedures.
Discretionary Lending and private banking past committees in each of the businesses and concentration limits due accounts are managed by GSAM.
that are material to the Group are reviewed and approved at least annually by the GCC.
Credit mitigation Potential credit losses from any given account, customer or Credit monitoring portfolio are mitigated using a range of tools such as collateral, We regularly monitor credit exposures, portfolio performance, netting agreements, credit insurance, credit derivatives and and external trends that may impact risk management other guarantees.
The reliance that can be placed on these outcomes.
mitigants is carefully assessed in light of issues such as legal certainty and enforceability, market valuation correlation and Internal risk management reports are presented to risk counterparty risk of the guarantor.
committees, containing information on key environmental, political and economic trends across major portfolios and Risk mitigation policies determine the eligibility of collateral countries: portfolio delinquency and loan impairment types.
Further details on collateral are set out on the next page.
performance: and IRB portfolio metrics including credit Where appropriate, credit derivatives are used to reduce credit grademigration.
Due to their potential impact on income The Wholesale Banking Credit Issues Forum WBCIF is a volatility, such derivatives are used in a controlled manner with sub-committee of the Wholesale Banking Risk Committee, reference to their expected volatility.
which in turn is a sub-committee of and derives its authority from the GRC.
The WBCIF meets regularly to assess the Traded products impact of external events and trends on the Wholesale Banking Credit risk from traded products is managed within the overall credit risk portfolio and to define and implement our response credit risk appetite for corporates and financial institutions.
in terms of appropriate changes to portfolio shape, portfolio The credit risk exposure from traded products is derived and underwriting standards, risk policy and procedures.
from the positive mark-to-market value of the underlying Clients or portfolios are placed on early alert when they display instruments, and an additional component to cater for signs of actual or potential weakness.
For example, where potential market movements.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 59 2011 2010 For derivative contracts, we limit our exposure to credit $million $million losses in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements with certain counterparties.
As required by IAS 32 Financial assets held at fair value 1 through profit or loss 23,235 25,267 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32 exposures are not presented net in the financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments 67,933 47,859 Loans and advances to banks and In addition, we enter into Credit Support Annexes CSAs customers 329,746 292,416 with counterparties where collateral is deemed a necessary 1 Investment securities 82,740 73,279 or desirable mitigant to the exposure.
Further details on Contingent liabilities 42,880 41,804 CSAs are set out on page 60.
Undrawn irrevocable standby facilities, credit lines and other Securities commitments to lend 52,700 45,624 Within Wholesale Banking, the Underwriting Committee Documentary credits and short approves the portfolio limits and parameters by business unit term trade-related transactions 8,612 7,505 for the underwriting and purchase of all pre-dened securities assets to be held for sale.
The Underwriting Committee is Forward asset purchases and established under the authority of the GRC.
Wholesale forward deposits placed 733 877 Banking operates within set limits, which include country, 608,579 534,631 single issuer, holding period and credit grade limits.
1 Excludes equity shares Day to day credit risk management activities for traded securities are carried out by Traded Credit Risk Management, Collateral whose activities include oversight and approval within the Collateral is held to mitigate credit risk exposures and risk levels delegated by the Underwriting Committee.
Issuer credit mitigation policies determine the eligibility of collateral types.
risk, including settlement and pre-settlement risk, is controlled Collateral types that are eligible for risk mitigation include: by Wholesale Banking Risk, while price risk is controlled by cash: residential, commercial and industrial property: xed Group Market Risk.
assets such as motor vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: The Underwriting Committee approves individual proposals marketable securities: commodities: bank guarantees: and to underwrite new security issues for our clients.
Where an letters of credit.
Standard Chartered also enters into underwritten security is held for a period longer than the target collateralised reverse repurchase agreements.
sell-down period, the final decision on whether to sell the For certain types of lending typically mortgages, asset position rests with the Risk function.
nancing the right to take charge over physical assets is significant in terms of determining appropriate pricing and Maximum exposure to credit risk recoverability in the event of default.
The table below presents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet Collateral is reported in accordance with our risk mitigation financial instruments at 31 December 2011, before taking into policy, which prescribes the frequency of valuation for different account any collateral held or other credit enhancements.
For collateral types, based on the level of price volatility of each on-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure to credit type of collateral and the nature of the underlying product or risk is the carrying amount reported on the balance sheet.
Where appropriate, collateral values are off-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure to credit adjusted to reect current market conditions, its probability of risk represents the contractual nominal amounts.
recovery and the period of time to realise the collateral in the event of possession.
The collateral values reported are also The Groups exposure to credit risk is spread across our adjusted for the effects of .
The Group is affected by the general economic conditions in the territories in which it operates.
The Group Loans and advances setslimits on the exposure to any counterparty and credit The requirement for collateral is not a substitute for the ability riskisspread over a variety of different personal and to pay, which is the primary consideration for any lending commercial customers.
In determining the financial effect of collateral The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk has increased heldagainst loans neither past due nor impaired, we have by $73.9 billion when compared with 2010.
Exposure to loans assessed the signicance of the collateral held in relation and advances to banks and customers has increased by tothe type of lending.
For loans and advances to banks and $37.3 billion since 2010 due to growth in the mortgage customers including those held at fair value through profit portfolio and broad-based growth across several industry orloss, the Group held the following amounts of collateral, sectors in Wholesale Banking.
Further details of the loan adjusted where appropriate as discussed above.
portfolio are set out on page 61.
Improving customer appetite for derivatives has increased the Groups exposure by $20.1billion when compared with 2010.
60 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Consumer Banking Wholesale Banking Total Past due Past due Past due but not but not but not individually Individually individually Individually individually Individually impaired impaired impaired impaired impaired impaired Total loans loans Total loans loans Total loans loans $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 31 December 2011 Collateral 88,471 2,481 568 53,790 328 459 142,261 2,809 1,027 1 Amount outstanding 122,225 4,035 1,089 213,839 984 3,494 336,064 5,019 4,583 As at 31 December 2010 Collateral 86,418 2,244 381 49,436 268 460 135,854 2,512 841 1 Amount outstanding 117,150 3,403 927 183,280 556 3,458 300,430 3,959 4,385 1 Includes loans held at fair value through profit or loss Within Consumer Banking, 74 per cent of lending is secured, Collateral and other credit enhancements possessed with a loan-to-value ratio of 49 per cent in respect of the or called upon mortgages portfolio.
The Group obtains assets by taking possession of collateral or calling upon other credit enhancements such as guarantees.
Wholesale Banking includes collateral held in respect of Repossessed properties are sold in an orderly fashion.
Where reverse repo transactions undertaken by the Group, further the proceeds are in excess of the outstanding loan balance details of which are set out in note 43 to the financial they are returned to the borrower.
Certain equity securities statements on page 230. acquired may be held by the Group for investment purposes Non-tangible collateral such as guarantees and letters and are classied as available-for-sale, and the related loan of credit may also be held against corporate exposures written off.
The table below details the carrying value of although the financial effect of this type of collateral is less collateral possessed and held by the Group at 31 December significant in terms of recoveries.
However, this type of 2011 and 31 December 2010: collateral is considered when determining probability of defaultand other credit related factors.
2011 2010 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Property 79 79 67 67 Debt securities and equity shares 3 3 Other 3 3 2 2 82 82 69 3 72 Traded products The Group holds cash collateral against derivative and other With respect to derivatives the Group enters into master financial instruments of $3,145 million 2010: $2,527 million as netting arrangements that result in a single amount owed by disclosed in note 31 to the financial statements on page 212. or to the counterparty through netting the sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values of applicable derivative Off-balance sheet exposures transactions.
At 31 December 2011 $40,605 million 2010: For certain types of exposures such as Letters of Credit $26,789 million is available for offset as a result of master and Guarantees the Group obtains collateral such as cash netting agreements.
Under a variation margin process, depending on internal credit risk assessments.
However, for additional collateral is called from the counterparty if total trade finance products such as Letters of Credit the Group will uncollateralised mark-to-market exposure exceeds the also hold legal title to the underlying assets should a default threshold and minimum transfer amount specified in the CSA.
With certain counterparties, the CSA is reciprocal and requires us to post collateral if the overall mark-to-market values of Other risk mitigants positions is in the counterpartys favour and exceeds an The Group has transferred to third parties by way of agreed threshold.
The Group holds $2,452 million 2010: securitisation the rights to any collection of principal and $2,128 million under CSAs.
interest on customer loan assets with a face value of Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 61 $2,212million 2010: $3,072 million.
The Group continues Consumer Banking tobe exposed to related credit and foreign exchange risk on The Consumer Banking portfolio in 2011 has grown by these assets.
The Group continues to recognise these assets $5.1billion, or 4 per cent since 2010. in addition to the proceeds and related liability of $1,843 million The proportion of mortgages in the Consumer Banking 2010: $2,385 million arising from the securitisations.
portfolio is maintained at 57 per cent.
Mortgage growth has The Group has entered into credit default swaps for portfolio slowed since the second half of 2011 in most markets due to management purposes, referencing loan assets with a intensied competition, rising interest rates and regulatory notional value of $20.3 billion 2010: $18.7 billion.
This has particularly impacted Korea, where continues to hold the underlying assets referenced in the mortgages fell by $2.2 billion.
Other loans to individuals has grown particularly signicantly in2011 due to the acquisition of the GE Money consumer Loan portfolio finance portfolio in Singapore and strong growth in Loans and advances to customers have grown by $22.3 billion Private Banking.
SME lending has grown by $1.7 billion, or 9 per cent, since The loans to customers are originated and booked in the 2010.
There was particularly strong growth in the first half respective geographic segments.
of this year in Korea, Hong Kong and China mainly in trade finance and working capital products.
There are no significant consistent rate, by $17.3 billion or 13 per cent compared with concentrations within the broad industry classications of December 2010.
Manufacturing: Financing, insurance and business services: Commerce: or Transport, storage and communication.
Growth in 2011 has been spread across all regions and most customer segments, with most of our key regions showing Single borrower concentration risk has been mitigated double digit growth in percentage terms.
Two thirds of the by active distribution of assets to banks and institutional growth is due to Trade Finance, Corporate Finance and investors, some of which is achieved through credit default commercial lending activity as Wholesale Banking deepens swaps and synthetic risk transfer structures.
relationships with clients in core markets.
Exposure to bank counterparties at $66.5 billion increased by$13.3 billion compared with 2010.
We remain highly liquid anda net lender to the interbank money market.
Whilst Other and SME Approximately half of our loans and advances to customers loans in Consumer Banking have short contractual maturities, are short-term having a contractual maturity of one year or typically they may be renewed and repaid over longer terms less.
The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains predominantly in the normal course of business.
short-term, with 64 per cent 2010: 67 per cent of loans and The following tables show the contractual maturity of loans advances having a contractual maturity of one year or less.
and advances to customers by each principal category of In Consumer Banking, 57 per cent 2010: 60 per cent of the borrowers business or industry.
portfolio is in the mortgage book, which is traditionally longer 2011 One year One to five Over five or less years years Total $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 3,011 8,867 57,671 69,549 Other 20,194 10,502 2,749 33,445 Small and medium enterprises 10,474 3,450 5,307 19,231 Consumer Banking 33,679 22,819 65,727 122,225 Agriculture, forestry and shing 2,607 468 107 3,182 Construction 2,300 1,366 138 3,804 Commerce 23,705 4,114 413 28,232 Electricity, gas and water 1,117 1,649 1,708 4,474 Financing, insurance and business services 16,797 8,818 343 25,958 Governments 4,301 1,372 5,673 Mining and quarrying 5,912 3,602 2,760 12,274 Manufacturing 25,704 9,380 1,791 36,875 Commercial real estate 4,146 5,785 324 10,255 Transport, storage and communication 7,267 5,160 2,269 14,696 Other 971 874 20 1,865 Wholesale Banking 94,827 42,588 9,873 147,288 Portfolio impairment provision 760 Total loans and advances to customers 268,753 64 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued 2010 One year One to five Over five or less years years Total $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 2,871 8,947 58,844 70,662 Other 18,019 8,303 2,591 28,913 Small and medium enterprises 9,464 3,369 4,742 17,575 Consumer Banking 30,354 20,619 66,177 117,150 Agriculture, forestry and shing 3,108 662 107 3,877 Construction 1,721 692 41 2,454 Commerce 22,605 3,667 275 26,547 Electricity, gas and water 1,486 907 1,267 3,660 Financing, insurance and business services 16,493 6,846 151 23,490 Governments 3,155 1,230 68 4,453 Mining and quarrying 4,610 2,818 1,659 9,087 Manufacturing 22,507 8,495 1,311 32,313 Commercial real estate 4,440 4,615 333 9,388 Transport, storage and communication 6,195 4,655 2,306 13,156 Other 1,276 242 71 1,589 Wholesale Banking 87,596 34,829 7,589 130,014 Portfolio impairment provision 760 Total loans and advances to customers 246,404 Problem credit management and provisioning Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been A non-performing loan is any loan that is more than 90 days separately identied at the balance sheet date are determined past due or is otherwise individually impaired which on a portfolio basis, which takes into account past loss represents those loans against which individual impairment experience as a result of uncertainties arising from the provisions have been raised and excludes: economic environment, and defaults based on portfolio trends.
Actual losses identied could differ signicantly from t Loans renegotiated before 90 days past due and on the impairment provisions reported as a result of uncertainties whichno default in interest payments or loss of principal arising from the economic environment.
isexpected The total amount of the Groups impairment allowances is t Loans renegotiated at or after 90 days past due, but on inherently uncertain being sensitive to changes in economic which there has been no default in interest or principal and credit conditions across the geographies that the payments for more than 180 days since renegotiation, Groupoperates in.
Economic and credit conditions are andagainst which no loss of principal is expected interdependent within each geography and as a result there The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise isno single factor to which the Groups loan impairment incurred impairment losses either on specic loan assets or allowances as a whole are sensitive.
It is possible that actual within a portfolio of loans and receivables.
Individually events over the next year differ from the assumptions built into impaired loans are those loans against which individual the model resulting in material adjustments to the carrying impairment provisions have been raised.
The Groups amount of loans and advances.
accounting policy on loan loss provisioning is discussed innote 1 to the financial statements on page 175.
Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves significant judgment, and considers the level of arrears as well as the assessment of matters such as future economic conditions and the value of collateral, for which there may not be a readily accessible market.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 65 Consumer Banking impaired it is not possible to identify which individual loans the In Consumer Banking, where there are large numbers of small impairment relates to until the delinquency is sufciently value loans, a primary indicator of potential impairment is prolonged that loss is almost certain, which, in the Groups delinquency.
A loan is considered delinquent past due when experience, is generally around 150 days in Consumer the counterparty has failed to make a principal or interest Banking.
Up to that point the inherent impairment is captured payment when contractually due.
However, not all delinquent in portfolio impairment provision PIP.
loans particularly those in the early stage of delinquency will The PIP methodology provides for accounts for which an be impaired.
For delinquency reporting purposes we follow individual impairment provision has not been raised, either industry standards, measuring delinquency as of 1, 30, 60, individually or collectively.
PIP is raised on a portfolio basis for 90,120 and 150 days past due.
Accounts that are overdue by all products, and is set using expected loss rates, based on more than 30 days are more closely monitored and subject to past experience supplemented by an assessment of specic specic collections processes.
factors affecting the relevant portfolio.
These include an Provisioning within Consumer Banking reects the fact that assessment of the impact of economic conditions, regulatory the product portfolios excluding medium-sized enterprises changes and portfolio characteristics such as delinquency among SME customers and private banking customers trends and early alert trends.
The methodology applies a consist of a large number of comparatively small exposures.
larger provision against accounts that are delinquent but not Mortgages are assessed for individual impairment on an yet considered impaired.
account by account basis, but for other products it is The procedures for managing problem credits for the Private impractical to monitor each delinquent loan individually and Bank and the medium-sized enterprises in the SME segment individual impairment is therefore assessed collectively.
of Consumer Banking are similar to those adopted in For the main unsecured products and loans secured by Wholesale Banking described on page 58. automobiles, the entire outstanding amount is generally Consumer Banking non-performing loans have declined written off at 150 days past due.
Unsecured consumer compared with 2010, largely due to portfolio disposals during finance loans are written off at 90 days past due.
For secured 2011 in the Other Asia Pacic region.
loans other than those secured by automobiles individual impairment provisions IIPs are generally raised at either 150 The total net impairment charge in Consumer Banking in 2011 days Mortgages or 90 days Wealth Management past due.
improved by $54 million, or 9 per cent, over 2010.
Individual impairment in the period is generally lower across all major The provisions are based on the estimated present values markets compared with 2010, with particular improvement in of future cash ows, in particular those resulting from the MESA.
In addition, net individual impairment provisions in realisation of security.
Following such realisation any remaining Other Asia Pacic have reduced as a result of the loan portfolio loan will be written off.
The days past due used to trigger sales in Malaysia and Taiwan.
write-offs and IIPs are broadly driven by past experience, which shows that once an account reaches the relevant There was a portfolio impairment release of $10 million in number of days past due, the probability of recovery other 2011 release of $85 million 2010 as portfolio performance than by realising security where appropriate is low.
For all indicators continue to show improvement in most markets.
products there are certain situations where the individual The cover ratio is a common metric used in considering trends impairment provisioning or write-off process is accelerated, in provisioning and non-performing loans.
It should be noted, such as in cases involving bankruptcy, customer fraud and as explained above, a significant proportion of the PIP is death.
Write-off and IIPs are accelerated for all restructured intended to reect losses inherent in the loan portfolio that accounts to 90days past due unsecured and automobile is less than 90 days delinquent and hence recorded as finance and 120days past due secured respectively.
This metric should be considered in conjunction Individually impaired loans for Consumer Banking will with other credit risk information including that contained on therefore not equate to those reported as non-performing on page 73. page 66, because non-performing loans include all those over 90 days past due.
This difference reects the fact that, while experience shows that an element of delinquent loans are 66 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued The following tables set out the total non-performing loans for Consumer Banking: 2011 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 48 52 194 345 72 291 28 66 1,096 1 Individual impairment provision 17 14 68 113 32 159 16 39 458 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 31 38 126 232 40 132 12 27 638 Portfolio impairment provision 434 Net non-performing loans and advances 204 Cover ratio 81% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision at 31 December 2011 reects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days 2010 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 50 47 145 395 76 342 29 89 1,173 Individual impairment provision 20 20 57 160 32 141 16 60 506 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 30 27 88 235 44 201 13 29 667 Portfolio impairment provision 451 Net non-performing loans and advances 216 Cover ratio 82% Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 67 The tables below set out the net impairment charge on loans and advances by geography: 2011 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 92 51 178 304 58 166 27 8 884 Recoveries provisions no longer required 28 23 26 179 23 52 14 5 350 Net individual impairment charge 64 28 152 125 35 114 13 3 534 Portfolio impairment provision release 10 Net impairment charge 524 2010 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 76 57 171 299 119 237 31 11 1,001 Recoveries provisions no longer required 29 19 29 166 33 45 12 5 338 Net individual impairment charge 47 38 142 133 86 192 19 6 663 Portfolio impairment provision release 85 Net impairment charge 578 Wholesale Banking Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect Loans are classied as impaired and considered of recovering a portion of an exposure against which an non-performing in line with the denition on page 64 and impairment provision has been raised, that amount will where analysis and review indicates that full payment of either be written off.
interest or principal is questionable, or as soon as payment As with Consumer Banking, a PIP is held to cover the of interest or principal is 90 days overdue.
Impaired accounts inherentrisk of losses which, although not identied, are are managed by our specialist recovery unit, GSAM, which known through experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
is separate from our main businesses.
Where any amount is In Wholesale Banking, this is set with reference to historic considered irrecoverable, an individual impairment provision lossrates and subjective factors such as the economic israised.
This provision is the difference between the loan environment and the trends in key portfolio indicators.
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future ThePIPmethodology provides for accounts for which cash ows.
an individual impairment provision has not been raised.
The individual circumstances of each customer are taken into Gross non-performing loans in Wholesale Banking account when GSAM estimates future cash ow.
All available havedecreased by $371 million, or 11 per cent, since sources, such as cash ow arising from operations, selling December 2010.
The decrease is predominantly due to assets or subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under certain large exposures and related provisions in the MESA guarantees, are considered.
In any decision relating to the region being reclassied in 2011 as they met the 180-day raising of provisions, we attempt to balance economic renegotiation policy.
conditions, local knowledge and experience, and the results ofindependent asset reviews.
68 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued The total net individual impairment charge of $333 million The cover ratio reects the extent to which gross in 2011 was marginally lower by $6 million than the charge non-performing loans are covered by individual and in 2010 $339 million as credit conditions remained portfolio impairment provisions.
The cover ratio as at relatively stable.
31 December 2011 was 58 per cent, up from 50 per cent at 31 December 2010 largely as a result of the reclassication Portfolio provisions were reduced in most markets in 2011 of the renegotiated loan in the MESA region noted on the to reect the continued good performance in the portfolio.
The balance uncovered by individual The exception to this was India, where uncertainties in specic impairment provisions represents the value of collateral sectors of the economy have led to an increase in portfolio held and the Groups estimate of the net outcome of any provision in the period.
The net portfolio impairment charge work-out strategy.
was $24 million compared with a release of $45 million in 2010.
The following tables set out the total non-performing loans to banks and customers for Wholesale Banking: 2011 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 83 18 202 773 260 1,476 146 129 3,087 1 Individual impairment provision 61 24 68 325 80 791 45 65 1,459 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 22 6 134 448 180 685 101 64 1,628 Portfolio impairment provision 328 Net non-performing loans and advances 1,300 Cover ratio 58% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision at 31 December 2011 reects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days 2010 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 111 21 305 817 272 1,707 103 122 3,458 Individual impairment provision 82 5 136 347 80 641 44 76 1,411 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 29 16 169 470 192 1,066 59 46 2,047 Portfolio impairment provision 311 Net non-performing loans and advances 1,736 Cover ratio 50% Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 69 The tables below set out the net impairment charge on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions by geography: 2011 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 19 21 36 29 40 229 8 382 Recoveries provisions no longer required 10 4 8 6 9 7 5 49 Net individual impairment charge credit 9 21 32 21 34 220 1 5 333 Portfolio impairment provision charge 24 Net loan impairment charge 357 Other credit risk provisions 27 Total impairment 384 2010 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 12 88 51 28 199 13 26 417 Recoveries provisions no longer required 14 7 23 8 7 4 15 78 Net individual impairment credit charge 2 81 28 20 192 9 11 339 Portfolio impairment provision release 45 Net loan impairment charge 294 Other credit risk provisions 11 Total impairment 305 70 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Impairment provisions on loans and advances The following table sets out the impairment provisions on loans and advances as at 31 December by each principal category of borrowers business or industry: 2011 2010 $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 137 128 Other 152 180 Small and medium enterprises 202 198 Consumer Banking 491 506 Agriculture, forestry and shing 40 42 Construction 68 57 Commerce 473 467 Electricity, gas and water 6 7 Financing, insurance and business services 167 120 Mining and quarrying 1 1 Manufacturing 551 558 Commercial real estate 24 23 Transport, storage and communication 40 23 Other 29 20 Wholesale Banking 1,399 1,318 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers note 19 1,890 1,824 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks note 18 82 93 Portfolio impairment provision note 18, 19 762 762 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances 2,734 2,679 The following table sets out the movements in individual and portfolio impairment provisions: 2011 2010 Individual Portfolio Individual Portfolio Impairment Impairment Impairment Impairment Provisions Provisions Total Provisions Provisions Total $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 1,917 762 2,679 1,985 876 2,861 Exchange translation differences 40 14 54 36 16 52 Amounts written off 957 957 1,252 1,252 Releases of acquisition fair values 10 10 27 27 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 265 265 236 236 Discount unwind 70 70 62 62 Other 1 1 New provisions 1,266 130 1,396 1,418 110 1,528 Recoveries provisions no longer required 399 116 515 416 240 656 Net impairment charge release against profit 867 14 881 1,002 130 872 Provisions held at 31 December 1,972 762 2,734 1,917 762 2,679 Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 71 Movement in individual impairment by geography The following tables set out the movements in our total individual impairment provision against loans and advances by geography: 2011 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2011 102 25 193 507 112 782 60 136 1,917 Exchange translation differences 1 1 1 20 13 4 40 Amounts written off 121 52 244 304 51 136 19 30 957 Releases of acquisition fair values 8 2 10 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 27 18 16 147 13 30 12 2 265 Discount unwind 3 1 12 16 11 23 2 2 70 New provisions 111 72 214 333 98 395 35 8 1,266 Recoveries provisions no longer required 38 23 30 187 29 61 21 10 399 Net impairment charge release against profit 73 49 184 146 69 334 14 2 867 Provisions held at 31 December 2011 78 38 136 471 112 972 61 104 1,972 2010 Asia Pacic Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2010 181 27 267 620 91 560 63 176 1,985 Exchange translation differences 2 5 28 3 4 2 4 36 Amounts written off 151 55 297 391 99 165 27 67 1,252 Releases of acquisition fair values 8 16 3 27 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 30 13 16 128 19 26 4 236 Discount unwind 3 13 18 7 17 1 3 62 Other 5 1 1 4 1 New provisions 88 57 259 350 147 436 43 38 1,418 Recoveries provisions no longer required 43 19 36 189 41 52 16 20 416 Net impairment charge against profit 45 38 223 161 106 384 27 18 1,002 Provisions held at 31 December 2010 102 25 193 507 112 782 60 136 1,917 Forbearance and other renegotiated loans new repayment schedule, payment deferrals, tenor extensions and interest only payments.
Forbearance Forbearance strategies assist customers that are temporarily The Groups impairment policy generally requires higher in financial distress and are unable to meet their original impairment charges for restructured assets than for fully contractual repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated performing assets.
A discount provision is raised if there is a by the customer, the Group or a third party including shortfall when comparing the present value of future cash ows Government sponsored programmes or a conglomerate of under the revised terms and the carrying value of the loan before credit institutions and includes debt restructuring, such as a restructuring.
Individual impairment recognition is accelerated compared with those under normal contractual policy.
72 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued In Consumer Banking excluding Medium Enterprises and Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past due Private Banking, all loans subject to forbearance in addition or impaired to other renegotiated loans are managed within a separate Renegotiated loans, which are included within forborne loans, portfolio.
If such loans subsequently become past due, that would otherwise be past due or impaired if their terms had write-off and IIP is accelerated to 90 days past due unsecured not been renegotiated were $837million 2010: $1,475 million, loans and automobile finance or 120 days past due secured $228 million 2010: $312million of which relates to Consumer loans.
The accelerated loss rates applied to this portfolio are Banking loans to customers and $609 million 2010: $1,163 derived from experience with other renegotiated loans, rather million of which relates to Wholesale Banking loans to than the Consumer Banking portfolio as a whole, to recognise customers.
Loans whose terms have been renegotiated to the greater degree of inherent risk.
include concessions that the Group would not ordinarily make will usually be classied as impaired.
Renegotiated loans that As at 31 December 2011, $708 million 2010: $747 million have not defaulted on interest or principal payments for 180 of Consumer Banking loans were subject to forbearance days, post renegotiation and against which no loss of principal programmes, which represents 0.6 per cent of total loans and is expected are excluded from non-performing loans but advances to Consumer Banking customers.
These loans were remain impaired because they are subject to discount largely concentrated in countries that have active government provisions.
Provision coverage against these loans was 16 per cent 2010: 18 per cent, Analysis of the loan portfolio reecting collateral held and expected recovery rates.
The table on page 73 sets out an analysis of the loan portfolio For Wholesale Banking and Medium Enterprise and Private between those loans that are neither past due nor impaired, Banking accounts, forbearance and other renegotiations those that are past due but not individually impaired and those are applied on a case-by-case basis and are not subject to that are individually impaired.
In some cases, a new loan Loans to banks have increased by $13.3 billion in 2011 since is granted as part of the restructure and in others, the 31 December 2010.
Most of the Groups loans to financial contractual terms and repayment of the existing loans are institutions are in the credit grade 1-5 category as we lend in changed or extended for example, interest only for a period.
the interbank market to highly rated counterparties.
Exposure These accounts are managed by GSAM even if they are not in the credit grade 6-8 category predominantly relates to trade impaired that is the present value of the new cash ows is finance business with financial institutions in our core markets.
the same or greater than the present value of the original In the Wholesale Banking corporate portfolio, the negative cash ows and are reviewed at least quarterly to assess credit grade migration observed during 2009 stabilised in and confirm the clients ability to adhere to the restructured 2010, and in 2011 the trend has been largely positive.
Accounts are also reviewed if there is a also reected in the level of early alert accounts throughout the significant event that could result in deterioration in their ability period, which remain at a low level.
Total loans to Wholesale Banking customers increased by If the terms of the restructure are such that an independent $17.3 billion, or 13 per cent, since December 2010.
As at party in the same geographic area would not be prepared 31December 2011 only 2.8 per cent of the loans are either to provide nancing on substantially the same terms and past due or individually impaired remaining stable from conditions, or where the present value of the new cash ows 31 December 2010.
The increase in loans to customers is due is lower than the present value of the original cash ows, the to increased commercial lending, corporate finance and trade loan would be considered to be impaired and at a minimum a nancing activity as Wholesale Banking deepens relationships discount provision would be raised.
These accounts are in core markets.
monitored as described on page 58.
Consumer Banking loans to customers increased by $5.1 billion, or 4 per cent, since December 2010.
The mortgage portfolio makes up 57 per cent of the Consumer Banking portfolio as at 31 December 2011, is well collateralised and has an average loan to value ratio of 49 per cent.
The proportion of past due or individually impaired loans has increased to 4.2 per cent as at 31 December 2011 compared with 3.7 per cent as at 31 December 2010, largely driven though by an increase in loans in the less than 30 days past due category.
In a high proportion of cases the overdue amounts are collected well before they reach more than 30 days past due.
The standard credit ratings used by the Group are ofasset backed securities, on which a $7 million 2010: those used by Standard & Poors or their equivalent.
Debt $22million impairment charge was taken in 2011.
The securities held that have a short-term rating are reported increase in impaired securities in 2011 is due to a bond against the long-term rating of the issuer.
For securities that investment in India arising from credit concerns around the are unrated, the Group applies an internal credit rating as issuer.
The movement in impairment provisions for securities described under Loans and advances.
classied as loans and receivables is set out in note 21 to Unrated securities primarily relate to corporate issuers.
internal credit ratings, $6,254 million 2010: $6,775 million, The above table also analyses debt securities and treasury ofthese securities are considered to be equivalent to bills that are neither past due nor impaired by external credit investment grade.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 75 Asset backed securities Total exposures to asset backed securities 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Percentage Percentage of notional Carrying of notional Carrying 1 1 value of Notional value Fair value value of Notional value Fair value portfolio $million $million $million portfolio $million $million $million Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS 32% 769 688 667 31% 844 772 740 Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs 13% 308 241 244 14% 375 278 271 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS 26% 633 488 465 27% 717 569 524 Other asset backed securities Other ABS 29% 712 679 694 28% 737 690 697 100% 2,422 2,096 2,070 100% 2,673 2,309 2,232 Of which included within: Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 6% 132 130 130 3% 86 85 85 Investment securities available-for-sale 22% 538 379 379 27% 724 499 499 Investment securities loans and receivables 72% 1,752 1,587 1,561 70% 1,863 1,725 1,648 100% 2,422 2,096 2,070 100% 2,673 2,309 2,232 1 Fair value reects the value of the entire portfolio, including assets redesignated to loans and receivables The carrying value of asset backed securities ABS represents to an impairment charge 80 per cent of the overall portfolio 0.3 per cent 2010: 0.5 per cent of our total assets.
is rated A or better, and 15 per cent of the overall portfolio is rated as AAA.
The portfolio is broadly diversied across asset The notional value of the ABS portfolio fell by approximately classes and geographies, and there is no direct exposure to $251 million during 2011 due to natural redemptions in the the US sub-prime market.
The portfolio has an average credit portfolio and some asset sales.
The difference between grade of A. carrying value and fair value of the remaining portfolio is $26million as at 31 December 2011 2010: $77 million, The Group reclassied some ABS from trading and availablebenefiting from both the redemptions and a recovery in for-sale to loans and receivables with effect from 1 July 2008. market prices incertain asset classes.
The securities were reclassied at their fair value on the date of reclassication.
Note 15 to the financial statements provides The credit quality of the asset backed securities portfolio details of the remaining balance of those assets reclassied in remains strong.
With the exception of those securities subject 2008.
No assets have been reclassied since 2008.
Financial statement impact of asset backed securities AvailableLoans and for-sale receivables Total $million $million $million 31 December 2011 Credit to available-for-sale reserves 16 16 Charge to the profit and loss account 9 7 16 31 December 2010 Credit to available-for-sale reserves 68 68 Charge to the profit and loss account 22 4 26 76 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Selected European country exposures The Group has no direct sovereign exposure as dened by The following table summarises the Groups exposure the EBA to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain GIIPS both on and off balance sheet to certain specic European and only $0.2 billion direct sovereign exposure to other countries within the eurozone that have been identied on eurozone countries.
thebasis of their higher bond yields experienced during the The Groups non-sovereign exposures to GIIPS is $3.2 billion year compared with the rest of the eurozone.
Direct gross $1.8 billion after collateral and netting.
Non-sovereign exposures represent balance sheet outstandings including exposure to other eurozone countries is $23.2 billion after any accrued interest but before provisions and positive collateral and netting, and primarily relates to France, Germany mark-to-market amounts on derivatives, before netting.
Of this, $16 billion relates to banks Exposures are assigned to a country based on incorporation including central banks and other financial institutions.
The country of the counterparty.
Group conducts stress tests around eurozone scenarios in order to assess second order impact on the portfolio and take mitigating actions.
2011 Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total Country $million $million $million $million $million $million Direct sovereign exposure Banks 5 1,143 411 121 401 2,081 Other financial institutions 752 4 16 772 Other corporate 42 47 208 23 55 375 Total gross exposure 47 1,942 623 144 472 3,228 Direct sovereign exposure Banks 1,136 29 196 1,361 Other financial institutions 4 4 Other corporate 5 43 2 50 Total collateral netting 5 1,179 35 196 1,415 Direct sovereign exposure 1 Banks 5 7 382 121 205 720 2 Other financial institutions 752 16 768 Other corporate 37 4 206 23 55 325 Total net exposure 42 763 588 144 276 1,813 1 This represents a single exposure, which is fully guaranteed by its US parent company 2 This represents a single exposure that is part of a wider structured finance transaction and is unaffected by Irish economic risk Approximately 70 per cent of the Groups gross exposures to carried at amortised cost or held off balance sheet.
The amount GIIPS relate to derivatives, and this also forms nearly all of the of gross off-balance sheet exposures included in the table exposures in Ireland.
Derivative exposures to GIIPS are primarily aboveis $1.1 billion.
The majority of the GIIPS total exposures interest rate and foreign exchange related.
Of the remaining have a tenor of less than three years.
There was no objective 30per cent, the majority represents trade-related instruments evidence of impairment in respect of these exposures as at 31December 2011.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 77 Country cross-border risk For China the increase was driven initially by banks making Country cross-border risk is the risk that we will be unable to increased use of foreign currency funding for their trade obtain payment from our customers or third parties on their finance activities and latterly by significant increases in CNY contractual obligations as a result of certain actions taken by deposits with our Hong Kong ofces that were placed with foreign governments, chiey relating to convertibility and Chinese banks.
A sizeable portion of these deposits were also transferability of foreign currency.
placed with Hong Kong banks boosting our exposure there.
The GRC is responsible for our country cross-border risk limits India cross-border exposure reects nancing of overseas and delegates the setting and management of country limits to acquisitions by Indian corporate clients and continued growth the Group Country Risk function.
The business and country chief executive ofcers manage In Indonesia there is significant growth in cross-border exposures within these limits and policies.
Countries exposure due to increased client demand for US dollar loans, designated as higher risk are subject to increased principally from local corporates.
For Singapore, increased exposure reected growth across Cross-border assets comprise loans and advances, businesses but particularly higher xed income trading and interest-bearing deposits with other banks, trade and other interbank lending.
bills, acceptances, amounts receivable under finance leases, The growth in onshore client commodity holdings in the US derivatives, certicates of deposit and other negotiable paper, has contributed signicantly to the higher cross-border investment securities and formal commitments where the exposure.
counterparty is resident in a country other than where the assets are recorded.
Cross-border assets also include Cross-border exposure to countries in which we do not have exposures to local residents denominated in currencies other asignicant presence predominantly relates to short-dated than the local currency.
Cross-border exposure also includes money market activity, and some global corporate business.
the value of commodity, aircraft and shipping assets owned Such business is originated in our footprint countries with by the Group that are held in a given country.
counterparties domiciled outside our footprint.
This explains our significant exposure in the US and Switzerland.
Our cross-border exposure to China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia and Singapore has risen signicantly over the past The table below, which is based on our internal cross-border year, reecting our business focus and continued expansion country risk reporting requirements, shows cross-border inour core countries.
outstandings where they exceed 1 per cent of total assets.
31 December 2011 31 December 2010 One year Over One year Over or less one year Total or less one year Total $million $million $million $million $million $million China 24,351 10,497 34,848 12,623 7,131 19,754 India 12,061 16,904 28,965 13,117 12,706 25,823 US 17,581 4,728 22,309 13,857 4,226 18,083 Hong Kong 16,796 4,586 21,382 12,781 5,542 18,323 Singapore 13,372 5,158 18,530 11,692 3,514 15,206 UAE 6,691 10,687 17,378 5,927 10,717 16,644 South Korea 6,931 7,138 14,069 7,488 5,846 13,334 Switzerland 4,897 3,939 8,836 3,918 2,362 6,280 Indonesia 3,949 3,395 7,344 2,782 2,231 5,013 78 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Market risk terms of exposure to a one basis point increase in yields, We recognise market risk as the potential for loss of earnings whereas foreign exchange, commodity and equity sensitivities or economic value due to adverse changes in financial market are measured in terms of the underlying values or amounts rates or prices.
Our exposure to market risk arises principally involved.
Option risks are controlled through revaluation limits from customer-driven transactions.
The objective of our on underlying price and volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk market risk policies and processes is to obtain the best and other variables that determine the options value.
balance of risk and return whilst meeting customers requirements.
Value at Risk VaR We measure the risk of losses arising from future potential The primary categories of market risk for Standard Chartered adverse movements in market rates, prices and volatilities are: using a VaR methodology.
VaR, in general, is a quantitative t interest rate risk: arising from changes in yield curves, credit measure of market risk that applies recent historical market spreads and implied volatilities on interest rate options conditions to estimate the potential future loss in market value that will not be exceeded in a set time period at a set statistical t currency exchange rate risk: arising from changes in confidence level.
VaR provides a consistent measure that exchange rates and implied volatilities on foreign exchange canbe applied across trading businesses and products over options time and can be set against actual daily trading profit and t commodity price risk: arising from changes in commodity lossoutcome.
prices and commodity option implied volatilities: covering VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum energy, precious metals, base metals and agriculture of one business day and to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
t equity price risk: arising from changes in the prices of This confidence level suggests that potential daily losses, in equities, equity indices, equity baskets and implied excess of the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced six volatilities on related options times per year.
We apply two VaR methodologies: Market risk governance The GRC approves our market risk appetite taking account t historical simulation: involves the revaluation of all existing of market volatility, the range of products and asset classes, positions to reect the effect of historically observed business volumes and transaction sizes.
Market risk changes in market risk factors on the valuation of the exposures have remained broadly stable in 2011. current portfolio.
This approach is applied for general market risk factors The Group Market Risk Committee GMRC, under authority delegated by the GRC, is responsible for setting VaR and t Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology is similar to stress loss triggers for market risk within our risk appetite.
The historical simulation but with considerably more input risk GMRC is also responsible for policies and other standards for factor observations.
These are generated by random the control of market risk and overseeing their effective sampling techniques, but the results retain the essential implementation.
These policies cover both trading and variability and correlations of historically observed risk factor non-trading books of the Group.
The trading book is dened changes.
This approach is applied for credit spread VaR as per the FSA Handbooks Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, In both methods a historical observation period of one year is Building Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU.
This is more chosen and applied.
restrictive than the broader denition within IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, as the FSA only VaR is calculated as our exposure as at the close of business, permits certain types of financial instruments or arrangements generally London time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from to be included within the trading book.
Limits by location and those reported at the end of the day.
portfolio are proposed by the businesses within the terms of agreed policy.
Back testing To assess their predictive power, VaR models are back tested Group Market Risk GMR approves the limits within delegated against actual results.
In 2011 there have been four exceptions authorities and monitors exposures against these limits.
in the regulatory back testing, compared with one in 2010.
Additional limits are placed on specic instruments and This is within the green zone applied internationally to internal position concentrations where appropriate.
Sensitivity models by bank supervisors, and implies that model reliability measures are used in addition to VaR as risk management is statistically greater than 95 per cent.
For example, interest rate sensitivity is measured in Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 79 Stress testing Regular stress test scenarios are applied to interest rates, Losses beyond the confidence interval are not captured by a credit spreads, exchange rates, commodity prices and equity VaR calculation, which therefore gives no indication of the size prices.
This covers all asset classes in the Financial Markets of unexpected losses in these situations.
GMR complements the VaR measurement by weekly stress Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared reecting specic market testing of market risk exposures to highlight the potential conditions and for particular concentrations of risk that arise riskthat may arise from extreme market events that are rare within the businesses.
Market risk changes Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk Total average VaR and Trading book average VaR in 2011 management framework and considers both historical market havedropped slightly compared with 2010.
Non-trading book events and forward-looking scenarios.
A consistent stress average VaR has risen by 10 per cent, with increased nontesting methodology is applied to trading and non-trading trading equity risk in the Private Equity portfolio.
The stress testing methodology assumes that scope Trading book, Commodities average VaR in 2011 was 16 per for management action would be limited during a stress event, cent higher than in 2010, which reects increased volatility in reecting the decrease in market liquidity that often occurs.
Foreign exchange average Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reect changes VaR, however was 23 per cent lower.
in risk prole and economic events.
The GMRC has responsibility for reviewing stress exposures and, where necessary, enforcing reductions in overall market risk exposure.
The GRC considers the results of stress tests as part of its supervision of risk appetite.
Daily value at risk VaR at 97.5%, 1 day 2011 2010 3 3 4 3 3 4 Average High Low Actual Average High Low Actual $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Trading and Non-trading 1 Interest rate risk 20.4 25.1 15.2 23.5 20.1 25.5 16.3 19.2 Foreign exchange risk 4.3 8.8 2.6 3.4 5.6 12.5 3.1 7.6 Commodity risk 2.2 3.7 1.1 1.2 1.9 4.0 0.7 3.5 Equity risk 11.2 13.9 9.0 12.7 9.5 11.3 6.9 10.7 2 Total 21.4 27.7 15.3 24.5 22.1 31.0 17.3 25.2 Trading 1 Interest rate risk 8.4 11.4 5.4 8.7 8.7 11.9 5.1 6.7 Foreign exchange risk 4.3 8.8 2.6 3.4 5.6 12.5 3.1 7.6 Commodity risk 2.2 3.7 1.1 1.2 1.9 4.0 0.7 3.5 Equity risk 1.9 3.1 1.1 1.1 1.9 2.9 1.2 1.4 2 Total 10.7 14.4 7.0 9.7 11.2 16.7 8.1 9.6 Non-trading 1 Interest rate risk 16.0 21.6 11.1 20.1 15.0 22.2 11.2 14.3 Equity risk 11.4 13.7 9.4 12.7 9.4 10.8 8.1 10.0 2 Total 19.2 25.3 11.0 22.6 17.4 23.2 13.5 16.9 1 Interest rate risk VaR includes credit spread risk arising from securities held for trading or available-for-sale 2 The total VaR shown in the tables above is not a sum of the component risks due to offsets between them 3 Highest and lowest VaR for each risk factor are independent and usually occur on different days 4 Actual one day VaR at period end date 80 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Average daily income earned from market risk related activities 2011 2010 $million $million Trading Interest rate risk 4.6 4.8 Foreign exchange risk 5.7 4.7 Commodity risk 2.0 1.3 Equity risk 0.3 0.4 Total 12.6 11.2 Non-Trading Interest rate risk 3.6 3.6 Equity risk 0.4 0.5 Total 3.2 4.1 Market risk VaR coverage Group Treasury market risk Interest rate risk from non-trading book portfolios is Group Treasury raises debt and equity capital and the transferred to Financial Markets where it is managed by local proceeds are invested within the Group as capital or placed ALM desks under the supervision of local Asset and Liability with ALM.
Interest rate risk arises due to the investment of Committees ALCO.
ALM deals in the market in approved equity and reserves into rate-sensitive assets, as well as some financial instruments in order to manage the net interest rate tenor mismatches between debt issuance and placements.
risk, subject to approved VaR and risk limits.
This risk is measured as the impact on net interest income NII of an unexpected and instantaneous adverse parallel shift in VaR and stress tests are therefore applied to these nonrates and is monitored over a rolling one-year time horizon trading book exposures except Group Treasury, see next seetable below.
column inthe same way as for the trading book, including listed available for sale securities.
Securities classed as Loans This risk is monitored and controlled by the Groups Capital and receivables or Held to maturity are not reected in VaR or Management Committee CMC.
stress tests since they are accounted on an amortised cost basis and are match funded, so market price movements NII sensitivity to parallel shifts in yield curves haveno effect on either profit and loss or reserves.
2011 2010 $million $million Foreign exchange risk on the non-trading book portfolios is 25 basis points 30.9 29.9 minimised by match funding assets and liabilities in the same currency.
Structural foreign exchange currency risks are not 25 basis points 30.9 29.9 included within Group VaR.
Equity risk relating to non-listed Private Equity and strategic Group Treasury also manages the structural foreign exchange investments is not included within the VaR.
It is separately risk that arises from non-US dollar currency net investments in managed through delegated limits for both investment and branches and subsidiaries.
The impact of foreign exchange divestment, and is also subject to regular review by an movements is taken to reserves, which form part of the capital investment committee.
These are included as Level 3 assets base.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital as disclosed in note 15 to the financial statements.
ratio is partially mitigated by the fact that both the value of these investments and the risk weighted assets in those currencies follow broadly the same exchange rate movements.
With the approval of CMC, Group Treasury may hedge the net investments if it is anticipated that the capital ratio will be materially affected by exchange rate movements.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had taken net investment hedges using a combination of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments of $1,115 million 2010: $1,112 million to partly cover its exposure to Korean won.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 81 The table below sets out the principal structural foreign Hedging exchange exposures net of investment hedges of the Group: Countries within the Group use futures, forwards, swaps and options transactions primarily to mitigate interest and foreign 2011 2010 $million $million exchange risk arising from their in-country exposures.
The Group also uses futures, forwards and options to hedge Hong Kong dollar 5,712 5,817 foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Korean won 5,316 5,266 In accounting terms under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Indian rupee 3,305 3,400 Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, hedges are classied Taiwanese dollar 2,847 2,606 into three types: fair value hedges, predominantly where xed Chinese yuan 1,993 1,420 rates of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for oating Singapore dollar 1,791 841 rates: cash ow hedges, predominantly where variable rates of Thai baht 1,514 1,495 interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for xed rates: and UAE dirham 1,490 1,343 hedges of net investments in overseas operations translated Malaysian ringgit 1,213 1,047 to the parent companys functional currency, US dollars.
Indonesian rupiah 892 882 The use of interest rate swaps for the purpose of fair value Pakistani rupee 639 614 and cash ow hedging increased in 2011 compared with Other 3,152 2,838 December 2010, as we continued to focus on liquidity 29,864 27,569 management together with an active balance sheet hedging strategy.
The notional amounts of interest rate swaps used for fair value hedges increased by $12 billion compared with An analysis has been performed on these exposures to 2010, largely due to the hedging of increased debt security assess the impact of a one per cent fall in the US dollar positions in the UK.
The notional amounts of interest rate exchange rates adjusted to incorporate the impacts of swaps used for cash ow hedging increased by $5 billion correlations of these currencies to the US dollar.
The impact compared with 2010, primarily to hedge oating rate on the positions above would be an increase of $221 million mortgages in Singapore and reecting increased time deposit 2010: $197 million.
Changes in the valuation of these growth in Hong Kong.
Forward foreign exchange contracts positions are taken to reserves.
used for cash ow hedging increased as we switched from using foreign exchange options to hedge costs.
Derivatives Derivatives are contracts with characteristics and value We may also, under certain individually approved derived from underlying financial instruments, interest and circumstances, enter into economic hedges that do not exchange rates or indices.
They include futures, forwards, qualify for IAS 39 hedge accounting treatment, and which swaps and options transactions.
Derivatives are an important are accordingly marked to market through the profit and loss risk management tool for banks and their customers because account, thereby creating an accounting asymmetry.
These they can be used to manage market price risk.
The market risk are entered into primarily to ensure that residual interest rate of derivatives is managed in essentially the same way as other and foreign exchange risks are being effectively managed.
Current economic hedge relationships include hedging the foreign exchange risk on certain debt issuances and on other Our derivative transactions are principally in instruments monetary instruments held in currencies other than US dollars.
where the mark-to-market values are readily determinable by reference to independent prices and valuation quotes.
Liquidity risk We enter into derivative contracts in the normal course of Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have sufficient business to meet customer requirements and to manage financial resources available to meet our obligations as they our exposure to uctuations in market price movements.
falldue, or can only access these financial resources at excessive cost.
Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Recognition of It is our policy to maintain adequate liquidity at all times, in all fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives geographic locations and for all currencies, and hence to be are classied as trading or held for hedging purposes.
ina position to meet obligations as they fall due.
We manage liquidity risk both on a short-term and medium-term basis.
The credit risk arising from all financial derivatives is managed Inthe short term, our focus is on ensuring that the cash ow as part of the overall lending limits to financial institutions and demands can be met where required.
In the medium term, corporate customers.
This is covered in more detail in the the focus is on ensuring that the balance sheet remains Credit risk section.
structurally sound and aligned to our strategy.
82 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued The GALCO is the responsible governing body that approves All limits are reviewed at least annually, and more frequently our liquidity management policies.
The Liquidity Management ifrequired, to ensure that they remain relevant given market Committee LMC receives authority from the GALCO and is conditions and business strategy.
Compliance with limits is responsible for setting or delegating authority to set liquidity monitored independently on a regular basis by GMR and limits and proposing liquidity risk policies.
Limit excesses are escalated and approved under country is managed by the Country ALCO within the preadelegated authority structure and reviewed by ALCO.
dened liquidity limits set by the LMC and in compliance with Excesses are also reported monthly to the LMC and GALCO, Group liquidity policies and practices and local regulatory which provide further oversight.
GMR and Group Treasury propose and oversee We have significant levels of marketable securities, including the implementation of policies and other controls relating to government securities that can be realised, repod or used the above risks.
ascollateral in the event that there is a need for liquidity in We seek to manage our liquidity prudently in all geographical a crisis.
In addition, liquidity crisis management plans are locations and for all currencies.
Exceptional market events maintained by Group and within each country, and are can impact us adversely, thereby affecting our ability to full reviewed and approved annually.
The liquidity crisis our obligations as they fall due.
The principal uncertainties management plan lays out trigger points and actions in the for liquidity risk are that customers withdraw their deposits event of a liquidity crisis to ensure that there is an effective at a substantially faster rate than expected, or that asset response by senior management.
repayments are not received on the expected maturity date.
In terms of Basel III, we already meet the requirements of To mitigate these uncertainties, our customer deposit base 100per cent for both the Net Stable Funding Ratio and the isdiversied by type and maturity.
In addition we have Liquidity Coverage Ratio, well ahead of the required contingency funding plans including a portfolio of liquid assets implementation date.
that can be realised if a liquidity stress occurs, as well as ready access to wholesale funds under normal market conditions.
Primary sources of funding A substantial portion of our assets is funded by customer Policies and procedures deposits made up of current and savings accounts and Our policy is to manage liquidity, in each country without other deposits.
These customer deposits, which are widely presumption of Group support.
Each Country ALCO is diversied by type and maturity, represent a stable source responsible for ensuring that the country is able to meet offunds.
The ALCO in each country monitors trends in the all its obligations to make payments as they fall due, and balance sheet and ensures that any concerns that might operates within the local regulations and liquidity limits impact the stability of these deposits are addressed set for the country.
The ALCO also reviews balance sheet plans to Our liquidity risk management framework requires limits to ensure that projected asset growth is matched by growth in be set for prudent liquidity management.
There are limits on: the stable funding base.
t The local and foreign currency cash ow gaps We maintain access to wholesale funding markets in all major financial centres and countries in which we operate as well as t The level of external wholesale borrowing to ensure that the to commercial paper issuance.
This seeks to ensure that we size of this funding is proportionate to the local market and have exibility around maturity transformation, have market our local operations intelligence, maintain stable funding lines and can obtain t The level of borrowing from other countries within the Group optimal pricing when we perform our interest rate risk to contain the risk of contagion from one country to another management activities.
t Commitments, both on and off balance sheet, to ensure Encumbered assets there are sufficient funds available in the event of drawdown Encumbered assets include those assets pledged or used as on these commitments collateral and primarily relate to assets pledged as collateral t The advances-to-deposits ratio to ensure that commercial in respect of repo transactions.
Details of the amount and advances are funded by stable sources and that customer types of assets pledged in relation to repo is set out in lending is funded by customer deposits note 43 to the financial statements on page 230.
Hong Kong government certicates of indebtedness included within t The amount of assets that may be funded from other assets are also considered to be encumbered as they other currencies secure the equivalent amount of Hong Kong currency notes In addition, we prescribe a liquidity stress scenario that in circulation included with other liabilities.
Taken together, includes accelerated withdrawal of deposits over a period of these encumbered assets comprise 1 per cent 2010: 1 per time.
Each country has to ensure that cash inows exceed cent of total assets.
Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 83 Liquidity metrics Liquid asset ratio We also monitor key liquidity metrics on a regular basis, This is the ratio of liquid assets to total assets.
The significant both on a country basis and in aggregate across the Group.
level of holdings of liquid assets in the balance sheet reects The key metrics are: the application of our liquidity policies and practices.
The following table shows the ratio of liquid assets to total assets: Advances-to-deposits ratio 2011 2010 This is dened as the ratio of total loans and advances % % to customers relative to total customer deposits.
A low 1 Liquid assets to total assets ratio 27.5 26.6 advances-to-deposits ratio demonstrates that customer deposits exceed customer loans resulting from emphasis 1 Liquid assets are the total of Cash less restricted balances, net unsecured interbank, treasury bills and debt securities less illiquid securities placed on generating a high level of stable funding from customers.
Liquidity analysis of the Groups balance sheet 2011 2010 $million $million Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities 1 Loans and advances to customers 268,753 246,404 This table analyses assets and liabilities into relevant maturity 2 Customer accounts 351,819 316,502 groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date as at the balance sheet date, on a discounted % % basis.
Contractual maturities do not necessarily reect actual Advances-to-deposits ratio 76.4 77.9 repayments or cash ow.
1 See note 19 to the financial statements on page 202 Within the tables below cash and balances with central banks, 2 See note 29 to the financial statements on page 212 loans and advances to banks, treasury bills and investment securities that are available-for-sale are used by the Group principally for liquidity management purposes.
See note 46 to the financial statements Behavioural maturity of financial liabilities instruments.
In practice, however, certain liability instruments As discussed on page 83, the Group seeks to manage its behave differently from their contractual terms and typically, liabilities both on a contractual and behavioural basis primarily for short-term customer accounts, extend to a longer period by matching the maturity proles of assets and liabilities.
The than their contractual maturity.
The Groups expectation of cash ows presented on page 83 reect the cash ows that when such liabilities are likely to become payable is provided will be contractually payable over the residual maturity of the inthe table below: 2011 Between Between More than Three months three months one year and five years or less and one year five years and undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 33,717 1,745 628 298 36,388 Customer accounts 139,369 57,673 125,291 29,486 351,819 Total 173,086 59,418 125,919 29,784 388,207 2010 Between Between More than Three months three months one year and five years or less and one year five years and undated Total $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 25,306 3,124 892 152 29,474 Customer accounts 130,275 49,199 113,105 23,923 316,502 Total 155,581 52,323 113,997 24,075 345,976 Operating and financial review Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 85 Financial liabilities excluding derivative financial instruments Within the More than five years and undated maturity band on an undiscounted basis are undated financial liabilities of $3,417 million 2010: $3,318 The following table analyses the contractual cash ows payable million, all of which relate to subordinated debt, on which for the Groups financial liabilities by remaining contractual interest payments are not included as this information would maturities on an undiscounted basis.
The financial liability not be meaningful.
Interest payments on these instruments balances in the table below will not agree to the balances are included within the maturities up to five years.
reported in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all contractual cash ows, on an undiscounted basis, relating to both principal and interest payments.
2011 2010 Three Between Between More than Three Between Between More than months three months one year and five years months three months one year and five years or less and one year five years and undated or less and one year five years and undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million 2 Deposits by banks 34,184 1,549 635 330 24,463 2,623 523 169 2 Customer accounts 298,211 41,538 8,151 5,954 263,081 38,288 7,644 4,488 1,2 Debt securities in issue 24,967 8,475 17,512 3,393 11,426 11,512 12,301 3,274 Subordinated liabilities and 1 other borrowed funds 166 600 4,436 18,505 205 876 3,391 24,718 Other liabilities 23,151 2,322 771 9,332 22,560 2,683 659 9,155 Total liabilities 380,679 54,484 31,505 37,514 321,735 55,982 24,518 41,804 Gross loan commitments 70,558 22,349 3,968 1,120 61,642 18,746 13,476 1,739 1 Amounts have been re-presented for 2010 2 Amounts include financial instruments held at fair value through profit and loss see note 15 to the financial statements on page 190 Derivatives financial instruments on an undiscounted basis overall contract is in an asset or liability position.
The receiving Derivative financial instruments include those net settled leg is not shown in this table and as a result the derivative derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with the amounts in this table are inated by their exclusion.
pay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether the 2011 2010 Three Between Between More than Three Between Between More than months three months one year and five years months three months one year and five years or less and one year five years and undated or less and one year five years and undated $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 352,344 272,637 169,305 24,964 285,164 187,036 126,684 21,961 86 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Risk review continued Operational risk The GRC provides Group-wide oversight on reputational risk, Operational risk is the potential for loss arising from the failure sets policy and monitors material risks.
The Group Head of of people, process or technology or the impact of external Corporate Affairs is the overall Risk Control Owner for events.
We seek to minimise our exposure to operational risk, reputational risk.
The BRC and BVC provide additional subject to cost trade-offs.
Operational risk exposures are oversight of reputational risk on behalf of the Board.
managed through a consistent set of management At the business level, the Wholesale Banking Responsibility processesthat drive risk identication, assessment, and Reputational Risk Committee and the Consumer Banking controland monitoring.
Reputational Risk Committee have responsibility for managing The Group Operational Risk Committee oversees the reputational risk in their respective businesses.
management of operational risks across the Group, At country level, the Country Head of Corporate Affairs is the supported by business, functional, and country-level Risk Control Owner of reputational risk.
It is their responsibility committees.
This formal structure of governance provides to protect our reputation in that market with the support of the the GRC with confidence that operational risks are being country management team.
The Head of Corporate Affairs proactively identied and effectively managed.
and Country Chief Executive officer must actively: Group Operational Risk is responsible for setting and t Promote awareness and application of our policies and maintaining standards for operational risk management and procedures regarding reputational risk measurement.
In addition specialist operational Risk Control Owners have responsibility for the management of operational t Encourage business and functions to take account of our risk arising from the following activities Group-wide: legal reputation in all decision-making, including dealings with processes, people management, technology management, customers and suppliers vendor management, property management, security t Implement effective in-country reporting systems to management, accounting and financial control, tax ensure they are aware of all potential issues in tandem management, corporate authorities and structure and with respective business committees regulatory compliance.
See additional information relating to regulatory compliance under Regulatory changes and t Promote effective, proactive stakeholder management compliance on page 53. through ongoing engagement Each Risk Control Owner is responsible for identifying Pension risk risks thatare material to the Group and for maintaining Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an effectivecontrol environment, which includes dening an actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension appropriate policies and procedures for approval by schemes.
Pension risk exposure is not concerned with the authorised risk committees.
financial performance of our pension schemes but is focused upon the risk to our financial position arising from our need Reputational risk to meet our pension scheme funding obligations.
The risk Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups assessment is focused on our obligations towards our franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on major pension schemes, ensuring that our funding obligation market capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a to these schemes is comfortably within our financial capacity.
negative view of the Group or its actions.
Pension risk is monitored on a quarterly basis, taking account Reputational risk could arise from the failure by the Group to of the actual variations in asset values and updated effectively mitigate the risks in its businesses including one or expectations regarding the progression of the pension more of country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory, legal or fund assets and liabilities.
It may also arise from a failure to comply The Group Pension Risk Committee is the body responsible with environmental and social standards.
Damage to the for governance of pension risk and it receives its authority Groups reputation could cause existing clients to reduce or fromGRC.
cease to do business with the Group and prospective clients to be reluctant to do business with the Group.
A failure to manage reputational risk effectively could materially affect the Groups business, results of operations and prospects.
All employees are responsible for day to day identication and management of reputational risk.
