Group overview Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 3 Our approach A strong One Bank culture Our strategic intent Our brand promise To be the worlds best international bank, Here for good, our brand promise, is a simple phrase leading the way in Asia, Africa and the MiddleEast.
We describe Here for good in the following manner.
To be here for people reects our belief in developing long-term and deep relationships with our customers and clients, and with each other.
To be here for progress captures our belief in doing the right thing, in being a force for good, in making a positive contribution to the economies and societies in which weoperate.
To be here for the long run attests to our financial performance, longevity and history.
How we deliver Our strategic pillars 1 Clear geographic focus 2 Scale positions in 3 One Bank with two 4 Customer and client on Asia, Africa and the significant local markets strong businesses actively relationships, rather than Middle East reinforcing each other aproduct driven approach We have an unequivocal We believe in combining We operate as One Bank We focus our capabilities focus on these fast growing global capabilities with local with two major businesses, around customer and client economies in which we scale.
This is becoming an Wholesale Banking and needs, rather than seeking have, or can achieve, a clear ever-stronger competitive Consumer Banking, working arapid return on products competitive advantage imperative in our markets.
supported by superior insight We want to be considered and deep local relationships.
important to the banking system in our key geographies.
5 Distinctive culture 6 Conservative and 7 Organic growth the and values disciplined on risk, primary driver for our capital and liquidity strategy and value creation Our unique culture and values We regard balance sheet We believe that organic growth are a source of significant strength as a cornerstone of our drives the greatest value creation advantage.
They reassure strategy, to build a sustainable for our shareholders.
Where customers and clients in a business and to create we cannot grow organically market where trust and ethics confidence with our customers weexplore acquisitions that have re-emerged as critical, and clients through our ability reinforce our core strategy.
underpinning our One Bank tocontinue lending in times approach, attracting talent to ofscarce liquidity.
the Group, and strengthening our relationships with stakeholders, such as regulators and governments.
