SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 26 Business review continued Fund management businesses The strong performance across the investment portfolios of the funds advised by SVGAdvisers in 2010 has continued in 2011.
The funds managed or advised by SVGAdvisers continue to perform well, with most funds reporting both increases inNAVand positive portfolio returns at the latest reporting date.
SVG Investment Managers fund performance was mixed with the strategic funds delivering positive returns despite asharp fall in smaller company valuations while the unconstrained mandates underperformed their respective indices.
Business development was positive, with theopen ended funds seeing an 88% increase in units in issue.
Further details of theCompanys fund management businesses are contained in the Chief Executives statement on page 11.
Contractual arrangements As was fully reported in a Circular to shareholders dated 24 March 2005, SVG Capital entered into arrangements with Permira which allowed SVG Capital full access to Permira IV and to its successor, Permira V. Concurrent with the arrangements, Permira subscribed for shares in the Company.
The arrangements also included an operating agreement which imposes material limits on the extent to which the Group may have investments which are not in Permira funds or Permira products.
These limits substantially prevent the Group from investing in private equity funds or products managed or advised by general partners or managers other than Permira during the term of the operating agreement.
One of the principal undertakings made by SVGCapital is that the Company will operate with the intention that no more than 20% of the gross assets and uncalled commitments of the Group will be in non-Permira funds or products subject to certain limited exceptions at the time of commitment and subject to a maximum of 25%.
The effect of the operating agreement therefore is to increase the Groups reliance on Permira and increase its concentration risk.
Subject to earlier termination, the operating agreement will terminate on the date on which the first closing of Permira V occurs if none of SVG Capital, any other member of the Group or any SVG product makes any commitment to Permira V or, if SVG Capital, any other member of the Group or any SVGproduct does so, the date of final closing of that fund.
There can be no assurance asto when Permira V will be raised.
If the first closing of Permira V has not occurred by30June 2012, the Company and Permira Holdings are each able to terminate the operating agreement by giving written notice.
A copy of the Circular to shareholders isavailable on the Companys website: www.
1 At 31 December 2011 and including subsidiary undertakings
