SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 12 Business review The Business review provides shareholders with an overview of SVG Capitals: The Groups Financial Key Investment objective and policy page12 Investment portfolio review page 17 Performance Indicators are: Key Performance Indicators page 12 15 largest underlying companies page23 1 Shareholder total return Strategy page 13 Fund management business page 26 Marketplace page 15 Contractual arrangements page 26 2.8% Financial review page 16 Risks and risk management page 27 Year to 31 December 2011 Introduction 0.9% p. a. SVG Capital is an international private equity investor and fund management business Since listing in 1996 with ofces in London, Boston and Singapore.
2 The Group invests from its own balance sheet as well as on behalf of third-party investors Net asset per share growth through funds that it manages and or advises.
At 31 December 2011, total assets and commitments under management and or advice 12.8% 1 Year to 31 December 2011 were 4.1billion, including 2.7 billion managed or advised on behalf of third-parties.
The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital appreciation by investing Since listing in 1996 principally in private equity funds that are managed or advised by Permira, a leading 1 international private equity specialist.
Source Bloomberg 2 Excluding the 31 December 2011 Directors In addition, the Company invests in private equity funds that invest in Japan, unauditedvaluation of SVG Advisers and SVGInvestment Managers NorthAmerica, Asia and the life sciences sector, and in unquoted and quoted businesses More information on non-financial KPIs are through specialist funds and co-investments alongside these funds.
The Company contained inthe Corporate social responsibility report on page 47. mayalso investin other private equity related assets and alternative asset classes.
To complement this investment objective and create capital and income for the Company, its fund management business structures, markets, manages and advises products for investment in private equity related asset classes and in public equity using private equity techniques.
Investment policy The Company invests principally in private equity funds managed or advised by Permira, which provide it with exposure to a portfolio of companies that are diversied by vintageyear, size, geography and industry sector.
Under current legislation, the Company operates so as to ensure that, at the point of acquiring or adding to its investment in any company or group, its holding in that company or group does not exceed 15.0% by value of its overall investments.
The Company has a desired average level of gearing of approximately 20.0% over time and has an absolute maximum limit on borrowings of two times its adjusted capital and reserves, as set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
1 This gure excludes SVG Capitals commitments investments in SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers managed or advised funds
