SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 15 For the immediate future, SVG Capitals investment portfolio is predominantly committed to funds managed by Permira.
However, in the medium to long term, SVGCapital proposes to evolve into a listed private equity vehicle offering investors aliquid, balanced, single point exposure to private equity, allocating capital across theasset class dependent on market conditions.
SVG Capital will look to build on itsPermira portfolio through commitments to funds managed by a limited number ofotherleading private equity managers with strong track records focused on management buyouts and in time will potentially make co-investments alongsidefunds.
A general meeting to seek shareholder approval for the proposed return of capital through a series of tender offers and a broadening of the investment objective to allowthe portfolio to evolve to include a limited number of private equity managers willbe held shortly.
Marketplace 2011 has been a year of two distinct halves.
In the first half, improving macroeconomic conditions and sentiment prevailed.
However, in the second half, a series of macroeconomic shocks, including the credit downgrade of the US and an escalating sovereign debt crisis across the Eurozone, heightened risks to the world economy and culminated in further global financial market volatility and increased uncertainty.
The private equity industry also experienced a year of two halves.
Global private equity exits reached post downturn highs in the second quarter of 2011, but activity tapered 1 offin the second half of the year with secondary activity being the dominant exit route in Europe secondary disposals increased by 43% in 2011 to 165 transactions, exceeding 2 the 154 trade sales and five IPOs.
For the time being, the IPO market remains volatile and the uncertain economic environment may impact the appetite of trade buyers looking to acquire businesses with strategic importance, despite the fact that many corporates have large amounts of un-invested cash.
Financial institutions are expected to become a major source of transactions as they respond to funding and regulatory pressures, such as Basel III and Solvency II, by selling off assets.
The availability of credit for deals is likely to become scarcer, more expensive and deal specic as collateralised loan obligations disappear from the market and banks retrench.
However, recent activity and dialogue with private equity managers suggests that some debt is available for assets of reasonable size and with strong operating performance.
The high yield bond market, despite a buoyant first half of 2011, shut down over the summer, directly impacting the renancing market, and forward visibility remains low.
While it is too early to call the long term impact and longevity of the current macroeconomic environment, private equity managers are generally exercising caution on deal ow in the near term.
The falls in global public markets have an impact on mark to market valuations of unrealised portfolio companies, however, the operating performance of many private equity backed companies has held up.
With capital structures stabilised and renancing risks reduced, these companies are better positioned to counter the economic and financial headwinds and, additionally, this prevailing environment might throw up opportunities for the asset class.
1 Preqin press release: Private Equity Exits in the Doldrums, 15 December 2011 2 Centre for Management Buy-out Research as featured in the Financial Times : Private equity secondary deals hit landmark, Daniel Schfer, 22 January 2012 Business review
