SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 13 Strategy Investing in international private equity The Companys core investment focus is on international private equity.
Diversication The majority of the Companys investments are focused on one manager, Permira, aninternational private equity specialist.
Information on the Companys investment portfolio, including the diversication of its underlying assets by vintage year, size, geography and industry sector is contained in the investment portfolio review on pages17 to 22 and on page 3.
Building a successful fund management business SVG Capitals fund management businesses, SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers, structure, market, manage and advise products for investment in private equity and public equity using private equity techniques.
SVG Advisers SVG Advisers Limited SVGA is a specialist private equity fund management and advisory business.
It was established in 2001 to provide investors with innovative ways to access the private equity asset class.
SVGA has a strong track record of delivering private equity solutions for international investors and has funds and commitments under management and advice of 1 3.7billion.
It advises eight diversied private equity funds of funds and five singlemanager funds, providing investors with tailored access to private equity.
SVGA has ofces in London, Boston and Singapore, offering on the ground access tomajor private equity markets.
It employs over 45 professionals across a broad range ofcomplementary disciplines.
Investment SVGA has a long, proven track record in selecting private equity funds with high performance potential.
This is delivered through SVGAs robust investment process and expertise in portfolio construction, asset allocation and manager selection.
Over time SVGAs investment professionals have developed deep knowledge of the private equity universe and built extensive relationships, providing clients with discerning access to a global network of managers.
The investment team focuses mainly on US, European and Asian primary and secondary private equity opportunities.
In addition, SVGA also advises the SVG Capital Board on its investment portfolio.
Structuring and risk management SVGAs investment offering is complemented by legal and corporate finance capabilities.
SVGA has structured a number of innovative products to address investors specic investment requirements or constraints.
This has included structuring the first private equity collateralised fund obligation and a number of feeder vehicles which have provided investors with an alternative access route to single manager funds.
Effective risk management is critical to delivering an attractive return at an acceptable level of risk.
SVGAs corporate finance function has extensive experience in optimising investment portfolios with their nancing.
This optimisation is incorporated into the design and construction of investment vehicles and in their ongoing management.
Investment and advisory solutions In addition to providing clients with access to private equity investment vehicles, SVGAprovides clients with bespoke advice using its private equity, structuring and risk management capabilities.
1 At 31 December 2011 and including subsidiary undertakings Business review SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 14 Business review continued SVG Investment Managers SVG Investment Managers SVGIM is a London based specialist fund manager, created with the objective of adopting private equity investment techniques and adapting them for use in the public markets.
Established in 2002, SVGIM is one of Europes longest standing investors in this eld.
It has a proven track record of disciplined and responsible 1 investing with assets under management of over 200.0 million.
SVGIM offers two investment strategies that follow the same distinctive investment process and are driven by a single research platform.
These strategies are available to investors via specic funds and to certain types of investors as segregated mandates: Unconstrained mandates These mandates invest in the equity of publicly listed companies where private equity based research indicates they are undervalued and where SVGIM have identied a specic catalyst that should lead to an increase in shareholder value.
These are focused portfolios typically made up of 25-35 holdings, offering full liquidity and transparency.
Strategic mandates For the strategic mandates SVGIM employs a philosophy of constructive corporate engagement.
These mandates invest in publicly listed companies where it has identied strategic, operational or management initiatives to create shareholder value.
Having done so SVGIM aims to increase the value of these companies by working in partnership with management and other stakeholders.
Strategic update Since 2009, SVG Capitals management team has focused on strengthening the balancesheet through a proactive approach to managing both assets and liabilities which has included the sale of non-core assets, buy-backs of debt and equity and targeted investments around existing products.
Over the same period the investment 2 portfolio has delivered a total return of 57% as Permira and the underlying portfolio company management teams have worked to protect, improve and realise equity valuefor investors.
SVG Capital now has a signicantly strengthened balance sheet with increased exibility and intends to take advantage of opportunities to enhance shareholder value.
The Board remains focused on improving shareholder returns and will allocate capital with the over-riding objective of maximising value for shareholders.
This may be by improving the capital structure through deleveraging, making new investments in private equity or returning capital to shareholders via on market share buy-backs and tender offers.
In the short term, the Board believes that shareholder returns can be maximised by returning capital to shareholders and proposes to return up to 170 million, through aseries of market buy-backs and tender offers, reecting the Boards commitment to shareholders in 2009 to offer a choice between reinvestment and a return of capital.
Key to any further investment considerations will be an appropriate balance of risk and return, maintaining a conservative balance sheet and ensuring a strong alignment between investment and nancing strategies.
In order to achieve these objectives, exibility in the management of SVG Capitals cash ows is important.
This exibility isdifcult to achieve through the current concentrated, single manager fund of funds investment strategy.
