Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 15 Directors report: Governance Board of Directors Lord Harris of Peckham 68 Baroness Noakes 62 Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Lord Harris is now in his 54th year in carpet retailing and is one of Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, joined the Board in 2001. the best known names in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief She is a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent plc and a trustee of Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 until the company the Thomson-Reuters Founders Share Company.
Previously she was taken over in 1988.
Lord Harris is a Non-Executive Director of was with KPMG for 30 years and was the Senior Non-Executive Arsenal Holdings plc and Arsenal Football Club plc.
He was a NonDirector of the Bank of England and a Non-Executive Director of Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc for 18 years until Hanson plc and ICI plc.
Baroness Noakes chairs the Audit and July 2004 and was a Non-Executive Director of Matalan Plc for Nomination Committees and is the Senior Independent Director.
Guy Weston 50 Non-Executive Director Martin Harris 42 Guy Weston joined the Board in 2005.
Guy began his career as a Group Commercial Director management tutor and business analyst before entering the food Martin Harris took up his current role as Group Commercial and beverage industry, working for R Twining & Co. Jacksons of Director in 2003 and is responsible for Marketing, Buying and Piccadilly and The Ryvita Company.
Currently Guy is Chairman Logistics, the latter being added in 2005.
Martin first joined of Heals plc and Wittington Investments Ltd, a Director of the Carpetright in 1991, previously having been an Executive Director Thrombosis Research Institute and a Trustee of the Garfield Weston of Harveys Furnishing Group Limited.
Guy Weston chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Director in 1997, resigning to become a Non-Executive Director in 1998 before returning to the full Executive Director position Alan Dickinson 60 of Buying Director in 2002.
Non-Executive Director Neil Page 48 Alan Dickinson joined the Board in October 2010.
He spent more than Group Finance Director 35 years in banking and is a former Executive Committee member of Neil Page joined Carpetright in July 2008 as Group Finance the RBS Group and Chief Executive of both RBS UK and the banks Director.
Neil began his career with British Rail and Marks and UK Corporate Banking business.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Spencer.
He joined Superdrug in 1991, holding a variety of finance of the Nationwide Building Society.
and operational positions before taking up the role of Finance and IT Director for AS Watson Health & Beauty UK Ltd in July 2002.
Sandra Turner 58 He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Non-Executive Director Sandra Turner joined the Board in October 2010.
She spent 21 years Claire Balmforth 43 at Tesco and was part of its senior management team, holding senior Operations Director UK commercial and operational roles in the UK and Ireland.
From 2003 Claire Balmforth joined Carpetright in 2006 as Group HR Director to 2009 she was the Commercial Director of Tesco Ireland.
She is a and was appointed to the board in May 2011, becoming responsible Non-Executive Director of Huhtamki Oyj and was previously a for the UK trading operations in June 2011.
She has worked in many Non-Executive Director of Northern Foods plc.
retail businesses including Tesco and Boots.
She also has experience in the B2B sector with RAC plc and has held a variety of HR and general management operational roles.
She has an MBA from Ashridge Business School.
Andy Corden 47 Operations Director Europe Andy Corden joined Carpetright in 1994, and has been responsible for the Companys European operations since 2008 having previously been Sales Director since the Companys expansion into Europe in 2002.
He was appointed to the board in June 2011 with responsibility for the European operations, which currently include The Netherlands, Belgium and the Republic of Ireland.
Andy has 23 years of retail experience in the home furnishings market and has previous experience in both the grocery and DIY sectors.
