Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 5 Directors report: Busi ness review The Directors present their Annual Report to the shareholders together with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2011.
This report, together with the Chairmans Statement, describes the results and activity for the period, future plans, trends and factors affecting the development, position and performance of the business.
Principal activities Business objective and strategies Carpetright plc is Europes leading specialist floor The primary financial objective of the Group is to covering retailer, selling a wide range of carpets, deliver long term sustainable growth in earnings rugs, vinyls and laminates together with associated per share and cash flow.
We aim to achieve this accessories.
In addition, the product offering was through the following strategies: extended to selling beds in the UK following the Primarily Focusing on Floor Coverings acquisition of Sleepright in December 2008.
To ensure we continually improve and develop our product ranges to provide consumers with a market leading product choice which The Group trades from 679 stores organised and offers great value, backed up by excellent customer service.
managed in two geographical segments.
These Developing a Competitive Bed Proposition are the UK & RoI comprising the UK and the To grow the sales of beds and associated products, following Republic of Ireland and the Rest of Europe the same principles of choice, value and service.
comprising The Netherlands and Belgium.
Managing our Store Portfolio To manage our store base to continually exploit opportunities which deliver better overall profitability.
Expanding into European Countries To identify and pursue opportunities to grow Group profitability by extending the brand strengths across Europe.
Reaching more Customers through Additional Channels To extend the reach of Carpetrights brand by growing sales through the insurance replacement market and developing our online business.
We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, employees and the communities in which we operate.
Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is available at www.
uk, with a summary of our approach on pages 13 and 14 of this report.
