223791 TempleBarAR pg 01-15 22 02 2012 18:42 Page 2 Active investment working for you Directors John Reeve June fide Moller John Reeve, Chairman, was appointed a director in 1992.
He June fide Moller was appointed a director in 2005.
She is a was formerly executive chairman of the Willis Group, group non-executive director of Derwent London PLC and a managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society and a former managing director of Carlton Communications PLC.
member of the boards of the Association of British Insurers She was previously a non-executive director of J Sainsbury and the International Insurance Society.
He is a director of PLC, Cookson Group PLC and BT PLC.
Martin Riley Arthur Copple Martin Riley was appointed a director in 2004.
Arthur Copple was appointed a director in February 2011.
He He had 30 years experience in stockbroking and fund has specialised in the investment company sector for over management in the City and is a former director of 30 years.
He was a partner at Kitcat & Aitken, an executive Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and director of Smith New Court PLC and a managing director Barlows PLC.
He is currently chairman of SR Europe of Merrill Lynch.
Currently, he acts as an adviser to Investment Trust PLC and Howard Investment Company Ltd investment management groups and is a director of a and a director of various private investment companies.
David Webster Richard Jewson David Webster was appointed a director in 2009.
His career Richard Jewson was appointed a director in 2001.
He first started in corporate finance at Samuel Montagu before worked in the timber and building material supply industry, becoming a founder and subsequently chairman of Safeway becoming managing director of Jewson, the builders PLC from which he retired in 2004.
He is currently chairman merchants, for twelve years from 1974, and then managing of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC and a non-executive director and chairman of its parent company Meyer director of Amadeus IT Holdings SA.
He has a wide range of International PLC from which he retired in 1993.
He is other business interests including membership of the currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited and Archant Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
Limited, and a non-executive director of Grafton Group PLC He was previously a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier and other private companies.
All the directors are independent and members of the audit and nomination committees.
Below, left to right: John Reeve, Martin Riley, June fide Moller.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
Bottom, left to right: Richard Jewson, David Webster, Arthur Copple.
2 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
