223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 16 Active investment working for you Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year income and capital to achieve a long-term total return ended 31 December 2011. greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through investment primarily in UK securities.
The Groups policy is BUSINESS REVIEW to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the Introduction majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of This business review forms part of the Report of the the FTSE 100 Index.
Its function is to provide a balanced and The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly comprehensive review of the Groups performance and invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional development during the year and its position at the year-end.
positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 10% The review also covers the principal risks and uncertainties of the portfolio may be held in listed international equities faced by the Group and sets out key performance in developed economies.
The Group may continue to hold indicators used to measure, monitor and manage the securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager Groups business.
considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated in of 10% on individual stocks with a maximum exposure to a 1926 with the registered number 214601. specific industrial or commercial sector of 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings in the benchmark Business of the Group index.
The Group carries on business as an investment company It is the Groups policy to invest no more than 15% of under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and was its gross assets in other listed investment companies approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment including listed investment trusts.
trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation The Group maintains a diversified portfolio of Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 December 2010, subject investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but to any further enquiry by HMRC.
In the opinion of the without restricting the Group from holding a more or less directors the Group has subsequently conducted its affairs concentrated portfolio from time to time as circumstances so that it should continue to qualify.
The Groups principal business activity of investment The Groups long-term investment strategy emphasises: management is sub-contracted to Investec Asset Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of Management Limited IAM under the ultimate that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
supervision of the board of directors.
The Group has one Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose wholly owned subsidiary company, whose principal share prices do not match the Managers assessment of business is investment dealing: this company is currently their longer term value.
From time to time fixed interest holdings or non equity A review of the business is given in the Chairmans interests may be held on an opportunistic basis.
Statement and the Managers Report.
The results of the Derivative instruments are not normally used but in Group are shown on page 28. certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of the Board, their use may be considered either for hedging Going concern purposes or to exploit a specific investment opportunity.
The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of accounting for the Group.
The Groups assets consist increasing returns to shareholders.
The Groups gearing substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in range total gross assets divided by total net assets may most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
fluctuate between 75% and 130%, based on the current The use of the going concern basis of accounting is balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of 150%.
appropriate because there are no material uncertainties As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the related to events or conditions that may cast significant portfolio should be reasonably fully invested.
An doubt about the ability of the Group to continue as a going investment level of 90% of shareholder funds is regarded concern.
After making enquiries, the directors have a as a guideline minimum investment level dependent on reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate market conditions.
resources to continue in operational existence for the Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, foreseeable future, including recourse to a 25 million investment limits set by the Board and appropriate overdraft facility with HSBC Bank.
Accordingly, the directors financial and other controls relating to the administration continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the of assets.
Investment approach Investment objective and policy The investment approach of our Manager is premised on a The Groups investment objective is to provide growth in contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, 16 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
