223791 TempleBarAR pg 01-15 22 02 2012 18:42 Page 7 Active investment working for you Managers report years, we believed there was a With our worries about their longsignificant probability that banking term financing and potentially profitability would revert to the levels misleading valuations churning of pre-bubble years.
We also thought around in our minds, we felt the best that banks needed to wean themselves place for investment decisions for the off financing via governments and UK centric banks was in what Warren feckless financial institutions and Buffett has called the too hard box.
return to the more reliable source of We have written many times retail customer deposits.
However, this before on mining stocks.
The shares transition was risky, with a realistic still discount commodity prices much worst-case scenario of failure and higher than those which have nationalisation shrinking to prevailed over the last few decades.
greatness was not an easy option.
As The bulls have justified these higher the duration of the restructuring prices claiming that demand for the process was clarified, many investors commodities from developing joined us on the sidelines and the economies, and in particular China, shares fell significantly.
This supposition During the year, some extrapolates demand levels of recent commentators suggested that the years a time when infrastructure Sometimes, just one or two key negative risks were sufficiently spend has been very high.
We began, decisions make or break performance discounted in the valuations of bank and ended, the year concerned that if over a twelve month period, although shares, particularly when comparing this extrapolation proved inaccurate, obviously that is only clear at the their market capitalisations to their it could lead to significantly lower year end.
Last year was a case in net assets.
Although this valuation commodity and share prices.
point, as our avoidance of UK listed was optically attractive, it tended to mining stocks and all bank shares, over-sanitize the discussion as the net other than HSBC, was primarily assets of a bank are the difference responsible for the portfolios positive between two huge numbers: the gross relative performance.
assets its loans and investments a It would be pushing the truth to very hard number to pin down during claim that we had expected bank an economic malaise and its gross shares to continue unwinding as liabilities deposits and bonds which aggressively as they did.
In recent are more certain.
Our avoidance of UK listed mining stocks and all bank shares, other than HSBC, was primarily responsible for the portfolios positive relative performance.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 7 223791 TempleBarAR pg 01-15 22 02 2012 18:42 Page 8 Active investment working for you Managers report continued Unfortunately, catching falling Unfortunately, catching falling knives was a knives was a reasonably fruitless activity in 2011.
In fact, many of the reasonably fruitless activity in 2011.
Many of worst market performers in 2010 the worst market performers in 2010 were were once again poor last year.
As contrarian investors, we must once again poor last year.
question whether anything has occurred to adversely affect our style of investing in out of favour shares.
Experience has taught us that although there are clear long-term benefits to contrarian investing, some divide between the various many forecasts of technological shares do stay out of favour for years.
In weaker times, the progress made by even the most This is possibly one of the greatest battle for turnover remains intense fervent analysts in the late 1990s risks of the purest forms of contrarian and the weaker players struggle to were insufficiently bullish.
Too great an exposure to recover their poise.
This is even has developed extraordinarily quickly these losers, often through a large tougher if financing opportunities are in the intervening period and, in the position in a sector or industry, can scarce, as turnarounds typically process, destroyed a number of produce lumpy returns an require the support and patience of business models which had endured unattractive characteristic in many banks.
To take just one example, for many decades.
For example, investors eyes regardless of the long Dixons Retail has refurbished its UK regional newspapers an area where term returns.
Over the years we have, stores Currys and PC World and rewe continue to embarrass ourselves to a certain extent, flattened this trained its staff, but the process has appear to have lost their pricing lumpiness by diversifying across a been hampered by the debt burden it power in recruitment and classified number of stocks and sectors.
Despite most independent advertising to on-line competitors.
It In our view, some rules of commentators reacting positively to appears very unlikely that former engagement have, however, changed the changes at Dixons Retail, its glories such as these will be revived.
The first is the influence market share has continued to fall as Each generation probably believes of the economic and financial competitor intensity from Amazon, that the changes it experiences are backdrop.
Company turnarounds are John Lewis and superstores has more significant and wider-reaching most straightforward when economic increased in a declining market.
However, the effect of conditions are sound: there is simply The second noteworthy change is recent changes in technology on more turnover within an industry to technological.
It is interesting that companies in retailing, media and Portfolio distribution % Temple Bar FTSE All-Share portfolio Index %% Health Care 15.72 8.01 Industrial Goods & Services 12.39 7.27 Telecommunications 9.73 6.52 Oil & Gas 9.48 18.92 Food & Beverage 8.08 6.00 Personal & Household Goods 7.86 7.20 Retail 7.73 4.21 Banks 6.53 9.25 Real Estate 3.46 1.58 Construction & Materials 3.17 0.75 Utilities 2.19 3.93 Technology 1.33 1.45 Basic Resources 1.28 10.64 Travel & Leisure 1.01 2.52 Media 0.92 2.76 Chemicals 0.14 0.56 Automobiles & Parts 0.17 Insurance 3.64 Financial Services 4.62 Total equities 91.02 100.00 Cash & Fixed Interest 8.98 Total 100.00 100.00 8 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 223791 TempleBarAR pg 01-15 22 02 2012 18:42 Page 9 Active investment working for you Managers report continued even technology industries in lost are much harder to regain.
This is It is rather liberating to have particular, certainly suggests this particularly so when there are few written so much without reference to claim currently has some credibility.
barriers to entry and brands can be the ongoing economic crisis in So how should a contrarian built very quickly.
That omission is easily investor respond if conditions are less interesting to see how quickly justified.
We have no meaningful propitious?
We have always warned aggregators such as Confused.
com analysis to add to the vast output of against catching all falling knives and and Compare The Market have built the supposed experts.
Our approach have constantly made detailed brands and won large market shares to fund management is to focus on analysis of the balance sheet of each in the motor insurance market.
areas in which we believe we hold a potential investment we investigate.
Similarly, supermarkets have built competitive advantage.
We certainly In the absence of long-term substantial market shares in many have no such claim in European financing, a weakly capitalised non-food related products over the economic and currency analysis, and company must recover quickly.
To make matters worse, even if we did, would struggle to prefer to, where possible, minimise they have been comfortable to sell profitably use our knowledge.
the balance sheet in our concerns so products as loss leaders, thus However, the current shenanigans that the companies we own have as dragging down overall industry clearly have moved share prices and much time as possible to profitability as price competition underperforming stocks may fall into manufacture a turnaround.
our laps as a result of extreme In addition to a sound balance It is also revealing to consider economic fears.
When this occurs, we sheet not just at the point of barriers to exit.
If a company finds it study the valuation of the affected analysis, but most importantly under too expensive to leave an industry shares and endeavour to determine a number of alternative scenarios of because of, for example, onerous how poor a future they discount.
the future there are a number of lease payments, it may be forced to Sometimes they envisage an abysmal other indicators that we believe can remain in the market and thus reduce future and make no allowance for help to slightly improve our hit rate the returns for other profitable positive surprises.
The low valuation, when we purchase out of favour competitors.
therefore, provides us with a margin stocks.
Few of these considerations are of safety an absolute essential for The quantum of companies clear cut.
Industry dynamics can all value investors.
The negative issues operational underperformance can change, even following stability over which have been discounted are not vary across industries.
In some many decades, and share prices can always economic: they can represent industries, particularly where move quickly to discount a new era.
the markets views on the incumbent companies have established brands, As a rule of thumb, we now prefer to management team, the potential for market shares are reasonably stable search for underperforming structural decline in the industry or and declines can be relatively slow.
companies in industries in which simply a high level of existing However, in other industries, market shares move slowly and competition for the company.
particularly those more fashion reasonable barriers to entry exist and Provided we believe these negatives related or commoditised, market we are ever more diligent in our have been very well discounted, we shares are more volatile and once balance sheet analysis.
are comfortable taking a view against the consensus.
Technology has developed extraordinarily quickly in the intervening period and, in the process, destroyed a number of business models which had endured for many decades.
Investors that errors are made.
Although it is a We have completed a detailed lost heart as building activity in fund management clich and analysis of our decision to purchase western economies remained weak.
requires no end of simplifying Cable & Wireless to search for any We added to our positions as the assumptions a career hit rate of mistakes we made, but do not have shares discounted an indefinite 60% successful ideas to 40% precise conclusions.
We have continuation of the current bleak unsuccessful ideas is probably considered whether we asked too conditions.
Construction related sufficient to keep a fund manager much of the capital expenditure activity is now very low and surely gainfully employed.
A pleasant sidehungry telecommunications market must ultimately recover.
The effect of this rather sobering statistic or whether we under-estimated the companies balance sheets are strong is that one can talk openly about significant change from voice to data enough to withstand the current mistakes and learn from them in the fast-moving trading malaise and when the good without excessive embarrassment or telecommunications industry see the times return we think much higher risk of legal redress.
Not all earlier comments on market levels of profitability can be generated.
professions are similarly structured instability.
We also considered the Avon Products disappointed and this possibly acts as a brake on possibility that the company was run throughout the year as earnings were self-improvement in those areas.
poorly, focusing on short-term share continually shy of analysts forecasts.
Cable & Wireless Worldwide price performance at the cost of Although the company management proved to be our costliest investment productive long-term investment preferred to blame this on decision during the year.
We although capital expenditure has competition in the Brazilian and US purchased the shares following their been high, much appears to have markets, our belief is that the separation from Cable & Wireless been wasted.
Probably the largest company has scored a number of Communications.
Our thesis was that error we made was to assume a own-goals and consequently its the second largest player in the UK successful turnaround for the margins are well below that of its corporate telecommunications company despite its reputation as a closest competitors.
A new Chief market was finally turning a corner perennial disappointer.
Given our Financial Officer has been appointed and would soon generate increased time again, we may have waited for and will soon be joined by a new profitability and cash.
However, the greater proof that this time really was Chief Executive.
We hope this could recovery did not materialise and different.
presage a turnaround in the profit warnings, admissions of underOur exposure to builders companys fortunes.
focus on areas in which we believe we hold a Over the last few years we have, therefore, found few new ideas in competitive advantage.
We certainly have no which to invest.
Our 2011 vintage Carrefour, Reed Elsevier, Independent such claim in European economic and News & Media, Cable & Wireless and currency analysis, and even if we did, would CRH has had a disappointing start, but our average holding period is struggle to profitably use our knowledge.
approximately five years so it may be too early to judge most of these As indicated earlier in this report, a It is always challenging to investments.
Patience remains key primary reason for the portfolios characterise a portfolio which is built and we will, as always, adhere closely outperformance versus its benchmark, from the bottom-up with no regard to our investment principles, the FTSE All-Share Index, during the to economic outlook.
The portfolio preferring to sit on our hands and year was the avoidance of a number maintains a mix of two types of acting only when we see the most of stocks.
The absence of Lloyds stock.
Firstly, defensive holdings exciting investment opportunities.
Banking Group, Barclays Bank, Rio those stocks relatively insensitive to Tinto, Anglo American, BHP Billiton the vagaries of the economic cycle and Xstrata proved particularly such as those from the positive.
Of stocks owned, the pharmaceutical, tobacco and food exposure to pharmaceutical manufacturing sectors and secondly, a Alastair Mundy companies GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer number of companies we describe as For Investec Asset Management Limited and AstraZeneca was a benefit: the quality growth cyclicals: companies 22 February 2012 companies strong balance sheets and with good long term growth low valuations were finally noticed by prospects, but whose growth, due to investors eager to avoid nasty the nature of their business, will surprises.
Unilever also continued to come in fits and starts rather than in perform well as the turnaround story a straight line.
appeared to be working better than As was the case a year ago we its previous attempts.
believe investors are assuming the Overall, activity on the portfolio current elevated levels of corporate was, as in previous years, fairly low profitability are sustainable, or are and mostly consisted of adding to even likely to grow further.
While this existing holdings such as Avon may be the case, we believe it Products, Grafton Group, HSBC, represents a long odds bet and Qinetiq, C&C and GlaxoSmithKline.
instead prefer to assume profitability The largest disposals, BP, Paddy will revert to more normal levels.
Power, Filtrona, Invensys and Drax Many commentators read the high were in the first half of the year and levels of corporate profitability as an comprehensively covered in the unalloyed positive, but an alternative interim report.
The only sizeable sale view is to consider it as just one side in the second half of the year was of of a coin.
On the other, are low SSE, the electricity generator and interest rates, low tax rates and low supplier.
Despite its defensive labour costs some important characteristics we saw no great merit factors that have helped profits to in a business model which requires boom.
With all of these variables at increased levels of indebtedness to historically low levels, we believe the maintain dividend payments.
risks are asymmetrical and, therefore, Overall, activity on the portfolio was, as in previous years, fairly low and mostly consisted of adding to existing holdings Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11
