THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Chris Turner MRICS Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class Market indices show that European commercial property Property shares did well overall, outperforming both the markets have continued to recover slowly throughout the All Share and the Dow Jones Stoxx 600, and this despite property regularly featuring as the least favoured sector of last twelve months.
What the indices fail to show is the the Stock Market in surveys of generalist investors over the extreme polarity of the market.
It has been a year when last twelve months.
Nevertheless, pricing followed the good property rose in value and poor property declined in volatility of the markets, oscillating on macro fears.
The a manner similar in some ways to the changes in the Greek crisis last May and the Irish crisis last November saw health of European economies.
For investors, the principal sharp price declines while better than expected economic motives remain the desire for stable income and the fear numbers and central bank action to hold down interest of inflation: their principal concerns have been weak rates were the factors principally underlying two prolonged occupational demand, the threat of rising interest rates rallies in the late summer and again in early spring this and the lack of finance.
The current definition of what is year.
For the Sector, the latter rally also reflected increased good or poor, or prime and secondary, in market parlance, concern over inflation, principally in the UK.
still depends principally on the length and security of the income stream.
Only in a few locations, Central London Within the sector, individual price performances generally and Central Paris in particular, has the market yet broken mirrored variations in the vibrancy of specific property out of its recessionary nervousness, and it has done so markets.
Balance sheet ratios were generally in order by there because tenant demand has become sufficiently last spring, and the number of seriously sick companies consistent and predictable that it has now reduced diminished further thanks to rights issues and share vacancy rates to a point where effective rental growth placings.
There were very few mergers or acquisitions.
Stocks with high dividend yields did not noticeably outperform as they had in 2009.
Small and mid-cap The slow pace of the recovery in economic strength stocks again outperformed, so that Sigmas benchmark continued to dominate the property investment outlook.
outpaced the Ordinary Share benchmark for the second The timing of the return of broad based growth in year running.
employment and consumer confidence remains the chief indicator of future performance.
There have been Property Investment Markets positives for the market since last summer.
The threat of a It was a year of big contrasts in the investment market double dip recession across Europe has receded.
caused principally by strong investor demand for high Germany and Sweden are much stronger than a year ago.
quality assets and, conversely, at the secondary level, by A massive amount of globally based equity capital has the lack of tenant demand and the availability of fresh been invested, especially in London, and the signs are debt finance.
As a result the yield gap between prime and that more is yet to be spent.
Fears that the banks would secondary is very wide.
Prime values have risen more withdraw support from the asset class so fast as to sharply than expected in many locations due to precipitate a run on values have not materialised.
More improvements in tenant demand, the weight of cash and more it seems to us that this debt burden is a awaiting investment and a dearth of decent available banking nightmare and not a threat to the future value of stock.
By contrast there has been relatively little most real estate.
investment activity at the bottom end of the market.
10 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued Swathes of secondary shopping centres, office buildings general rule if residential prices are rising in a city, then commercial property values will be as well.
Thus Paris and industrial buildings, vacant or part let, litter the edges and Stockholm offices led the way, with double digit of towns and motorways across the UK and Europe.
As most leases in Europe are for five years or have These are properties that tend to be burdened with bank a tenants right to break at the third or fifth year, debt and their current value is often hard to assess.
They investment demand also followed tenant demand.
As the appear to have little chance of seeing any immediate year progressed the strength of the German economic recovery in price.
recovery resulted in a wave of interest for retail and UK residential investments there.
The German office and The UK investment market last year was just the tale of industrial markets remain patchier.
Across the Continent, one city.
London totally dominated in terms of turnover high quality retail was rarely offered, and sold very well in and value growth.
Almost every property offered there, most locations.
Italian property continued to attract whether occupied or vacant, attracted multiple bids and private domestic investors.
Spanish, Greek and Irish sold for more than expected.
Yields fell, actual and property fell in value.
Elsewhere, in those European estimated rental values rose.
Demand was fully countries with high vacancy problems notably the international with overseas private investors, wealthy Netherlands and Belgium office markets remained soft family offices and sovereign wealth funds dominant.
UK and values did not improve.
buyers were in a definite minority and UK investors and Rental Values the banks were the most prominent sellers.
The causes of all this bullishness were three-fold.
Firstly there was rental Offices growth both in the office and retail sector as vacancy In a select number of capital cities occupier demand has rates fell.
Secondly there is the prospect of further rental recovered sufficiently to promote a return to rental growth, thanks to the dearth of new development.
These locations aside, most office markets across London continues to be a most sought after location for the UK and Europe remain becalmed with high vacancy the worlds richest.
The rise in commercial values mirrored giving tenants the upper hand in rental deals.
We will start the growth in Londons prime residential values: indeed with the positive news.
In our last two background reports in the West End, conversion of office space to higher we have noted a recovery in demand and the decline in value residential is now serving to reduce the available vacancy rates in certain capital cities, in particular London, commercial stock, so reinforcing the decline in vacancy.
Paris, Stockholm, Warsaw, Oslo and Geneva.
In these cities markets have continued to improve, but the list has Outside London the market has been much less buoyant.
For the most part international investors did not stray London remains the most strongly recovering market due outside the capital.
Some good prices were achieved for to a combination of factors, of which the foremost is its the best located and let property, but prime yields were status as a global financial and trading centre, so that generally unchanged for most of the year and rental values demand for space is not linked purely to either the often drifted downwards.
Much of the buying interest was domestic or the Continental economy.
London is short of from opportunists hunting for decent buildings that are top quality new space, thanks to the paucity of part empty and offered by a seller under pressure from a development starts in the last four years, and has a lease lender.
Except in the core of the major UK regional cities, expiry profile that implies strong relocation demand over office markets continue to look sickly.
Investors are well the next four years particularly in the City.
Furthermore, in aware that the Governments austerity package is in its the West End, where the market is at its strongest, infancy in terms of job losses and will be affecting both residential values are now so high that it is financially demand and supply for the next three years in many rewarding to convert quality office space into flats so regional towns.
Even in the more prosperous South East reducing the total stock and the vacancy rate still further.
the weak state of investor demand for out of town offices West End vacancy is now variously reported at between does not seem to have improved at all in the last twelve 4.5% and 6%.
Prime rental values, which bottomed at months.
65 per sq ft in 2009 are now estimated to have climbed Europe back to 90 per sq ft with 100 per sq ft being reported Continental property investment demand has improved for isolated suites.
In the City, where the overall vacancy overall, but has also tended to be very city centric.
As a rate moved back below 10%, best prime rents were TR Property Investment Trust 11 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued probably unchanged at around 60 per foot over 2010, pushing on to 10% of turnover, so that fashion retailers want fewer units and want their remaining stores to be but average rents recorded growth.
bigger and to be more akin to showrooms.
The largest Paris saw a stronger pick up in leasing activity in 2010, shopping centres have generally maintained occupation at spurred by corporate relocations to higher quality space.
above 95%, but this has often been achieved by short Vacancy levels declined in both the central area and La term lettings at less than stated rental values.
In sub Dfense to around 6%, and top rental values rose by 5% regional, neighbourhood and district centres vacancy is to around e750 per square metre.
A shortage of new top generally very visible and rental values are showing little quality space is also encouraging for rental trends over or no sign of improvement.
Central London along with the next two years.
In Stockholm domestic demand has Central Manhattan and Hong Kong has been a special improved as the Swedish economy has returned to case throughout the downturn, with rental growth a growth.
The overall vacancy rate is still close to 10%, but persistent feature for the main West End shopping again the shortage of top quality space has resulted in an locations, due principally to an influx of international increase in peak rents and the very strong Stockholm retailers.
residential market is resulting in older space being removed from supply for conversion to residential.
Storage and Industrial Good quality, well located sheds have seen an Away from these select cities most office markets appear improvement in take-up over the last year but much of becalmed saddled with a combination of high vacancy the demand has been for relocation and upgrading rather and low or nil employment growth.
In Germany there has than for business expansion.
Vacancy rates have fallen been local improvement in Hamburg and Frankfurt, and modestly in many locations, but still remain historically in Italy the Milan and Rome markets are showing very high, and the decline may be due as much to resilience, but in other cities, such as Amsterdam and demolition as to a spurt in net take-up.
Headline prime Brussels, percentage vacancy rates have remained well rental values appear to have stabilised but substantial into double figures.
Capital city office markets in the incentives for letting beyond five years continue to be Eurozone countries with sovereign debt problems have commonplace.
Rental values for older space reflect the been the worst performers with rental values falling again.
wide choice available to tenants and are usually agreed Regional and suburban markets in both the UK and by negotiation rather than at asking levels.
Europe are almost uniformly chalking up high vacancy and limited demand, so that true rent levels are hard to Debt and Credit Markets ascertain.
Even in London, there is little sign of any ripple The proportion of UK and European debt, mostly bank effect whereby growth in demand in the central area debt, lent against real estate has declined very slightly over the past year, but remains at a very high level circa spills out to the suburbs or to regional markets, where 1,000 billion relative to its historic average.
With a very any demand is reliant on the domestic economy.
high level of loan termination due in the 2011-2014 Retail period fears are constantly being aired that there is no Tenant demand for retail property is still very polarised.
way that the industry can refinance this burden.
So far the Broadly, demand is being hit both by the decline in banks have taken a pragmatic longer term view and consumer confidence and by the internet, and the extended debt repayments on a very large scale.
In truth outlook is clouded by the future impact of rising interest there is little else they can do, and so far their actions rates on personal incomes.
In the very best locations and have gradually eased the position.
Property values are, on in the countries where national consumer confidence is average, on the rise so that more loans are becoming sustainably improving, notably in Germany and Sweden, covered again.
There is interest from other credit sources, vacancy rates are low or falling and rental values on the mainly insurance companies, to grow their property loan gradual increase.
Elsewhere, landlords are often struggling books.
Fresh equity capital is coming into the industry to retain retailers and rental concessions are widespread.
through stock markets and private placements, and sales The stream of local and national retailers going into of distressed stock are continuing at a modest pace.
In administration has abated but not ceased.
The internet is the US the revival of the CMBS mortgage market has still increasing its share of retail sales.
Bookshops and been an important source of fresh debt, but in Europe record stores are disappearing fast: electrical stores and and the UK this alternative window remains virtually tour operators are scarce, even fashion internet sales are closed.
The problem is that a high proportion of the 12 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued outstanding debt appears to be lent against secondary and talk of a large scale flotation of Carrefour property property of the type which is not rising in value and which which has come to nothing so far.
Equally, there were very is accumulating vacancy and therefore losing income with few mergers or acquisitions of note.
Capital Shopping in the which to service the outstanding loans.
The level of UK saw off an attempted approach from Simon Property.
provisions by banks against problem loans appears to be Secondary issues raised some 1.5 billion overall.
These reducing, though it remains high.
We think there may be were generally small scale accelerated placings often linked a lot more writedowns to come.
The Irish position is the to a purchase of a property or a portfolio.
worst in Europe with NAMA holding e70 billion of bad Overall the benchmarks leverage ratio remained at close loans and pledged to reduce this by 25% by the end of to 50% throughout the year despite the increase in 2013.
So far opportunistic investors hoping to cash in on property values.
Two specific events influenced this result the sale of distressed assets have been largely disappointed both by the paucity of offerings and by the the addition to the benchmark of the giant and highly lack of value growth in what they have purchased to date.
leveraged Spanish company Colonial in June 2010, and the e1.8 billion return of capital by Unibail in October With overloaded loan books, the banks have continued to 2010, which was funded by fresh debt.
have little appetite for new lending.
There is a supply of fresh bank debt but it has not grown markedly over the past UK year.
Loan to value ratios remain low, spreads wider than UK property shares rose by just under 8% in the year and normal, and loans for secondary assets are hard to obtain.
produced a gross total return of 12.1%.
Given that they were down by 3.5% in the first half, it was a very decent Property Shares second half run.
Not surprisingly it was some of the The EPRA Pan Europe Index produced a total return in companies with portfolios concentrated in London that Sterling of 15.2%.
The year saw a wider than usual range did best.
Derwent London, Shaftesbury, CLS and Great of returns on a country by country basis, reflecting mainly Portland all featured amongst the best performers with the very different immediate outlook for the various Pan total returns of between 23% and 29%.
However not all European economies.
In local currency terms the pack the London companies performed Minerva and leaders were Sweden, Germany, Finland and Austria, with Songbird both fell in value, the former failed to let its total returns over 20%, the middle group in the 10% to major City building, and hopes that the latter would see 20% range were France, Switzerland, and the UK.
The an early move to improve its corporate structure proved Benelux countries were between 5% and 10%.
Other stocks that produced negative total and Spain took the wooden spoons, along, surprisingly, returns over the year included residential specialists Unite with Norway.
Sterlings currency movement against the and Grainger, highly leveraged businesses such as Warner Euro was modest on a year by year basis.
It fell sharply and Quintain, and industrial property specialists SEGRO against the Swedish Krona and Swiss Franc, boosting and Hansteen.
Even Helical Bar, so long an outperformer, those countries Sterling returns.
declined and lost most of its traditional premium rating.
Though actual NAV growth played an important part in Amongst the leaders, British Land stood out with a 22% individual stock price movements, it was the prospect of total return, Hammerson returned 18%, Land Securities future NAV growth, or lack of it, which was probably the 13%, and Capital Shopping just 3%.
It was Capital most influential factor in determining stock pricing.
Stocks Shopping that provided the biggest story of the year.
The with high dividend yields did not noticeably outperform as company agreed to purchase the huge Trafford Centre in they had in the year to March 2010.
High leverage Manchester for a mixture of cash and shares.
Simon magnified price movements mainly on the downside, Property, the huge US Mall REIT, which owned 5% of though the few stocks with both high leverage and a Capital Shopping, so objected to the deal that it portfolio showing above average value growth produced announced that it wished to bid for Capital Shopping if it outstanding returns.
Small and mid-cap stock again was permitted to do certain due diligence.
This outperformed so that Sigmas benchmark outpaced the permission was refused and Simon Property eventually Ordinary Shares benchmark for the second year running.
withdrew, but not before the purchase terms of the Trafford Centre had been altered in favour of Capital There were disappointingly few new issues.
There were several aborted attempts mainly in the UK and Germany Shoppings shareholders.
TR Property Investment Trust 13 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued Europe Property shares have recovered well.
Balance sheets are In Sterling terms European property shares ex the UK broadly in good order: fresh equity is available in good rose by just under 11.3% in the year and produced a quantities when stocks are rightly priced.
Average gross total return of 16.8%.
Swedish stocks were the best discounts are at low single figures, which is in line with performers with the Krona total return of 31% translating global real estate securities pricing.
The premium ratings into a Sterling total return of 41%.
Fabege the largest of those stocks with the highest quality portfolios Swedish property company returned 46%.
It benefited generally reflect the difficulty and cost of buying prime from an ideal combination of above average leverage and real estate directly.
an obviously strengthening local economy.
German Inflation remains a greater fear than deflation for most property stocks, of which there are very few relative to the investors.
Recent UK and Eurozone inflation forecasts are size of the German economy, produced a Sterling total not consoling.
Most Continental leases have annual rents return of 21%.
This would have been higher had not one indexed to the cost of living, and real estate securities of the larger companies, Gagfah, seen its share price have a good performance record in inflationary periods, collapse in February 2011 on news of a massive potential provided that central banks do not force borrowing costs law suit from a German local authority.
French stocks did to well above the level of inflation.
At present that would well returning 16%, led by the two giants Gecina and seem very unlikely.
The bank debt refinancing problem Unibail.
Their performance reflected the improvement in rumbles on.
In our view this is much more of a problem the Paris market where most French companies hold the for the banks, and for the secondary and tertiary property majority of their portfolios.
markets, than for mainstream quality real estate values.
There was little clear distinction between the However the side effect, the lack of fresh finance, is performance of stocks by property use, though, reversing beneficial for the market in curbing speculation and the UK trend, the residential specialists all outperformed depressing fresh development.
Of the retail specialists, Eurocommercial We firmly believe that a large number of companies in and Unibail returned over 20%, while Klpierre managed which we invest now enjoy the combination of a portfolio only 3% and Corio 6%.
Office stocks were mixed up and that is exposed to markets that will see rental and capital down the list while industrial specialists underperformed growth over the next 18 months, and a stable balance except in Sweden.
sheet that allows them to take advantage of investment and development opportunities as they arise.
For us, the Outlook expected divergence in performance across sectors and Last year saw European real estate equity returns become geographies will shape the exposure of the portfolios and far more polarised than they had been since 2007.
The is a welcome environment for active stock pickers like economies of Europe are running at a variety of speeds.
A few particular markets have virtually fully recovered from the recession, while many others may not yet have approached their nadir.
We expect this wide divergence of returns to continue through the next two years as European national economies sprint or stumble back to normality.
It is therefore the economic background that we think will dominate real estate returns, both at a national level and at regional or city level.
Within the UK, London clearly has a very exciting property market thanks to its global status, while other major UK cities do not share this excitement, and in our view are not about to share it.
The same comments apply elsewhere, for instance to France and Paris, or to Italy and Milan.
