THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Basis of Accounting and IFRS advisers assess the environmental impact of our properties On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of on an ongoing basis and will take all necessary action to returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal comply with our environmental responsibilities.
proportions, the Group charges 50% of finance costs to Annual General Meeting the AGM capital.
One-third of the management fee is deemed to The AGM will be held on Tuesday, 26 July 2011 at relate to the administration of the Company and is 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same 89 to 92, and an explanation of the business to be basis as finance costs and 50% charged to capital.
The conducted is given on pages 93 and 94. overall result is that two-thirds of the management fee is charged to revenue and one-third to capital.
All Resolutions 12 and 13 will be proposed as special performance fees are charged to capital.
resolutions which requires a majority of at least 75% of those present and voting to be passed.
Allocation of Costs Between Share Classes Resolution 12 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption Each share class has its own management fee structure rights and is invoiced directly for management fees which are allocated between capital and revenue accounts on the This resolution will empower the Directors to allot shares basis of accounting described above.
or sell any shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing Administration costs incurred specifically by a single share shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
class are charged to that share class.
The remaining corporate expenses are allocated to the Resolution 13 Authority to Purchase Own Shares share class in the proportion to their relative Net Asset The Companys Articles permit the Company to purchase Values at the end of the previous accounting period.
its own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules Environmental Policy of the Financial Services Authority a company is permitted to purchase up to 14.99% of its issued equity share capital The Company considers that good corporate governance through market purchases pursuant to a general authority extends to policies on the environment and has therefore granted by shareholders in general meeting.
adopted an environmental policy in respect of its investments in both physical property and listed property The current authority which permits the Company to companies.
Within the context of the overall aim of the purchase up to 14.99% of its issued Ordinary and Sigma Company to maximise shareholders returns, we will seek shares expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
to limit our own and our investee companies impact on The Board believes that the Company should continue to the environment.
We will comply with all relevant have authority to make market purchases of its own legislation relating to our operations and activities.
Ordinary and Sigma shares for cancellation.
The Board is therefore seeking to renew its power to make market We review the environmental statements and behaviour of purchases of Ordinary and Sigma shares.
Accordingly, a all the companies in which we invest and take these into special resolution to authorise the Company to make account in decision-making.
We recognise that good market purchases of up to 14.99% of the Companys environmental management can play a part in overall risk issued Ordinary and Sigma share capital at the date of the management and also have a financial impact in terms of AGM is proposed, with the shares purchased to be savings through energy and water efficiency.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the appropriate, our managers will engage with investee date of this Report, 14.99% of the Companys issued companies to raise concerns about environmental matters.
Ordinary share capital is equivalent to 38,408,128 So far as direct property investments in the Ordinary share Ordinary shares and 14.99% of the Companys issued class portfolio are concerned, the Company conducts Sigma share capital is equivalent to 18,695,828 Sigma environmental audits prior to purchase to identify possible shares.
These figures have been calculated on the basis contamination or materials considered environmentally that there is no change in the issued share capital harmful.
We will take remedial action or enforce tenant between the date of this Report and the AGM to be held obligations to do so wherever appropriate.
