THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Chris Turner, Fund Manager Ordinary Share Class up to 31 March 2011, age 65, has been the Fund Manager since 1995, first at Henderson Global Investors then, since October 2004, at Thames River Capital, when he joined as head of property investment.
Between 1969 and 1977 he worked in the investment property division of Strutt & Parker, qualifying as a Chartered Surveyor in 1970.
He was a property share analyst and subsequently a Director of UK Equities with Laing & Cruickshank from 1977 to 1988 and held similar roles with BZW from 1988 to 1995.
In 1995 Chris joined Henderson as a Director of the Investment Management division and was appointed the fund manager of the Trust.
In 1999 he was also appointed head of Hendersons Public Property Markets Team.
During his period as fund manager, the Trust won numerous investment trust performance awards from Bloomberg, Money Observer, What Investment, Moneywise and Property Week.
Chris Turner Marcus Phayre-Mudge, Fund Manager Sigma Share Class up to 31 March 2011 Fund Manager Ordinary Share Class from 1 April 2011, age 43.
He joined Chris at Henderson Global Investors in January 1997, initially managing the direct property portfolio within the Trust and latterly focusing on real estate equities, managing a number of UK and Pan European real estate equity funds in addition to activities in the Trust.
Marcus moved with Chris to Thames River Capital in October 2004 where he is also fund manager of Thames River Property Growth & Income Fund Limited.
Prior to joining Henderson, Marcus was an investment surveyor at Knight Frank 1990 and was made an Associate Partner in the fund management division 1995.
He qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 1992 and has a BSc Hons in Land Management from Reading University.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge James Wilkinson, Fund Manager Sigma Share Class from 1 April 2011, age 38.
James joined the Trusts team at Henderson in October 2002, taking responsibility for the direct property investments.
He was also a portfolio manager and member of the property securities team at Henderson.
James moved with Chris and Marcus to Thames River Capital in October 2004 gradually increasing his involvement in the equities component of the Trust.
James was appointed deputy fund manager of the Thames River Property Growth & Income Fund in 2007 and is currently the lead fund manager for the Thames River Real Estate Securities Fund.
Prior to joining Henderson he was Associate Partner at Healey & Baker Investment Managers where he spent six years.
James qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 1998.
He has a BA Hons in Philosophy from University of East Anglia and an MA in Property Valuation and Law from City University Business School.
James Wilkinson Jo Elliott, Finance Manager, age 49, has been Finance Manager since 1995, first at Henderson Global Investors then, since January 2005, at Thames River Capital, when she joined as CFO for the property team.
She joined Henderson Investors in 1995, where she most recently held the position of Director of Property, Finance & Operations, Europe.
Previously she was Corporate Finance Manager with London and Edinburgh Trust plc and prior to that was an investment treasury analyst with Heron Corporation plc.
Joanne has a BSc Hons in Zoology from the University of Nottingham and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young in 1989.
Jo Elliott George Gay, Direct Property Fund Manager, age 30, has been the direct property fund manager since 2008.
He joined Thames River Capital in 2005 as assistant direct property manager and qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 2006.
George was previously at niche City investment agent, Morgan Pepper where as an investment graduate he gained considerable industry experience.
He has an MA in Property Valuation and Law from City University.
George Gay Angelique Ello, Investor Relations, age 28, joined Thames River Capital in November 2007 as an administration assistant.
She joined from Girlguiding UK, where she was PA to the Head of Finance & Business Development.
She graduated from Middlesex University in 2004 with a BA Hons in Political & International Studies with German.
She is a fluent German speaker.
She deals with investor enquiries for the Trust in addition to wider portfolio administration matters.
Angelique Ello Other members of Thames River Capitals Property Fund Management team include Alban Lhonneur, Daniel Winterbottom and Paul May.
Further details can be found at www.
co. uk TR Property Investment Trust 45
