Overview The objective of TR Property Investment Trust plc the Trust or the Group is to maximise shareholders total returns via investment in the property sector.
The Trust offers investors two share classes: Ordinary shares a portfolio invested in the shares of property companies of all sizes on an international basis and also in investment property located in the UK.
Sigma shares a portfolio invested in the shares of smaller property companies on an international basis.
The Sigma share class does not invest in property directly.
Introduction The Trust was formed in 1905 and has been a dedicated property investor through the Ordinary share class since 1982.
In July 2007 a second share class, the Sigma share class, was introduced.
This was created mainly through the conversion of some of the existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares.
Each share class has a dedicated portfolio and is able to pursue independent investment and gearing strategies.
However, they are share classes of one corporate entity, the Trust, with a single independent Board of Directors.
The Report & Accounts contain the group financial statements and as supplementary information separate income statements and balance sheets for each share class.
There is a separate Managers Report for each share class.
The pages in the accounts have been marked in the top corner to highlight whether they refer specifically to one or other of the share classes or to the group as a whole.
The following two pages set out the objective and investment policies for each share class and key financial and performance data.
The Managers Report for each share class comments on how the actual investment activity through the period has followed the proposed policies and the resulting performance.
Independent The directors are all independent of the management company and meet regularly to consider Board investment strategy, to monitor adherence to the stated objectives and investment policies set out on the following pages and to review performance.
Details of how the board operates and fulfils its responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report on pages 48 to 60.
Further General shareholder information and details of how to invest in TR Property Investment Information Trust plc, including investment through an ISA or shareplan, can be found on pages 96 to 98.
This information can also be found on the Trusts website www.
