THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Group and The results and performance of the two share classes are their report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Full details of each portfolio and the comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc the Company Managers views on the outlook for the coming financial and or the Trust and its subsidiaries.
The Company has year for each share class are covered in the Managers two share classes, the Ordinary share class and the Sigma Report for the Ordinary share class on pages 16 to 20 share class.
The review of the business of the Company, and for the Sigma share class on pages 30 to 35. recent events and outlook are contained within the Ordinary share class Chairmans Statement, on pages 6 to 9, which forms part of Objective and Strategy this Report of the Directors by reference.
The objective of the Ordinary share class of the Trust is to Status maximise the shareholders total returns by investing in The Company is an investment company, as defined in property shares and property on an international basis.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates As at 31 March 2011, 92.3% of the Ordinary share class as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 net assets were invested in Pan-European listed property of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
It is required to seek securities and 7.7% in directly owned UK real estate.
HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approval of its status as an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section The Ordinary share class portfolio is total return focused 1158 every year, and this approval will continue to be and future growth and capital appreciation potential is sought.
HMRC approval of the Companys status as an generally regarded more highly than immediate initial investment trust has been received in respect of the year yield or discount to asset value.
The investment selection ended 31 March 2010.
The directors are of the opinion process seeks to identify well managed companies of all that the Trust has subsequently conducted its affairs in a sizes, especially those with a focus on a particular type of manner which will enable it to continue to gain such real estate business.
The investment policies are approval.
The Trust has no employees and the close described on page 2. company provisions do not apply.
The Ordinary share class is a dedicated investor in real Share capital estate and real estate securities and will continue to At 31 March 2011, the Company has two classes of share: adhere to this strategy.
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Sigma shares of Revenue and Dividends 12.5 pence each.
The Ordinary shares represent 80.4% 2011 2010 Change and the Sigma shares represent 19.6% of equity Revenue earnings shareholders funds.
The shares are in registered form.
per share 6.94p 5.18p 34.0% Business Review Dividends per share 6.00p 5.75p 4.3% The following review is designed to provide information Total returns per Ordinary share, which include capital primarily about the Groups business and results for the gains on investments, amounted to 27.55p per share.
year ended 31 March 2011 and covers: The capital return of 20.61p per share was reflective of the Objective and Strategy performance of the property equity market through the Revenue and Dividends period which is covered in detail in the Managers Report.
Capital Return Property Valuation Revenue earnings increased by 34.0%.
In the prior year a Performance Measurement KPI significant number of companies suspended or reduced Share Buy-back Activity dividend payments through the period while they re-built Financial Instruments and Management of Risk their balance sheets.
The majority of these companies Management Arrangements and Fees resumed dividend payments in the year to March 2011.
Basis of Accounting and IFRS Environmental Policy 48 TR Property Investment Trust
