THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Chris Turner MRICS Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class Market indices show that European commercial property Property shares did well overall, outperforming both the markets have continued to recover slowly throughout the All Share and the Dow Jones Stoxx 600, and this despite property regularly featuring as the least favoured sector of last twelve months.
What the indices fail to show is the the Stock Market in surveys of generalist investors over the extreme polarity of the market.
It has been a year when last twelve months.
Nevertheless, pricing followed the good property rose in value and poor property declined in volatility of the markets, oscillating on macro fears.
The a manner similar in some ways to the changes in the Greek crisis last May and the Irish crisis last November saw health of European economies.
For investors, the principal sharp price declines while better than expected economic motives remain the desire for stable income and the fear numbers and central bank action to hold down interest of inflation: their principal concerns have been weak rates were the factors principally underlying two prolonged occupational demand, the threat of rising interest rates rallies in the late summer and again in early spring this and the lack of finance.
The current definition of what is year.
For the Sector, the latter rally also reflected increased good or poor, or prime and secondary, in market parlance, concern over inflation, principally in the UK.
still depends principally on the length and security of the income stream.
Only in a few locations, Central London Within the sector, individual price performances generally and Central Paris in particular, has the market yet broken mirrored variations in the vibrancy of specific property out of its recessionary nervousness, and it has done so markets.
Balance sheet ratios were generally in order by there because tenant demand has become sufficiently last spring, and the number of seriously sick companies consistent and predictable that it has now reduced diminished further thanks to rights issues and share vacancy rates to a point where effective rental growth placings.
There were very few mergers or acquisitions.
Stocks with high dividend yields did not noticeably outperform as they had in 2009.
Small and mid-cap The slow pace of the recovery in economic strength stocks again outperformed, so that Sigmas benchmark continued to dominate the property investment outlook.
outpaced the Ordinary Share benchmark for the second The timing of the return of broad based growth in year running.
employment and consumer confidence remains the chief indicator of future performance.
There have been Property Investment Markets positives for the market since last summer.
The threat of a It was a year of big contrasts in the investment market double dip recession across Europe has receded.
caused principally by strong investor demand for high Germany and Sweden are much stronger than a year ago.
quality assets and, conversely, at the secondary level, by A massive amount of globally based equity capital has the lack of tenant demand and the availability of fresh been invested, especially in London, and the signs are debt finance.
As a result the yield gap between prime and that more is yet to be spent.
Fears that the banks would secondary is very wide.
Prime values have risen more withdraw support from the asset class so fast as to sharply than expected in many locations due to precipitate a run on values have not materialised.
More improvements in tenant demand, the weight of cash and more it seems to us that this debt burden is a awaiting investment and a dearth of decent available banking nightmare and not a threat to the future value of stock.
By contrast there has been relatively little most real estate.
investment activity at the bottom end of the market.
