THE GROUP COMPANY Directors Peter Salsbury, age 61, retired in 2000 as Chief Executive of Marks & Spencer plc M&S.
He now has a Management Consultancy practice specialising in Executive Coaching and Strategy and is Chairman of Molten Consultancy.
During his 10 years on the Board at M&S his responsibilities included Commercial Estates, Retail Operations, HR, as well as Sales and Marketing.
He also served on the Board of M&S Financial Services for 5 years.
He joined the Board of TRPIT in 1997, and succeeded as Chairman on 26 July 2004.
Peter Salsbury Chairman Caroline Burton, age 61, joined the Board of TRPIT in June 2002.
She joined Guardian Royal Exchange plcs Investment Department in 1973 and remained with the group until 1999.
From 1987 she was Managing Director of Guardian Asset Management, and, from 1990 to 1999, Executive Director Investments of the parent company.
She is a non-executive director of Rathbone Brothers plc.
She is also a Member of the Management Committee of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
She advises a number of pension funds and charities.
Caroline Burton Hugh Seaborn, age 49, joined the Board of TRPIT on 24 July 2007.
Mr Seaborn is a Chartered Surveyor and has considerable experience in the property arena: he is currently the Chief Executive Officer of the Cadogan Estate and a member of the Council and Audit Committee of the Duchy of Lancaster.
From 2000 to 2009, Mr Seaborn was Chief Executive Officer of the Portman Estate and he is a past Chairman of the Westminster Property Association.
Hugh Seaborn Paul Spencer CBE, age 61, joined the Board of TRPIT on 1 August 2007.
Mr Spencer is Chairman of State Street Managed Pension Funds Ltd, the Rolls-Royce Group plc Pension Fund, the BT Pension Fund and the BA Pension Funds.
He also sits on the Boards of WPP Group plc where he chairs the Audit Committee and Nipponkoa Insurance Group Europe Ltd.
He is Chairman of the TRPIT Audit Committee.
Paul Spencer Richard Stone, age 68, was Deputy Chairman of Coopers and Lybrand C&L and in 1998 became a member of the Global Board of  until he joined the TRPIT Board in 2000.
He headed up C&Ls Corporate Finance Practice in the UK and Europe, and was also an Insolvency Practitioner.
He brings a broad base of business, financial and property experience to the TRPIT Board.
He is now a Senior Independent Director of Halma plc, a nonexecutive director of Candover Investments plc and a non-executive director of Gartmore Global Trust plc.
He is the Senior Independent Director for TRPIT.
Richard Stone All directors are independent of the manager and are members of the Audit Committee.
