THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The total dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, Share Buy-back Activity 2.15p per Sigma share.
During the year to 31 March 2011, the Company did not repurchase any Sigma shares.
Since 1 April 2011, and up Capital Return to the date of this document, the Company repurchased 2011 2010 Change 200,000 Sigma shares.
NAV per Sigma share 111.94p 98.12p 14.1% Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk Sigma share price 83.45p 70.50p 18.4% By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both Rises in property equity prices resulted in an increase in share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign shareholders funds of 14.1% per Sigma share.
Over the currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies same period the price only element of the benchmark for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to increased by 13.1%.
Further information on the management of risk and internal controls is contained in Details of the investments held in the Sigma portfolio are the Corporate Governance Report on pages 55 to 60. shown in the Managers Report on pages 36 to 41.
Management Arrangements and Fees Performance Measurement Throughout the period investment management services The directors consider performance measured against the have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP Thames benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the River or the Manager, accounting, custodial and share class.
administrative services by BNP Paribas Securities Services, and company secretarial services by Capita Company The benchmark, provided by FTSE, is FTSE EPRA NAREIT Secretarial Services.
Small Cap Europe Index in Sterling.
This is the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index in Sterling adjusted to exclude The significant terms of the investment management those stocks with a market cap exceeding a defined level or agreement with Thames River are as follows: Cap.
The Cap is redefined each year by reference to the Notice Period overall capital movement of the Small Cap Index over the The investment management agreements IMAs preceeding Financial Year.
For the year to 31 March 2011 provide for termination of the agreements by either the Cap was 1.0bn.
For the year to 31 March 2012, the party without compensation on the provision of not Cap is 1.126bn.
less than 12 months written notice.
The constituents are reviewed annually.
In order to avoid Management Fees volatility, at the annual review, only companies with a Ordinary share class Sterling equivalent market capitalisation of 20% or more in The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period under excess of the revised Cap will leave the benchmark.
review was a fixed fee of 2.78m plus an ad valorem Existing EPRA Developed Europe constituents join only if fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset value their Sterling equivalent market capitalisation is 20% or determined in accordance with the Association of more less than the revised Cap.
During the year, any Investment Companies AIC method of valuation of company joining the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index will the Ordinary share class on the last day of March, June, also join the small cap index if the Sterling equivalent of September and December, payable quarterly in their market capitalisation is less than the defined Cap at advance.
The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned the financial year, and for the year to March 2012 the 16.5% against a Benchmark total return of 16.9%.
fixed fee element will remain at 2.78m.
The fee arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end The performance for the financial year just ended and the of the financial year.
outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background Sigma share class and Outlook and Sigma Share Class Managers Report on The fee for the Sigma share class for the period pages 6 to 14 and 30 to 35. under review was a fixed fee of 0.68m plus an ad 50 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued valorem fee of 0.30% pa based on the net asset shareholders funds for any performance period is less value determined in accordance with the AIC than the hurdle rate for the relevant performance periods, method of valuation of the Sigma share class on such underperformance expressed as a percentage will the last day of March, June, September and be carried forward.
No fee will be payable unless the December, payable quarterly in advance.
Group equity shareholders funds for the particular share class outperforms the hurdle rate, after taking into The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of account any accumulated percentage underperformance the financial year, and for the year to March 2012 the for previous periods to the extent it is not offset by the fixed fee element will remain at 0.68m.
The fee overperformance offsets described above.
There were no arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end performance fees payable in the year ended 31 March of the financial year.
At 31 March 2011, 3.4% of For both share classes the management fee includes underperformance is being carried forward.
fund accounting and administrative services, safe Sigma share class custody and company secretarial services which are all A performance fee is payable if the total return of provided by third parties.
The Company has a direct adjusted net assets attributable to Sigma shareholders, contractual relationship with the parties providing as defined in the IMA with Thames River, at 31 March these services and the fees incurred are deducted each year outperforms the total return of the from the gross fees due to Thames River.
This affords Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : the Company a high degree of transparency and this outperformance expressed as a percentage is control in respect of these services.
known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee Performance Fees payable is the amount equivalent to the adjusted net In addition to the management fees, the Board has assets attributable to Sigma shareholders at 31 March agreed to pay the Investment Manager performance each year multiplied by the percentage outperformance, related fees in respect of an accounting period if then multiplied by 20%.
certain performance objectives are achieved.
The maximum performance fee payable in any period is Ordinary share class capped at 5% of the adjusted net assets attributable to A performance fee is payable if the total return of Sigma shareholders unless the adjusted net assets at the adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary end of the period are less than at the beginning of the shareholders, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, period when the maximum performance fee payable will at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of be limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets attributable the Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : to the Sigma shareholders.
If any fee exceeds the this outperformance expressed as a percentage is relevant cap 5% or 1% as applicable, such excess will known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee be carried forward and applied to reduce any percentage payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted underperformance in future periods.
net assets attributable to Ordinary shareholders at If the total return of Sigma equity shareholders 31 March each year multiplied by the percentage funds for any performance period is less than the outperformance, then multiplied by 15%.
hurdle rate for the relevant performance periods, The maximum performance fee payable for the period such underperformance expressed as a percentage is capped at 2% of the adjusted net assets attributable will be carried forward.
No fee will be payable unless to Ordinary shareholders.
However, if the adjusted net the Group equity shareholders funds for the assets at the end of the period are less than at the particular share class outperforms the hurdle rate, beginning of the period, the maximum performance after taking into account any accumulated fee payable will be limited to1% of the adjusted net percentage underperformance for previous periods assets attributable to the Ordinary shareholders.
to the extent it is not offset by the overperformance If any fee exceeds the relevant cap 2% or 1% as offsets described above.
There were no performance applicable, such excess will be carried forward and fees payable in the year ended 31 March 2011 2010: applied to reduce any percentage underperformance in nil.
At 31 March 2011 8.1% of underperformance is future periods.
If the total return of Ordinary equity being carried forward.
