SIGMA SHARES Managers Report Sigma Share Class Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager 10 June 2011 Introduction Sigmas performance has been measured against a small cap index, the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe Index since 1 April 2009.
I am able to report that this index has outperformed the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Index the EPRA index that includes both large and small cap stocks over each subsequent 6 month reporting period.
Over the last year, the small cap index returned 16.9% whilst the all-cap total return index rose 15.2%.
This was broadly the same differential as that reported at the half year stage.
Amongst general equities, smaller companies have generally underperformed their larger competitors over the last year, however the reverse has been true of smaller property companies.
Indeed since the launch of the share class in July 2007, Sigmas NAV total return has been -1.4%, whilst the allcap EPRA index has returned -11.8%.
In the same period, the FTSE Smaller Companies Index returned -19.8% whilst the All Share was down -8.7%.
Size has clearly been a handicap to performance outside the real estate equity market.
We believe that there are few economies of scale in real estate businesses once a business is large enough to attract competitive financing.
In fact outperformance is generated through focused, proactive 30 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued management of both the underlying assets as well as the See-Through Portfolio by Market % balance sheet.
The ability to be fleet of foot has certainly Sigma Share Benchmark Class Portfolio 31 March 2011 been critical through the financial crisis.
This doesnt mean UK that all managements of smaller companies achieved this City Offices 0.5% 1.4% West End Offices 2.7% 2.8% but as a broad statement we believe that small and mid West End Retail 2.9% 3.5% sized property companies will continue to outperform Docklands 1.3% 0.1% GLC SE Offices 1.2% 1.0% their larger peers.
Our experience in the last twelve Provincial Offices 1.2% 0.7% months has continued to reinforce this view.
It is In town Retail 3.0% 1.1% Supermarkets 0.0% 0.1% important to note that there are always exceptions and Retail Warehouses 0.3% 0.6% this is not a hard and fast rule.
Some larger companies do Out of town Retail 0.1% 0.4% SE Industrials 1.8% 1.9% display a number of the key qualities that we consider Other Industrials 0.7% 1.9% drive relative outperformance in smaller companies.
Self Storage 2.6% 2.2% Leisure 0.4% 0.6% Unibail, the largest property company in the sector Residential 5.3% 6.9% continues to surprise on the upside with a clarity of Other 0.5% 1.0% strategy, rapid response to changing market conditions Total UK 24.5% 26.2% and opportunistic deployment of capital investing in their Austria Retail 0.2% 0.3% Austria Offices 0.9% 0.8% business as well as returning to shareholders when Austria Residential 1.7% 1.8% deemed appropriate.
Belgium Retail 0.3% 0.6% Belgium Offices 2.0% 4.0% Belgium Residential 0.0% 0.0% Performance Belgium Logistics 0.5% 1.1% Central Europe Retail 0.8% 0.7% In the year to March 2011, the Sigma share class total Central Europe Offices 0.7% 0.7% return NAV rose 16.5% and this compares with a total Central Europe Industrial 0.5% 0.8% Central Europe Other 0.9% 0.2% return from the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe Denmark 0.0% 0.0% Index of 16.9%.
As outlined in the interim report, the Finland Retail 2.9% 2.5% Finland Offices 1.9% 3.4% first quarter was dominated by the crisis that enveloped Finland Other 0.5% 0.7% the Eurozone.
Between the beginning of the financial year France Retail 4.2% 1.8% France Offices 4.4% 2.2% 31 March and the low point of the year end of May France Residential 0.2% 0.0% the benchmark index fell over 17%.
The Euro continued France Logistics 3.6% 1.6% France Other 1.4% 0.1% to weaken and fell 6.2% in May and June to e1.22 to 1.
Germany Retail 2.5% 3.7% In local currency terms, there was little difference in Germany Offices 5.7% 5.3% Germany Residential 5.2% 8.3% performance across the Eurozone and UK property stocks.
Germany Logistics 1.8% 2.1% In a period of dramatic risk aversion by investors, there Germany Other 0.9% 0.8% Greece Retail 0.0% 0.3% was precious little stock differentiation.
Real estate stocks Greece Offices 0.0% 0.3% across the piece were tarred with the same brush.
Italy Retail 4.5% 2.6% Italy Offices 3.2% 2.8% Exceptions were driven by geography or currency, viz Italy Logistics 0.1% 0.3% Sweden and Switzerland.
However, the second quarter of Italy Other 0.1% 0.1% Netherlands Retail 1.0% 1.9% the financial year up to the end of September saw a Netherlands Offices 0.7% 1.5% strong yet steady recovery in real estate equity prices.
Netherlands Other 0.6% 0.9% Norway 4.6% 2.7% Investors responded to the robust political dialogue as Portugal 0.0% 0.0% well as the concrete proposals surrounding the European Russia 0.2% 0.3% Spain Retail 0.4% 0.6% Financial Stability Facility and its proposed successor the Spain Other 0.1% 0.3% European Stability Mechanism which will take effect from Sweden Retail 3.8% 2.5% Sweden Offices 7.9% 6.8% 2013.
Central to the recovery in prices were two Sweden Industrial 2.4% 2.1% expectations: that there was now a real political impetus Sweden Other 1.9% 2.1% Switzerland Retail 0.1% 0.3% to reinforce the regulatory and economic surveillance Switzerland Offices 0.1% 1.3% framework and that policy rates would remain lower for Switzerland Other 0.1% 0.6% longer, with the consequence of stronger earnings from Other overseas 0.1% 0.3% those businesses with floating rate debt.
Total 100.0% 100.0% TR Property Investment Trust 31 SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued This pattern of a dramatic, macro event driven sell off have subsequently performed poorly reflecting the followed by an even stronger recovery was to repeat itself paucity of attractive investment opportunities in which to twice more before the year end.
In November, as the Irish deploy the capital.
The other side of this coin is of course debt crisis took hold, small cap property stocks sold off that distressed sellers were and still are fewer than -8.7% in the month, only to recover 13.3% in expected.
In all other instances, raisings have had a clear December.
More recently, events in Japan, North Africa purpose, Songbird to repay expensive debt, Deutsche and the Middle East resulted initially in sell offs followed Euroshop buying a shopping centre in Hamburg, by stronger recoveries.
Over the last two months of the Conwert to buy its partially owned subsidiary ECO and financial year, small cap property stocks rose 5.8%.
In TAG acquiring a larger competitor Colonia.
Interestingly, summary, the investment backdrop for the fund over the what we did see was several examples of private equity year was a steadily appreciating underlying real estate investors placing their holdings in listed companies.
In asset class reflected in equity prices punctured by June and October, Oaktree placed 23% of Deutsche intermittent and quite violent sell offs.
Valuable lessons Wohnen their entire position in the stock.
We were learned from the May 2010 correction and the participated in the placings, believing that the perceived appropriate strategy was to remain flexible, particularly in stock overhang had been lifted.
In the UK, Safestore, the relation to gearing both on balance sheet and on a seeself storage operators share price benefited from the through basis.
placing of Bridgepoints final 18% stake.
Again we participated for the same reason.
Investment Activity Investment turnover purchases and sales divided by Our periods of greatest activity surrounded the volatility two was 58.5m which equates to 41.2% of the spikes in May, November and more recently in March this average investments over the year of 141.9m.
Whilst we were nimble enough to reduce gearing figure is much lower than that reported for the twelve appropriately, the recoveries in sentiment were even months to March 2010 over 90% and reflects in faster and opportunities to buy on share price weakness particular the Boards decision that the small cap index were often brief windows.
The December rally being a constituents review was conducted annually as opposed case in point.
A summary of the benchmark constituent methodology is contained in the Report of the Directors.
Largest Equity Investments As stated in the performance section above, the period The table on page 37, shows the top 20 holdings as at was one dominated by improving investor appetite for the year end.
For comparative purposes the same table the asset class but one punctured by brief periods of for the previous year is included.
As flagged in Investment great volatility.
My response was to maintain a modest Activity, turnover has fallen and hence the broad shape of level of gearing throughout the period which fluctuated the portfolio has been maintained over the period.
The reduced levels of turnover also year I identified the Scandinavian region as likely to be an reflect the fact that there were far fewer new investment economic outperformer and that has been the case with opportunities in the period.
Whilst 2008 saw a GDP growth of 5.5% in 2010 source: OECD.
As tremendous number of rescue rights issues to repair importantly, there are a significant number of property balance sheets, these continued on into the first half companies in the region operating with above average of 2009 but then evolved into proactive rather than leverage and a higher proportion of floating rate debt: reactive capital raisings for opportunistic acquisitions.
In ideal beneficiaries of improving economic conditions with the year to March 2011 we saw none of the former and low for the moment anyway policy rates.
Exposure to only a handful of the latter.
This was partly investment Sweden, Norway and Finland collectively increased to indigestion the need to get the capital raised out to over 25% of the portfolio and 7 individual stocks feature work but also investor reluctance to fund blind cash in the top 20 holdings.
Particular increases in exposure pools particularly after such a record breaking reflationary were to Norwegian Properties prime CBD offices in Oslo period for asset values.
Development Securities, and Stavanger and Sponda Helsinki focused portfolio.
Shaftesbury and Helical Bar all raised opportunistic capital through rights issues or placings.
In the case of Given the ongoing issues across much of the Eurozone, it Development Securities and Helical Bar, share prices will come as little surprise that I increased the exposure, 32 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued where possible, to German assets.
We expect progress on the development plans at performance continues to drive forward at an impressive Earls Court to be announced later in 2011.
Residential pace particularly when compared to the Club Med group values in London continue to rise and this site would of southern European countries.
However, very little have strong international investor appeal.
However, UK German commercial property is owned by listed residential prices are generally only rising in London and companies it remains dominated by open-ended funds.
the South East and over the year we have reduced our Our 10th largest position is now Deutsche Euroshop and broad UK residential exposure with the Grainger position this is a stock in which we had a nil position twelve more than halved.
Whilst there have been no changes to the overly conservative strategy and management of this Distibution of Assets business over the year, I increasingly wanted access to The table on page 31 explains the see-through by improving German consumer confidence and this country and sub-market and is set against the equivalent company owns 15 shopping centres in Germany and for the benchmark.
Whilst exposure to the UK has 3 in Poland.
Although just outside the top 20 positions, dropped over the year, the portfolio remains overweight our holding in Deutsche Wohnen, Germanys largest listed where expected: West End office and retail, Docklands residential landlord, equates to 1.9% of net assets and is our holding in Songbird, South East industrial and self a new holding this year.
Together with our longstanding storage.
Our UK residential exposure has dropped sharply position in Alstria primarily Hamburg offices, our from 12.8% last year to 5.3%.
In town, retail outside of German holdings total around 9% of net assets.
Added to London has fallen from 3.6% to 3.0%, again reflecting this, on a see-through geographical exposure basis, our concerns over consumer behaviour as public sector would be Hansteens portfolio of German industrial employment falls, whilst taxes, food and petrol prices rise.
which account for 70% of their assets and a key reason However, on the Continent, our retail exposure has for holding that stock.
The large increase in exposure to increased and the fund remains overweight retail versus our only Italian listed company, Beni Stabili was also the index.
Again, we began to feel more In the office sector, the only geographical submarkets in comfortable with Italys expected economic performance and this company primarily owns very good quality retail which we are overweight are the UK just London, France almost entirely Paris, Norway and Italy virtually and office property focused on Milan and Northern Italy the submarkets we wanted to get access to.
I mentioned last year the reduction in exposure to the Brussels office market and this strategy has Whilst the overall UK exposure dropped from 34% to continued.
30% of the portfolio over the year, the focus on the Greater London area increased.
There was additional The Central European exposure which was heavily reduced in 2008, remains limited today.
Whilst we are investment in our core London holdings, Great Portland Estates and Shaftesbury our second and third largest beginning to see improving underlying tenant demand in investments together with new positions opened in certain markets Polish retail, we are yet to see Workspace and Capital & Counties.
Workspace which appropriate vehicles through which we can get suitable owns a 5.5 million sq ft portfolio of business space across exposure.
Investors are still smarting from the the capital has undertaken impressive corporate inappropriate structures and balance sheets of the rehabilitation over the last 18 months.
We last owned the multitude of AIM listed property vehicles launched stock in December 2007.
A rights issue in December between 2005 and 2007.
2009 coupled with a partial change of senior management and more recently a restructuring of their Revenue largest joint venture pointed to a stabilised business I noted in the interim report that I had advised the Board that revenue earnings for the year would be in the region focused exclusively in Greater London business space.
The holding grew rapidly and is now 1.9% of assets.
I am pleased to report that we exceeded that forecast with earnings of 2.57p.
The Capital & Counties, spun off from Liberty International, owns both the Earls Court and Olympia exhibition venues revenue within the Sigma share class is more evenly as well as being the largest retail landlord in Covent spread over the year than the Ordinary share class and a TR Property Investment Trust 33 SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued number of companies surprised us positively in the the fund coming from the Eurozone and Scandanavia second half.
Of particular note was our largest holding, where the interest rate tightening cycles are already Eurocommercial Properties who pay an annual dividend underway we must reflect that impact in our earnings in November.
They increased the dividend by 2.25% expectations.
Set against that potential negative impact is which was greater than we had anticipated in our the fact that almost every Continental holding enjoys the forecast.
In fact, within the portfolio, there were very few benefit of annual indexation of underlying rents.
The companies that disappointed us with their income levels of indexation vary hugely across subsectors and statements or dividend distributions.
As noted in last markets but we remain confident that this will be a years report, cashflows, particularly amongst our positive contribution.
The greatest unknown is the impact Continental holdings were aided by high levels of floating of currency volatility.
Unlike the Ordinary share class, rate debt which led to reduced interest rate bills as central Sigmas income is spread more evenly across the year as banks kept policy rates artificially low over the period.
The opposed to being predominantly earned in the first other significant contributing factor in the second half of quarter of the financial year and with the majority the year was the impact of a number of our Swedish coming in the form of non Sterling dividends, accurate holdings.
These companies are generally amongst the forecasts are harder to make.
On balance, we expect first to distribute between late March and early April dividend payments to be broadly in line with the current thus crossing the cusp of our year end.
The strength of year but with the substantial caveat that currency levels the Swedish Krona made a positive contribution with which helped boost our Sterling earnings in the last dividend income worth 7% more in Sterling than twelve quarter of the year just past could have the opposite months previously.
Whilst our expectations were exceeded, an explanation as As flagged earlier in the managers statement we to why the earnings of 2.57p per share were lower than continue to hunt for those markets which are exhibiting the previous twelve month period 3.06p per share is signs of rental growth and equilibrium in the balance of required.
Please note that the reasons were flagged in the supply and tenant demand.
In the event that the Revenue Expectations section in last years Report but are transmission of estimated rental values into hard worthy of repetition.
In the year to March 2010, earnings cashflow exceeds our expectations then this will of were flattered by several items which were not expected course ultimately boost earnings.
The first was that a number of UK property companies chose to pay a second interim dividend in The payout ratio reached 84% this year.
The cautious lieu of a final dividend ahead of that new tax year and approach of previous years has ensured a stable but the change in personal income tax thresholds in April growing dividend.
This payout ratio has the capacity to 2010.
This had the effect of pulling income from increase further if our confidence in underlying rental 2010 11 back into 2009 10.
This amounted to markets continues to improve.
approximately 0.2p per share of post tax income.
Of greater importance to the income in that period was the Cash, Gearing and Debentures successful VAT reclaim on management fees as well as Sigma has a 10m share of the Group facility with RBS underwriting income.
These non-recurring items added and a 2.85m share of the remaining debenture.
The just under 0.5p per share to income in that year.
total debt availability is therefore currently 12.85m.
Combined, this 0.7p is close to the difference this year.
Based on shareholders funds of 139.8m, these facilities represent a maximum external gearing of around 9%.
The Revenue Expectations gearing was 8% at the full year and ranged between The earnings for the last financial year were better than 13% in April to 5% in August.
The debt position has expected.
The reasons behind those improved figures, been actively managed.
such as base rates remaining lower for longer than anticipated, will continue to flatter the income statements Post the year end, a two-year 30m borrowing facility of many property companies if such low interest rates has been agreed with ING, the Sigma share of this facility persist.
However, with more than 60% of the income of is 6.0m.
34 TR Property Investment Trust SIGMA SHARES Managers Report continued Alongside the gearing figure on the balance sheet we also calculate the see-through loan to value which adds the proportionate debt of all our equity investments to our own balance sheet net debt.
This figure is 56.3% and the equivalent figure for the benchmark is 52.5%.
These statistics highlight that as the fund continues to hold a number of lower beta small companies, which have less than average gearing, this reduces our overall seethrough gearing.
Management Changes On a personal note, I would like to thank Chris for all his help and guidance over the last fourteen years.
His depth of knowledge and experience is unparalleled.
The Chairman has commented on the continuity of your management team.
James joined Chris and I in 2002.
He has worked extremely closely with me on Sigma since launch in 2007.
I am delighted that he will become the lead manager on the Sigma share class.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge Fund Manager Sigma Share Class TR Property Investment Trust 35
