The business of the Group is conducted through three distinct broking models: the Name Give-Up model also known as the OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY, BUSINESS MODEL AND RISK PROFILE Name Passing model : the Matched Principal model: and the Objectives Executing Broker model.
The Companys objective is to maximise returns to shareholders over the medium to long term with an acceptable level of risk.
Around three-quarters of the revenue is derived from Name Give-Up activities, where the business is not a counterparty to the Strategy trade, and where its exposure to a client is limited to outstanding The strategy to achieve the Companys objective is to continue to invoices for commission.
The level of invoiced receivables is build a business, operating as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC monitored closely, by individual client and in aggregate, and there financial markets internationally, with the scale and breadth to have been very few instances in the past few years when invoiced deliver superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining receivables have not been collected.
The balance of the revenue is mainly derived from Matched The key actions to deliver this strategy are: Principal activities, where the Group is the counterparty to both sides of a matching trade and consequently bears counterparty develop and maintain strong pools of liquidity in all major credit risk during the period between execution and settlement of financial products and all major financial centres: the trade.
Once a Matched Principal transaction has settled usually 1-3 days after trade date, there is no ongoing risk for the business.
attract and retain key revenue producers: To mitigate settlement risk the business undertakes transactions on a strict Delivery versus Payment basis.
In the event that a client development of electronic broking capabilities to support our defaults prior to settlement in a Matched Principal trade, our voice broking expertise and ensure compliance with anticipated exposure is not to the principal amount but to the movement in regulatory reforms: the market value of the underlying instrument, and so the Groups exposure becomes a market risk.
This risk is mitigated by the use of development of the Companys information sales business: central counterparty services and other default risk transfer agreements, where appropriate, and by taking swift action to close development of value added post-trade services: out any position that arises as a result of a client default.
In addition to credit risk, the Groups Matched Principal activity also gives rise focus on maintaining contribution rates: and to limited market risk as a result of the infrequent residual balances which result from the Groups inability to match client orders focus on maintaining an appropriately sized support cost base.
Business model and risk pro le The Group also brokers certain transactions as an Executing Broker, The Companys business model is based on generating a return under an International Uniform Brokerage Execution Give-up from providing a facilitation service to clients, enabling them to agreement or equivalent, whereby the Group executes trade ef ciently and effectively.
This service can be provided, and transactions on certain regulated exchanges as per client orders, good returns can be generated, without actively taking credit and and then gives-up the trade to the relevant client or its clearing market risk.
The Group is exposed to short term pre-settlement risk during the period between the execution of the trade and the The Board has set a low risk appetite, in accordance with which the client claiming the trade.
This exposure is minimal, as under the Group does not actively seek risk in order to generate a return but is terms of the give-up agreements the Group has in place with its willing to accept a limited amount of risk as a consequence of its clients, trades must be claimed by the end of trade day.
Once the broking activities, principally counterparty credit risk and trade has been claimed, the Groups only exposure to the client is operational risk.
This is re ected in the business model adopted by for the invoiced receivables.
the Group whereby it acts only as an intermediary in the financial markets.
The Board has explicitly prohibited any active taking of The Groups broking activity gives rise to various operational risks.
trading risk and the business does not trade for its own account.
These include the risk of business disruption, employee error and However, whilst the Company does not actively seek to assume the failure of a business process or IT system, as well as the risk of risk as part of its business model, the Company is exposed to litigation being brought against the Group.
certain risks as a consequence of its broking activity, primarily to operational risk but also to a limited amount of credit and Discussion of the Groups risk management governance, principles market risk.
and policies, and risk pro le is included on pages 15 to 19.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 05 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Business Review continued The business in Asia has performed well despite the reduction in the level of market activity in Tokyo since the earthquake in March, OVERVIEW bene ting from the investment in Hong Kong to support onshore The financial results for 2011 demonstrate the strength of the and offshore activity in the financial markets for instruments business in challenging market and competitive conditions, and the denominated in Renminbi.
value of the service the business provides to participants in the worlds OTC financial markets.
We have continued to develop our electronic broking capabilities, and we are developing platforms to provide clients with the The business bene ts from the increased volumes in the financial exibility to transact either entirely electronically or via the markets that occur during periods of market turbulence, but levels businesss comprehensive voice execution broker network.
This of activity tend to reduce sharply when volatility is overshadowed hybrid model is consistent with the nature and operation of the by structural uncertainty.
Although the worlds financial markets majority of the OTC product markets which depend upon the remained unsettled throughout the year, yield curves in the worlds intervention and support of voice brokers for their liquidity and major developed economies attened further, dampening activity effective operation.
Whilst there were periods of signi cant market volatility which resulted in heightened levels of activity, In the last quarter of the year we launched tpSWAPDEAL, our hybrid most notably in the first two weeks of August and the second two interest rate swap trading platform.
The platform has streaming weeks of November, there were also some relatively prolonged price support in Euro denominated interest rate swaps from our periods of more subdued activity.
main liquidity providing banks and has been installed on the desktops of the interest rate swap client base in Europe.
Trades Revenue in 2011 was in line with that reported for 2010.
Using have been successfully executed through the platform, although constant exchange rates, and adjusting for Conveno which the inter-dealer market for interest rate swaps continues to be was acquired in August 2011, and for the satellite of ces in the executed predominantly through voice brokers.
tpSWAPDEAL runs Americas which were closed or exited during the second half of on exchange-grade technology and can be deployed quickly for 2010, revenue was 2% higher.
As market activity in 2011 was lower other currencies and derivative products.
In addition to standard overall than in 2010, which is re ected in a 3% reduction in average electronic platform functionality, tpSWAPDEAL has a number of revenue per broker, the increase in revenue re ects the bene t of features designed to replicate and enhance the advantages of the continued investment in the business.
We intend to launch similar platforms for a number of other products, which are designed to be effective The business in Europe continued to perform strongly, bene ting within both the current trading landscape and under all currently from the more favourable market conditions in the second half of anticipated regional regulatory environments.
the year, and from the investments made to strengthen market positions in Credit and Energy in London, and in broadening the We are well positioned to respond to and bene t from changes in base of the business in Continental Europe.
The quality of the the way in which OTC product markets operate as a result of the business in Europe and the value of the service it provides to clients regulatory reforms of these markets in both the USA and Europe.
were recognised by a number of awards during the year, including Our view of the current status of the regulatory developments is best broker for Forward FX and currency options in the FX Week set out below.
We continue to believe that the direction of the awards, top broker in currencies in the Risk annual inter-dealer regulatory reforms reinforces the role of the intermediary in the rankings, and top broker for cash bonds in the Credit inter-dealer OTC markets, and that the introduction of electronic platforms broker rankings.
re ects an evolution of the facilitation service that the business provides, rather than fundamentally changing the way in which Signi cant progress has been made in the development of the OTC markets operate.
business in the Americas region.
We have re-established our presence in those product areas affected by the raid on the The Information Sales business has continued to perform strongly, business in 2009, and with the twenty-six strong credit broking bene ting from the investment that has been made to increase team who joined the business in New York in early January, the breadth of the data the business offers to customers, and the headcount on the affected desks is largely back to the levels before increasing customer awareness of the value of independent pricing the defections.
New senior management for the Americas region data, most notably from the risk management and compliance started in June, increasing our regional management capability as functions of banks and other financial institutions who are driving we entered a phase of further investment in the region.
The this demand in response to increased regulatory oversight.
The acquisition of Conveno, an inter-dealer broker based in So Paulo, business was named Best Data Provider Broker at the Inside Brazil, completed on 9 August 2011.
This business provides the Market Data Awards in May, a clear endorsement of our position as base for further expansion in both Brazil and other countries in the leading provider of OTC price information and data to market Latin America.
The acquisition of Chapdelaine & Co. a leading participants.
In the post-trade Risk Management Services business, municipal bonds broker based in New York, completed in early the tpMATCH platform, which assists clients in the management of January 2012. interest rate risk, has been extended to cover an increased number of currencies, and towards the end of the year the business launched a platform to assist clients in their management of non-deliverable forwards date mismatches.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 06 Revenue from products supported by electronic platforms, Underlying operating pro t of 148.4m is 7% lower than for 2010 together with Information Sales and Risk Management Services with the underlying operating margin at 16.3% compared to 17.6% revenue, has increased by 14% to 171m, accounting for nearly for 2010.
The reduction in underlying operating margin is primarily onefifth of total revenue in 2011.
The proportion of that revenue driven by the increase in broker compensation costs as a that is derived from voice-only execution has reduced to one-third, percentage of broking revenue.
compared to 39% in 2010 and 55% in 2009, re ecting the increased proportion derived from trades conducted through the platforms.
The 1.1% points increase in broker compensation costs as a percentage of broking revenue to 59.6% is due to the increased In order to give clarity to the operating performance of the costs of employment in the Americas and to a lesser extent in business, the results are presented showing charges relating to Europe, re ecting the highly competitive market for brokers and exceptional items separately from the underlying results.
There the signi cant investment that has been made in rebuilding the are two areas in which the Company has incurred exceptional business in the Americas.
items during the year: the major legal actions that the Company is engaged in, and the restructuring actions that the Company The year end broker headcount of 1,667 includes the 43 brokers has taken to reduce costs and to maintain exibility in the cost who joined the business through the acquisition of Conveno base.
The charges related to these items are discussed below.
and the 26 credit brokers who joined the business in New York in January 2011.
The business also made a number of individual Our key financial and performance indicators for 2011 compared broker hires during the year, but this was offset by the impact on with those for 2010 are summarised in the table below.
broker headcount of the actions taken prior to the end of the year to reduce costs and increase exibility, as discussed below.
The increase in broking support headcount re ects the 34 heads who joined the business through the acquisition of Conveno, and the increase in the second half of the year in the headcount supporting the development and administration of electronic platforms and related developments.
2011 2010 Change Revenue 910.2m 908.5m 0% Underlying Operating pro t 148.4m 160.1m -7% Underlying Operating margin 16.3% 17.6% -1.3% points Broker headcount year end 1,667 1,601 4% Average broker headcount 1,652 1,588 4% Average revenue per broker 000 524 540 -3% Broker employment costs: broking revenue 59.6% 58.5% 1.1% points Broking support headcount year end 750 679 10% Excluding Conveno and satellite of ces.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 07 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review
