Business Review continued 2011 2010 Underlying operating pro t by region m m Change Europe 124.6 126.7 -2% Americas 9.1 24.2 -62% Asia Paci c 14.7 9.2 60% Reported 148.4 160.1 -7% Underlying operating margin by region 2011 2010 Europe 22.7% 23.6% Americas 3.8% 9.3% Asia Paci c 12.3% 8.1% 16.3% 17.6% Underlying operating pro t in Europe was down 2% and with Further actions are being taken in the first half of 2012 which are revenue in the region 2% higher, the underlying operating margin expected to reduce headcount by around another 80, covering a has reduced slightly to 22.7%.
The main driver of the reduction in number of support staff including those affected as a result of the margin is the increase in broker employment costs as a percentage integration of Chapdelaine & Co. as well as some further front of revenue, and an increase in support costs re ecting the of ce headcount reductions.
A charge of around 7m re ecting the investments being made in new of ces in Continental Europe and cost of these actions will be included in the 2012 accounts with an to support higher headcount in London.
annual reduction in xed costs as a result of these actions of approximately the same amount.
Underlying operating pro t in the Americas has more than halved and the underlying operating margin has fallen to 3.8%.
The main driver of the reduction in pro tability is the increase in broker LITIGATION employment costs as a percentage of revenue re ecting the The legal action that the Company had taken in London against competitive environment for brokers in the region and the costs of BGC, two of BGCs senior directors and ten former Company investment in rebuilding the scale of the business.
brokers, in response to a raid by BGC in early 2009 on the London business, was settled in the first half of the year.
As part of the In Asia Paci c underlying operating pro t has increased by 60%, settlement it was agreed that no further statement would be with the underlying operating margin increasing to 12.3%.
Broker made by either side about the settlement or the dispute.
employment costs as a percentage of broking revenue are lower than last year re ecting the bene t of the swift action taken to Legal action continues to be pursued against BGC and former respond to the lower level of revenue in Tokyo.
The increase in employees in the United States.
The subsidiary companies in the margin also re ects the tight control of other costs in the region United States directly affected by the raid on the business by BGC and the bene t of the growth in Risk Management Services which in the second half of 2009 have brought a claim against BGC in has a higher operating margin than broking.
arbitration pursuant to the rules of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA.
The FINRA arbitration is scheduled to be heard during 2012 and 2013.
A separate action has also been RESTRUCTURING COSTS brought by the Company in the New Jersey Superior Court, alleging, among other causes of action, violations under the Racketeer Market and competitive conditions are expected to continue to be In uenced and Corrupt Organizations RICO Act.
challenging, and in the light of this and the increased costs faced by the business relating to electronic platform developments and The claim by BGC Market Data and certain of its af liates, alleging other costs related to impending regulatory changes, a number of that the Company misappropriated data supplied to its information actions were taken prior to the end of the year to reduce costs and sales subsidiary in violation of a redistribution agreement, has been to maintain exibility in the cost base.
heard in arbitration under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, and the outcome of the arbitration is expected to be The actions taken prior to the year end will result in a reduction in known imminently.
A provision for the estimated cost of the headcount of 80, primarily in the front of ce, with a cost of 11.5m resolution of this claim has been included in the 2011 results.
and an annual reduction in xed costs of approximately the same amount.
The 6.6m 2010: 7.7m net charge re ects the costs incurred in bringing and defending these actions and the provision for the Most of the actions taken involve the exit, or restructuring of estimated cost of the resolution of the claim against the contracts, of individual brokers in order to ensure that the business Company, net of the settlement received from the legal action is well positioned to respond to potentially less favourable market taken in London.
conditions, by increasing the exibility of front of ce costs.
As part of this exercise the equity derivatives desk in Tokyo has been closed, with that business in Asia now serviced from Hong Kong, and the small OTC Valuations business which was part of Risk Management Services has also been closed.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 10
