Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the audited Directors financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the The Directors who served throughout the year, except as noted, year ended 31 December 2011. were as follows: Principal activities Keith Hamill Tullett Prebon plc operates as an intermediary in wholesale Non-executive Chairman financial markets facilitating the trading activities of its clients, in Terry Smith particular commercial and investment banks.
The main subsidiary Chief Executive undertakings through which the Group conducts its business are set out in Note 39 to the consolidated financial statements.
Paul Mainwaring Finance Director Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income David Clark Statement on page 46.
Independent Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director until February 2012 The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 11.25p per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on Michael Fallon 17 May 2012 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the Independent Non-executive Director register at close of business on 27 April 2012.
Richard Kilsby Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend for 2010 of 10.5p per Independent Non-executive Director ordinary share and an interim dividend for 2011 of 5.25p per ordinary share.
Angela Knight Independent Non-executive Director appointed 1 September 2011 Business review Senior Independent Director from February 2012 The information that ful ls the requirements of the Business Review can be found on pages 05 to 25.
The Business Review is Stephen Pull incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
It includes an Independent Non-executive Director appointed 1 September 2011 analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year, the position of the Group at the end of the year, financial Rupert Robson and nonfinancial performance indicators, and information on the Independent Non-executive Director main trends and factors likely to affect the development, performance, and position of the business.
A description of the Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 27. principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included in the Risk Management section of the Business Review.
Information on The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions environmental, employee, social and community issues and for the bene t of its directors which remain in place at the date information about persons with whom the Group has contractual of this report.
or other arrangements which are essential to the business, is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Directors interests Business Review.
The interests all bene cial of those persons who were Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the together with comparatives for the previous year or the date of members of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
appointment, were as follows: The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom 2011 2010 Number Number this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and such responsibility is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the Keith Hamill 80,299 80,299 statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Terry Smith 9,645,510 9,645,510 Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events Paul Mainwaring 221,339 221,339 and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements David Clark re ect knowledge and information available at the date of Michael Fallon 2,000 2,000 preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no Richard Kilsby obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in Angela Knight this Annual Report should be construed as a pro t forecast.
Stephen Pull A separate Corporate Governance Report is included within this Rupert Robson 7,000 7,000 Annual Report on pages 30 to 35 and which is, where relevant, incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
There were no changes in the interests of the Directors in the The Corporate Governance Report includes the information that ordinary share capital of the Company from the end of the year ful ls the requirements of section 7.2 of The Disclosure and to the date of this report.
Transparency Rules DTR with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6 which is located in this Directors Report.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 28 The Tullett Prebon plc Employee Bene t Trust 2007 held 202,029 Substantial interests shares 2010: 200,833.
The bene ciaries of the trust are the As at the end of the period under review, and as at 5 March 2012, employees of the Group, including the Executive Directors.
Under being the latest practicable date before signing of this document, Schedule 1 of the Companies Act 2006 the Executive Directors are the following not being Directors, their families or persons deemed to be interested in these shares.
The Tullett Prebon plc connected, within section 252 of the Companies Act 2006 had Employee Share Ownership Trust sold the 1,196 shares it held at noti ed the Company in accordance with DTR 5 that they were 31 December 2010 during the year at market value to the Tullett interested in the following voting rights of the issued ordinary share Prebon plc Employee Bene t Trust 2007. capital of the Company: % Directors share options are set out in the Report on Directors 31 Dec 2011 5 March 2012 Remuneration, including changes which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
Lloyds Banking Group plc 13.02 13.02 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 5.09 5.09 Share capital and control Henderson Global Investors 5.04 6.78 Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year Legal & General Group Plc 3.94 3.94 are shown in Note 28 which is incorporated into this Directors OppenheimerFunds, Inc: Report by reference.
Barings Asset Management Limited 3.01 3.01 The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right Policy of payment to suppliers to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general It is the Groups policy that all transactions are settled in meetings of the Company.
accordance with relevant terms and conditions of business agreed No person has any special rights of control over the Companys with the supplier, provided all such terms and conditions have been share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett Annual General Meeting Prebon plc Employee Bene t Trust 2007 are exercisable by the The AGM of the Company will be held at 2.30pm on 10 May 2012. trustees in accordance with their duciary duties.
The right to Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in receive dividends on these shares has been waived.
a separate Notice of Meeting sent to all shareholders entitled to receive such Notice.
There are no speci c restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Political and charitable donations Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The During 2011 no political donations were made by the Group 2010: Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the nil.
No charitable donations were made during 2011 2010: nil.
Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Auditor securities or on voting rights, nor are there any arrangements by A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the auditor will be which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
securities are held by a person other than the holder of those securities.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 30 which is Annual Report con rms that: incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Company is governed by its Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is shareholders.
This year shareholders will be asked to approve an aware of that information.
amendment to the Articles that will require directors to seek annual re-election.
This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The powers of the Directors include the authorities to allot shares and to buy the Companys shares in the market as granted by By order of the Board shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
At the last AGM a resolution was passed granting authority to the Directors Paul Mainwaring to purchase up to 21,531,358 ordinary shares.
This authority will Company Secretary expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, on 1 July 6 March 2012 2012, unless renewed before that time.
Further powers of the Directors are described in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which is available on the Companys website, and in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 30 to 35.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 29 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review
