Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Investment Managers Artemis Investment Management Established in 1997, Artemis Investment Management Limited manages over 10.9bn on behalf of a range of retail and institutional clients.
Witans portfolio is a segregated mirror of Derek Stuarts 1.0bn UK Special Situations Strategy launched in 2001 a contrarian fund that aims to outperform the FTSE All-Share Index by 3% per annum.
This approach seeks to exploit market inefficiencies, with an absolute return mindset, in order to generate maximum returns.
It is a stock-picking strategy that aims to achieve long term capital growth by focusing on stocks that are out of favour and have turnaround potential.
Comgest Founded in 1985, Comgest is an independent, international asset management group with offices in Paris, Dublin, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Singapore.
Comgest is characterised by its unique approach of quality growth in the long term through its unconstrained style across all equity portfolios.
It serves a diverse client base of long term oriented investors around the globe.
Comgest manages 11.3bn across 7 regional strategies Asia, Asia ex-Japan, Asia Pacific ex-Japan, Global Emerging Markets, Global, Latin America, Pan-European and 4 single country strategies Greater China, India, Japan and USA.
Henderson Global Investors Founded in 1934, Henderson Global Investors Henderson is wholly-owned by Henderson Group plc, which is dual-listed on the London Stock Exchange and Australian Securities Exchange.
Henderson Group is a constituent of the FTSE 250 and S&P ASX 200 indices.
Henderson Group plc is a focused organisation consisting solely of Henderson, the asset management entity of Henderson Group plc.
The Groups strategic focus is the development of Henderson as a leading investment manager, based around its core fixed income, equity and property capabilities as well as its offering of alternative products, such as private equity and hedge funds.
With its principal place of business in London, Henderson has over 65.4bn assets under management as at 30 September 2011 and employs over 900 people worldwide.
Lindsell Train Lindsell Train Limited was established in 2000 by Michael Lindsell and Nick Train and specialises in the management of UK equity, Japanese equity and global mandates for institutional clients.
The business was founded on the shared investment philosophy that developed while the founders worked together from the early 1990s.
Lindsell Train aims to provide a professional working environment where strong investment returns are delivered to their clients over the longer term.
Both the founders were concerned about their ability to deliver such returns within the confines of the major institutions where they were employed previously.
The business has grown steadily and assets under management total 1.6bn.
Lindsell Train continues to be majority owned by the two founders.
This is important because it ensures they maintain the integrity of the business principles on which the firm was founded.
Marathon Asset Management Marathon Asset Management was founded in 1986 and is totally independent, managing some 31bn of institutional client assets.
At the heart of Marathons investment philosophy is the capital cycle approach to investment.
This is based on the idea that the prospect of high returns will attract excessive capital and hence competition, and vice versa.
In addition, the assessment of management and how they respond to incentives and the forces of the capital cycle is critical to the investment outcome.
The investment philosophy is intrinsically contrarian.
Given the long term nature of the capital cycle, Marathons investment ideas generally require patience and, by industry standards, long stock holding periods.
MFS Investment Management MFS is a global investment firm managing 161.8bn of equity and fixed income assets for investors worldwide.
Founded in 1924, MFS established one of the industrys first in-house fundamental research departments in 1932.
Today, MFS offers a broad range of investment styles that combine both fundamental and quantitative research and portfolio management.
Their investment philosophy has remained consistent: to identify opportunities on behalf of clients through the application of global research and bottom-up security selection.
MFS culture is investment driven, client centred, and collaborative.
To underscore their values of collaboration and accountability, they structure ownership and compensation to reward long-term investment performance and teamwork.
Up to 22% ownership of MFS is available to key MFS contributors.
Their majority shareholder since 1982 has been Sun Life of Canada U. S. Financial Services Holdings, Inc. 20 Annual Report 2011 NewSmith Asset Management NewSmith Asset Management LLP, established in 2004 by a team of fund managers who had worked together at Mercury Asset Management, has assets under management of 1.8bn, the majority in UK equities on behalf of a range of institutional and high net worth clients.
The UK team manages concentrated, unconstrained equity portfolios, all with performance fee structures, and the teams business model is driven by client performance not by asset gathering.
Their investment philosophy is driven by the depth of understanding of UK companies and a strong market sense, combined with a flexible investment style and a thematic overlay.
Southeastern Asset Management Founded in 1975 and based in Memphis, Tennessee, Southeastern manages approximately 20.3bn for a range of institutional, high net worth and retail clients.
When Southeastern makes an investment they take the view that they are purchasing that company in its entirety.
They aim to avoid capital loss while targeting an annual average return of at least inflation plus 10%.
In the US they manage the Longleaf mutual funds which reopened in 2008 to new investors, after being closed for several years, due to the large amount of opportunity in the market.
Southeastern is 100% employee owned with all staff equity investment made exclusively into the firms funds.
Thomas White International Founded in 1992 by a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, Thomas White has 918m under management.
With professionals in Chicago and Bangalore, India, Thomas White invests in 50 markets around the world using a disciplined value-driven strategy.
Its analysts are aided in their stock selection by proprietary fundamental appraisal techniques applied to each company within an industry and or country.
This body of valuation knowledge has been refined over decades.
Their unique analytical approach allows them to limit overall portfolio volatility and downside risk while delivering excellent long term investment returns.
Trilogy Global Advisors Trilogy Global Advisors is a long-only specialist equity investment boutique managing global developed and global emerging market portfolios for institutional pension schemes.
Founded in 1999, it is wholly independent with all the equity owned by the principal partners, other staff and non-executive directors.
It has two investment offices in New York and Orlando, Florida, and a marketing and client service office in London.
Total assets under management comprise 7.8bn with approximately a quarter represented by UK pension fund clients and around a third of total assets managed in dedicated global emerging market equity portfolios.
Veritas Asset Management Veritas is an independent investment company, managing 6bn of assets, with the key objective of delivering long term real returns to its clients.
Veritas aligns its interest with clients objectives and is committed to partnership.
Veritas manages both segregated portfolios and funds, with either long-only or long-short real return mandates.
Their clients include institutions, charities, trusts and private clients.
The company was established in 1993 and has offices in London, Zrich and Hong Kong.
Veritas Asset Management UK Ltd and Veritas Asset Management AG are wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Real Return Group, which is 100% owned by management and employees and operates as a partnership.
The foregoing summaries are based upon information supplied by the managers regarding their investment styles and assets under management.
