FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 75 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Employee benefits 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees in respect of wages and salaries, annual leave, long service leave and sick leave when it is probable that settlement will be required and they are capable of being measured reliably.
Financial assets continued Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits expected to be settled within 12 months, are measured at their nominal values using the remuneration rate expected to apply at the time of settlement.
Liabilities recognised in respect Loans and receivables of employee benefits which are not expected to be settled within 12 months are measured as the present value of the Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active estimated future cash flows to be made by the consolidated entity in respect of services provided by employees up to market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective reporting date.
interest rate method less impairment.
Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Superannuation The Company contributes to, but does not participate in, compulsory superannuation funds on behalf of the Employees Impairment of financial assets and Directors in respect of salaries and directors fees paid.
Contributions are charged against income as they are made.
Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events that Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been Exploration and evaluation expenditures in relation to each separate area of interest are recognised as an exploration and impacted.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets evaluation asset in the year in which they are incurred where the following conditions are satisfied: carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the i the rights to tenure of the area of interest are current: and exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When ii at least one of the following conditions is also met: a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts a the exploration and evaluation expenditures are expected to be recouped through successful development and previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account exploration of the area of interest, or alternatively, by its sale: or are recognised in profit or loss.
b exploration and evaluation activities in the ar ea of interest have not at the reporting date reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss operations in, or in relation to, the area of interest are continuing.
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent the carrying amount of the investment Exploration and evaluation assets are initially measured at cost and include acquisition of rights to explore, studies, at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not exploration drilling, trenching and sampling and associated activities.
General and administrative costs are only included in been recognised.
the measurement of exploration and evaluation costs where they are related directly to operational activities in a particular area of interest.
In respect of available-for-sale equity instruments, any subsequent increase in fair value after an impairment loss is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances as defined in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources suggest that the carrying amount of exploration and evaluation Derecognition of financial assets assets may exceed its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the exploration and evaluation assets or the cashThe Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or generating unit s to which it has been allocated, being no larger than the relevant area of interest is estimated to determine when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group for the asset in previous years.
continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Where a decision is made to proceed with development in respect of a particular area of interest, the relevant exploration and evaluation asset is tested for impairment, reclassified to development properties, and then amortised over the life of the reserves associated with the area of interest once mining operations have commenced.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment PPE 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Plant and equipment will include capitalised development expenditure.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure continued as well as the estimated cost of abandonment.
In the event that settlement of all or part of the purchase consideration is deferred, cost is determined by discounting the amounts payable in the future to their present value as at the date of Development expenditure is recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, the associated costs are amortised over the estimated economic life of the mine on a units of production basis.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write off the net cost or other revalued amount of each asset over its expected useful life to its estimated residual value.
Changes in factors such as estimates of proved and probable reserves that affect unit-of-production calculations are dealt with on a prospective basis.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each annual financial period, with the effect of any changes recognised on a prospective basis.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in its functional currency being the currency of the Freehold land is not depreciated.
primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the The following estimated useful lives are used in the calculation of depreciation: results and financial position of each entity are expressed in United States dollars, which is the functional currency of the Plant and Equipment - 2- 50 years Group and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
All companies in the group use the United Office Equipment 5 - 6 years States Dollar as their functional currency except for Sheba Exploration UK plc and Sheba Exploration Limited that use Motor Vehicles - 2 - 8 years Great British Pound.
Land and Buildings - 4 - 20 years In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each reporting date, proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Nonmonetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on Mine development properties the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign Where mining of a mineral resource has commenced, the accumulated costs are transferred to mine properties.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Amortisation is first charged to new mine development ventures from the date of first commercial production.
Amortisation of mine properties is on a unit of production basis resulting in an amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the Inventories proved and probable ore reserves.
The unit of production can be on a tonnes or an ounce depleted basis.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs including an appropriate portion of fixed and variable overhead expenses are assigned to inventory on hand by the method appropriate to each particular class of Impairment of assets other than exploration and evaluation and financial assets inventory, with the majority being valued on a weighted average cost basis.
Net realisable value represents the estimated At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not Ore stockpiles, gold in circuit and bullion are valued applying absorption costing.
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
Interests in joint ventures Jointly controlled entities Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated Where the Group is a venturer and so has joint control in a jointly controlled entity, the Group recognises its share of the future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assets, liabilities, income and expenses, line by line, in the consolidated financial statements.
assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future flows have not SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying Leased assets amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Where an impairment loss subsequently Leased assets are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable incidental to ownership of the leased asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash generating unit in prior years.
other systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or less, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued incurred.
amount, in which case the reversal of an impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
