BUSINESS REVIEW 26 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AFFECTING THE CENTAMIN GROUP RISK COMMENT AND MITIGATING ACTIONS The group faces a variety of risks which could adversely affect affected by risks relating to the gold mining industry generally its performance, earnings, financial position and prospects.
and the risks and hazards involved in the business of mining A summary of those which management believe represent the metals, which are largely outside its control.
Reserves and resource estimates principal risks set below.
In addition, there may be additional The groups stated mineral reserves and resources are Management has implemented processes to risks unknown to Centamin and other risks, which are Centamin has taken a number of steps to mitigate some of estimates based on a range of assumptions, including continuously monitor and evaluate the current life of the currently believed to be immaterial and could turn out to be these risks and will continue to evaluate ways in which it can geological, metallurgical and technical factors: there can Sukari Gold Mine, mine plans and production targets.
These risks, whether they materialise individually or manage and mitigate risks accordingly.
Notwithstanding this, be no assurance that the anticipated tonnages or grades groups resources and reserves are regularly reviewed.
simultaneously, could significantly affect the groups business due to the very nature of risks no assurance can be given that will be achieved.
Centamins resources are presented in accordance with and financial results.
In addition, Centamin could also be mitigating actions taken or planned will be wholly effective.
the 2004 Australian Code for the Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves JORC Code which provides an equivalent presentation to NI 43-101 and the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum Standards the CIM Standards.
RISK COMMENT AND MITIGATING ACTIONS Gold price The groups financial performance is highly dependent The groups objective is to provide maximum exposure upon the price of gold, which is affected by a number of to the price of gold and, as such, a policy of not hedging Single project dependency factors beyond the groups control.
Rapid fluctuations in gold has been adopted.
The group retains its focus on The Sukari Gold Mine currently constitutes all of the In order to ensure continued growth, the group pricing of gold will have a corresponding impact on the keeping operating costs as low as possible.
groups mineral resources and reserves and the potential intends to identify new resources and development financial position.
for the future generation of revenue with the exception opportunities through exploration and acquisition of the groups small exploration portfolio in Ethiopia.
Construction and operational risks Any adverse development affecting the progress of Planned construction and commissioning of the Management closely monitor progress of the expansion the Sukari Project such as, but not limited to, unusual Centamin assesses a wide range of potential growth remainder of the expansion of the Sukari Gold Mine project and the Board receives regular updates on and unexpected geologic formations, seismic activity, opportunities both within Egypt and the wider area of and any further expansion projects may be delayed developments.
rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding and other conditions the Arabian-Nubian Shield.
Projects of this scale can suffer involved in the drilling and removal of material, any delays in startup and commissioning due to late delivery of which could result in damage to, or destruction of, of components, adverse weather or equipment failures mines and other producing facilities, or any other event or delays in obtaining, or renewing where applicable, the leading to a reduction in production or closure of mines required permits or consents.
Other factors which may or other producing facilities, damage to life or property, cause delays in the development of the remainder of environmental damage, hiring suitable personnel and Sukari Gold Mine and any further expansion projects engineering contractors, or securing supply agreements include delays in obtaining construction and operating on commercially suitable terms, could have a material permits, or renewing where applicable approvals and adverse effect on the groups financial performance and permits: delays in procuring new equipment and and results.
supplies: and delays as a result of the group being unable to source skilled and professional labour.
Single country risk All of the groups operational revenue is derived from The current political situation in Egypt has not affected Political, legal and regulatory developments production at the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt and there the safety of the Groups employees or its day-to-day The groups exploration, development and operational The group actively monitors legal and political is no assurance that future political and economic operations at its flagship project, Sukari.
The Directors activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations developments in Egypt and Ethiopia.
conditions there will not result in the Government of of the Group continue to monitor the situation and governing various matters in the jurisdictions in which Egypt adopting different policies respecting foreign there are no matters to report outside of what is already it operates.
Changes to existing law and regulations, or The group actively engages in dialogue with the Egyptian development and ownership of mineral resources.
more stringent application or interpretation of current government and legal policy makers to discuss all key such change in policy may result in changes in laws laws and regulations by relevant government authorities, legal and regulatory developments applicable to its affecting ownership of assets, land tenure and mineral See mitigating controls above.
could adversely affect the groups operations and operation environmental legislation.
concessions, fuel subsidies, taxation, royalties, rates of development projects.
In particular, operations may be exchange, environmental protection, labour relations, affected in varying degrees by government regulations repatriation of income and return of capital, which may with respect to restrictions on production, price affect both the groups ability to undertake exploration, controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation development and operational activities in respect of property, maintenance of claims, environmental of future properties as well as its ability to continue legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water to explore, develop and operate those properties in use and safety regulations.
In consequence, Centamins respect of which it has obtained mineral exploration and revenue is currently derived exclusively from Sukari, exploitation rights to date.
its business operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory changes and developments in Egypt.
