FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical cost, except for the revaluation of certain non- 2.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS current assets and financial instruments.
Cost is based on the fair values of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
Judgments made by management in the application of EU IFRS that have significant effects on the financial statements CONTINUED and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustments in the next year are disclosed, where applicable, in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the financial position continued IAS 12 amended will impact the measurement of deferred tax on the Groups investment properties, by introducing the Principles of consolidation rebuttable presumption that the carrying amount will be recovered entirely through sale: and The consolidated financial statements are prepared by combining the financial statements of all the entities that comprise IAS 19 revised will impact the measurement of the various components representing movements in the defined the consolidated entity, being the company the parent entity and its subsidiaries as defined in IAS 27 Consolidated and benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the Groups total obligation.
It is likely that following the Separate Financial Statements.
Consistent accounting policies are employed in the preparation and presentation of the replacement of expected returns on plan assets with a net finance cost in the income statement, the profit for the period consolidated financial statements.
will be reduced and accordingly other comprehensive income increased.
The consolidated financial statements include the information and results of each subsidiary from the date on which the Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a company obtains control and until such time as the company ceases to control such entity.
Control is achieved where detailed review has been completed.
the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all intercompany balances and transactions, and unrealised profits arising within the consolidated entity are eliminated in full.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Sukari Gold Mines SGM is jointly controlled by PGM and EMRA on a 50% equal basis.
For accounting purposes, SGM adopted by the European Union EU IFRS and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies reflecting the substance and economic reality of the IAS Regulation Concession Agreement see note 23.
Pursuant to the Concession Agreement, PGM solely funds SGMs activities.
PGM is also entitled to recover the following costs and expenses payable from sales revenue excluding the royalty payable to There are no changes in these accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2011 except as noted below.
ARE a all current operating expenses incurred and paid after the initial commercial production: b exploration costs, As a consequence of the re-domicile referred to on page 36, the ultimate holding of the Group changed from Centamin including those accumulated to the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated Egypt Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of South Australia, to Centamin plc, a company incorporated cost per annum : and c exploitation capital costs, including those accumulated prior to the commencement of commercial under the laws of Jersey.
Although these financial statements have been released in the name of the parent, Centamin production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per annum.
plc, it represents in substance continuation of the existing Group, headed by Centamin Egypt Limited and the following accounting treatment has been applied: EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production surplus defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
Accordingly, no EMRA entitlement has been recognised to date.
Any payment made to EMRA the consolidated assets and liabilities of the subsidiary Centamin Egypt Limited were recognised and measured at the pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a variable royalty charge in the income pre-redomicile carrying amounts, without restatement to fair value: statement.
the retained earnings and other equity balances recognised in the consolidated financial position reflect the consolidated retained earnings and other equity balances of Centamin Egypt Limited immediately prior to the re-domicile, and the 2010 Restatement results of the period from 1 January 2011 to the date of the re-domicile are those of Centamin Egypt Limited: and With the change in the domicile of the holding company of the Group from Australia to Jersey, management reviewed the comparative numbers presented in the consolidated financial statements are those reported in the consolidated financial 2010 Annual report with a view to produce financial statements that are in compliance with EU IFRS and Jersey Companies statements of Centamin Egypt Limited, for the six months ended 31 December 2010, except for the presentation of the Act and restated the 2010 figures accordingly.
Management do not consider the restatements to be material and thus a share capital and other reserves, which have been restated to reflect the change in the nominal value of the ordinary third statement of financial position has not been presented.
shares resulting from the restructuring as if Centamin plc had been the parent company during that period.
In 2011 the Group changed its financial year end from June to December.
Consequently, information for the prior period presented Going concern in these financial statements comprise of financial information for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations.
Having carried out In addition, as a consequence of the re-domicile referred to on page 36, the Group is now reporting under EU IFRS.
The a going concern review in preparing these consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, the 31 December 2010 consolidated financial statements were prepared under Australian equivalents to International Financial Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable basis to adopt the going concern principle.
Compliance with A-IFRS ensures that the financial statements and notes of the Group comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and hence there are no differences noted.
The 2011 financial statements will make reference to EU IFRS.
These financial statements are denominated in United States Dollars, which is the functional currency of Centamin plc.
All companies in the group use the United States Dollar as their functional currency except for Sheba Exploration UK plc and Sheba Exploration Limited that use Great British Pound.
All financial information presented in United States Dollars has been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on re-measurement recognised in 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the income statement.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner which ensures that the resulting financial statements satisfy the liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or other events is recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a reported.
financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter The following significant policies have been adopted in the preparation and presentation of these financial statements: period.
Cash and cash equivalents Derecognition of financial liabilities Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial instruments Financial assets Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to Financial assets are recognised and derecognised on trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs except for those financial assets classified as at fair value Financial liabilities and equity through the profit or loss which are initially measured at fair value.
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost in the company financial statements.
Other financial assets are loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial Equity instruments assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest Financial liabilities income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimate future cash receipts Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at Available for sale financial assets FVTPL.
A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
The Group also has investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term: or but that are classified as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a be reliably measured.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 26.
Gains and losses arising from changes recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is if: determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise reclassified to profit or loss.
arise: or the financial liability forms part of a Group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividends is its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or established.
investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
