FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: Revenue deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services in the normal measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and Sale of goods assets or disposal Groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Noncurrent.
Revenue from the sale of mineral production is recognised when the Group has passed the risks and rewards of the mineral production to the buyer.
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group Pre-production revenues reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted Income derived by the entity prior to the date of commercial production being 1 April 2010 was offset against the during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information expenditure capitalised and carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
All revenues recognised after obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the 1 April 2010 are recognised in accordance with the revenue policy stated above.
1 April 2010 was selected as the amounts recognised as of that date.
commencement date of commercial production due to the fact that sufficient, stable and sustained production capacity had been achieved as at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Interest revenue Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of Investments in associates revenue can be measured reliably.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee Interest revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate but is not control or joint control over those policies.
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with Production royalty IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is entitled to a royalty of 3% of net sales revenue as defined from the sale of gold and associated minerals from the Sukari Project.
This royalty is calculated and recognised on receipt of the final certificate of Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted analysis document received from the refinery.
Due to its nature, the production is not recognised in cost of sales.
for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any longBusiness combinations term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences Share-based payments that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the Equity-settled share-based payments with employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
of the equity instrument at grant date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black and Scholes model.
Where sharebased payments are subject to market conditions, fair value was measured by the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The fair Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting period, based current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to on the consolidated entitys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Equity-settled share based transactions with other parties are measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, Special considerations except where the fair value cannot be estimated reliably, in which case they are measured at the fair value of the equity In Australia, Centamin Egypt Limited and Pharaoh Gold Mines NL have elected to form a tax consolidated group and instruments granted, measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the counter party renders the service.
therefore are treated as a single entity for Australian income tax purposes.
Pharaoh Gold Mines NL has elected into the The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nonBranch Profits Exemption whereby foreign branch income will generally not be subject to Australian income tax.
transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Further details on how the fair value of equity-settled In Egypt, Centamin has entered into a concession agreement that provides that the income generated by Sukari Gold share-based transactions has been determined can be found in Notes 27.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its Mining Companys activities is granted a long-term tax exemption from all taxes imposed in Egypt.
estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss over the remaining vesting period, with corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled Restoration and rehabilitation employee benefits reserve.
A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of exploration, development and production activities undertaken, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to Taxation settle the obligation, and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably.
The estimated future obligations include Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
the costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required to settle the restoration obligation Current tax at the reporting date.
Future restoration costs are reviewed annually and any changes in the estimate are reflected in the The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the present value of the restoration provision at each reporting date.
consolidated statement of comprehensive income because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax The initial estimate of the restoration and rehabilitation provision relating to exploration, development and mining rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
production activities is capitalised into the cost of the related asset and amortised on the same basis as the related asset, unless the present obligation arises from the production of the inventory in the period, in which case the amount is included Deferred tax in the cost of production for the period.
Changes in the estimate of the provision of restoration and rehabilitation are treated Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial in the same manner, except that the unwinding of the effect of discounting on the provision is recognised as a finance cost statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally rather than being capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS Profit for the year has been arrived at after crediting charging i Critical Judgements in Applying the Entitys Accounting Policies the following gains losses and expenses: The following are the critical judgements that management has made in the process of applying the Groups accounting 31 December 2011 31 December policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: 12 months Restated 2010 US$000 6 months US$000 Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines SGM SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Cost of sales Concession Agreement see note 23.
Mine production costs 85,891 32,447 Recovery of Capitalised Exploration Evaluation and Development Expenditure Movement in inventory 45 3,098 The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure results in exploration and evaluation expenditure Depreciation and Amortisation 54,314 21,061 being capitalised for those projects where such expenditure is considered likely to be recoverable through future extraction 140,250 50,410 activity or sale or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and Finance income circumstances, in particular whether the Group will proceed with development based on existence of reserves or whether Interest received 1,288 321 an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions may change from Other operating costs period to period as new information becomes available.
If, subsequent to the exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised, a judgement is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be abandoned, the relevant Corporate compliance 1,506 555 capitalised amount will be written off to the income statement.
Corporate consultants 383 510 Employee entitlements 33 56 ii Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Salary and wages 1,598 1,885 reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Travel and accommodation 694 201 within the next financial year: Other administration expenses 608 467 Provision for restoration and rehabilitation costs Employee equity settled share based payments 1,496 14 The Group is required to decommission, rehabilitate and restore mines and processing sites at the end of their producing Fixed royalty Attributable to the Egyptian government 13,360 2,604 lives to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities.
The provision has been calculated taking into account the Gain on sale of scrap and waste - 39 estimated future obligations including the costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure Foreign exchange gain, net 584 1,593 required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
Investment loss, net 93 - Provision for restoration and rehabilitation 2011 movement 89 23 Ore reserve estimates Estimates of recoverable quantities of reserves include assumptions on commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates and production costs for future cashflows.
It also involves assessment and judgement of difficult geological models.
The Exceptional items included in Other operating costs economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate ore reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their unusual, irregular or nonore reserves affect the carrying values of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, provision for rehabilitation assets recurring nature should be disclosed separately if the consolidated financial statements are to fairly present the financial and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves are integral to the amount of depreciation and amortisation charged to the Statement of position and underlying business performance.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information Comprehensive Income and the calculation of inventory.
presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance, the effect of exceptional items are shown below.
REVENUE 31 December 2011 31 December 12 months Restated 2010 An analysis of the Groups and Companys revenue for US$000 6 months US$000 31 December 2011 31 December the year, from continuing operations, is as follows: 12 months Restated 2010 US$000 6 months US$000 Re-domicile Costs 2,645 - Gold sales 339,779 86,820 Silver sales 700 62 The re-domicile costs relate to the expenses incurred in moving the Group from Australia to Jersey by means of the 340,479 86,882 Company becoming the holding company of the Group.
Finance income 1,288 321 341,767 87,203 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Tax consolidation Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity The Company and its wholly-owned Australian resident entities formed a tax-consolidated Group with effect from 1 July 2003.
The head entity within the tax-consolidated Group is Centamin Egypt Limited.
The members of the tax-consolidated 7.
TAX Group are identified at Note 21.
Tax recognised in profit is summarised as follows: Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax sharing agreements 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Entities within the tax-consolidated Group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a tax-sharing agreement with 12 months 6 months the head entity.
Under the terms of the tax funding agreement, Centamin Egypt Limited and each of the entities in the taxUS$000 US$000 consolidated Group has agreed to pay a tax equivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity.
Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the a Tax expense tax-consolidated Group.
Current tax - - The tax sharing agreement entered into between members of the tax-consolidated Group provides for the determination of Current tax expense in respect of the current year - - the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations.
No Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax in prior period - - amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the tax sharing agreement is considered remote.
Deferred tax Deferred tax expense relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences 222 750 8.
SEGMENT REPORTING Tax losses and temporary differences not recognised 222 750 The Group is engaged in the business of exploration and mining of precious and base metals only, which represents a Total tax expense - - single operating segment.
The Board is the Groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 9.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 12 months 6 months 31 December 31 December US$000 US$000 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Profit before income tax 181,945 32,042 Gold sales debtors 29,976 - Tax expense calculated at 30% 2010: 30% of profit before tax 54,584 9,613 Other receivables 22 128 29,998 128 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible taxable in calculating taxable income: Non-deductible expenses 48,703 17,038 Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
The Tax effect of income not taxable in determining taxable profit 103,595 26,651 average age of the receivables is 32 days 2010: 1 day.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
There are no trade receivables past due and impaired at the reporting date, and thus no allowance for doubtful debts has been recognised.
Tax Losses and temporary differences not recognised 308 - Of the trade receivables balance, the gold sales debtor is all receivable from Johnson Matthey of Canada.
The amount due Tax expense for the year - - has been received subsequent to year-end and was considered to be fully recoverable.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 30% payable by Australian corporate entities on taxable profits under the Australian tax law.
There has been no change in the corporate tax rate when compared to the previous financial period.
INVENTORIES 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 12 months 6 months US$000 US$000 Mining stockpiles and ore in circuit 10,493 10,539 Stores 59,257 27,478 Current tax liabilities 69,750 38,017 Current tax payable 444 444 During the year US$295,000 2010: US$ nil of inventory has been written off to other operating costs.
