BUSINESS REVIEW 22 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 23 As highlighted in note 26, the group In the day to day business, the Group receives cash from its operations and is Recovery of Capitalised Exploration Evaluation and Development Expenditure SEGMENT meets its day to day working capital required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The cash is The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure results in requirements through cash generated managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised for those projects where DISCLOSURE by its operations.
The current economic that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with such expenditure is considered likely to be recoverable through future extraction conditions create uncertainty particularly financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
activity or sale or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which The Group is engaged in the business over a the level of demand of the permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires of exploration for precious and base groups products: b the price at which The Groups primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow.
The principal risk management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and metals only, which is characterised its products can be sold: and c the factor affecting operating cash flow is cost and gold prices.
circumstances, in particular whether the Group will proceed with development based as one business segment only.
See price at which its main raw materials on existence of reserves or whether an economically viable extraction operation Note 8 of the Notes to the Financial can be procured.
The Groups financial commitments are limited to planned and discretionary can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions may change from period to Statements.
spending on work programmes at the Sukari Gold Mine, planned and discretionary period as new information becomes available.
If, subsequent to the exploration and The groups forecasts and projections, spending on work programmes at the exploration licences owned by Sheba, evaluation expenditure being capitalised, a judgement is made that recovery of the taking account of reasonably possible administration expenditure at the Egyptian, Australian and London office locations SIGNIFICANT expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be abandoned, the relevant capitalised changes in trading performance, show and for general working capital purposes.
amount will be written off to the income statement.
ACCOUNTING that group should be able to continue generating sufficient cash in order Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines SGM ESTIMATES to finance its operations and capital cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the expansions.
substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement see note 23.
In the application of the groups accounting policies, which are The directors have a reasonable We had no debt for both 2011 and the 2010 period.
The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources described in Note 4 of the Notes to the expectation that the group will have of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing Financial Statements, management is adequate resources to continue The following is a summary of the Groups outstanding commitments as at 31 a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next required to make judgments, estimates, in operational existence for the December 2011: financial year: and assumptions about carrying values foreseeable future.
Thus they continue of assets and liabilities that are not Total 1 year 1 to 5 years Payments due to adopt the going concern basis of Provision for restoration and rehabilitation costs readily apparent from other sources.
The After 5 years US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 accounting in preparing the Annual The Group is required to decommission, rehabilitate and restore mines and estimates and associated assumptions Financial Statements.
processing sites at the end of their producing lives to a condition acceptable to are based on historical experience and Employee benefits 717 717 - - the relevant authorities.
The provision has been calculated taking into account various other factors that are believed to Creditors 24,509 24,509 - - the estimated future obligations including the costs of dismantling and removal of be reasonable under the circumstances, NON-GAAP facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future Restoration and rehabilitation provision 2,630 - - 2,630 the results of which form the basis of restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required FINANCIAL making the judgments.
Actual results Current tax liabilities 444 444 - - to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
may differ from these estimates.
Operating lease commitments Note 19 56 56 - - MEASURES Capital commitments Note 19 40,026 40,026 - - Ore reserve estimates The estimates and underlying Three non-GAAP financial measures are Estimates of recoverable quantities of reserves include assumptions on commodity Total commitments 68,382 65,752 - 2,630 assumptions are reviewed on an used in this report: prices, exchange rates, discount rates and production costs for future cashflows.
Revisions to accounting It also involves assessment and judgement of difficult geological models.
The estimates are recognised in the period The Groups financial commitments are limited to planned and discretionary 1 EBITDA: EBITDA is a non-GAAP economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate ore reserves may in which the estimate is revised if the spending on work programmes at the Sukari Gold Mine, planned and discretionary financial measure, which excludes change from period to period.
Changes in ore reserves affect the carrying values revision affects only that period or in the spending on work programmes at the exploration licences owned by Sheba, the following from profit before tax: of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, provision for rehabilitation period of the revision and future periods administration expenditure at the Egyptian, Australian and London office locations Finance costs: assets and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves are integral to the amount of depreciation if the revision affects both current and and for general working capital purposes.
Finance income: and and amortisation charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the future periods.
OUTSTANDING SHARE INFORMATION The following are the critical judgments Management believes that EBITDA that management has made in the ACCOUNTING POLICIES is a valuable indicator of the Groups As at 30 March 2012, the Company had 1,096,297,381 fully paid ordinary shares process of applying the groups ability to generate liquidity by producing issued and outstanding.
accounting policies and that have the There have not been any changes to the Groups accounting policies during the year.
operating cash flow to fund working most significant effect on the amounts capital needs and fund capital As at 30 March 2012 Number recognised in the Financial Statements: expenditures.
EBITDA is also frequently GOING CONCERN STATEMENT used by investors and analysts for Shares in Issue 1,096,297,381 valuation purposes whereby EBITDA Options issued but not exercised 1,630,150 The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future is multiplied by a factor or EBITDA 1,097,927,531 development, performance and position are set out in this business review.
The multiple that is based on an observed financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing or inferred relationship between EBITDA facilities are also described in this business review on pages 18 to 31.
In addition, and market values to determine the note 26 of the Financial Statements includes the groups objectives, policies and approximate total enterprise value of a processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details company.
EBITDA is intended to provide of its financial instruments: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
additional information to investors and BUSINESS REVIEW 24 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 25 analysts and does not have any standardized definition under IFRS and should not reasonable assurance regarding the be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared reliability of financial reporting and the in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDA excludes the impact of cash costs and income of preparation of Financial Statements financing activities and taxes, and therefore is not necessarily indicative of operating for external purposes in accordance profit or cash flow from operations as determined under IFRS.
Other companies may with generally accepted accounting calculate EBITDA differently.
The following table provides a reconciliation of EBITDA principles in Canada.
In addition, to profit for the year attributable to the company.
there have been no changes in the Companys internal control over Reconciliation of profit before tax to EBITDA financial reporting during the year ended 31 December 2011 that have materially Year ended Six month period affected, or are reasonably likely to 31 December 2011 ended 31 December 2010 materially affect, its internal control over US$000 US$000 financial reporting.
Profit before tax 181,945 32,042 Finance income 1,288 321 FINANCIAL Depreciation and amortisation 54,314 21,061 INSTRUMENTS EBITDA 234,971 52,782 At 31 December 2011, the Group has exposure to interest rate risk which is 2 Cash Cost per Ounce Calculation: Cash costs per ounce is a non-GAAP limited to the floating market rate for financial measure.
Cash Cost per ounce is a measure of the average cost of cash.
producing an ounce of gold, calculated by dividing the operating costs in a period by the total gold production over the same period.
Operating costs represent The Group does not have foreign 13 June 1995.
The Concession Agreement was issued by PGM provides funding to the Operating Company, Sukari total operating costs less administrative expenses, royalties, depreciation currency risk for non-monetary assets way of Presidential Decree after the approval of the Peoples Gold Mining Company, SGM and is responsible for the and amortization.
Management uses this measure internally to better assess and liabilities of the Egyptian operations Assembly in accordance with the Egyptian Constitution and day-to-day management of that company.
performance trends for the Company as a whole.
The Company believes that, in as these are deemed to have a Law No.
The Concession Agreement was issued PGM is entitled to recover: addition to conventional measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, certain functional currency of United States in accordance with the Egyptian Mines and Quarries Law No.
- all current operating expenses incurred and paid after the investors use such non-GAAP information to evaluate the Companys performance dollars.
The Group has no significant 86 of 1956 which allows for the Ministry to grant the right to initial commercial production: and ability to generate cash flow.
The Company believes that these measures better monetary foreign currency assets and parties to explore and mine for minerals in Egypt.
- exploration costs, including those accumulated to the reflect the Groups performance for the current period and are a better indication liabilities apart from Australian dollar and commencement of commercial production at the rate of of its expected performance in future periods.
Cash costs is intended to provide United States dollar cash term deposits.
While the Company is the first foreign company to develop 33.3% per annum : and additional information, does not have any standardized meaning prescribed by a modern large-scale gold mine in Egypt there is significant - exploitation capital costs, including those accumulated GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of The Group currently does not engage in foreign investment in the petroleum sector.
Several large prior to the commencement of commercial production at performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
This measure is not necessarily any hedging or derivative transactions multinational oil and gas companies operate successfully in the rate of 33.3% per annum.
indicative of operating profit or cash flow from operations as determined under to manage interest rate or foreign Egypt, some of which have long histories in the country and The ARE is entitled to a royalty of 3% of net sales revenue GAAP.
Other companies may calculate these measures differently.
have dedicated significant amounts of capital.
The Group from the sale of gold and associated minerals from the believes that the successful track record of foreign investment Sukari Gold Mine.
3 Cash and Liquid Assets: Cash and Liquid Assets include Cash and cash established by these companies in the petroleum sector is Commencing on the date of commercial production, PGM FOREIGN equivalents and gold sales debtors.
This is a non-GAAP financial measure.
an important indication of the ability of foreign companies to is entitled to a 15 year exemption from any taxes imposed INVESTMENT IN attract financing and receive development approvals for the by the Egyptian government, with an option to extend this INTERNAL CONTROLS construction of major projects in Egypt.
EGYPT After the deduction of recoverable expenses and the Financial reporting controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable payment of the 3% royalty, the profits are shared equally Foreign investments in the petroleum OVERVIEW OF SUKARI assurance that all relevant information is gathered and reported to management, between PGM and EMRA with an additional 10% of and mining sectors in Egypt are including the CEO and CFO, on a timely basis so that appropriate decisions can proceeds paid to PGM in the first 2 years that there are net CONCESSION AGREEMENT governed by individual production be made regarding public disclosure.
Management, with the participation of the proceeds and an additional 5% in the following 2 years.
sharing agreements concession certifying officers, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation, as PGM, EMRA and the Operating Company are exempt from Pharaoh Gold Mines NL PGM a 100% wholly owned agreements between foreign of 31 December 2011, of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures as custom taxes and duties with respect to the importation of subsidiary of the Company, EGSMA now EMRA and the companies and the Ministry for defined by the Canadian Securities Administrators.
Based on that evaluation, the machinery, equipment and consumable items required for Arab Republic of Egypt ARE entered into the Concession Petroleum and Mineral Resources or certifying officers have concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures are the purpose of exploration and mining activities at Sukari.
Agreement dated 29 January 1995, granting PGM and EMRA as the case may be and are effective and designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company PGM, EMRA, the Operating Company and their respective EMRA the right to explore, develop, mine and sell gold and individual Acts of Parliament.
and its subsidiaries is known to them by others within those entities.
buyers will be exempt from any duties or taxes on the export associated minerals in specific concession areas located of gold and associated minerals produced from the Sukari in the Eastern Desert of Egypt identified in the Concession Title, exploitation and development Internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable Gold Mine.
The Concession Agreement came into effect rights to the Sukari Gold Project assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and compliance with under Egyptian law on 13 June 1995. are granted under the terms of the generally accepted accounting principles in our Financial Statements.
Management For the accounting treatment of the Concession Agreement Concession Agreement promulgated has evaluated the design of internal control over financial reporting and has refer to Note 23 of the Financial Statements.
A summary of the main terms of the Concession Agreement is as Law No.
222 of 1994, signed on concluded that such internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide as follows: 29 January 1995 and effective from
