Strategy and Performance Our strategic priorities to 2014 Business shape Our goal is to create sustainable value for Given the pressures in the external environment, we will continue to shareholders by being one of the best-performing simplify the business.
Simplification means not only cost reduction, biopharmaceutical companies.
To achieve that but also streamlining processes and shifting to a more flexible cost base.
In our Commercial organisation, we are simplifying our operating goal, the pace of change across AstraZeneca model.
We are consolidating the business into three regions: the needs to accelerate and we need to deliver on Americas, EMEA, and Asia-Pacific, running the global and regional the following medium-term strategic priorities.
organisations from three sites Wilmington, US, London, UK, and Shanghai, China, and changing our Established Markets footprint in line with declining sales.
Following the success of our Nordic and Pipeline Central American clusters, we are creating further country clusters, We are transforming our R&D organisation.
We have streamlined and to share resources and expertise more effectively.
Across our Supply refocused our product portfolio, introduced a new operating model, and Manufacturing function, we continue to drive efficiencies through and simplified our site footprint.
We continue to focus on improving our business improvement programmes, and to use outsourcing and the quantity and quality of R&D output, by building industry-leading partnering to increase flexibility.
We are also consolidating many of capabilities in critical areas and a more outward-looking organisation, our support services into shared services, driving Lean process which accesses the best science, regardless of origin.
improvements, investing in automation and new global systems.
We are outsourcing selected activities to specialist third party While we are confident that long-term growth in demand for innovative providers in low cost locations.
biopharmaceuticals will remain strong, it is clear that substantial improvement in R&D productivity is needed if we are to sustain People acceptable returns to shareholders.
We are therefore accelerating Talented, motivated and capable people are critical to the successful our R&D strategy.
We are pioneering innovative ways of conducting achievement of our strategic ambitions.
We are focused on four key research.
Neuroscience is a challenging field of medical science with people priorities, as we lead through significant change in the business: high unmet need, and one that a number of our competitors have chosen to exit.
To reinvigorate our efforts in this therapeutic area, acquiring and retaining key capabilities and talent we plan to create a virtual innovative medicines unit iMed in which further developing leadership and management capabilities a small group of scientists discover and develop a full pipeline of improving the strength and diversity of the talent pipeline medicines, working with external partners and collaborators.
They would replace our current scientific and laboratory resources.
Alongside this, we plan to create a simpler, leaner, more flexible Responsible business organisation through a variety of steps, which better support a We reviewed and reshaped our corporate responsibility priority action more focused portfolio.
plan during the year, taking into account our strategy, insights gained from dialogue with stakeholders, and our internal risk assessment.
Deliver the business Our new Responsible Business Plan, launched in April 2011, reflects At a time when many companies are exiting primary care, our commitment to enhancing the sustainability of our business AstraZeneca is distinctive for combining a broad portfolio of primary by operating responsibly.
It underpins our work and provides the and specialty care products with a global reach.
We will continue to framework for applying integrity and high ethical standards across build on our leading positions in Established Markets and to introduce all our activities.
innovative ways of serving our customers, using digital and telephone channels, service teams, and desk-based medical support.
We will The Responsible Business Plans objectives are closely aligned to invest in growth opportunities, including brands such as Crestor and our business strategy.
We have given the highest priority to those Brilinta Brilique and markets such as Japan and China.
We will drive areas most impacted by our strategic priorities, including sales and sales of our leading products which no longer benefit from patent marketing practices, access to healthcare, research ethics including protection where we retain brand equity and can command prices animal welfare, human rights, and supplier management.
At the which reflect the quality and value of our brand.
In addition, we same time we have not lost sight of other significant aspects of our will pursue further growth in Emerging Markets by expanding the corporate responsibility, such as patient safety and the environment.
population we serve, supplementing our patented innovative products The Responsible Business Plan is overseen by a Responsible with branded generic products sourced externally and marketed Business Council of senior leaders from within our organisation.
To further strengthen revenues, we will accelerate our efforts to secure late-stage on-market product licensing, acquisition, and peer collaboration opportunities.
Across the Group, we are investing in our ability to meet the needs of those who pay for our medicines.
In R&D, our new payer evidence group is ensuring that, as we develop our medicines, we gather not only the clinical data required for regulatory approval, but also the health economics, cost benefit information and value-in-use data required by payers.
Our HealthCore and IMS collaborations will gather real world evidence about the comparative effectiveness of our products.
This capability helps us to gain global reimbursement, broad market access and optimal pricing for our medicines.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Strategy and Performance Our strategic priorities to 2014 21 Strategy and Performance Restructuring Based on continued productivity improvements including successful Since 2007, we have undertaken significant efforts to restructure and completion of restructuring initiatives, our planning assumption reshape our business to improve long-term competitiveness.
The first remains that Core operating margin, before investment in R&D phase is complete.
It comprised total restructuring costs of $2.5 billion Core pre-R&D operating margin will be in the range of 48% to 54% and delivered $2.4 billion in annual benefits by the end of 2010, with a of revenue.
We expect that these levels of revenue and margins would gross headcount reduction of 12,600. generate the requisite operating cash flow over the planning period to support the reinvestment needs of the business, debt service The second phase, which featured a significant change programme obligations and shareholder distributions.
Over the planning period, in R&D, began in 2010 and was largely completed during 2011.
The we expect that between 40% and 50% of our pre-R&D post-tax cash cost phase of this programme totalled $2.1 billion and is expected to flows will be reinvested in internal and external R&D and capital deliver total annual benefits of $1.9 billion by the end of 2014, of which investments to drive future value and growth.
$1 billion had been achieved by the end of 2011.
Gross headcount reductions associated with this second phase will be around 9,000.
The planning assumptions described above depend in turn on assumptions and expectations regarding the development of our Both restructuring programmes delivered their targeted benefits to business, the industry and macro-economic factors.
We have invested some of the savings to drive future growth Review from page 82 for a discussion of our high-level planning and value, such as in our Emerging Markets commercial infrastructure assumptions.
These and other assumptions underlying our expected and an expansion of our research capabilities in biologics.
At the future results are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results same time, we have also improved Core pre-R&D and operating may differ significantly from our current expectations.
See the Principal margins over the period.
risks and uncertainties section from page 130.
When completed, the next phase of restructuring, announced Non-core businesses in February 2012, is expected to deliver a further $1.6 billion in We have actively considered potential shareholder value creation from annual benefits by the end of 2014.
Total programme costs are our non-core businesses and, in November 2010, formally initiated a estimated to be $2.1 billion approximately $1.7 billion in cash costs, review of strategic options for Astra Tech, a global leader in dental and healthcare urological and surgical products, services and support.
of which $261 million were charged in 2011, and the total number of positions expected to be impacted for this phase is estimated to be Our review concluded with the sale of the Astra Tech business to DENTSPLY International Inc. for approximately $1.8 billion in cash in approximately 7,300.
Final estimates for programme costs, benefits and headcount impact in all functions are subject to completion of a transaction that closed on 31 August 2011.
Proceeds from the sale are being returned to shareholders through share repurchases.
the requisite consultation processes in accordance with relevant local requirements and labour laws.
As of 31 January 2012, we had signed binding agreements with four Medium-term planning assumptions of the five hospital-based outpatient cancer centres managed by Aptium Oncology, Inc. Aptium Oncology.
Under the terms of these When we announced our full year results for 2009, we set out a series of medium-term planning assumptions which we updated in agreements, each hospital has acquired Aptium Oncologys interest in the assets used in connection with the operation of the cancer January 2011 and February 2012.
We continue to plan on the basis that revenue will be in the range of $28 billion to $34 billion per annum centres.
Transactions with three of the five hospitals had closed by 31December 2011, a fourth closed in January 2012.
We expect the over the 2010-14 period.
However, given increased government price intervention, currency movements and the divestment of Astra Tech, final transaction to be signed during the first quarter and close during the second quarter of 2012.
IT transitional services support will be we now expect the centre of gravity for revenue for the remainder of the period is likely to be in the lower half of the range.
Using our provided to each cancer centre during 2012. latest assessment, including the Complete Response Letter received in January 2012 for dapagliflozin in the US, we have lowered our risk adjusted view of the potential revenue contribution in 2014 from recently launched and pipeline products to between $2 billion and $4 billion.
22 Strategy and Performance Our strategic priorities to 2014 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
