Overview Life-cycle of a medicine Find potential Preclinical studies Phase I studies medicine Undertake studies in the laboratory Studies designed to understand how the and in animals to understand if the potential medicine is absorbed in the body, Identify the unmet medical need potential medicine should be safe to distributed around it and excreted: also and market opportunity.
Undertake introduce into humans and in what determine an appropriate dosage and identify laboratory research to find a potential quantities.
These typically take place in small medicine that should be potent, groups of healthy human volunteers or, in selective and absorbed into and Determine likely efficacy, side effect certain cases, patients.
well tolerated by the body.
profile and maximum tolerable dose estimate in humans.
Confirm the most appropriate formulation and Begin the process of seeking patent begin to develop manufacturing route to ensure protection for the potential medicine.
Regulatory authorities are informed the manufacturing process is robust and costs of proposed trials which are then are minimised.
Collaborate with academia and conducted within the framework of external clinicians to access the best the relevant regulations.
May involve external clinicians and organisations external science and medical opinion.
in the design and running of these studies.
Time years 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Phase Discovery Preclinical Clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III Overall 63% 30% 7% probability 1 of success Phase II studies Phase III studies Regulatory submission and Studies designed to evaluate Studies, typically in large groups effectiveness of the medicine, typically of patients, designed to gather pricing using small groups of patients.
information about effectiveness and safety of the medicine and evaluate Seek approval from regulatory During Phase II studies, design a the overall benefit risk profile in authorities to manufacture, market Phase III programme to deliver data the specific disease and patient and sell the medicine.
required for regulatory approval and segments in which the medicine pricing and or reimbursement will be used.
Submit package of clinical data throughout the world.
which demonstrates the safety Create appropriate branding for profile and efficacy of the medicine External advisory panels help define the new medicine in preparation to regulatory authorities.
the attributes to test in studies to for launch.
demonstrate whether the potential Regulatory authorities decide whether new medicine can be differentiated to grant marketing authorisation from the existing standard treatment based on the medicines safety of care.
Large numbers of national, regional and local payers grant approval for the pricing and or reimbursement of the medicine.
10 Life-cycle of a medicine AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Overview The process of getting a drug to market, from initial discovery, through development to approval and launch is risky, costly and time consuming.
This is a high level overview of the process.
It is not intended to, nor does it, represent the life-cycle of any particular medicine or of every medicine discovered and or developed by AstraZeneca nor of the probability of success or approval of any AstraZeneca medicine.
Launch new medicine Raise awareness of patient benefit and appropriate use.
Patent expiry Market and sell medicine: continuously monitor, record and analyse reported side effects: review need to update the side and generic entry effect warnings to ensure that patients wellbeing is maintained.
Typically, when patents protecting the Clinicians begin to prescribe medicine and patients begin medicine expire, generic versions of to benefit.
the medicine may enter the market.
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Approval and launch Approval 3% 1 The line marked Overall probability of success is the probability that a compound in preclinical Post-launch research and development will reach each phase of development development and subsequent approval.
For example, only 7% of preclinical compounds Studies to further understand the safety profile of the medicine enter Phase III studies.
Source: Pharmaceutical in larger populations.
Sponsors and regulatory authorities monitor the safety of medicines post-approval and update prescribing information as necessary.
Includes life-cycle management activities to broaden understanding of the medicines full potential.
Work with external advisory groups and regulatory authorities to consider potential additional diseases which might be treated by the medicine or better ways of administering the medicine.
Submit data packages with requests for line extensions.
Regulatory authorities review the data to assess the benefits and risks of using the medicine in the new disease or population and issue a decision.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Life-cycle of a medicine 11
