Business Review India has the fastest growing number of urban poor in the world.
However, services and infrastructure have not kept pace with rapid urbanisation.
There are significant issues related to water and sanitation, including lack of potable water, waste disposal and sewage maintenance.
Access to health services is limited and awareness about sexual and reproductive health and HIV AIDS is low.
Our programme seeks to improve the health of adolescents by empowering them with necessary information, skills and access to services.
Objectives for the programme include enabling better choices about health and lifestyle, as well as improving health seeking behaviours through raising awareness and knowledge about healthcare and access to available healthcare systems.
The programme is being implemented by Plan India in partnership with the Community Aid and Sponsorship Programme CASP.
Since its launch in November 2010, over 30,000 young people have received health information.
healthintegrity Improving the health of young people The Young Health Programme is a global programme.
In India it is focused on improving hygiene, infection and reproductive health in five settlement areas in Delhi.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Health Integrity 49 Delivering our strategy R&D ethics We recognise that situations may exist where continued provision of We want to be recognised for our high quality science and for the a non-approved clinical study drug to patients is both appropriate and impact we can make on serious diseases, and to be trusted for the necessary following the completion of a clinical study.
Our standards of R&D ethics are global and apply to we introduced a new standard to provide global guidance in this area.
all AstraZeneca research activity, in all locations, whether conducted Factors we take into account include the severity of the disease, the by us or on our behalf by external contract research organisations availability of alternative treatments, the individual patient response to CROs.
We continue to work to ensure that these standards are the medicine, and the overall benefit risk profile of the medicine based applied, particularly as we expand our activity in countries such as on completed and ongoing studies.
If we continue to provide a clinical China and Russia.
study drug after the original study is completed, we ensure that appropriate oversight measures are in place, such as dispensing Clinical trials treatment in the context of a clinical study or a compassionate use We conduct clinical trials at multiple sites in several different countries.
A broad geographic span helps us to ensure that those taking part in our studies reflect the diversity of patients around the world for whom All our clinical studies are conceptually designed and finally interpreted the new medicine is intended.
This approach also helps to identify the in-house but a percentage of them are run for us by CROs.
In 2011, types of people for whom the treatment may be most beneficial.
around 39% of patients in our small molecule studies and around 66% of patients in our biologics studies were monitored by CROs on our Our global governance process for determining where we place behalf.
We contractually require CROs to work to our global standards clinical trials provides the framework for ensuring a consistent and we conduct risk-based audits to monitor compliance.
We take several factors into account, including the availability of experienced and independent ethics committees We publish information about the registration and results of all our and a robust regulatory regime, as well as sufficient numbers of trained clinical trials, whether favourable or unfavourable to AstraZeneca, healthcare professionals and patients willing to participate in a trial.
on a range of public websites including our own dedicated site, .
By the end of 2011, we had registered Before a trial begins, we work to make sure that those taking part over 1,370 trials and published the results of more than 1,150. understand the nature and purpose of the research and that proper procedures for gaining informed consent are followed including Animal research managing any special circumstances, such as different levels of Animal studies continue to play a vital role in the search for new literacy.
Protecting participants throughout the trial process is a medicines.
They provide essential information, not available through core priority and we have strict procedures in place to ensure that other methods, about the effects of a potential new therapy on they are not exposed to any unnecessary risks.
Regulatory authorities around the world also require safety data from preclinical testing in animals before a new medicine can be tested in humans.
Patients in global AstraZeneca studies by geographic region 2011 As we work to improve our R&D productivity, we remain committed to 40 minimising our use of animals without compromising the quality of the 41% research data.
All research using animals is carefully considered and justified, not only to confirm the scientific need for a study, but also to 30 make sure that it has been designed so that the minimum number of 26% animals is used and that they are exposed to as little pain and distress 20 22% 20% as possible.
19% 10 12% Wherever possible, we use non-animal methods, such as computer 10% modelling, that eliminate the need to use animals early in drug 4% 0 development or reduce the number required.
We also work to refine Europe US Asia Central Canada Pacic Eastern our existing methods.
This replacement, reduction and refinement Europe of animal studies is known as the 3Rs and to support our drive for continuous improvement, we work both within AstraZeneca and the 40 wider scientific community to share 3Rs knowledge and learning.
30 The number of animals we use will continue to vary because it depends on a number of factors, including the amount of preclinical research we are doing, the complexity of the diseases under 20 investigation and regulatory requirements.
We believe that, without 15% our active commitment to the 3Rs, our animal use would be much 10 11% greater.
In addition, approximately 16,600 animals were 4% 4% 0 used by external CROs on our behalf 2010: 21,000.
Japan South Latin Other Africa America The welfare of the animals we use continues to be a top priority and our standards apply worldwide.
In addition to mandatory inspections Small molecule studies by government authorities, we have a formal programme of regular Biologics studies peer reviews of our internal animal research facilities conducted by our own qualified staff.
External CROs that conduct animal studies on our behalf are required to comply with our global standards and we undertake audits to ensure our expectations are being met.
50 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review Protests Globa l KPI: Breaches of external sales and marketing codes AstraZeneca acknowledges the right of every individual to express and regulations ruled by external bodies their views on the use of animals in research but we condemn the use of violence and other illegal acts.
We firmly reject any harassment, intimidation or harming of our employees and their families, our 24 suppliers and our other stakeholders as totally unacceptable.
17 Sales and marketing ethics Delivering consistently high standards of sales and marketing practice continues to be one of our top priorities and is at the core of our 11 commitment to driving commercial success responsibly.
Our activities centre on ensuring that the appropriate information is provided to 2009 2010 2011 those who need it to support the safe and effective use of our medicines and enhance patient care.
We have always had a range of sales and marketing policies and Disciplinary actions: Breaches of Code of Conduct by our standards in place but, following a review in 2010, we further Commercial organisation including contract staff strengthened the requirements and consolidated the range to form a single new Global Policy on External Interactions the Policy.
Launched in April 2011, the new Policy provides a single common, Number of people principle-based approach to all our interactions worldwide.
Everyone Action taken 2011 2010 in AstraZeneca, wherever they are located, is required to work to our Removed from role 214 117 global standards of ethical sales and marketing practice.
We believe Formal warning 570 740 this is especially important as we grow our business in Emerging Guidance and coaching 971 768 Markets, such as China and Russia, alongside our continued efforts Total 1,755 1,625 in Established Markets, including the US and Japan.
In the majority of cases, this means dismissal from the Company contract termination, but it can include resignations and demotions.
The diversity of business cultures around the world means that putting a global approach into practice at a local level is a challenge.
Nevertheless, we are committed to making it work.
During 2011, US Corporate Integrity Agreement reporting we continued to provide targeted training for our people to ensure In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an agreement with the US expectations and accountabilities were clear and understood as well Department of Justice to settle an investigation relating to the as where to obtain further advice and support if needed.
We are also sales and marketing of Seroquel IR.
The requirements of the talking to our customers and other stakeholders to explain the associated Corporate Integrity Agreement between AstraZeneca and changes they are seeing to the way we are working with them.
the Office of the Inspector General of the US Department of Health and Human Services OIG include a number of active monitoring We have comprehensive processes in place for monitoring and self-reporting obligations that differ from self-reporting required compliance with our Code of Conduct and global policies, including by authorities in the rest of the world.
To meet these obligations, dedicated compliance professionals who support our line managers AstraZeneca provides notices to the OIG describing the outcomes locally in monitoring their staff activities.
We also have a nominated of particular investigations potentially relating to violations of certain signatory network that works to ensure that our promotional materials laws, as well as a separate annual report to the OIG summarising meet all applicable requirements.
monitoring and investigation outcomes relevant to Corporate Integrity Agreement requirements.
Instances of potential non-compliance are collected through our compliance incident management processes and reviewed by senior Access to healthcare management in local and or regional compliance committees.
Serious Providing sustainable access to healthcare for all those who need it breaches are reviewed by the Audit Committee and, if appropriate, the is a significant global challenge.
The complexities surrounding the Board.
More information about our compliance and risk assurance issue mean that there is no one size fits all solution.
Factors affecting processes is contained in the Managing risk section from page 129. access range from the affordability of medicines to the availability of healthcare systems and the resources to make them effective.
We take all breaches very seriously and act to prevent repeat We believe it will take a combined global effort involving all related occurrences.
In 2011, we identified a total of 17 confirmed breaches of stakeholders to drive sustainable progress in increasing access to external sales and marketing regulations or codes globally 2010: 11: healthcare worldwide and we know that, as a global biopharmaceutical 2009: 24.
Excluding the confirmed external breaches, there were company, we can make a meaningful contribution to that effort.
1,275 instances of failure to comply with our Code of Conduct and global policies in our Commercial organisation, including contract Our strategy takes account of the different barriers to healthcare in staff.
In relation to all these breaches we removed 214 people from different parts of the world and, because access to healthcare can their role, formally warned 570 people, and provided further guidance also vary within a country, our approach is tailored locally to meet the or coaching on our policies for 971 people.
It is important to note that needs of different patient populations.
We are pursuing a range of a single breach can involve more than one employee failing to meet different initiatives across these populations to understand what works the standards required.
We believe we will be able to make the biggest contribution to improving health where we are able to adopt We believe that the increase in identified breaches is due in part to a commercial approach.
Our goal is always to improve health for our enhanced management oversight of compliance and heightened patients and add value for our stakeholders and our business.
awareness of policy requirements through targeted training, alongside improved data capture mechanisms.
However, we acknowledge that Our mainstream business will continue to focus on those people our numbers are likely to continue to vary as we reshape our business for whom healthcare is readily available and who can afford our and geographic footprint.
We will continue to focus our compliance medicines.
The selling of these medicines in our Established efforts appropriately.
Markets helps enable us to generate the revenue we need to provide our shareholders with a return, invest in continued innovation and pursue other opportunities to increase the availability of our medicines.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 51 Delivering our strategy As we expand our business in new geographies, we are exploring On a broader basis, we collaborate at a global level to increase broad market strategies to reach new patients, in particular the understanding of fast-emerging and existing health threats in the emerging middle income populations who are increasingly able developing world, and to lend our skills and resources to addressing to access healthcare systems and for whom our medicines are these.
You can read more about our efforts to broaden access to our medicines in the Sales and Marketing In partnership with the IFPMA, AstraZeneca is undertaking policy research to understand practical steps to overcome the barriers section from page 36. to treatment and care for non-communicable diseases NCDs which are fast overtaking communicable diseases as a The availability of medicines is not always the primary challenge.
The challenges that NCDs present Access to healthcare also depends on having a functioning are not new to us.
We have many decades of experience in NCD healthcare system and the right allocation of resources to make treatment, with a strong product portfolio and pipeline of new sure that medicines are used appropriately as part of overall health medicines targeting these areas.
The majority of our research management.
For people in communities with limited healthcare investment continues to centre on NCDs.
infrastructure we partner with others to help strengthen healthcare Alongside the rising challenge of NCDs, the battle against TB and frameworks and capabilities.
neglected tropical diseases NTDs is far from over.
Scientists at our dedicated research facility in Bangalore, India are focused on W e have defined some common criteria to guide our commitment finding a new treatment for TB.
For further information about this, and ensure that all our partnerships centre on delivering meaningful see the Infection section from page 64.
As outlined in the and enduring benefit.
The key principles are that our partnerships: Research and Development section from page 30, during 2011, we joined the World Intellectual Property Organizations WIPO lead to positive, measurable outcomes in underserved Re:Search initiative.
This unprecedented collaboration between communities the private sector and public partners will make publicly available can be scaled up and potentially replicated to improve outcomes a searchable database of available IP assets and resources for for a greater number of people use in NTD research to speed the discovery and development d eliver a sustainable framework that can ultimately be owned of new potential treatments.
and managed locally, without the need for our support.
More information about our Access to healthcare strategy Such partnerships can also contribute to our business and the associated initiatives is available on our website, development, by enabling us to understand better the health astrazeneca.
needs of, and build important relationships in, markets of the future.
An example is our Phakamisa initiative in South Africa Human rights see page 55 for further information.
As we reshape our organisation, grow our business and increase our outsourcing, we are working to make sure that human We also partner with NGOs who are experienced at tackling rights continue to be appropriately integrated into our policies disease at a community level.
For example, we have been and processes.
supporting the British Red Cross since 2002 in their work to tackle TB and TB HIV in Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan and, AstraZeneca is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact more recently, in South Africa and Lesotho.
To date, over 16,000 UNGC, a strategic public-private initiative for organisations committed people have been directly supported in completing their TB to social and environmental sustainability.
This means that we have treatment across all our partnership countries and TB mortality committed to uphold 10 internationally recognised principles in the and morbidity rates continue to fall in our partnership countries in areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental sustainability central Asia.
Our partnership with the African Medical and Research and anti-corruption.
These are long-standing principles for AstraZeneca Foundation AMREF, created in 2007, centres on strengthening as described in our Code of Conduct and global policies but being healthcare systems and integrating the management of malaria, part of the UNGC reinforces how seriously we take these principles.
HIV AIDS and TB MAT programmes in Uganda, where there is It also gives us the framework for further developing our approach.
a high burden of all three diseases.
Progress to date includes six laboratories upgraded to Ministry of Health standards to support In recent years, we participated in a project led by the Danish Institute improved diagnosis and over one million patient visits recorded in for Human Rights DIHR, working with the pharmaceutical industry the Health Management Information System as having received to develop a human rights assessment tool for pharmaceutical MAT diagnostic, treatment and other services.
companies, based on the DIHRs existing Human Rights Compliance Tool.
The first pharmaceutical industry version of the tool was Our most recent community investment, the AstraZeneca Young launched in November 2010 and we used it to conduct a labour Health Programme YHP is designed to help young people in need review in 11 of our marketing companies, including some countries around the world deal with the health issues they face so they can where national labour standards are inconsistent with global best improve their chances of living a better life.
We are working with practice.
The review focused on International Labour Organization expert partners, Plan International and Johns Hopkins Bloomberg core areas freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced School of Public Health, to identify the needs in our local communities and bonded labour, child labour, discrimination and working time and to help address these needs with a combination of work on the and wages.
Adolescent health remains an underserved part of the healthcare agenda and this global investment Building on the experience of this review, we adapted and simplified initiative aims to make a measurable and sustainable difference.
the employment section of the assessment tool and, during the YHP initiatives are now in place in nine countries and our target is remainder of 2011, used it to conduct a labour review in every country 15 by the end of 2012.
By 2015, YHP will reach 500,000 young where AstraZeneca has employees.
people between the ages of 10 and 24 directly and will touch an additional 500,000 lives indirectly.
The results of all our 2011 reviews are currently being collated and analysed to identify what we are doing well and where we may need to improve.
Any areas identified for improvement will be included in our local people strategies in the relevant countries.
52 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review Also in 2011, the DIHR in collaboration with AstraZeneca, GSK, Patient safety Novartis and Merck established the Human Rights Assessment Tool The safety of the patients who take our medicines will always be for Pharmaceuticals Companies Forum the Forum.
The Forum is a a fundamental consideration for us.
All drugs have potential side means of sharing information, experience and best practice, helping effects and we aim to minimise the risks and maximise the benefits members to better understand what it means to integrate human of each of our medicines, beginning with the discovery of a potential rights into daily business practice and to further clarify human rights new medicine and continuing throughout its development, launch responsibilities for pharmaceutical companies.
Working with suppliers After launch, we continually monitor the use of all our medicines to Our ongoing drive to support increased efficiency through our ensure that we become aware of any side effects not identified during procurement activity continues to be underpinned by our work to the development process.
This is known as pharmacovigilance and is make sure that our purchasing is directed only to those organisations core to our ongoing responsibility to patients.
We have comprehensive which embrace ethical standards consistent with our own.
and rigorous pharmacovigilance systems in place for detecting and rapidly evaluating such effects, including mechanisms for highlighting Our Global Responsible Procurement Standard the Standard those that require immediate attention.
We also work to ensure that defines one of the key business processes for integrating our accurate, well-informed and up-to-date information concerning the ethical standards into our procurement activity and decision making safety profile of our drugs is provided to regulators, doctors, other worldwide.
It includes detailed expectations of suppliers.
In addition, healthcare professionals and, where appropriate, patients.
responsible procurement clauses that include audit requirements are incorporated in supplier contracts.
We continue to review the We have an experienced, in-house team of clinical patient safety Standard to ensure it appropriately reflects our commitment and professionals working around the world who are dedicated to the task of ensuring that we meet our commitment to patient safety.
At a global during 2011, revised it to strengthen the anti-bribery and anticorruption ABAC requirements in line with our ABAC policy and level, every medicine in development and on the market is allocated a Global Safety Physician and a team of patient safety scientists.
the requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
In each of our markets we also have dedicated safety managers with responsibility for patient safety at a local level.
The process outlined in our Standard applies to suppliers of goods and services globally and is focused on ensuring that our responsible Our two Chief Medical Officers one for small molecule products and business expectations are being met.
Specific expectations of suppliers such as healthcare professionals or CROs are managed one for biologics have overall accountability for the benefit risk profiles of the products we have in development and those on the market.
within the relevant functions using specific assessment and monitoring processes.
They provide medical oversight and ensure that appropriate risk assessment processes are in place to enable informed decisions Our Responsible Procurement process is based on an escalating set to be made about safety as quickly as possible.
of risk-based due diligence activities, applied in a pragmatic way.
The same initial assessment process is used for all suppliers and more We use an external provider, Tata Consultancy Services TCS, to manage the data entry process for individual case safety reports detailed, focused assessments are then made, relevant to the service provided.
Full details of the process are available on our website, relating to our products.
As experts in their field, TCS continues to drive improvements in the efficiency and consistency of data entry astrazeneca.
across AstraZeneca and using TCS for this work means our patient safety teams can focus primarily on case prioritisation, the medical By the end of 2011, we had completed 3,342 responsible procurement risk assessments accounting for 71% of our third aspects of patient safety and continuing to improve our safety science.
TCS is contractually required to comply with our patient safety party spend.
standards and is closely monitored through audits against detailed quality and compliance performance indicators.
We categorise suppliers as high, medium or low risk.
We focus our auditing efforts on high and medium risk rated suppliers but we also Environmental sustainability audit some suppliers that we consider to be lower risk, to confirm our performance expectations across all suppliers we do business with.
Managing our environmental impact is a core commitment.
In January 2011, we implemented our new SHE strategy and associated objectives In 2011, we worked with our suppliers to substantially increase our audit activity.
727 suppliers across 55 countries have participated in and targets for 2011-2015 which are closely aligned with our business objectives and provide the framework for driving our environmental 751 audits undertaken this year 48 audits and 42 suppliers in 2010. sustainability going forward.
This section includes summary information about certain key areas of the framework.
Full details of Forty five percent of supplier sites audited demonstrated standards that met our expectations with a further 51% implementing our strategy, objectives and targets are available on our website, astrazeneca.
We monitor progress across all corrective actions and 4% of suppliers audited this year will We aim to minimise our environmental impact by reducing the carbon require significant follow up to confirm they will make the improvements we require.
We will not use suppliers who are unable or unwilling to footprint and natural resource demands of our business activities, and improve the environmental profile of our products.
We believe we are meet our expectations in a timely way.
on track to deliver our 2015 targets.
Our audits are conducted through a combination of internal resources and external independent auditors.
Our assessment programmes We work to reduce our CO2 emissions by, among other things, reflect best practice from other industry sectors as well as the improving our energy efficiency and pursuing lower-carbon alternatives principles of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative.
to fossil fuels at our sites, and making sure that our travel and transport activities are as efficient as possible.
Our carbon footprint is also affected by some of our respiratory therapies, specifically our AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 53 Delivering our strategy pressurised metered-dose inhalers that rely on hydrofluoroalkane We regret that during 2011 one of our employees was killed in a road HFA propellants to deliver the medicine to a patients airways.
While traffic accident while driving on AstraZeneca business.
A detailed HFAs have no ozone depletion potential and a third or less of the global investigation was carried out, including an audit of the implementation warming potential than the chlorofluorocarbons CFCs they replace, of the Drive Success programme.
An action plan was drawn up to they are still greenhouse gases.
Our target is to reduce our operational respond to the findings of the investigation which include further greenhouse gas footprint excluding emissions from patient use of enhancements to the Drive Success programme and increased our inhaler therapies by 20% by 2015.
In 2011, our greenhouse gas communications to drivers.
These actions are being tracked and emissions from all sources totalled 1.17 million tonnes 35 tonnes $m learning will be shared widely across the business.
In 2011, we achieved a 23% improvement in the lost time injury illness The management of waste is another key aspect of our commitment rate compared to the baseline year 2010, exceeding our annual and we have a 2015 target of a 15% reduction in hazardous and improvement target.
This puts us well on track to achieve our 2015 non-hazardous waste.
Our primary focus is waste prevention, but target of a 25% reduction in the lost time injury illness rate.
where this is not practical, we concentrate on waste minimisation and appropriate treatment or disposal to maximise the reuse and recycling Work-related stress remains our greatest single category of of materials and minimise disposal to landfill.
In 2011, our total waste occupational illness with high workloads, interpersonal issues and was 45.9 thousand tonnes excluding our biologics capabilities with organisational change identified as significant factors.
As part of our a tonnes $m index of 1.41. ongoing efforts in this area, we are adopting an increasingly proactive, risk-based approach, using wellbeing risk assessment tools to identify We recognise the need to use water responsibly and where possible high-risk areas and target interventions more effectively.
to minimise the use of water in our facilities.
To support the delivery of our target to reduce water use by 25% by 2015, we now have water Community investment conservation plans at our largest sites.
In 2011, our water use was Wherever AstraZeneca operates worldwide, we aim to make a 3 3 4.4 million m with a m $m index of 130. positive contribution to our local communities through partnerships, charitable donations and other initiatives that help to make a Alongside these efforts, we are also working to ensure that we sustainable difference.
Our investment is focused on improving measure and report the impact of our external manufacturing activity health and promoting science skills.
on the environment, and that our suppliers have appropriate environmental improvement targets.
In 2011, we spent a total of $1.27 billion 2010: $1.41 billion on community sponsorships, partnerships and charitable donations Our continued commitment to product stewardship is underpinned worldwide, including our product donation and patient assistance by our ongoing work to integrate environmental considerations into programmes which make our medicines available free of charge or a medicines complete life-cycle, from discovery and development, at reduced prices.
Through our three patient assistance programmes through manufacturing, marketing, use and, ultimately, disposal.
in the US we donated products valued at an average wholesale price Further information is available on our website, astrazeneca.
We also donated products responsibility, including environmental risk assessment data for worth $8.2 million, valued at average wholesale price, to the charitable our medicines.
organisations: Americares and Direct Relief International.
Employee safety, health and wellbeing Disaster relief Providing a safe workplace and promoting the health and wellbeing During 2011, we made a number of contributions to disaster relief of all our people remains a core consideration.
We provide a wide efforts, including donations from our Charities Aid Foundation CAF range of health and wellbeing improvement programmes across account.
We also developed an enhanced protocol for working with AstraZeneca, designed to help people understand their personal the British Red Cross, our global disaster relief partner, to improve our internal coordination and enable us to respond in a timely, consistent health risks and support them in proactively managing these risks.
and effective way to emergencies as and when they arise.
This protocol was used to inform the following contributions to disaster In January 2011, we implemented our new SHE strategy and a complementary Health and Wellbeing strategy, with associated relief efforts during the year.
The new targets reflect our determination to stay focused on continuous improvement as we I n February 2011, we donated 10,000 approximately $16,000 grow and reshape our business.
from our CAF account to the British Red Cross New Zealand Earthquake Appeal.
In March 2011, we donated 100,000 Driver safety remains our highest priority for improvement and approximately $162,000 from our CAF account to the British our focus is on promoting driver safety among our sales forces, Red Cross Libya and Region Appeal to help support those who collectively the single largest group of employees who drive on had fled to neighbouring countries to escape the violence in Libya.
Our long-standing Road Scholars scheme in the US continues to be a valuable channel for building awareness F ollowing the earthquake in Japan, we donated 51 million Yen and improving driver skills.
Outside the US, our Drive Success approximately $640,000 as part of an overall pledge of 100 million programme takes into account the different driving environments in Yen approximately $1.3 million to Ashinaga Ikueikai in support the various countries in which we operate and provides a high-level of their ongoing relief and rebuilding effort.
In addition, employee framework of common standards and measures to be applied by donations from AstraZeneca in Japan totalling 25.5 million Yen each country.
Driver safety targets are included in regional and local approximately $320,000 were matched by the Company.
Performance is monitored centrally to assess progress We donated $25,000 to AMREF to support their local networks and identify areas for improvement.
in North East Kenya, where the Horn of Africa drought was having a devastating impact.
54 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
