Strategy and Performance Our Strategy and Performance More people than ever before had access to innovative medicines in 2011.
At the same time, the pharmaceutical industry is facing the expiry of patents on some of the worlds most successful medicines, is experiencing pressure on R&D returns and is increasingly being challenged to prove the value of its drugs.
In this section, we describe the key growth drivers and challenges that we face.
We then describe AstraZenecas response, strategy and business model for creating value, through which we deliver benefits to our stakeholders.
Finally, we outline the indicators that we use to measure our delivery against our objectives.
The pharmaceutical industry As the figure overleaf shows, the world pharmaceutical market grew Growth drivers by 4.5% in 2011.
Average revenue growth in Established Markets was Expanding patient populations 2.8% while that in Emerging Markets was over four times higher at The world population is estimated to have passed seven billion in 12%.
The top five pharmaceutical markets in the world remained the 2011, increasing from six billion in 1998, and is expected to reach US, Japan, Germany, France and China, with the US representing nine billion by 2050.
In addition, the number of people who can 38.1% of global prescription pharmaceutical sales 2010: 38.5%.
access healthcare continues to increase, particularly among the elderly.
Globally, it is estimated that the number of people over 65 While demand for medicines and world pharmaceutical markets will be almost one billion by 2030, double what it was in 2005. continued to grow in 2011, research-based pharmaceutical companies faced a challenging marketplace.
Industry returns are under pressure Faster-developing economies, such as China, India and Brazil, from declining R&D productivity and intensifying pricing pressures, offer new opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry to help an particularly in Established Markets facing rising healthcare costs.
We expanding number of patients who can benefit from innovative also face increased competition from generic medicines as some of medicines.
Emerging Markets now represent approximately 85% of the worlds most successful drugs come off patent.
In addition, greater the world population.
In addition, pharmaceutical revenues in those regulatory constraints are being placed on the pharmaceutical industry markets grew significantly faster than those in Established Markets in by governments and those who pay for our medicines.
2011 and, as the Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2010-2015 figure overleaf shows, it is estimated that this trend will continue.
The industry remains highly competitive.
Our competitors are other large research-based pharmaceutical companies that develop Unmet medical need and sell innovative, patent-protected prescription medicines and In most established markets, ageing populations and certain vaccines, as well as smaller biotechnology and vaccine companies, lifestyle choices such as smoking, a poor diet and lack of exercise and companies that produce generic medicines.
While many of our drive an increased incidence of chronic diseases such as cancer, peers are confronting similar challenges, strategically these challenges cardiovascular metabolic and respiratory diseases which require are being met in different ways.
For example, some companies long-term management.
The prevalence of chronic disease is have chosen to diversify by acquiring or building branded generics increasing in middle income countries and is also beginning to have businesses or consumer portfolios, arguing that this enables them to an impact in low income countries.
For example, there are 36 million better meet changing customer needs and smooth risk for shareholders.
deaths every year from non-communicable diseases and, of those, 80% are in lower and middle income countries.
It is estimated that Most companies continued to pursue their existing strategies in nearly 33% of the worlds diabetes patients will come from India and 2011, with some continuing to diversify and others pursuing a China by 2030, by which date its prevalence in Brazil is expected to focused strategy.
There were, however, exceptions with examples have increased by two-thirds.
of companies shedding diversified assets.
Key trends included efforts to improve R&D productivity, expansion of geographic scope, especially in Emerging Markets and Japan, and the pursuit of operational efficiency.
Industry consolidation continued with both merger activity and acquisitions of specific assets and capabilities.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Strategy and Performance The pharmaceutical industry 15 Strategy and Performance World pharmaceutical markets Sales World $bn Sales $bn Growth in 2011 839 803 761 4.5% Market value in 2011 2009 2010 2011 100% Sales Sales US Western Europe $bn $bn Sales $bn Sales $bn Growth in 2011 Growth in 2011 320 204 202 197 310 296 3.4% 0.8% Market value in 2011 Market value in 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 24.3% 38.1% Sales Sales Established ROW Emerging ROW $bn $bn Sales $bn Sales $bn Growth in 2011 Growth in 2011 138 177 133 129 158 139 3.8% 12.0% Market value in 2011 Market value in 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 16.5% 21.1% Data based on world market sales using AstraZenecas market definitions as set out in the Market definitions table on page 209.
Source: IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2011.
Advances in science and technology The challenges Innovation leading to new drugs is critical to meeting unmet medical R&D productivity need.
Existing drugs will continue to be important in meeting the Improving R&D productivity is a critical challenge for the growing demand for healthcare, particularly with the increasing pharmaceutical industry.
Global investment in pharmaceutical R&D use of generic medication.
At the same time, advances in disease by the top 500 pharmaceutical and biotech companies reached an understanding and the application of new technologies will be estimated $133 billion in 2011, a 93% increase from $69 billion in required to ensure the delivery of new medicines.
Over the same period, the number of new drug launches per include personalised healthcare and predictive science as well as year in the US stayed broadly the same, with an annual average of 25. new types of therapy.
Increasing investment has not yet resulted in a sustained increase in output, although the FDA approved 30 new drugs in 2011.
At the With advances in the technologies for the design and testing of novel same time, there appears to be a shift away from regulatory compounds, new opportunities exist for the use of innovative small submissions for broad primary care medicines to more specialist molecules as new medicines.
The use of large molecules, or biologics, drugs treating, for example, more complex diseases, together with has also become an important source of innovation, with biologics orphan drugs for rare medical conditions.
among the most commercially successful new products.
Forecasts for 2016 predict that of the worlds top 100 pharmaceutical products, To ensure it delivers a sustainable return on its R&D investment, the 45% of sales will come from biologics.
This compares with only 33% industry is working to increase its probability of success in developing in 2010 and 15% in 2002.
Most pharmaceutical companies now commercially viable new drugs and moving to a lower, more flexible pursue both small molecules and biologics R&D.
It does so at a time when regulators and payers are demanding more and better evidence of comparative effectiveness of compounds, which lengthens development times and increases development costs.
16 Strategy and Performance The pharmaceutical industry AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Strategy and Performance Using the full range of innovative technologies, the industry is focused Efforts to harmonise regulations globally are ongoing, yet the on two critical milestones: Proof of Concept, which delivers candidate number of regulations and their impact continue to multiply.
This is drugs with supporting data demonstrating that the drug results in a particularly evident in the conduct of clinical trials.
In order to support clinical change with an acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients the registration of our products in a given regulatory jurisdiction, with the disease, and, secondly, product approval.
programmes providing foreign clinical trial data must meet each individual health authoritys requirements to ensure relevance to their Organisationally, companies are addressing productivity challenges population.
Regulators also continue to redefine their patient safety in a variety of ways.
This includes the management of known and emerging risks, both before and after product approval.
In certain focusing on a defined set of therapeutic areas, and exiting those markets, additional safety initiatives are developing locally which where success has been poor operate independently of already established international standards, restructuring R&D organisations to create clearer accountabilities further increasing the complexity and disharmony of drug safety and smaller, more entrepreneurial units monitoring and reporting.
In addition, the growing complexity and revamping decision making and governance, so that unsuccessful globalisation, of both clinical studies and the manufacturing supply compounds are identified early, before significant costs have chain, has led to an increase in cross-regional health authority been incurred collaborations and inspections in these areas.
reducing costs and improving process efficiency, using Lean business improvement tools such as Six Sigma and outsourcing Public demand for access to data, especially clinical data, to a  business model that includes academic understand how health authorities arrive at their regulatory decisions, collaborations and co-development agreements that provide for has resulted in numerous transparency proposals worldwide.
In some the sharing of development risks and costs with third parties instances, policies have been implemented without guidelines that looking externally for high quality science, technologies, targets, define personal, private and proprietary information.
Thus there drug candidates, and or entire drug pipelines.
can be no assurance that the data will be safeguarded against public disclosure.
Regulatory requirements Our industry continues to be one of the most heavily regulated.
There is mounting pressure from both health technology assessors This reflects public interest in ensuring access to safe, effective and and payers to assess not only the safety of our products but also high quality medicines that are responsibly promoted.
Given the their relative effectiveness and value.
Consequently there is a nature and geographic scope of our business, we maintain important heightened interest by health authorities in both the comparative relationships with health authorities worldwide, including the FDA in clinical effectiveness and the ongoing benefit risk assessment the US, the EMA in the EU, the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medical of pharmaceuticals after approval.
The regulatory landscape is Device Agency and the SFDA in China.
evolving with an increased focus on incorporating validated health outcome quality measures into clinical trials and developing clinical comparative evidence.
Estimated pharmaceutical market growth 2010-2015 5.3% 12.2% 1.5% 2.2% 15.3% 3.3% 7.4% 15.3% 7.9% 12.2% 3.9% Key Estimated sales 2015 Estimated growth 2010-2015 compound annual growth rate North America Sales $357.4bn Growth 1.5% CIS Sales $33.5bn Growth 12.2% Europe EU countries Sales $237.4bn Growth 2.2% Indian Subcontinent Sales $32.1bn Growth 15.3% South East & East Asia Sales $147.1bn Growth 15.3% Europe Non EU countries Sales $27.6bn Growth 5.3% Japan Sales $120.6bn Growth 3.3% Africa Sales $25.0bn Growth 7.9% Latin America Sales $100.9bn Growth 12.2% Oceania Sales $16.7bn Growth 3.9% Middle East Sales $15.4bn Growth 7.4% Source: IMS Health, IMS Market Prognosis 2011-2015.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Strategy and Performance The pharmaceutical industry 17 Strategy and Performance In spite of the challenges, regulators are approving drugs that address an agreement and, barring future action by Congress, sequestration unmet medical needs when supported by strong data and compelling will take effect on 2 January 2013 and will impact most federal benefit risk propositions.
In addition, health authorities are increasing government healthcare programmes, other than Medicaid, with their collaboration with external stakeholders to drive innovation, broad reductions in federal government spending.
As federal financial define and clarify approval requirements for personalised healthcare pressures continue, we anticipate that some policymakers will look to and drug-diagnostic combinations, and to accelerate the development the pharmaceutical industry for further cost savings in much the same of treatments that address public health priorities.
way that they did during deficit reduction discussions.
Pricing pressure More information regarding the impact of price controls and Most pharmaceutical sales continue to be generated in highly reductions, as well as the impact of healthcare reform in the US, can regulated markets where governments and private payers, such be found in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page as insurance companies, exert various levels of control on pricing 130.
The principal aspects of price regulation in our major markets and reimbursement.
Cost containment in healthcare, including are described further in the Geographical Review from page 77. containment of pharmaceutical spending, continues to be a focus and the global economic downturn has enhanced this trend.
As a Patent expiries and genericisation consequence, the pricing and reimbursement environments in many Over the next few years some of the biggest selling drugs the industry markets continue to be highly dynamic.
It is increasingly important has ever produced face patent expiry.
As a consequence, payers, for companies to work with governments to promote innovation, physicians and patients in Established Markets will have low price, while ensuring they achieve adequate commercial returns.
generic alternatives in many important classes of primary care drugs.
For example, in the US, generics constitute 80% of the market by Pricing pressures have arisen in the pharmaceutical industry in volume today and are expected to be the single largest driver of value a number of ways in recent years, particularly through the growth up to 2015. implementation of a variety of regulatory drug price control mechanisms and other reforms.
For example, in Europe, mandatory Patents only protect pharmaceutical products for a finite period and discounts have been applied in Italy.
In Germany, Europes largest the expiry or early loss of patents may lead to the availability of pharmaceutical market, there have been freezes on permitted generics.
Generic versions of drugs are very competitive with pharmaceutical prices.
In addition, recent German healthcare reforms significantly lower pricing than the innovator equivalents.
This is partly have transformed the way in which new patent protected drugs due to lower investment by generic manufacturers in R&D and market are assessed.
There is no longer a free market for the pricing and development which generic manufacturers do not need to recover.
Instead the law in Germany now While generic competition has traditionally occurred when patents requires manufacturers to prove the additional benefit of their drugs expire, it can also occur where the validity of patents is disputed or over existing alternatives and demonstrate their value to regulators and successfully challenged before expiry.
Such early challenges by payers.
Only by showing additional benefit can the drug avoid being generics have increased with generic companies increasingly willing transferred to the German reference pricing system, where, for each to launch products at risk, for example, prior to resolution of the drug group, a single reimbursement level or reference price is set.
This trend is likely to continue, resulting in significant market presence for the generic version during the period China has experienced 26 rounds of cuts to the maximum permitted in which litigation remains unresolved, even though the courts may retail drug prices in the last seven years and in Japan and South Korea subsequently rule that the innovative product is properly protected by biennial cuts are expected to continue.
We are also seeing the a valid patent.
The unpredictable nature of patent litigation has led introduction of fixed hospital tariffs, which can act as a method of innovators to seek to settle such challenges on terms acceptable to controlling drug costs by incentivising hospitals to choose cheaper both innovator and generic manufacturer.
However, some competition generic alternatives.
authorities have sought to challenge the scope or even availability of this type of settlement agreement.
Elsewhere, such as in Canada and the UK, increasing use is being made of risk sharing agreements, the most common forms of which Biologics have, to date, sustained longer life-cycles than traditional allow health bodies and payers to seek a refund if a drug fails to meet pharmaceuticals and have faced less generic competition.
This is certain expectations, with other markets expected to follow.
Finally, due to a more complex manufacturing process for biologics in markets such as France, Mexico and South Korea, price volume compared with small molecule medicines and the inherent difficulties negotiations are becoming prevalent.
in producing a copy of a biologic, or biosimilar, which is sufficiently similar to the innovator to meet regulatory requirements.
However, with In the US, the Affordable Care Act Act has already had a direct regulatory authorities in Europe and the US continuing to implement impact on healthcare activities despite the fact that many of the abbreviated approvals processes for biosimilar versions, biologics healthcare coverage expansion provisions of the Act do not take are becoming subject to competition from biosimilars and other effect until 2014.
For example, there has been an increase in drug follow-on biologics.
The pharmaceutical industry, including AstraZeneca, has continued to show its commitment to expanding Building trust access to government healthcare programmes through, for example, The pharmaceutical industry faces a challenge in building and helping to close the coverage gap in the Medicare Part D prescription maintaining trust, particularly with governments and regulators.
drug programme and by paying an annual industry fee.
The industry is The last 10 years have seen a significant increase in the number working with policymakers and regulators during the implementation of settlements between innovator companies and governmental of healthcare reform with a view to ensuring that they strike a balance and regulatory authorities for violations of a variety of laws.
These between containing costs, while also promoting an environment that include breaches of sales and marketing practices, inducements fosters medical innovation.
of physicians to administer a companys products and breaches of anti-trust legislation.
For some audiences, there is a perception In August, as part of the bipartisan agreement to raise the federal that pharmaceutical companies place their commercial goals above debt ceiling, the US Congress created the Joint Select Committee the interests of patients, physicians and payers.
Companies are taking on Deficit Reduction Committee.
The Committee was empowered steps to change this perception, by embedding a culture of ethics to recommend a package of $1.2 trillion in cost savings with the and integrity, adopting higher standards of governance and improving requirement that, if the Committee failed to reach an agreement, the relationships with employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.
savings would be achieved through across the board spending cuts For more information about some of the measures we are taking, sequestration.
The Committee discussions ended without reaching see the Responsible Business section from page 47.
18 Strategy and Performance The pharmaceutical industry AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
