Corporate Information History and development of the Company Shares represent 0.02% of the Companys total share capital these AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in England and Wales on 17 June percentages have been calculated by reference to the closing 1992 under the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited company mid-point US$ GBP exchange rate on 31 December 2011 as domiciled in the UK.
The Companys registered number is 2723534 published in the London edition of the Financial Times newspaper.
As and its registered office is at 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD agreed by the shareholders at the Companys AGM held on 29 April telephone 44 0 20 7604 8000.
From February 1993 until April 1999, 2010, the Articles were amended with immediate effect to remove the the Company was called Zeneca Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, the requirement for the Company to have an authorised share capital, the Company changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
concept of which was abolished under the Companies Act 2006.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to vote at general meetings of The Company was formed when the pharmaceutical, agrochemical the Company.
The rights and restrictions attaching to the Redeemable and specialty chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical Industries Preference Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary Shares PLC were demerged in 1993.
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty as follows: chemical business.
Also in 1999, the Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical business and The Redeemable Preference Shares carry no rights to receive merged it with the similar agribusiness of Novartis to form a new dividends.
The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices of, attend or vote at general meetings except in In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, a biologics and vaccines certain limited circumstances.
They have one vote for every 50,000 business based in the US.
On a distribution of assets of the Company, on a winding-up or The Group owns and operates numerous R&D, production and other return of capital subject to certain exceptions, the holders of marketing facilities worldwide.
Its corporate office is at 2 Kingdom Redeemable Preference Shares have priority over the holders of Street, London W2 6BD.
Ordinary Shares to receive the capital paid up on those shares.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Articles has the right to redeem the Redeemable Preference Shares at any Objects time on giving not less than seven days written notice.
The Companys objects were originally set out in its Memorandum of Association.
By operation of law, on 1 October 2009, these objects There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares in the were deemed to be provisions of the Articles.
However, by a special Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing legislation.
resolution of the shareholders at the Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, those deemed objects were deleted from the Articles.
The The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Companys objects are now unrestricted.
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Any amendment to the Articles requires the approval of shareholders by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
Action necessary to change the rights of shareholders In order to vary the rights attached to any class of shares, the consent Directors in writing of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the issued The Board has the authority to manage the business of the Company, shares of that class or the sanction of an extraordinary resolution for example, through powers to allot and repurchase its shares, passed at a general meeting of such holders is required.
subject where required to shareholder resolutions.
Subject to certain exceptions, Directors do not have power to vote at Board meetings on General meetings matters in which they have a material interest.
AGMs and other general meetings, as from time to time may be required, where a special resolution is to be passed or a Director is The quorum for meetings of the Board is a majority of the full Board, of to be appointed, require 21 clear days notice to shareholders.
Subject whom at least four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the absence of to the Companies Act 2006, other general meetings require 14 clear a quorum, the Directors do not have power to determine compensation days notice.
arrangements for themselves or any member of the Board.
For all general meetings, a quorum of two shareholders present in The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow person or by proxy, and entitled to vote on the business transacted, money.
Variation of these borrowing powers would require the passing is required unless each of the two persons present are corporate of a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
representatives of the same corporation: or each of the two persons present are proxy of the same shareholder.
All Directors must retire from office at the Companys AGM each year and may present themselves for election or re-election.
Directors are Shareholders and their duly appointed proxies and corporate not prohibited, upon reaching a particular age, from submitting representatives are entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
themselves for election or re-election.
Limitations on the rights to own shares Within two months of the date of their appointment, Directors are There are no limitations on the rights to own shares.
required to beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an aggregate nominal amount of $125, which currently represents at least 500 shares.
Property Substantially all of our properties are held freehold, free of material Rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to shares encumbrances and we believe that such properties are fit for their As at 31 December 2011, the Company had 1,292,355,052 Ordinary purpose.
Shares and 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
The Ordinary Shares represent 99.98% and the Redeemable Preference 208 Corporate Information AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
