Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing We ensure our medicines are where they need to be when they are needed Our strategy is to balance innovative and efficient in-house manufacturing capabilities with external manufacturing resources, particularly in relation to the early stages of our production process.
Crucial to the delivery of a We also see opportunities to use outsourced production in our branded generics business.
reliable supply of high quality This balance is designed to give us product medicines in a cost effective integrity and quality assurance while affording us cost efficiency and volume flexibility.
way is a culture that drives continuous improvement Continuous improvement We seek to maximise the efficiency of our supply chain through a and change culture of continuous improvement built on the commitment and engagement of our employees and a commitment to minimise the impact on the environment.
We focus on what adds value to our customers and patients, as well as waste elimination.
This programme has delivered significant benefits in recent years, including reduced manufacturing lead times and lower average stock levels, both of which improve our ability to respond to customer needs and reduce inventory costs.
All improvements are designed to ensure we maintain product quality, safety and customer service.
We have applied Lean production business improvement tools and ways of working to improve the efficiency of our manufacturing plants for a number of years, and have now applied them to the whole of our supply chain.
This has led to improvements in quality, lead times and David Smith overall equipment effectiveness.
In 2011, we continued to establish Executive Vice-President, Global Operations more efficient processes, with experts from our global supply chain & Information Services organisation providing cross-functional support throughout the business.
In October, we launched an online Supply Chain Academy, providing ongoing internal training to drive further improvements across our end-to-end supply chain.
Alongside this we ran an internal leadership programme to reinforce the cultural aspects of more efficient supply chain processes.
80% Sustained gross margin in excess of 80% In October, we announced an investment of $200 million to build a manufacturing facility in China Medical City in Taizhou, Jiangsu province, China to meet growing local demand for our products and expand availability of our products to people in urban and rural communities.
This will be our first manufacturing site to be built using Lean principles from the outset.
These principles are being applied $487m from the planning stage to the whole facility, including operators, $487 million in procurement savings products, components and equipment.
We are designing equipment to meet varying demand, enabling fast, reliable changeover.
We also seek to identify where processes could fail, designing systems to minimise these risks.
$388m Capital expenditure on supply and manufacturing facilities totalled $388 million 38 Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review Product quality Some 650 permanent and an additional 140 seasonal people We are committed to delivering product quality that underpins the are employed at: our four principal biologics commercial manufacturing safety and efficacy of our medicines.
We have a comprehensive facilities in the US Frederick, Maryland and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania : quality management system in place designed to assure the quality the UK Speke : and the Netherlands Nijmegen with capabilities in of our products in compliance with relevant regulations.
process development, manufacturing and distribution of biologics, including worldwide supply of MAbs and influenza vaccines.
Manufacturing facilities and processes for medicines must observe Our biologics capabilities are scalable, which enables efficient rigorous standards of quality and are subject to inspections by management of our combined small molecule and biologics pipeline.
regulatory authorities to ensure compliance with prescribed standards.
Authorities have the power to require improvements Managing sourcing risk to facilities and processes, halt production and impose conditions Given our strategy to outsource all API manufacturing, we place that must be satisfied before production can resume.
Regulatory particular importance on our global procurement policies and standards are not harmonised globally and evolve over time.
integrated risk management processes to ensure uninterrupted supply of high quality raw materials.
Supplies are purchased from a range of We hosted 27 independent inspections from 19 different regulatory suppliers.
We factor in a wide range of potential risks to global supply, authorities in 2011.
All observations from such inspections are such as disasters that remove supply capability or the unavailability of reviewed along with the outcomes of internal inspections and key raw materials, and work to ensure that these risks are effectively subsequent improvement actions are put in place as required to mitigated.
Contingency plans include the appropriate use of dual or ensure ongoing compliance.
The knowledge obtained from all multiple suppliers and maintaining appropriate stock levels.
Although the price of raw materials may fluctuate, our global purchasing policies inspections is shared across the Group.
seek to avoid such fluctuations becoming material to our business.
We are actively involved in providing input into new product manufacturing regulations, both at national and international levels, We also take into account reputational risk associated with our use of suppliers and are committed to working only with suppliers that through our membership of industry associations.
For example, in the EU we provided input into the Falsified Medicines Directive, embrace standards of ethical behaviour that are consistent with our own.
For more information, see the Responsible Business section while in the US we contributed to debates concerning drug shortages and security of supply.
Our resources Information Technology Effective and flexible IT support services are critical to delivering our Capital expenditure on supply and manufacturing facilities totalled approximately $388 million in 2011 2010: $333 million: strategy.
In 2011, we terminated our existing outsource relationship for IS infrastructure services and transitioned to a new multi-sourced 2009: $360 million.
As part of our overall risk management, we carefully consider the timing of investment to ensure that secure operating model.
This includes bringing critical strategic and control activities back into AstraZeneca.
supply chains are in place for our products.
We also have a programme in place to provide appropriate supply capabilities for our new products.
At the end of 2011, approximately 9,600 people at 23 sites in 16 countries were working on the manufacturing and supply of our products.
In addition to our planned investment in Taizhou, China, our principal small molecule manufacturing facilities are in the UK Avlon and Macclesfield, Sweden Snckviken and Grtuna, Sdertlje, the US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, Massachusetts, France Reims, Japan Maihara, Australia North Ryde, China Wuxi, Puerto Rico Canovanas, Germany Wedel, Mexico Lomas Verdes, Brazil Cotia and Argentina Buenos Aires.
We currently operate sites for the manufacture of APIs in the UK and Sweden, complemented by the efficient use of external sourcing.
Our principal tablet and capsule formulation sites are in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico and the US.
We also have major formulation sites for the global supply of parenteral and or inhalation products in Sweden, France and the UK.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Supply and Manufacturing 39
