Business Review Compliance We ensure a culture of ethics and integrity These priorities are closely aligned to the Groups strategic priorities and reflect our drive to strengthen our efforts for oversight at all levels of our business, including risk management relating to third parties, anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
GIA and Global Compliance work closely with one another and both separately provide assurance reporting to the Audit Committee.
Our Global Compliance function Our task is to ensure that also works together with a range of specialist compliance functions throughout our organisation to ensure ongoing legal and regulatory we operate in step with compliance.
When a potential compliance breach is identified, an internal investigation is undertaken by appropriate staff from our the evolving compliance Global Compliance, Human Resources and or Legal teams.
When environment globally and in appropriate, external advisers are engaged to conduct and or advise on investigations.
Should the investigation conclude that an actual a way that is consistent with compliance breach has occurred, management, in consultation with our Legal function will consider whether the Company needs our values to make a disclosure and or to report the findings to a regulatory or governmental authority.
More information on GIA and our overall risk management and control framework can be found in the Corporate Governance Report from page 103.
Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct the Code is at the core of our compliance programme and applies to all our employees at every level and in every country in which we operate.
It has been translated into over 40 languages and each employee has a copy in his her local language.
It provides clear direction as to how our commitment to honesty and integrity is to be translated into consistent actions across all areas of the business.
Every employee receives training on the Code and compliance with it is mandatory.
Similarly, every employee is required Katarina Ageborg to comply with local laws and regulations, as well as applicable national Chief Compliance Officer and international codes.
We always seek to operate at the highest of these various standards, whether this is our Code, national legislation or other applicable codes.
The Code is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of our changing legal and regulatory obligations.
We work to promote best practice in compliance The Code includes information on how to report possible violations within AstraZeneca in the rapidly changing of the Code, including through the AZethics telephone lines and the external environment in which we operate.
Anyone who raises a possible breach in good faith is fully supported by management.
We take all alleged is critical to ensuring the trust of our stakeholders compliance breaches and concerns extremely seriously and and the patients we serve.
investigate and report them to the Audit Committee, as appropriate.
Our Global Compliance function has been established to drive and In 2011, 222 reports of alleged compliance breaches or other ethical embed a culture of ethics and integrity within our organisation.
The concerns were made via telephone, the AZethics.
com website, or the addition of Global Compliance to the SET reflects the growing Global Compliance email or postal addresses described in the Code.
importance of compliance to our business operations.
In 2010, the number of reports through equivalent channels was 368.
This decrease is in the context of a significant increase in management Our key compliance priorities include: self-reporting of compliance incidents, which can be seen as an indication that employees are more comfortable in raising their concerns focusing our efforts on important compliance risk areas with line managers, local Human Resources, Legal or Compliance, communicating clear policies to employees as recommended in the Code and reinforced in the 2011 annual improving compliance behaviours through effective training Code training.
and support ensuring employees can raise concerns and that those concerns As with the Code, our global policies apply to all members of our will be properly addressed Group.
They provide clear and comprehensive guidance, in plain ensuring fair and objective investigations of possible policy breaches language, to all managers and employees as to their accountabilities monitoring and auditing compliance with policies and working in key ethical, compliance and corporate responsibility risk areas.
with GIA We report on the operation of our Global Policy on External providing key stakeholders with assurance and effective reporting Interactions on page 51. of material issues.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Compliance 43
