Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing We focus on brands and activities that make a difference Our global sales and marketing organisation is active in over 100 countries and, at the end of 2011, comprised approximately 32,300 employees.
As well as building on our leading positions in the We will lead the industry in US and Other Established Markets, we continue to increase our strength in Emerging Markets commercial innovation that including China, Brazil, Mexico and Russia.
See brings value to customers the Market definitions table on page 209 for more information on AstraZenecas market definitions.
on their terms and improves patient health We work to ensure success in individual markets by having highly accountable local leaders who understand their markets and have a strong focus on profitable business growth.
This extensive network is supported by a single Commercial organisation that develops global product strategies and drives commercial excellence, ensuring a strong customer focus and commercial direction in the management of our pipeline and marketed products.
All our efforts are underpinned by a commitment to conducting our sales and marketing activity in accordance with our values and driving commercial success responsibly.
Driving commercial success Delivering commercial success requires us to maximise the value of our portfolio across the whole life-cycle of a medicine.
For an overview of this process see the Life-cycle of a medicine section on page 10.
Tony Zook We do so by connecting our science with our customers needs.
Executive Vice-President, Global Commercial Operations From an early stage in the medicine discovery process we embed customer insights into our R&D strategy based on our interactions with healthcare providers, patients, regulators and payers.
We build on this with our local market expertise and knowledge.
This approach helps us to prioritise resources and optimise our portfolio, thereby delivering D ouble digit medicines which customers value and which meet their needs.
Double digit sales growth for Crestor, Seroquel XR Activities in 2011 focused on ensuring continued commercial and Symbicort excellence of key products, such as Crestor, Seroquel XR and Symbicort, driving growth in new markets and accelerating the commercialisation of recently launched products.
Recently launched products include Onglyza, Brilinta Brilique, Vimovo and Caprelsa.
Brilinta Brilique has been approved in 64 countries and, while $5.8bn launches have occurred in 37 markets, due to the time needed to secure reimbursement, formulary approval and protocol adoption, Emerging Markets revenue totalled $5.8 billion, full patient access at the end of 2011 was limited to an estimated 12% 17% of the total revenue of the acute coronary syndromes market.
Global strategies tailored to meet local needs We focus on developing global strategies tailored to meet local needs, and recognise that our commercial capability must evolve to meet $274m future market requirements.
The pace and degree of change in global economies, and intensifying regulatory and access challenges have Revenue of $274 million from recent launches, led us to look at ways of better and more efficiently addressing the pipeline and in-licensing changing needs and preferences of payers, prescribers and patients.
As part of this effort, in November we announced our consolidation into three regions: the Americas: EMEA: and Asia-Pacific, running the regional sales and marketing organisation from three sites: Wilmington, Delaware, US: London, UK: and Shanghai, China, and we are changing 36 Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review our Established Markets footprint in line with declining sales.
Our Broadening affordability approach to implementing such consolidation is outlined in the Sales of medicines in our Established Markets enable us to generate Managing change in our organisation section on page 42. the revenue we need to provide our shareholders with a return, invest in continued innovation and pursue other opportunities to expand All our markets have a role to play in delivering our commercial strategy.
the availability of our medicines.
At the same time, we recognise that Emerging Markets will contribute around 70% of pharmaceutical We continue to prioritise investment and allocate our resources in the most cost effective way.
This allows us to identify those markets of industry growth in the five years to 2014.
Our programme of investment in these markets continues, both in the large faster growing markets major significance to us, those that will become more important drivers of our business in the future and highlight those Established Markets such as China, Mexico, Brazil and Russia, as well as in high-growth, medium-sized and smaller markets.
where we need to refocus our approach to deliver sustained success.
As we expand our business in these markets, we are exploring broad Creating new commercial sales models In most countries, our sales are made through wholly-owned local market strategies to reach new patients, in particular the emerging middle income populations who are increasingly able to access marketing companies.
In other countries, we sell through distributors or local representative offices.
Our products are marketed primarily to healthcare systems and for whom our medicines are becoming affordable.
In some cases, where it is appropriate, we are looking primary care and specialist doctors.
Our efforts are directed towards explaining the therapeutic as well as the economic benefits of our at ways of making our medicines more affordable.
For example, our Broad Market Strategy in China means we are expanding our products to doctors, governments and others who pay for healthcare.
marketing activity and broadening affordability of our medicines to reach an increasing number of physicians and hospitals in Face-to-face contact is our traditional marketing method and we are committed to making this channel as effective and efficient as communities outside the most affluent cities who do not currently have regular access to healthcare and high quality medicines.
We continue to focus on our customer needs and having learnt from successful approaches implemented in North America and In Brazil, our Faz Bem Wellbeing programme provides discounts Europe, we are accelerating the adoption of our new commercial sales model which is now live in all our regions: including office-based sales to the cost of our medicines to patients across all socio-economic groups.
The programme also provides additional incentives for teams, dedicated customer service staff and digital channels.
those patients who adhere to their treatment regimens which helps improve health outcomes and benefit our business.
Like the Faz Bem Our rapid growth in Emerging Markets is driving demand for central commercial support, particularly in respect of sales force effectiveness.
programme, initiatives in Romania and other Central and Eastern European countries attempt to provide similar incentive schemes We have adopted and rolled out core sales and marketing training programmes in local environments.
The main focus of these programmes to patients that are unable to complete treatment regimens as a result of affordability constraints.
is to embed core commercial skills and to strengthen sales managers coaching and planning skills while also reflecting local market needs These approaches are part of our overall Access to healthcare strategy and conditions.
which can be found in the Responsible Business section from page 47.
Pricing our medicines Our challenge is to deliver innovative medicines that improve health A broader portfolio To support our growth in Emerging Markets, we are broadening our for patients, bring benefits to society and provide an appropriate return on our investment.
Our global pricing policy provides the framework portfolio through the launch of branded genericised medicines.
This range will comprise a portfolio of products which are complementary to ensure appropriate patient access while optimising the profitability of all our products in a sustainable way.
When setting the price of a to our patented original medicines in markets where we already have a developed commercial infrastructure, existing relationships with medicine, we take into consideration its full value to patients, to those who pay for healthcare and to society in general.
We also pursue a healthcare professionals and a strong reputation.
flexible approach to the pricing of our medicines.
For example, we support the concept of differential pricing, provided that appropriate In the second half of 2011, we continued our programme of generic launches, with three branded generic products being launched safeguards are in place to ensure that differentially priced products are not diverted from patients who need them to be sold and used in the Philippines.
We also launched a generic anti-infective medicine in Thailand in December.
Against the backdrop of a challenging in more affluent markets.
competitive environment, we have re-evaluated our portfolio and are now focusing on approximately 70 generic products aligned to our Delivering value for payers Our medicines play an important role in treating unmet medical need.
wider portfolio which allows us to adopt an integrated selling model.
We plan to market these generic products under the AstraZeneca In doing so, they bring economic as well as therapeutic benefits.
Effective treatments can help to lower healthcare costs by reducing brand in 20 targeted Emerging Markets.
the need for more expensive care, such as hospital stays or surgery, or through preventing patients from developing more serious or In December, we announced we had entered into an agreement to acquire Guangdong BeiKang Pharmaceutical Company Limited, a debilitating diseases that are costly to treat.
They also contribute to increased productivity by reducing or preventing the incidence of generics manufacturing company, based in Guangdong province, China.
This agreement, which remains subject to regulatory approval diseases that keep people away from work.
in China, expected in the first quarter of 2012, will give us access to a portfolio of injectable medicines used to treat infections.
It underscores As outlined in the Pricing pressure section on page 18, there is continued downward pressure on drug pricing and, in the current our intention to serve the health needs of Chinese patients through our innovative medicines and, increasingly, high quality branded generic difficult economic environment, payers expect us to be able to define the value our medicines create.
We are acutely aware of the treatments that are locally produced to global standards.
challenges facing those who pay for healthcare and are committed to delivering value which will allow us to bring our valuable medicines Sales and marketing ethics The pharmaceutical sector is subject to increased oversight by to the patients that need them.
We therefore work with payers and healthcare providers to understand their priorities and requirements, regulatory and governmental authorities.
As we drive the growth of our business and reshape our geographic footprint, we remain committed and generate evidence regarding how our products offer value and support cost effective healthcare delivery.
to the responsible delivery of commercial success.
You can read more about our standards of ethical practice and 2011 performance in the Responsible Business section from page 47.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Sales and Marketing 37
