Delivering our strategy Research and Development We are focused on delivering innovative and valued medicines We are committed to deploying the best science and technology to invent and acquire, produce and distribute innovative medicines that make a meaningful difference to peoples health around I am passionate about making the world.
This commitment is at the core of our R&D strategy and continues to drive our focus a difference to patients to create valuable medicines for patients that through great medicines.
recognise the needs of healthcare practitioners, governments, payers and external stakeholders To create value, we aim to throughout the healthcare system.
unlock the best science Our R&D organisation continues to evolve to meet the challenges available from our own labs facing our industry by investing in high quality science and harnessing the innovation of our people.
We are continuously improving our and through partnerships understanding of mechanisms and targets that will become the foundation for developing and delivering tomorrows new medicines.
These efforts are undertaken with the highest ethical standards, as we are committed to delivering innovative medicines responsibly.
More information about our Responsible Business Plan can be found from page 47.
Focused R&D portfolio We continue to prioritise our resources and focus discovery activities on those diseases within our existing therapy areas where we believe there is the greatest potential to meet patient need through the application of novel science.
This continual process of prioritisation is designed to ensure that the projects we have in our pipeline constitute the programmes which we believe are most likely to deliver technical Martin Mackay and commercial success.
President, Global R&D In 2011, we continued our core research focus on six therapy areas: Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, Neuroscience, Infection, Oncology and Respiratory & Inflammation.
Our R&D efforts are supported by nine innovative medicine units iMeds across small molecule and 86 biologics projects.
Eight iMeds focus on defined disease areas, with a ninth targeting New Opportunities.
Our iMeds are responsible for 86 pipeline projects of which 79 are in the clinical phase of discovery and development up to and including Phase II testing development and a further seven are approved or launched and delivery of molecules to our Global Medicines Development GMD organisation for Phase III and registration activities.
Our GMD organisation provides a single, global platform dedicated to conducting trials for small molecules and biologics and is accountable for delivering the regulatory packages to support launches of 9 new medicines that are commercially attractive and reimbursable.
In addition to our defined disease areas, we continuously assess Nine projects in late stage clinical development, either in opportunities to acquire, through purchase or partnership, Phase III or under regulatory review development and commercialisation rights to compounds, targets and technologies outside our core therapeutic expertise.
18 18 out of 33 projects in Phase II, III or under regulatory review sourced externally 30 Delivering our strategy Research and Development AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review Development projects 2 2 29 24 10 23 2011 1 34 32 9 17 2010 44 34 11 14 2009 34 31 10 23 2008 41 20 10 24 2007 Clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III Line Extensions 1 Includes seven life-cycle management projects reintroduced from Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico, Turkey and Japan.
2 Includes seven projects that are approved or launched.
Development projects Pipeline delivery Our pipeline includes 79 projects in the clinical phase of development.
Several milestones for products currently in development were passed As shown in the Development projects chart above, we now have a in 2011.
These are shown in the table overleaf and more information total of 29 projects in Phase I, 24 projects in Phase II, 10 projects in about these can be found in the Therapy Area Review from page 56. late stage development, either in Phase III or under regulatory review, and we are running 23 significant life-cycle management projects.
Of the 21 projects withdrawn in 2011, two were withdrawn following During 2011, across the clinical portfolio, 25 projects have successfully failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing approvals for progressed to their next phase including five projects entering first the product candidate or the facilities in which it is manufactured human testing and 21 projects have been withdrawn.
Further details and 15 were withdrawn following poorer than anticipated safety or are set out in the Therapy Area Review from page 56 and in the efficacy results.
The remaining projects were withdrawn following Development Pipeline table from page 199. assessment of the projects against other product pipeline risk factors such as those detailed in the Principal risks and uncertainties section Portfolio quality from page 130.
In 2011, we undertook a thorough assessment of our early portfolio projects, resulting in the termination of a number of early projects.
Integrated R&D approach Going forward, our focus will be on identifying key candidate As demonstrated by the Life-cycle of a medicine section on page medicines that have the highest potential to deliver technical and 10, our R&D activities span the entire life-cycle of a medicine.
By continuing to apply a rigorous quality approach brings together drug discoverers and developers within approach to our candidate selection process, we expect to increase each iMed to focus and collaborate in specific disease areas, while the likelihood that our most promising medicines progress into continuing to leverage our expertise in late stage development, Phase III development.
product registration and life-cycle management.
This new model is designed to increase accountability and enhance scientific Our Portfolio Investment Board PIB plays an important role in knowledge-sharing within therapeutic areas.
In addition, our single maintaining portfolio quality through its continued evaluation of our R&D strategy enables more effective and efficient delivery of our projects, designed to ensure that we are maximising the value of our research objectives across the therapeutic portfolio, regardless R&D investments.
More detail relating to the PIBs responsibilities can of geography, disease area or stage of development.
be found in the Corporate Governance Report from page 99.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Research and Development 31 Delivering our strategy Pipeline delivery Milestone Product 2011 Achievement Key pipeline CAZ AVI Initiation of Phase III programme for CAZ AVI a combination of ceftazidime and progressions avibactam, formerly known as CAZ-104 for the treatment of complicated intraabdominal and complicated urinary tract infections NKTR-118 Initiation of Phase III programme for treatment of opioid-induced constipation Dapagliflozin FDA acceptance of NDA file for treatment of adult patients with Type 2 diabetes: Complete Response Letter received from the FDA in January 2012 requesting additional clinical data Major market Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor Regulatory approvals in US, Canada and 64 countries in total for the prevention approvals of cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syndromes Caprelsa vandetanib FDA approval for treatment of symptomatic and progressive medullary thyroid cancer in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease.
Positive opinion received from CHMP regarding MAA for Caprelsa Axanum esomeprazole ASA Approval by 23 EU member states as a treatment to prevent CV events in high-risk CV patients in need of low dose ASA who are at risk of gastric ulcers Komboglyze saxagliptin European Commission approval as a treatment for adults with Type 2 diabetes metformin HCI Fluenz live attenuated, intranasal EU marketing authorisation granted for the treatment of seasonal influenza for influenza vaccine children from 24 months to less than 18 years Nexium esomeprazole Approval in Japan for acid-related conditions including NERD, reflux esophagitis, and PUD Faslodex fulvestrant 500mg Approval in Japan for the treatment of post-menopausal women with hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer which has recurred or progressed following prior endocrine therapy Our collaboration efforts have resulted in a combination of internally A collaboration with Manchester University and GSK to establish and externally sourced compounds throughout our portfolio, with the Manchester Collaborative Centre for Inflammation Research various development partnerships with biotechnology firms, research MCCIR, a translational science centre that will bring together institutions and other pharmaceutical companies.
We previously industry researchers and academia in an alliance to study chronic announced our intention to source up to 40% of our pipeline from inflammatory diseases.
outside our laboratories by 2014 and we are on track to deliver that AZD4694, a late stage radiopharmaceutical imaging candidate, commitment.
Collaborating externally enables us to build the value out-licensed to Neoprobe Corporation.
AZD4694 is a fluorine-18 of our internally-sourced products and identify external sources of labelled radiotracer discovered by AstraZeneca to support cutting-edge science that will enhance and amend our own portfolio development of potential treatments for Alzheimers disease.
External partnerships announced in 2011 include: Our biologics capabilities signed its first oncology research agreement in China with the Shanghai Chest Hospital.
The goal Tremelimumab, a late stage CTLA-4 MAb in oncology which of this collaboration is to build a database of small and non-small AstraZeneca in-licensed from Pfizer for the potential treatment cell lung cancer cases.
of a number of oncology indications.
A collaboration with the UK Medical Research Council MRC in We continue to search actively for opportunities to advance science which UK academic researchers are provided with access to over and public health through research collaborations and partnerships.
20 compounds developed by AstraZeneca, for investigation as This is demonstrated by our ongoing efforts with organisations potential new treatments across a spectrum of diseases.
such as the European Innovative Medicines Initiative IMI aimed at AMG-108, a novel MAb targeting the IL-1 pathway with potential for improving tools, technologies, methodologies and knowledge treating certain inflammatory diseases, which AstraZeneca licensed management and additional collaborations with the UK MRC and from Amgen Inc. the World Intellectual Property Organisation WIPO.
We have made A strategic collaboration with the Sarah Cannon Research Institute a significant commitment to the field of neglected tropical diseases SCRI, an international leader in advancing therapies for cancer NTDs R&D via our founder membership of WIPOs WIPO Re:Search patients through clinical research, under which SCRI will lead the consortium.
This consortium promotes the formation of research clinical development of a novel targeted oncology compound from partnerships aimed at driving the identification of solutions to NTDs AstraZeneca.
which are less commercially attractive disease targets, but have A collaborative research agreement with Galderma Pharma S. A. particularly severe effects in the worlds least developed countries.
a global specialty pharmaceutical company to develop AstraZeneca Our commitment to WIPO Re:Search includes the promise to compounds into new treatments for a range of skin conditions contribute a range of resources, technology and IP.
including psoriasis, acne and atopic dermatitis.
32 Delivering our strategy Research and Development AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review Investing in capabilities Our resources A core component of our R&D strategy is strengthening four core At the end of 2011, our R&D organisation comprised approximately capabilities.
In 2010, we announced an investment of more than 11,300 people at 14 principal centres in eight countries.
$200 million over five years to develop capabilities in the areas of payer partnering, personalised healthcare, predictive science and Our R&D transformation that began in 2010 has been largely clinical design.
We are making steady progress in building these completed, resulting in the closure of several of our R&D facilities skills both internally and through external collaborations.
Examples and a net reduction of 1,400 positions.
The exit of R&D personnel of our efforts in 2011 include: and activities from the Charnwood site in the UK and the Lund site in Sweden was completed in 2011 and the facilities will be closed in Payer partnering a new payer evidence function has been early 2012.
Our approach to implementing such change is outlined established to support both our Commercial and R&D organisations in the Managing change in our organisation section on page 42. in addressing the evidence needs of payers at every stage of the product life-cycle.
A key part of this support comes from new In February 2012, we announced the next phase of restructuring.
capabilities in analysing observational data.
We have entered a Further details are set out in the Our strategic priorities to 2014 section unique collaboration with HealthCore, the health outcomes research from page 21. subsidiary of Wellpoint, Inc. to conduct real world studies, designed to determine how to most effectively and economically treat Our R&D geographic footprint includes four main small molecule diseases.
This provides access to the largest commercially insured facilities in: the UK Alderley Park and Macclesfield : Sweden MIndal : population data environment in the US and is fully operational, and the US Waltham, Massachusetts.
Other sites with a focus on supporting both development projects and marketed brands.
research are in Sweden Sdertlje, Canada Montreal, Quebec and Building on this, in January 2012, we signed a three-year collaboration France Reims.
We also have a clinical development facility in Osaka, Japan.
Our principal sites for biologics and vaccines are in the US agreement with IMS Health Inc. providing AstraZeneca with access to pre-existing anonymised health records.
This information will Gaithersburg, Maryland and Mountain View, California and in the UK Cambridge.
Our Wilmington, Delaware site in the US now focuses provide a degree of insight into how medicines that are already on the market are working in real-world settings across Europe, and will on late stage development across the portfolio.
Finally, our strategic expansion in Emerging Markets continues and includes the growth of help inform our discovery and clinical development programmes.
our Innovation Centre China research facility in Shanghai, China as well as our research facility in Bangalore, India.
Personalised healthcare our personalised healthcare capability is focused on identifying patients that are most likely to benefit from 1 In 2011, there was Core R&D expenditure our medicines.
The proportion of our development portfolio utilising of $5.0 billion in our or investigating personalised healthcare approaches such as the R&D organisation 2010: $4.2 billion: 2009: $4.3 billion.
In addition, use of biomarkers has increased from 25% at the end of 2010 to $189 million was spent on acquiring product rights such as over 50%, including 10 projects that involve a companion diagnostic in-licensing 2010: $1,017 million: 2009: $764 million and we to target therapy.
Our recently formed personalised healthcare invested approximately $468 million on the implementation of our group continues to support Iressa with initiatives to improve the R&D restructuring strategy.
The allocations of 2009-2011 spend by speed and quality of diagnostic testing, contributing to Iressas early and late activities are presented below.
R&D spend analysis 2011 2010 2009 Predictive science we are integrating modelling and simulation iMeds % Discovery and early 56% 73% 70% development into many different aspects of R&D.
We recruited 25 external experts GMD % Late stage development 44% 27% 30% from the global modelling and simulation community to accelerate Core R&D costs $m 5,033 4,219 4,334 the development of our predictive science capability.
Modelling and simulation is now used in the areas of biology, chemistry, 1 Reported expenditure in our R&D organisation was $5.5 billion 2010: $5.3 billion: 2009: $4.4 billion.
formulation development, preclinical and clinical safety assessment, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evaluation and clinical trial simulation.
Clinical design we implemented a range of innovative changes to drive consistency and excellence in the critically important capability of clinical trial design and interpretation.
Almost 90% of our R&D teams have incorporated the changes and are starting to utilise a new design and interpretation framework.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Delivering our strategy Research and Development 33
