healthinnovation Delivering value through innovation Innovation is at the heart of everything we do at AstraZeneca from our research of effective new medicines to how we run our business.
Our goal is always to improve health for patients and deliver the value that our stakeholders want and the worlds healthcare systems need.
12 Health Innovation AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Overview healthinnovation Innovation drives progress in society.
Successful biopharmaceutical innovation, delivered responsibly, brings benefit for patients, creates value for stakeholders and contributes to the social and economic development of the communities we serve.
We are a global R&D-based biopharmaceutical company with a long-standing commitment to delivering valued innovation in healthcare.
We remain dedicated to the discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialisation of differentiated, value adding medicines for some of the worlds most serious health challenges: cancer, heart disease, gastrointestinal disorders, infection, neurological disorders and respiratory conditions.
We work continuously to understand, anticipate and adapt to the needs of a changing world.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Health Innovation 13 The Manchester Collaborative Centre for Inflammation Research is being created by the University of Manchester, GSK and AstraZeneca to establish a world-leading centre for inflammatory diseases.
It is a unique collaboration that began with an initial investment of 5 million from each partner over a three-year period and will bring together scientists from both the pharmaceutical industry and academia.
A groundbreaking agreement with the UK Medical Research Council MRC means a wide range of chemical compounds developed by AstraZeneca is to be made available free of charge to UK medical researchers.
As part of the collaboration with AstraZeneca, the MRC is inviting research proposals from across the UK academic community to use the compounds in new areas.
The MRC will judge and select the best scientific proposals, and award up to 10 million in total to fund research across a broad range of human diseases.
Sir John Savill, Chief Executive of the MRC said: The initiative marks a new era in medical discovery, open innovation and publicprivate collaboration.
For more information: Our contribution to See from page 30 in the Business Review better health is founded on the R&D of innovative medicines that make a real difference in the treatment of disease.
In the US, we used social media channels to support the recruitment of patients into Phase III clinical trials for NKTR-118 which seek to determine whether the medicine is safe and effective for patients suffering from opioid-induced constipation.
1 st The positive decision in Germany in favour of Brilique, our treatment for acute coronary syndromes, was the first to be made under the new law for the mandatory pricing assessment for newly introduced drugs in their healthcare system.
14 Health Innovation AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
