healthintegrity Earning trust through integrity We want AstraZeneca to be valued as a source of great medicines and trusted as a company that delivers business success responsibly.
44 Health Integrity AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Business Review healthintegrity We are dedicated to the research, development and marketing of medicines that make a difference in healthcare.
We consider this to be at the core of our responsibility to our stakeholders and society.
Successful biopharmaceutical innovation brings benefit for patients, creates value for our stakeholders and contributes to the social and economic development of the communities we serve.
Our responsibility also extends to making sure that we deliver success in the right way to bring sustainable benefit through both what we do and how we do it.
The trust of our stakeholders and our continued licence to do business depend on it.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Health Integrity 45 Our core values sit at the heart of our culture: working with integrity and to high Our Responsible Business Plan provides the framework for applying integrity and high ethical standards across all ethical standards: showing our activities.
respect for the individual and Our commitment to the highest standards of sales and diversity: being open and marketing practice was underpinned in 2011 by our new Global External Interactions Policy which describes what is honest in all our interactions: required to operate with the highest level of integrity in our interactions with public officials, healthcare professionals and and leading by example at community organisations.
Among other things, it places a ban on providing gifts, other than low monetary value cultural items all levels.
or educational items for the benefit of patients.
A Responsible Business Council comprising senior leaders and reporting to the Senior Executive Team has been established.
The Council will agree the Responsible Business strategy and oversee its implementation as measured by long-term and annual objectives, targets and KPIs established by the relevant business functions and published in the Responsible Business Plan.
We have a global R&D organisation and a track record of creating medicines that meet some of the worlds greatest disease challenges.
Our efforts are concentrated on unmet needs in disease areas where we believe our skills and experience can make the most difference: cancer, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal disorders, infection, neurological disorders and respiratory conditions.
It can take more than 10 years and up to $1 billion to bring a new medicine to market.
Many thousands of compounds are investigated for their potential to become a new medicine.
Only a few make it 85% through the rigorous development process.
A member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since 2001, we achieved our highest ever assessment For more information: See the Responsible Business section which follows score in the 2011 World Index.
46 Health Integrity AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
