Finding solutions through collaboration We believe that only by working together with all our stakeholders can real progress be made in healthcare.
Collaboration is a way of life for us.
healthcollaboration 26 Health Collaboration AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Strategy and Performance healthcollaboration Improving health is a tough challenge.
As tough as world poverty and other big challenges like global food supply, energy and the environment.
Despite all the advances in recent decades, major diseases are on the increase.
We know that AstraZeneca has a key role to play in tackling these challenges with medicines that make a real difference.
We also know that we cannot work in isolation if we are to deliver medicines that people really need and value.
So we work closely with all our stakeholders to understand their needs and perspectives and how we can combine forces to achieve a common goal improved health.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Health Collaboration 27 Following the acquisition of Novexel in 2010, we are collaborating with Forest on the co-development and commercialisation of two late stage antibiotic development programmes.
In 2011, we announced that one of these, ceftazidime avibactam CAZ AVI, is entering Phase III trials to investigate its efficacy in treating patients with complicated intra-abdominal and urinary tract infections.
AstraZeneca is one of four companies to have signed up to partner with TB Alliance and the World Health Organization in a six-way alliance through which the companies will share information about the tuberculosis TB compounds in their pipelines to quickly identify and collaborate to develop the most promising TB drug regimen, regardless of sponsor.
Formed under the Critical Path to TB Drug Regimens CPTR initiative, the partnership facilitates a more collaborative approach to TB drug development.
It aims dramatically to speed up the development of shorter, safer and more effective multi-drug treatments which are urgently needed to control the global TB pandemic.
We have a long-standing culture of collaboration and 57,200 people 6 of 9 worldwide dedicated Six of our nine Phase III products are the result to working with each of successful partnerships 67%.
other and with our stakeholders to improve healthcare.
The Scrip Award for the Best Partnership Alliance was won by our Colorectal Cancer Collaboration with molecular diagnostics company Agendia and the Netherlands Cancer Institute.
The two-year partnership has the objective of accelerating the development of targeted therapies for colorectal cancer by segmenting it at the molecular level.
A key feature of the partnership is that personalised diagnostics may be developed far earlier in the development process for new drugs than has previously been possible.
28 Health Collaboration AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
