Business review: BP in more depth Business review access advantageous pricing differences between locations, time periods sell production into the wholesale markets and as trading instruments to and arbitrage between markets.
Natural gas futures and options are traded buy and sell gas and power in future periods.
Storage and transportation through exchanges, while over-the-counter OTC options and swaps are contracts allow the group to store and transport gas, and transmit power used for both gas and power transactions through bilateral and or centrallybetween these locations.
The group has developed a risk governance cleared arrangements.
Futures and options are primarily used to trade framework to manage and oversee the financial risks associated with this the key index prices, such as Henry Hub, while swaps can be tailored to trading activity, which is described in Note 26 to the Financial statements price with reference to specic delivery locations where gas and power on pages 217-222.
The groups trading activities in natural gas are managed can be bought and sold.
OTC forward contracts have evolved in both by the integrated supply and trading function.
the US and UK markets, enabling gas and power to be sold forward in a The range of contracts that the group enters into is described in variety of locations and future periods.
These contracts are used both to Certain denitions commodity trading contracts, on page 111.
Oil and gas disclosures The following tables provide additional data and disclosures in relation to our oil and gas operations.
b Producing assets now largely divested.
c Realizations include transfers between businesses.
d Crude oil and natural gas liquids.
e It is common for equity-accounted entities agreements to include pricing clauses that require selling a significant portion of the entitled production to local governments or markets at discounted prices.
Average production cost per unit of production a $ per unit of production Europe North South Africa Asia Australasia Total America America group average Rest of Rest of North Rest of b UK Europe US America Russia Asia The average production a cost per unit of production Subsidiaries 2011 21.59 18.23 12.09 3.20 10.82 8.65 3.05 10.08 2010 12.79 9.76 8.10 15.78 2.48 7.52 4.59 2.03 6.77 2009 12.38 10.72 7.26 14.45 2.20 6.05 4.35 1.60 6.39 Equity-accounted entities 2011 9.04 5.68 2.70 5.58 c c 2010 6.32 5.04 2.61 4.83 c c 2009 6.12 4.63 2.52 4.50 a Units of production are barrels for liquids and thousands of cubic feet for gas.
Amounts do not include ad valorem and severan ce taxes.
c A minor amendment has been made to comparative periods.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 89 Business review Licence expiry year-end price net of 1% and changes relating to eld performance or The Abu Dhabi onshore concession expires in January 2014 with a well results 99%.
The table below describes the changes to our proved consequent reduction in production of approximately 140mb d. The group undeveloped reserves position through the year.
holds no other licences due to expire within the next three years that would have a significant impact on BPs reserves or production.
volumes in mmboe Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2011 7,899 Resource progression Revisions of previous estimates 693 BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: prospect Improved recovery 522 inventory, contingent resources and proved reserves.
When a discovery Discoveries and extensions 92 is made, volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory to the Purchases 77 contingent resources category.
The contingent resources move through Sales 302 various sub-categories as their technical and commercial maturity increases Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 8,981 through appraisal activity.
Progressed to proved developed reserves 1,062 At the point of final investment decision, most proved reserves will Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2011 7,919 be categorized as proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently BP bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable be re-categorized from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence certainty with rigorous technical and commercial assessments based on of development activity.
When part of a wells proved reserves depends conventional industry practice.
BP only applies technologies that have been on a later phase of activity, only that portion of proved reserves associated eld tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain with existing, available facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated PD bookings will typically occur at the point of first oil or gas production.
or in an analogous formation.
BP applies high-resolution seismic data for Major development projects typically take one to four years from the time the identication of reservoir extent and uid contacts only where there is of initial booking of proved reserves to the start of production.
Changes to an overwhelming track record of success in its local application.
In certain proved reserves bookings may be made due to analysis of new or existing deepwater elds BP has booked proved reserves before production ow data concerning production, reservoir performance, commercial factors, tests are conducted, in part because of the significant safety, cost and acquisition and disposal activity and additional reservoir development environmental implications of conducting these tests.
made substantial technological improvements in understanding, measuring Volumes can also be added or removed from our portfolio through and delineating reservoir properties without the need for ow tests.
To acquisition or divestment of properties and projects.
When we dispose determine reasonable certainty of commercial recovery, BP employs a of an interest in a property or project, the volumes associated with our general method of reserves assessment that relies on the integration of adopted plan of development for which we have a final investment three types of data: 1 well data used to assess the local characteristics decision will be removed from our proved reserves upon completion.
and conditions of reservoirs and uids: 2 eld scale seismic data to When we acquire an interest in a property or project, the volumes allow the interpolation and extrapolation of these characteristics outside associated with the existing development and any committed projects the immediate area of the local well control: and 3 data from relevant will be added to our proved reserves if BP has made a final investment analogous elds.
Well data includes appraisal wells or sidetrack holes, full decision and they satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved status.
logging suites, core data and uid samples.
BP considers the integration Following the acquisition, additional volumes may be progressed to proved of this data in certain cases to be superior to a ow test in providing reserves from contingent.
understanding of overall reservoir performance.
The collection of data Contingent resources in a eld will only be re-categorized as proved from logs, cores, wireline formation testers, pressures and uid samples reserves when all the criteria for attribution of proved status have been met calibrated to each other and to the seismic data can allow reservoir and the proved reserves are included in the business plan and scheduled properties to be determined over a greater volume than the localized for development, typically within five years.
The group will only book volume of investigation associated with a short-term ow test.
There is proved reserves where development is scheduled to commence after five a strong track record of proved reserves recorded using these methods, years, if these proved reserves satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of validated by actual production levels.
proved status and BP management has reasonable certainty that these proved reserves will be produced.
Governance At the end of 2011, BP had material volumes of proved BPs centrally controlled process for proved reserves estimation approval undeveloped reserves held for more than five years in Trinidad, as well as forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
"It consists non-material volumes in Australia, Azerbaijan, Norway, the UK and the US, of the following elements: that are part of ongoing development activities for which BP has a historical t ""DDPVOUBCJMJUJFT PG DFSUBJO PGmDFST PG UIF HSPVQ UP FOTVSF UIBU UIFSF JT track record of completing comparable projects in these countries."
review and approval of proved reserves bookings independent of the The volumes are being progressed as part of an adopted development operating business and that there are effective controls in the approval plan where there are physical limits to the development timing such process and verication that the proved reserves estimates and the as infrastructure limitations, contractual limits including gas delivery related financial impacts are reported in a timely manner.
commitments, late life compression and the complex nature of working in t $BQJUBM BMMPDBUJPO QSPDFTTFT XIFSFCZ EFMFHBUFE BVUIPSJUZ JT FYFSDJTFE remote locations.
to commit to capital projects that are consistent with the delivery of the BP has a three year average track record since the adoption of groups business plan.
A formal review process exists to ensure that the modernised rules for reporting of converting 20% of our proved both technical and commercial criteria are met prior to the commitment undeveloped reserves excluding disposals to proved developed reserves.
This equates to a turnover time of five years.
We expect the turnover time t OUFSOBM audit, whose role is to consider whether the groups system to remain at or below five years and anticipate no increase in the volume of of internal control is adequately designed and operating effectively to proved undeveloped reserves held for more than five years.
respond appropriately to the risks that are significant to BP.
"In 2011, we converted 1,062mmboe of proved undeveloped t ""QQSPWBM IJFSBSDIZ XIFSFCZ QSPWFE SFTFSWFT DIBOHFT BCPWF DFSUBJO reserves to proved developed reserves through ongoing investment in threshold volumes require central authorization and periodic reviews."
The our upstream development activities.
Total development expenditure in frequency of review is determined according to eld size and ensures Exploration and Production, excluding midstream activities, was $13,329 that more than 80% of the BP proved reserves base undergoes central million in 2011 $10,194 million for subsidiaries and $3,135 million for review every two years, and more than 90% is reviewed centrally every equity-accounted entities.
The major areas converted in 2011 were four years.
Argentina, Indonesia, Russia, Trinidad and the US.
Revisions of previous estimates for proved undeveloped reserves are due to the impact of 90 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
