Business review Alternative Energy Gulf of Mexico oil spill In Alternative Energy, we are aligning technology capability with future growth platforms, particularly biofuels.
From response to restoration summary t O BEEJUJPO UP PVS FYQBOEJOH CJPGVFM QSPEVDUJPO CVTJOFTT JO #SB[JM XF Building on the efforts of 2010, BP has continued to demonstrate are developing advanced technologies that will unlock the commercial its commitment to the US federal, state and local governments and potential of next generation biofuels.
At our technology centre in San communities of the Gulf Coast following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
Diego, bioscientists are advancing the technology to commercialize BPs efforts in 2011 included: cellulosic biofuels and utilizing our large scale demonstration facility in t $POUJOVJOH UIF DMFBO VQ PG UIF XBUFST BOE TIPSFMJOFT JNQBDUFE BDSPTT Louisiana to prove the scale-up of proprietary cellulosic technology.
In the Gulf of Mexico and the ongoing protection of sh and wildlife.
the UK, BP and its partners have constructed a demonstration plant to t 4VQQPSUJOH UIF FDPOPNJD SFTUPSBUJPO PG JNQBDUFE TFDUPST PG UIF VMG accelerate commercial-scale production of biobutanol, a highly-efficient Coast economy through targeted support to the tourism and seafood fuel molecule.
t Our portfolio of strategic venturing investments aims at putting BP at t $POUJOVJOH UIF GVOEJOH PG UIF CJMMJPO %FFQXBUFS PSJ[PO 0JM 4QJMM the forefront in terms of innovation, particularly in developing sustainable Trust for the purposes of paying all legitimate individual, business, state energy solutions.
Our emerging business and ventures unit brings and local government claims and funding of settlements and Natural together BPs venturing and carbon markets expertise with extensive Resource Damages NRD assessment and restoration activities.
carbon capture and storage capability and through this unit, we have t 1SPHSFTTJOH UIF 3% BDUJWJUJFT JO DPMMBCPSBUJPO XJUI UIF GFEFSBM BOE TUBUF more than 29 separate investments spanning three broad areas: trustee agencies and progressing both emergency and early restoration bioenergy, electrication and carbon solutions.
activities, including our voluntary commitment of up to $1 billion in early The investments create insights and develop options to restoration projects.
grow value for BP, for both its oil and gas assets as well as its lowt $POUJOVJOH UIF TVQQPSU PG JOEFQFOEFOU MPOH UFSN SFTFBSDI UISPVHI UIF carbon businesses.
They cover a range of specialized innovations and Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative GoMRI to improve knowledge of technologies, such as waste-heat recovery, energy storage, carbon the Gulf ecosystem and to better understand and mitigate the potential funds and land-carbon projects, new solar and bio-energy technologies.
impacts of oil spills in the region and elsewhere.
For example, we have an investment stake in GMZ Energy, based in the US, which is commercializing materials that allow the efficient Proposed settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee conversion of heat to electricity with a thermoelectric device a building On 3 March 2012, BP announced that it had reached a settlement with the block for a new generation of energy-efficient products.
The investment Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC, subject to final written agreement gives us insights into the ability of thermoelectric technology to recover and court approvals, to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate low-grade waste heat sources cost-effectively across the group.
economic loss and medical claims stemming from the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill.
The PSC acts on behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in the Multi-District Litigation proceedings pending in New Orleans MDL 2179.
The proposed settlement is comprised of two separate agreements, one to resolve economic loss claims and another to resolve medical claims.
Each proposed agreement provides that class members would be compensated for their claims on a claims-made basis, according to agreed compensation protocols in separate court-supervised claims processes.
The proposed agreement to resolve economic loss claims includes a BP commitment of $2.3 billion to help resolve economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry and a fund to support continued advertising that promotes Gulf Coast tourism.
BP estimates that the cost of the proposed settlement, expected to be paid from the $20 billion Trust, would be approximately $7.8 billion.
This includes the financial commitment for the Gulf seafood industry.
The proposed economic loss settlement provides for a transition from the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF.
A court-supervised transitional claims process for economic loss claims will be in operation while the infrastructure for the new settlement claims process is put in place.
During this transitional period, the processing of claims that have been submitted to the GCCF will continue, and new claimants may submit their claims.
BP has agreed not to wait for final approval of the economic loss settlement before claims are paid.
The economic loss claims process will continue under court supervision before final approval of the settlement, first under the transitional claims process, and then through the settlement claims process established by the proposed economic loss agreement.
This proposed settlement does not include claims against BP made by the United States Department of Justice or other federal agencies including under the Clean Water Act and for Natural Resource Damages under the Oil Pollution Act or by the states and local governments.
The proposed settlement also excludes certain other claims against BP, such as securities and shareholder claims pending in MDL 2185, and claims based solely on the deepwater drilling moratorium and or the related permitting process.
For further details, see the Legal proceedings section on pages 160-164.
76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
