Business review: BP in more depth Business review Our deployed S&OR teams work with our operating businesses ranging Safety from upstream oil and gas development and production to reneries, petrochemicals plants and retail networks.
They help the businesses apply Over the past year, we have been developing and implementing a wideour standards to their operations and they help provide assurance to the ranging programme to further enhance safety, risk management and group on how operational risks are being managed, business by business.
This programme was initiated in response to the Operating businesses remain accountable for delivering safe, Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010. reliable and compliant operations.
They have the responsibility of managing The programme emphasizes the continuing importance of personal risks and bringing together people with the right skills and competencies.
and process safety within BP.
Process safety involves applying good design Working in collaboration with deployed S&OR subject specialists for principles, along with robust engineering, operating and maintenance guidance, they are subject to new levels of independent scrutiny and practices, to managing operations safely.
For BP, this means the plant assurance.
is designed, maintained and operated properly to avoid failures such as spills or explosions that can result in injuries to people and impacts to Governance the environment.
It also means that employees and contractors have the BP reviews risks at all levels of the organization, with our S&OR function appropriate training and competencies to carry out work, as well as observing providing an independent view of safety and operational risk.
While line applicable procedures and policies that help to prevent personal injury.
managers are responsible for identifying and managing risks, we place In 2011, BP reported two workforce fatalities, and we regret the strong emphasis on checks and balances, including both enhanced selfloss of these lives.
One was a rail-related fatality in the US, the other died verication by individual BP operations such as drilling rigs or reneries as a result of an unauthorized transfer of fuel in South Africa.
and independent assurance by the S&OR function.
The boards safety, ethics and environment assurance committee Safety and operational risk SEEAC receives updates from the group chief executive and the head Safety management of S&OR on the work of the group operations risk committee GORC, on Our safety and risk management approach is built on deep experience in BPs performance in process and personal safety, and our monitoring of the oil and gas industry.
This includes learning from the recommendations major incidents and near misses across the group.
Where appropriate other of investigations into the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010 and the Texas senior managers will attend to provide briengs on safety, environmental City renery explosion in 2005, as well as operations audits, annual risk and operational integrity in their areas of responsibility.
SEEAC also reviews, other incident investigations and from industry practice of sharing receives information from the Independent Expert appointed to monitor experience.
the implementation of recommendations made by the BP US Reneries There are three key principles which we intend to be at the heart of Independent Safety Review Panel following the 2005 explosion at our our approach: Texas City renery.
See Board performance report on pages 120-133 for tFBEFSTIJQ GPTUFSJOH B DVMUVSF XIFSF FWFSZPOF JT GPDVTFE PO TBGFUZ further information on the activities of the boards committees, including on managing and reducing risk and on safe, reliable and compliant SEEAC and the Gulf of Mexico committee.
Lessons learned from major incidents are being incorporated t 0VS PQFSBUJOH NBOBHFNFOU TZTUFN 0.4 CFJOH UIF XBZ #1 TFFLT UP into our operating management system and capability development operate.
t Effective checks and balances independent of the business line and selfverication being carried out at all levels of the organization.
Operating management system Launched in 2008, our operating management system OMS serves as While we maintain our focus on processes, practices and protocols, we our group-wide framework designed to drive a rigorous and systematic also place great emphasis on how our workforce applies them, thereby approach to safety, risk management, and operational integrity across the working to strengthen safety culture and workforce capability.
OMS integrates requirements regarding health, safety, security, environment, social responsibility and operational reliability, as well A dedicated function as related issues such as maintenance, contractor management and We established the safety and operational risk S&OR function in early organizational learning, into a common system.
S&OR supports the business line in delivering safe, reliable and The principles and standards of OMS are supported by detailed compliant operations across the groups operated businesses.
It does this group-wide practices, as well as other technical guidance materials.
in four ways: The goal of OMS is to apply certain standards, group-dened practices t U TFUT BOE VQEBUFT UIF SFRVJSFNFOUT JODMVEJOH those in OMS, that are and group engineering technical practices on a group-wide basis in our used across the business for safety and operational risk management.
operations: these include, among others, the practices on assessment, t U QSPWJEFT FYQFSU TDSVUJOZ PG TBGFUZ BOE PQFSBUJPOBM SJTL JOEFQFOEFOU PG prioritization and management of risk: incident investigation: integrity line managers advising, examining and providing assurance about what management: and environmental and social requirements for major our operations do.
t U QSPWJEFT EFFQ UFDIOJDBM FYQFSUJTF UP UIF PQFSBUJPOT Following the principle of continuous improvement, our OMS t U IBT UIF BVUIPSJUZ UP JOUFSWFOF BOE FTDBMBUF JTTVFT UP DBVTF DPSSFDUJWF evolves over time, for example to reect implementation experience as action to be taken.
well as learnings from incident investigations, audits and risk assessments, and by strengthening mandatory practices.
S&OR, as of the end of 2011, was made up of a central team of around 300, as well as nearly 300 more who are deployed in BPs businesses, Transitioning to OMS providing guidance and scrutiny and examining how safety and operating The transition to OMS requires operations to develop a local OMS that risks are being assessed and managed on oil and gas production and describes how the operation addresses site-specic local operating risks, drilling rigs, at reneries and across all our operations.
The head of S&OR applies group standards and practices and manages compliance with reports directly to the group chief executive.
applicable health, safety, security and environment legal requirements.
The central team serves as the custodian of group requirements, As part of the transition, operations conduct a gap assessment against runs safety and operational risk audit and capability programmes and dened aspects of OMS and their local processes and procedures, and endorses the appointment of individuals for designated safety-critical then develop a prioritized gap-closure plan.
To formally transition to the roles.
The central team includes some of BPs top engineers and safety system, operations issue a local OMS handbook for the workforce to specialists, several of whom have experience of other industries where follow, and complete a management-of-change document that details major hazards have to be managed, including the military, nuclear energy the changes involved.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 65
