Our performance Our upstream business is now reorganized into three divisions exploration, developments and production.
We have also reorganized our drilling operations into a single global wells organization GWO, which forms part of the developments division and takes a consistent, global approach to managing risk.
GWO has implemented a number of standard processes since its formation, covering activities such as rig start-up and well cementing.
Trust Released in January 2011, the report of the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling identied certain failures of management and decision-making within BP and its contractors, as well as regulatory failures, to be contributing factors to the accident.
See Safety on page 65 and Legal proceedings on pages 160-166 for information on other investigations and reports.
We are committed to working with government ofcials and other operators and contractors to identify and implement operational and regulatory changes that will enhance safety practices throughout the oil and gas industry.
BP teams have travelled to 25 countries to share the lessons learned from events in the Gulf of Mexico with our industry, regulators and governments.
We also shared equipment and technology developed during the response with the Marine Well Containment Company in the US.
On the ground, the focus of our work in the Gulf of Mexico shifted from response to recovery.
The majority of the clean-up work required along the shoreline has now been completed.
We are encouraged by local and state reports In detail that indicate tourism in many areas of the region is rebounding.
And all federal For more information on the Gulf of Mexico commercial shing areas had been reopened by April 2011.
We are still at work on oil spill, see BP in the recovery and remain committed to meeting our responsibilities in the region.
Page 76 By the end of 2011, we had paid $15.1 billion into the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust fund Trust set up to meet the costs of the spill.
In total, the Trust and BP had paid a total of $7.8 billion in claims, advances and other payments by the end of 2011.
Value Our profit in 2011 was $25.7 billion compared with a loss of $3.7 billion in 2010. a After adjusting for inventory holding gains, our replacement cost profit in 2011 was $23.9 billion compared with a loss of $4.9 billion in 2010.
Cash and cash b equivalents at the end of 2011 totalled $14.1 billion and our net debt ratio was 20.5%.
See Financial review on pages 56-58 for further information on the groups financial results.
During 2010 and 2011 combined, we strengthened the groups financial position by completing asset sales totalling almost $20 billion and we have announced our intention to make further disposals that would bring the total to $38 billion by the end of 2013.
Previously this disposal target had been set at $45 billion, however it was reduced in November 2011 when we received notice of termination from Bridas Corporation of the agreement for their purchase of BPs 60% interest in Pan American Energy LLC.
We intend to reduce our net debt ratio to the lower half of the 10-20% range over time.
During 2011 we reached settlements with MOEX USA Corporation MOEX, Weatherford U. S. L. P. Weatherford, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Anadarko and Cameron International Corporation Cameron totalling $5.5 billion related to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
All cash received has been paid to the Trust.
a Replacement cost profit or loss for the group is not a recognized GAAP measure.
The equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is profit loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
See footnote b on page 56 and page 110 for further information.
b Net debt ratio is a non-GAAP measure.
See Note 35 on page 230 for the equivalent measure on an IFRS basis.
48 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
