Business review Additionally, our activities include the marketing and trading of natural gas, Exploration and Production power and natural gas liquids.
These activities provide routes into liquid markets for BPs produced gas, and generate margins and fees associated At the end of 2010, as part of our response to the Deepwater Horizon with the provision of physical products and derivatives to third parties and oil spill, we announced the decision to reorganize the Exploration and income from asset optimization and trading.
Production segment to create three separate divisions: Exploration, Our oil and natural gas production assets are located onshore and Developments and Production, integrated through a Strategy and offshore and include wells, gathering centres, in-eld ow lines, processing Integration organization.
This structure was established in March 2011 facilities, storage facilities, offshore platforms, export systems e. g. transit and each of the four parts is led by an executive vice president reporting lines, pipelines and LNG plant facilities.
directly to the group chief executive.
The new organization is designed Upstream operations in Abu Dhabi, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Russia, to change the way we operate, with a particular focus on managing Venezuela and Vietnam as well as some of our operations in Angola, risk, delivering common standards and processes and building technical Canada, Indonesia and Trinidad are conducted through equity-accounted capability.
The new organization has not changed the way we report our entities.
The Exploration division is accountable for renewing our resource Our market base through access, exploration and appraisal.
The Developments Energy demand, and in particular oil demand, has followed overall division is accountable for the safe and compliant execution of wells economic trends in recent years, recovering strongly in 2010 but facing drilling and completions and major projects and comprises the global more challenging conditions in 2011. wells organization and the global projects organization, which were Dated Brent for the year averaged $111.26 per barrel, 40% established in 2011.
The Production division is accountable for safe and above 2010s average of $79.50 per barrel.
In 2012, we expect oil price compliant operations, including upstream production assets, midstream movements to continue to be driven by the pace of global economic transportation and processing activities, and the development of our growth and its resulting implications for oil consumption, and by OPEC resource base.
Divisional activities are integrated on a regional basis by a production decisions.
regional president reporting to the Production division.
The Strategy and Natural gas prices diverged globally in 2011, reecting different Integration organization is accountable for optimization and integration regional dynamics.
The average US Henry Hub First of Month Index fell across the divisions, including the delivery of support from the groups to $4.04 mmBtu, an 8% decrease from 2010, while in Europe prices finance, procurement and supply chain, human resources, technology and increased.
Spot gas prices at the UK National Balancing Point increased by information technology functions.
33% to an average of $56.33 pence per therm for 2011.
From 1 January 2012, the groups investment in TNK-BP will After a record increase in 2010, global gas consumption growth be reported as a separate operating segment, rather than within the moderated in 2011.
In the US, economic momentum supported gas use Exploration and Production segment, reecting the way in which the in the first half of the year and a hot summer raised demand.
Yet domestic investment is now managed.
production outpaced consumption growth due to further increases in the The group safety and operational risk S&OR function maintains availability of shale gas.
S&OR staff are deployed at the operating level In 2012, we expect gas markets to continue to be driven by the within the Exploration and Production segment to support the systematic economy, weather, domestic production, LNG supply and reductions in and disciplined application of those standards.
This creates an independent nuclear power generation following the Fukushima disaster in Japan in reporting line, working alongside line management while having the power March 2011. to intervene.
Our Exploration and Production segment included upstream Our strategy and midstream activities in 30 countries in 2011, including Angola, In Exploration and Production, our highest priority is to ensure safe, reliable Azerbaijan, Brazil, Canada, Egypt, India, Iraq, Norway, Russia, Trinidad & and compliant operations worldwide.
Our strategy is to invest to grow longTobago Trinidad, the UK, the US and other locations within Africa, Asia, term value by continuing to build a portfolio of material, enduring positions Australasia and South America, as well as gas marketing and trading in the worlds key hydrocarbon basins with a focus on deepwater, gas activities, primarily in Canada, Europe and the US.
Upstream activities value chains and giant elds.
Our strategy is enabled by: involve oil and natural gas exploration, eld development and production.
"t "" DPOUJOVFE GPDVT PO TBGFUZ BOE NBOBHJOH SJTL Our exploration and appraisal programme is currently focused on Angola, t 4USPOH SFMBUJPOTIJQT CVJMU PO NVUVBM BEWBOUBHF EFFQ LOPXMFEHF PG UIF Australia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Canada, Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, basins in which we operate, and technology."
the UK North Sea, Oman and onshore US.
Major development areas t #VJMEJOH DBQBCJMJUZ BMPOH UIF WBMVF DIBJO JO &YQMPSBUJPO %FWFMPQNFOUT include Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of and Production.
Mexico, North Africa, and the UK North Sea.
"During 2011, production came t ""DUJWFMZ NBOBHJOH PVS QPSUGPMJP from 24 countries."
The principal areas of production are Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Russia, Trinidad, the UAE, the UK and the US.
We intend to increase investment with a focus on Exploration, a key Midstream activities involve the ownership and management source of value creation, and evolve the nature of our relationships, of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, processing facilities and export particularly with national oil companies.
terminals, LNG processing facilities and transportation, and our NGL extraction businesses in Canada, Indonesia, the US and the UK.
Our most significant midstream pipeline interests are the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System in the US: the Forties Pipeline System and the Central Area Transmission System pipeline, both in the UK sector of the North Sea: the South Caucasus Pipeline, which runs from Azerbaijan through Georgia to the Turkish border: and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, which runs through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
Major LNG activities are located in Australia, Indonesia and Trinidad.
BP is also investing in the LNG business in Angola.
80 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
