Business review All of our operations, with the exception of those recently acquired, are in accordance with industry recommended practice.
In addition, BP requires now applying our OMS to govern their BP operations and have begun that remotely operated vehicles can activate these BOPs in an emergency.
working to achieve conformance to standards and practices required by OMS through the performance improvement cycle process.
This includes Cementing our global wells organization and global projects organization which were We are enhancing oversight of cementing services by implementing new set up in 2011.
See page 69 for information about joint ventures.
standards in cement design and testing.
We have also strengthened the technical approval process for critical cementing operations, and have Conformance and continuous improvement brought additional expertise into BP to oversee this.
We are implementing The application of a comprehensive management system such as OMS quality audits of our cementing contractors laboratories.
across a global company is an ongoing process.
OMS defines the process for BP operations to apply and conform to required standards and practices Well start-up procedure on an ongoing basis, as well as to continuously improve their operational We have introduced a new well start-up procedure.
Every year, after the initial gap assessment, as part of the a range of operational areas and verication of conformance is required annual performance improvement cycle each operating unit for example, by leaders from the business line and S&OR before operations can begin a region like the Gulf of Mexico in our upstream business, or a renery in on certain wells and on new rigs.
In one case, as a result of this process, our downstream business is required to conduct another gap assessment BP rejected a contractor rig put forward by another operator due to it not and to develop a further prioritized gap closure plan.
These actions are riskmeeting BPs standards.
prioritized and form an integral part of each operations annual and threeThese requirements are designed to help identify and mitigate risks year planning cycle.
Where appropriate, actions are aggregated to provide prior to contractors drilling rigs being put into service for BP.
The results of these annual assessments are subject to to date have included repairs to safety systems, additional training of review by S&OR.
personnel, modications to equipment, verication of quality and inspection records, revised and claried roles and responsibilities, enhanced training Capability development requirements, and enhanced risk management techniques.
BP strives to equip its staff with the skills needed to apply the systems See Environment and social responsibility section on pages 69-73 and processes to strengthen further our management of risk and process for further information on BPs approach to oil spill contingency planning safety.
We have provided extensive and focused training programmes for and response.
our operations personnel at all levels.
Training provision for operations personnel includes our operations Bly Report internal investigation recommendations and actions taken academy programmes for senior management, delivered in partnership In the immediate aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, BP launched with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, US: specialized an internal investigation, drawing on the expertise of more than 50 operational and technical management programmes, for example courses technical and other specialists within BP and the industry.
The investigation in engineering and project management at the University of Manchester, team was led by BPs head of safety and operations, and worked UK: and process safety and management training for our front-line independently from BPs other spill response activities and organizations.
leaders, delivered under our Operations Essentials programme, which The BP investigation the Bly Report concluded that no single cause seeks to embed the BP way of operating as represented by our OMS.
was responsible for the accident.
The investigation instead found that a To date, approximately 24,000 managers, supervisors and technicians complex, inter-linked series of mechanical failures, human judgements, have attended at least one workshop within the operations essentials engineering design, operational implementation and team interfaces, programme since 2008: additionally, more than 180,000 eLearning involving several companies including BP, contributed to the accident.
We communicate our expectations for qualied, competent and The recommendations experienced contractor personnel through our procurement process and As a result, the investigation team made 26 recommendations specic contractual provisions.
to drilling, which we accepted and are working to implement across our worldwide drilling operations.
The recommendations include measures Safer drilling to improve contractor management, as well as to strengthen design and Since the beginning of 2011, all BP-operated drilling and wells activity in assurance on blowout preventers BOPs, well control, pressure-testing for the world has been conducted through a single global wells organization well integrity, emergency systems, cement testing, rig audit, verication, GWO.
By bringing functional wells expertise into a single organization and personnel competence.
with common global standards, we are working to standardize BP drilling and wells operations with the intent of delivering safe and compliant Interim measures wells.
GWO works with our safety and operational risk function with a Shortly following the publication of the Bly Report, BP developed interim view to reducing risk in drilling and so reduce the likelihood of an oil spill measures to immediately address the eight key findings contained or incident occurring through prevention efforts.
We also aim to reduce within the report.
An interim guidance document was issued to each of the consequences should an incident occur by focusing on containment, our 14 operating regions in December 2010 which contained specic spill response, relief wells and crisis management.
See Exploration and requirements, including the well start-up check list.
This guidance Production on page 80 for information about the upstream reorganization.
continues to be in effect across all BP drilling and completions operations.
We continue to progress implementation of the recommendations from Oil spill prevention the Deepwater Horizon investigation report and that work will ultimately We are implementing enhanced drilling safety standards across the replace the interim guidance.
Implementing the recommendations Blowout preventers Implementing the 26 recommendations across the group requires We have issued standards for the maintenance, testing, verication and use detailed work and many activities from creating new practices and of subsea blowout preventers BOPs.
For example, we require dynamically guidance, training and testing appropriate staff, changing requirements and positioned drill rigs contracted by BP to have no fewer than two blind expectations of our contractors, and establishing verication processes to shear rams and a casing shear ram sitting within the blowout preventer assure the changes are sustainably embedded.
We have a team of around to enhance its reliability in cutting the drill pipe and sealing the well in the 85 people working full-time on this.
event of a blowout or other operational emergency.
We require third-party A project of this scale takes time: we must work to assure that all verication that testing and maintenance of our subsea BOPs are performed actions are delivered to a high standard across all of our well operations, and independently veried by our S&OR audit or internal audit function.
66 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
