Additional information for shareholders Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours trading of 1.45.
On 2 January 2012 the overriding royalty interest was recalculated off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the market prices for as $7.1 billion.
The Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement also ADSs on the NYSE, are closely related due to arbitrage among the various changed the denition of an event of default to be a failure by BP to make markets, although differences may exist from time to time due to various required payments pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement.
factors, including UK stamp duty reserve tax.
On 17 February 2012, 838,650,908 ADSs equivalent to approximately 5,031,905,448 ordinary shares or some 26.51% of the total Exchange controls issued share capital, excluding shares held in treasury were outstanding There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on and were held by approximately 109,640 ADS holders.
Of these, about remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the 108,369 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the companys operations.
registered holders of ADSs represents some 811,108 underlying holders.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under On 17 February 2012, there were approximately 303,020 holders the companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident of record of ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 1,585 had registered or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,331,996 ordinary shares.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers and other nominees, the number of holders of record in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of Taxation residence.
This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder who Material contracts holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of holders On 6 August 2010, BP entered into a trust agreement with John S Martin, subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% Jr and Kent D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup Trust-Delaware, or more of the companys voting stock.
In addition, if a partnership holds N. A. as corporate trustee the Trust Agreement which established the the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to be funded in the amount of generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the $20 billion the trust fund over the period to the fourth quarter of 2013.
The partnership and may not be described fully below.
trust fund is available to satisfy legitimate individual and business claims A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF, state and local is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and settlements, state a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US and local response costs, and natural resource damages and related costs.
federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court Fines, penalties and claims administration costs are not covered by the trust can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or fund.
Under the terms of the Trust Agreement, BP has no right to access more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the the funds once they have been contributed to the trust fund.
funds from the trust fund only upon its expiration, if there are any funds This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, remaining at that point.
BP has the authority under the Trust Agreement to as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations present certain resolved claims, including natural resource damages claims thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws and state and local response claims, to the Trust for payment, by providing of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention the trustees with all the required documents establishing that such claims between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 are valid under the Trust Agreement.
However, any such payments can the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive only be made on the authority of the trustee and any funds distributed are basis.
This section is further based in part on the representations of the paid directly to the claimants, not to BP.
The Trust Agreement is governed Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware.
and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
On 30 September 2010, BP entered a pledge and collateral For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention agreement in favour of John S Martin, Jr and Kent D Syverud the Pledge the Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK Agreement, which pledged certain Gulf of Mexico assets as collateral taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as for the trust fund funding obligation.
The pledged collateral consists of an the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
overriding royalty interest in oil and gas production of BPs Thunder Horse, Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares Atlantis, Mad Dog, Great White and Mars, Ursa and Na Kika assets in the generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation Gulf of Mexico.
A wholly-owned company called Verano Collateral Holdings other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
LLC Verano has been created to hold the overriding royalty interest, which Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US was capped at $1.25 billion per quarter and $17 billion in total.
Verano federal, state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and pledged the overriding royalty interest to the Trust as collateral for BPs disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, remaining contribution obligations to the Trust.
An event of default under and in particular whether they are eligible for the benets of the Treaty.
the Pledge Agreement arose if BP failed to make any contribution under the Trust Agreement when due or otherwise failed to observe certain other Taxation of dividends obligations, subject to specified cure periods.
Following an event of default, UK taxation the trustees were entitled to exercise all remedies as secured parties in Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from respect of the collateral, including receipt of royalty interests from the dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
pledged assets, having all or part of the limited liability company interests A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK registered in the trustees name and selling the collateral at public or or trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will private sale.
The Pledge Agreement was governed by the laws of the State not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
On 9 November 2011 the Pledge Agreement and the related shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is overriding royalty interest conveyance and mortgage were amended and subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on restated such documents collectively referred to as the Amended and ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the Restated Pledge Agreement to change the overriding royalty interest cash dividend.
effective as of 1 October 2011 to $14.7 billion.
Beginning on 2 January 2012, and on the first business day of each subsequent calendar quarter, the overriding royalty interest is recalculated as the remaining outstanding contributions owed by BP to the Trust as of that date multiplied by a factor 168 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders US federal income taxation Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or ADSs A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence of the of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or accumulated relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or before 1 January 2013 that constitute qualied dividend income will be the US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the exto tax with respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of ordinary dividend date and meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends shares or ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of which paid by the company with respect to the shares or ADSs will generally be the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the other qualied dividend income.
As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
A US holder will include in gross income for US federal US federal income taxation income tax purposes the amount of the dividend actually received from the A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs company, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes foreign tax credit.
equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realized For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares in income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the or ADSs.
Any capital gain of a non-corporate US holder is generally taxed at Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the preferential rates if the holders holding period for such ordinary shares or dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction ADSs exceeds one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the deductibility of capital losses is subject to limitations.
US and generally will be passive category income or, in the case of certain We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as US holders, general category income, each of which is treated separately stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax credit limitation.
income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a or ADSs that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market pounds sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling basis with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, any gain realized on the US dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not regardless of whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
be treated as capital gain.
Instead, a US holder would be treated as if he Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange uctuations or she had realized such gain rateably over the holding period for ordinary during the period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for includible in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars each such year to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would 15% tax rate on qualied dividend income.
The gain or loss generally apply.
Certain excess distributions would be similarly treated if we were will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit treated as a PFIC.
Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as Additional tax considerations determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return Scrip Dividend Programme of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary shares or The company has introduced an optional Scrip Dividend Programme, ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as described in wherein holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to receive any Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation section below.
dividends in the form of new, fully-paid ordinary shares or ADSs of In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules the company, instead of cash.
Please consult your tax adviser for the for passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under consequences to you.
Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions made by a PFIC do not constitute qualied dividend income and are not eligible UK inheritance tax for the 15% tax rate.
The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention Taxation of capital gains in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention UK taxation a national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a of the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed or independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are controlled in the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that carries subject to both inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be credited or, in respect of corporations for accounting periods beginning on or against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be credited against after 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that have tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in the Estate Tax used, held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of Convention.
such trade, profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be that is paid in respect of such gain.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 169
