Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders Fees and charges payable by a holder of ADSs The Depositary collects fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of the distributable property to pay the fees.
The charges of the Depositary payable by investors are as follows: Type of service Depositary actions Fee Depositing or substituting the Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof underlying shares deposits and issuances in respect of: evidenced by the new ADSs delivered.
t 4IBSF EJTUSJCVUJPOT TUPDL TQMJUT SJHIUT NFSHFS.
t &YDIBOHF PG TFDVSJUJFT PS PUIFS USBOTBDUJPOT PS FWFOU or other distribution affecting the ADSs or deposited securities.
Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof.
equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs that would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities.
Withdrawing an Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion underlying share securities.
thereof evidenced by the ADSs surrendered.
Expenses of the Depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole discretion t 4UPDL USBOTGFS PS PUIFS UBYFT BOE HPWFSONFOUBM DIBSHFT.
of the Depositary by billing holders or by t $BCMF UFMFY FMFDUSPOJD BOE GBDTJNJMF USBOTNJTTJPO deducting charges from one or more cash delivery.
dividends or other cash distributions.
t 5SBOTGFS PS SFHJTUSBUJPO GFFT JG BQQMJDBCMF GPS UIF registration of transfers of underlying shares.
t &YQFOTFT PG UIF %FQPTJUBSZ JO DPOOFDUJPO XJUI UIF conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency.
Under certain circumstances, including removal of the Depositary or Fees and payments made by the termination of the ADR programme by the company, the company is required to repay the Depositary amounts reimbursed and or expenses Depositary to the issuer paid to or on behalf of the company during the 12-month period prior to notice of removal or termination.
The Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses related to the companys ADS programme and incurred by the company in connection with the programme.
The Depositary reimbursed to the Related-party transactions company, or paid amounts on the companys behalf to third parties, or waived its fees and expenses, of $3,330,826 for the year ended Transactions between the group and its significant jointly controlled entities 31 December 2011. and associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 24 on page The table below sets out the types of expenses that the Depositary 215 and Note 25 on page 216.
In the ordinary course of its business, the has agreed to reimburse and the fees it has agreed to waive for standard group enters into transactions with various organizations with which certain costs associated with the administration of the ADS programme relating to of its directors or executive ofcers are associated.
Except as described the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Depositary has also paid certain in this report, the group did not have material transactions or transactions expenses directly to third parties on behalf of the company.
of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the period commencing 1 January 2011 to 28 February 2012.
Amount reimbursed, waived or paid Category of expense reimbursed, directly to third parties for waived or paid directly to third parties the year ended 31 December 2011 NYSE listing fees reimbursed $500,000 Service fees and out of pocket expenses $1,940,127 a waived b Broker fees reimbursed $798,177 c Other third-party mailing costs reimbursed $76,736 d Legal advice reimbursed $2,918 Other third-party expenses paid directly $12,868 Total $3,330,826 a Includes fees in relation to transfer agent costs and costs of the BP Scrip Dividend Programme operated by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. b Broker reimbursements are fees payable to Broadridge for the distribution of hard copy material to ADR beneficial holders in the Depositary Trust Company.
Corporate materials include information related to shareholders meetings and related voting instructions.
These fees are SEC approved.
c Payment of fees to Precision IR for proxy solicitation and investor support.
d Reimbursement for legal advice from Ziegler, Ziegler & Associates.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 171
