Corporate governance Principal accountants fees Memorandum and Articles and services of Association The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys engagement of the independent registered public accounting rm, Ernst Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
The summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically 2006 Act and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
dened audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not prohibited For information on where investors can obtain copies of the Memorandum by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & Young are and Articles of Association see Documents on display on page 170. engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are At the AGM held on 17 April 2008 shareholders voted to adopt new important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services were Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes in UK company awarded either through a full competitive tender process or following an law brought about by the Act.
Further amendments to the Articles of assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to that of other Association were approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 15 April potential service providers.
These services are for a xed term.
These amendments reect the full implementation of the Act, Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specic services within among other matters.
the following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control Objects and purposes reviews excluding any services relating to information systems design BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England and implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice on and Wales with the registered number 102498.
The provisions regulating business and accounting process improvement excluding any services the operations of the company, known as its objects, were historically relating to information systems design and implementation relating to BPs stated in a companys memorandum.
The Act abolished the need to have financial statements or accounting records : due diligence in connection object provisions and so at the AGM held on 15 April 2010 shareholders with acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures excluding valuation or approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other involvement in prospective financial information : income tax and indirect provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated as tax compliance and advisory services: employee tax services excluding forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
tax services that could impair independence : provision of, or access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, seminars and other training Directors materials: provision of reports from data gathered on non-financial policies The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The and information: and assistance with understanding non-financial regulatory companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be appointed requirements.
BP operates a two-tier system for audit and non-audit by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
For audit related services, the audit committee has a preperson appointed by the directors will hold ofce only until the next general approved aggregate level, within which specic work may be approved by meeting and will then be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
Non-audit services, including tax services, are pre-approved is no requirement for a director to retire on reaching any age.
for management to authorize per individual engagement, but above a The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director dened level must be approved by the chairman of the audit committee voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director has or the full committee.
The audit committee has delegated to the chairman a material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest in shares of the audit committee authority to approve permitted services provided in the company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest that the chairman reports any decisions to the committee at its next not indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a scheduled meeting.
Any proposed service not included in the approved quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the service list must be approved in advance by the audit committee chairman following matters: and reported to the committee, or approved by the full audit committee in t 5IF HJWJOH PG TFDVSJUZ PS JOEFNOJUZ XJUI SFTQFDU UP BOZ NPOFZ MFOU PS advance of commencement of the engagement.
obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the company The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors or any of its subsidiaries.
"The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the t ""OZ QSPQPTBM JO XIJDI UIF EJSFDUPS JT JOUFSFTUFE DPODFSOJOH UIF committee in the context of other global companies for cost effectiveness."
underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any The committee keeps under review the scope and results of audit work security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company or any of and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
"and BP policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead audit partner every t ""OZ QSPQPTBM DPODFSOJOH BOZ PUIFS DPNQBOZ JO XIJDI UIF EJSFDUPS JT five years."
See Financial statements Note 16 on page 209 and Audit interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder committee report on page 127 for details of audit fees.
or otherwise provided that the director and persons connected with such director are not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
"t ""OZ QSPQPTBM DPODFSOJOH UIF QVSDIBTF PS NBJOUFOBODF PG BOZ JOTVSBODF policy under which the director may benefit."
136 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
