Business review $ per barrel Rening and Marketing Crude marker 2011 2010 2009 Rening marker margin RMM Our Rening and Marketing segment is responsible for the rening, US West Coast ANS 13.63 13.09 13.40 manufacturing, marketing, transportation, and supply and trading of crude US Gulf Coast Mars 11.87 10.17 9.16 oil, petroleum, petrochemicals products and related services to wholesale US Midwest LLS 7.46 6.00 6.02 and retail customers.
We have significant operations in Europe, North Northwest Europe Brent 11.85 10.36 8.95 America and Asia, and we also manufacture and market our products Mediterranean Azeri Light 9.03 8.82 7.93 across Australasia, southern Africa and Central and South America: in total Singapore Dubai Tapis blend 14.57 10.69 8.51 we market our products in more than 70 countries.
BP Average RMM 11.64 10.02 9.19 The segment operates hydrocarbon value chains covering three main businesses: fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
Previously we In 2011, rening margins increased in all the main US regions, despite a referred to lubricants and petrochemicals as international businesses, but contraction in domestic gasoline demand, with reduced gasoline import to provide greater transparency of the performance of these businesses volumes compensated for by higher domestic crude runs.
we are now providing our financial information separately for fuels, In Europe, where diesel accounts for a large proportion of regional lubricants and petrochemicals.
consumption, rening margins increased for a second year running despite The fuels businesses sell rened petroleum products including the loss of Libyan sweet crude supplies for much of the year, as demand gasoline, diesel, aviation fuel and liqueed petroleum gas LPG.
Within for commercial transport improved.
this, the fuels value chains FVCs integrate the activities of rening, Rening margins also improved in Asia Pacic, averaging logistics, marketing, and supply and trading on a regional basis.
This $14.57 per barrel due to continuing oil demand growth and the disruption recognizes the geographic nature of the markets in which we compete, to Japanese rening operations caused by the earthquake and tsunami.
providing the opportunity to optimize our activities from crude oil purchases US mid-continent crude oils including West Texas Intermediate to end-consumer sales through our physical assets reneries, terminals, WTI were heavily discounted throughout the year because of increasing pipelines and retail stations.
In addition, we operate a global aviation fuels production in the US mid-continent and Canada, coupled with constrained marketing business and an LPG marketing business.
This particularly benefited BPs Our lubricants business is involved in manufacturing and marketing location-advantaged reneries of Toledo and Whiting in the US Midwest.
lubricants and related services to markets around the world.
We market In addition, fuel oil price discounts versus crude oil widened in 2011, lubricants to the automotive, industrial, marine, aviation and energy benefiting our highly upgraded reneries that produce relatively little markets through our key brands of Castrol, BP and Aral.
Our Castrol brand fuel oil.
is a highly recognized and popular lubricant brand worldwide.
Distinctive In oil markets in 2011, supply was hampered by geo-political brands, cutting-edge technology and building and sustaining customer issues and a series of technical problems in non-OPEC crude production.
relationships are cornerstones to our approach to market and underpin our This supply deficit brought OECD stocks down from historical highs to success.
We are particularly strong in Europe and key Asia Pacic markets near-average levels within the first nine months of the year.
After very low including India.
volatility levels in the second half of 2009 and in 2010, 2011 saw a return Our petrochemicals business operates on a global basis and towards more average volatility.
includes the manufacture and marketing of petrochemicals that are In lubricants, we saw modest improvement in demand for the used in many everyday products, such as plastic bottles and textiles for automotive and industrial sectors early in the year, but this came under clothing.
Technology is at the heart of our business and we own proprietary increasing pressure as the year progressed and by the fourth quarter world class technology for each of our main products.
Our technological demand was declining in many geographies.
Base oil prices rose markedly advantage, operational experience and project execution track record in the first half of the year, increasing our input costs.
We continued to has made us an attractive partner which leads to material and distinctive see a gradual shift towards higher-quality and higher-margin premium and growth opportunities.
Petrochemicals growth is focused on the demand synthetic lubricants.
In the first half of 2011, the petrochemicals margin environment was markedly different from the second half, due to strong demand Our market for puried terephthalic acid PTA coupled with supply interruptions in Overall world economic growth slowed in 2011, as did growth in world both PTA and paraxylene PX leading to robust margins.
In contrast the oil consumption.
Global oil demand grew by 0.7 million b d, but in the second half of the year saw the installed capacity run normally along with OECD, demand contracted again after growing for the first time in five significant new capacity coming onstream.
In addition concerns over the years in 2010.
By contrast, there was demand growth in Australia and global economy affected demand, leading to a rapid reduction in margins.
Japan, where oil partially replaced nuclear power after the earthquake and Acetic acid had a similar margin prole to PTA with supply interruptions in tsunami.
Aggregate OECD oil demand in 2011 was 4.3 million b d below the first half leading to higher margins followed by weaker margins in the the 2005 peak.
second half of the year as additional capacity came onstream.
The annual average BP rening marker margin RMM in 2011 was 16% higher than in 2010, averaging $11.64 per barrel.
Margins followed Our strategy a typical seasonal pattern, with a peak in the second quarter in the run-up Rening and Marketing is the product and service-led arm of BP, focused to the summer driving season.
The RMM is an environmental indicator, on fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals products and related services.
We similar to those used by many of our competitors, and is weighted aim to be excellent in the markets in which we choose to participate regionally based on our rening capacity in that part of the world.
Each those that allow BP to serve the major energy markets of the world.
We regional marker margin is based upon product yields and a marker crude oil pursue competitive returns and sustainable growth, underpinned by safe deemed appropriate for the region.
manufacturing operations and technology, as we serve customers and The RMM uses regional crack spreads to calculate the margin promote BP and our brands through high-quality products.
indicator, and does not include estimates of fuel costs and other variable We are focused on a consistent set of priorities executed in a costs.
The RMMs may not be representative of the margins achieved by systematic and disciplined way.
These priorities begin with safety and BP in any period because of BPs particular renery congurations and include excellence of execution, portfolio quality and integration and crude and product slate.
However, the RMM is useful for understanding growing margin share via exposure to growth.
This is all underpinned by a the indicative rening margin environment that is available to reners in disciplined financial framework.
We believe that we now have a platform each region.
to sustain a world-class downstream business, which will enable us to be a leader in each of our chosen markets.
Over time, we expect to shift the 94 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
