Business review: BP in more depth Business review We have estimated and communicated delivery timelines for each of the in deepwater.
Conformance with these requirements is mandatory for all recommendations and will continue to provide periodic updates of our operations drilling in water deeper than 1,000 feet and is subject to a formal progress.
These timelines are based on existing facts and circumstances assessment and sign-off by technical experts, S&OR and senior leaders.
and can shift due to complexity, resource availability and evolving During 2011, we began implementing these requirements in Angola, the regulatory requirements.
North Sea, Brazil, the US and Egypt, where we have deepwater drilling The BP board has identied an independent expert to provide active or planned for 2012. further oversight and assurance regarding the implementation of the Bly Report recommendations.
The independent experts engagement is Crisis management expected to commence in the latter half of May 2012.
Crisis management planning is essential to respond effectively to emergencies and to avoid a potentially severe disruption in our business Progress update and operations.
The intention is to build on interim requirements introduced At the end of 2011, four of the Bly Report recommendations have been in 2011 for deepwater drilling to put in place group-wide practices for both completed.
These were: oil spill preparedness and response and crisis management.
t 3FDPNNFOEBUJPO UP QSPQPTF B SFDPNNFOEFE QSBDUJDF GPS GPBN During the response, we updated our incident action plan an cementing to the American Petroleum Institute.
operational crisis planning tool every 12-24 hours, which allowed us to t 3FDPNNFOEBUJPO UP TUSFOHUIFO UIF UFDIOJDBM BVUIPSJUZ T SPMF JO have recent information to aid decision making.
This was made possible by cementing and zonal isolation.
developing a common operating picture COP which helped us collect and t 3FDPNNFOEBUJPO UP TUSFOHUIFO PVS SJH BVEJU QSPDFTT UP JNQSPWF present information in a way that enabled faster, better-informed decisions.
closure and verication of audit findings across the rigs we own and The COP created an integrated view across more than 200 different data contract.
It provided an instant, interactive picture of the spill status and the t 3FDPNNFOEBUJPO UP FTUBCMJTI LFZ QFSGPSNBODF JOEJDBUPST GPS XFMM activities of all responders.
integrity, well control, and rig safety-critical equipment.
See Environmental and social responsibility on pages 69-73 for further information on BPs approach to oil spill contingency planning and We continue to make progress on all of the remaining recommendations response.
largely in line with our planned schedule, with a further 12 recommendations expected to be completed in 2012.
Progress is tracked Safer rening in the quarterly HSE and operations integrity report supplied to the We have been working hard to apply the lessons learned from the executive team.
com  for the full report and tragic accident in our Texas City renery in 2005 and are committed to quarterly updates on progress.
implementing the recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel.
External investigations In addition, there have been a number of external investigations, including Systematic management those of the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill The core business of our reneries is the safe storage, handling and and Offshore Drilling oilspillcommission.
gov and the Joint Investigation processing of hydrocarbons which involves systematic management of the Team of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and associated operating risks.
In seeking to manage these risks, measures are Enforcement and the United States Coast Guard taken by our reneries to: boemre.
These reports were t Prevent loss of hydrocarbon containment, such as oil spills, through consistent in their conclusions that the accident resulted from multiple well-designed, maintained and operated equipment.
causes and was due to the actions of multiple parties.
We are committed t Reduce the likelihood of ignition of any hydrocarbon releases which may to understanding the causes, impacts and implications of the Deepwater occur through controlling ignition sources.
Horizon incident and to learn and act on lessons from it.
As part of this t Provide safe locations, emergency procedures and other mitigation commitment, BP is reviewing the recommendations from government and measures in the event of a re or explosion occurring.
For example, across our rening business we are spending more than Capping and containment $700 million to install safety shelters for individuals, move people further We have developed a mobile deepwater well capping package that away from hydrocarbon containing equipment and reduce the number of includes about 250 pieces of speciality equipment.
Maintained in a vehicles in our sites.
constant state of readiness in Houston, it is designed to be deployed by In 2011, we enhanced and standardized a number of technical air freight and arrive wherever it is needed in just a few days.
practices that we intend to implement across our rening business in 2012 We also share capping and containment equipment with other and 2013, including practices pertaining to: operators in the Gulf of Mexico, through the Marine Well Containment t Control of work practices including rules for what work is done, who it is Company, as well as with operators in the UK North Sea.
Further, BP done by, where it is done, when it is done and how it is done.
provided project management for the Oil and Gas UK Oil Spill Prevention t Isolation of equipment from hydrocarbon and other energy sources to and Response Advisory Group to develop a next generation well capping safely allow maintenance.
system, now available in Europe, and is one of nine companies working in t Design, operation, maintenance for instrumented systems throughout the Subsea Well Response Project to enhance the industrys capability to their lifecycle to reliably achieve or maintain a safe operating state if respond globally to subsea well control events.
unacceptable or dangerous process conditions are detected.
t Procedures and equipment requirements to assure safe handling of Relief wells hydrogen sulphide containing streams.
In responding to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, we drilled two relief wells.
t Design and operation of existing red heaters.
Prior to drilling a deepwater well, BP operations now have relief well plans t Identifying operating limits for our processes and equipment.
in place with equipment identied that can be moved to the site if needed.
This is of particular benefit in areas that do not have the same infrastructure Risk assessment, prioritization and management and support as more active basins such as the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2011, all reneries used a consistent methodology to identify risks and prioritize mitigation actions, including addressing low probability, high Oil spill preparedness consequence scenarios.
Action plans have been developed for each risk We continue to develop and assimilate lessons from the response to the and reviewed by authorized line and S&OR leaders.
A multi-year risk prole Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
In 2011, as a priority we incorporated many of reduction plan has been approved for each renery and, learning from these lessons into new technical requirements for BP operations that drill BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 67
