Business review performance on a quarterly basis.
They agree strategic direction and group country where we operate.
For example, in the US, BP facilitates staff standards which are then implemented through business specic diversity participation in the political process by providing staff support to ensure BP and inclusion plans.
We supported the UK  employee political action committee contributions are publicly disclosed Lord Davies review in 2011, which made recommendations on increasing and comply with the law.
gender diversity on the boards of listed companies.
We are also incorporating detailed diversity and inclusion analysis into talent reviews, with processes to identify actions where any issues are Technology found.
We continue to increase the number of local leaders and employees Technology in BP in our operations so that they reect the communities in which we operate.
We define technology in BP as the practical application of science to By 2020, more than half our operations are expected to be in manage risks, capture business value and inform strategy development.
non-OECD countries and we see this as an opportunity to develop a new This includes the research, development, demonstration and acquisition of generation of experts and skilled employees.
At the end of 2011, 15% of new technical capabilities and support for the deployment of BPs knowour group leaders were female and 19% came from countries other than how.
When we started tracking the composition of our group BPs model continues to be one of selective technology leadership, leadership in 2000, these percentages were 9% and 14% respectively.
BP under which we focus on major technology programmes that best support has increased the percentage of female leaders in 2011 and remains focused our business priorities and competitive performance.
on building a more sustainable pipeline of diverse talent for the future.
External assurance is achieved through the technology advisory We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career council, which advises the board and executive management on the state development, promotion, training and reward for all employees, including of technology within BP.
The council is comprised of eminent business and those with disabilities.
Where existing employees become disabled, our academic technology leaders.
policy is to provide continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
In 2011 we invested $636 million of which $12 million related to the response to the Deepwater Horizon incident in research and Employee engagement development R&D.
This compares with $780 million in 2010 of which Executive team members hold regular town halls and webcasts to $211 million related to the response to the Deepwater Horizon incident, communicate with our employees around the world.
The increase in the underlying R&D spend is Team meetings and one-to-one meetings are the core of our related to our major technology programmes.
See Financial statements employee engagement, complemented by formal processes through Note 13 on page 208. works councils in parts of Europe.
These communications, along with training programmes, are designed to contribute to employee development Our innovation ecosystem and motivation by raising awareness of financial, economic, ethical, social BP has hundreds of scientists and technologists across the group, with and environmental factors affecting our performance.
The group seeks to seven major technology centres in the US, UK and Germany.
We access maintain constructive relationships with labour unions.
external expertise through various forms of partnership and collaboration, We conduct an employee engagement survey to monitor employee from joint research agreements to venturing.
We have a strategic approach attitudes and identify areas for improvement.
Our 2010 employee survey to university relationships across our portfolio for the purposes of research, was delayed to allow for organizational changes to be reected in the recruitment, policy insights and education.
This was completed and we carried out an employee BP has long-term research programmes with major universities and engagement survey in 2011.
The 2011 survey found that employees are research institutions around the world, exploring areas from reservoir uid committed and understand BP procedures and standards.
The results ow to energy biosciences.
These include the following programmes: show that there are a number of areas that can be improved.
These include t 5IF &OFSHZ #JPTDJFODFT OTUJUVUF &# JT #1 T MBSHFTU FYUFSOBM 3 % increasing transparency of the promotion process and being clear about the investment, being a $500-million 10-year commitment to a multiorganizations priorities.
Business leadership teams reviewed the results of disciplinary research partnership with the University of California the survey and have agreed actions to address the identied issues.
Berkeley, the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and the University The survey includes 10 questions which make up the employee of Illinois.
Now in its fourth year, the EBI is generating multiple satisfaction index.
The overall employee satisfaction index score for 2011 innovations, particularly in the eld of cellulosic conversion, that give our 62% was below the score from 2009 65% but above that of 2008 59%.
biofuels business viable opportunities for commercial application.
t #1 T FOFSHZ TVTUBJOBCJMJUZ DIBMMFOHF &4$ JT B SFTFBSDI QSPHSBNNF The code of conduct with 13 leading universities to establish trusted peer-reviewed data on The BP code of conduct sets the standard that all BP employees are the relationships between natural resource usage and different energy required to work to.
It is aligned with our values, group standards and legal pathways.
The aim is to better understand the implications of energy requirements, and it claries the ethics and compliance expectations for production and consumption on  land, water and everyone who works at BP.
The code was updated in 2011 and now puts materials resources, and assess corresponding technology and policy greater emphasis on a values-based approach.
One of the early publications resulting from this research The code defines what BP expects of its people in key areas such as is the University of Augsburgs handbook, Materials critical to the energy safety, workplace behaviour, bribery and corruption and financial integrity.
Employees, contractors or other third parties who have questions or t O 4FQUFNCFS #1 PQFOFE UIF #1 FOFSHZ JOOPWBUJPO MBCPSBUPSZ BU concerns that laws, regulations or the code of conduct may be breached, the Dalian Institute for Chemical Physics DICP in China as part of a can get help through OpenTalk, an independent condential helpline.
The 10-year extension to our research agreements with DICP.
number of cases raised through OpenTalk in 2011 was 796, compared t O BOVBSZ #1 TUBSUFE B OFX UISFF ZFBS QPMJDZ QSPHSBNNF BU with 742 in 2010.
In the US, former district court Judge Stanley Sporkin Harvard Universitys Kennedy School focused on examining current and acts as an ombudsperson.
Employees and contractors can contact him future potential policies on energy, security and climate change.
condentially to report any suspected breach of compliance, ethics or the code of conduct, including safety concerns.
BP is a founding member of the UKs Energy Technologies Institute We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-compliance and ETI a public private partnership established in 2008 to accelerate lowtake disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2011, 529 dismissals were carbon technology development.
As at 31 December 2011, the ETI has reported by BPs businesses for non-adherence to the code of conduct or commissioned over $200 million of work covering over 30 projects across unethical behaviour compared to 552 in 2010. a wide range of technologies.
The ETI has also developed an integrated BP continues to apply a policy that the group will not participate model of the UK energy system which projects potential pathways out to directly in party political activity or make any political contributions, whether 2050 to meet the UKs emissions targets.
We review employees rights to political activity in each 74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: BP in more depth Business review Exploration and Production west of Shetland.
The oating production, storage and ofoading unit In the upstream, our technology investment directly supports business FPSO is to be built with full polymer EOR application capability.
strategy by focusing on safety and operational risk management: operational efficiency: increased recovery and reserves: and winning Rening and Marketing new access.
Our strengths in exploration, deepwater, giant elds and Our Rening and Marketing technology focus is both operational and gas are underpinned by agship technology programmes that conduct customer facing.
In our reneries and petrochemicals assets, we develop scientific research in proprietary laboratories and in partnership with and apply technology to monitor operational integrity, to optimize product world-class research institutes and universities, to develop industry-leading yields as a function of feedstock changes, to ensure quality attainment, and technologies in imaging, facilities, well design and completions, and eld to improve energy efficiency.
We also apply our expertise to create quality recovery.
These technologies are applied in the eld, often in combination brand fuel and lubricant products for customers in on-road, off-road, air, sea with real-time data acquisition and visualization, to drive risk reduction and and industrial applications globally.
excellence in exploration, developments and production.
t 8F BSF BQQMZJOH NBOZ PG UIF MFTTPOT MFBSOFE GSPN UIF %FFQXBUFS PSJ[PO For example: incident and response throughout our global deepwater operations.
The t We continued to expand our integrity monitoring systems, with the response required rapid innovation of new technologies to cap the well and deployment of over 1,000 wireless Permasense sensors in 2011, now contain the spill and in partnership with industry partners, government spanning all of our BP-operated reneries worldwide.
These wireless agencies and leading universities we have continued to develop and corrosion sensors are the product of collaborative research and deploy new equipment and standards.
Among many new developments development between BP and Imperial College London.
The sensors in BP, we have built a global deepwater well cap and tooling package, now enable frequent, repeatable wall-thickness monitoring and provide available for global deployment.
This new capability includes a containment previously unavailable insights into the condition of oil and gas assets.
cap, remote operating vehicle ROV intervention system, subsea t O GVFMT BOE MVCSJDBOUT PVS UFDIOPMPHZ GPDVT JT PO DSFBUJOH TVTUBJOBCMF dispersant injection system, subsea debris removal equipment, and other differentiated and competitive products that enable advances in transport tools.
We continue to support our partners and customers in t #1 DPOUJOVFT UP EFWFMPQ BOE BQQMZ JOOPWBUJWF FYQMPSBUJPO UFDIOPMPHJFT delivering greater energy efficiency and reduced CO emissions in both 2 BP has applied two novel seismic acquisition methods developed established and emerging markets.
In 2011, BP developed a new range in-house.
Our distance separated simultaneous sources DS3 and of industrial metalworking uids that are both safer for workers and less independent simultaneous sources ISS methods were used to harmful to the environment, a new gear lubricant for maximizing the complete ultra-large, high density land seismic surveys in the Middle efficiency of wind turbines, and co-engineered passenger car lubricants East and North Africa.
BP also has eld trials under way to extend these for optimizing engine fuel efficiency.
We are also working on new fuels acquisition methods to the offshore.
and lubricants that deliver improved fuel economy and compatibility with t 5ISPVHI PVS 'JFME PG UIF 'VUVSF agship technology programme, BP the latest engine technology and with biofuel components.
In 2011, we has deployed a range of digital, sensing and control technologies in launched our latest generation BP Ultimate gasoline and diesel fuels, and its operations and is using the data to enhance real-time operating BPs first  heavy duty diesel offer.
Field of the Future tools are enabling more t O VMZ XF PQFOFE B OFX JOEVTUSJBM UFDIOPMPHZ DFOUSF JO 5VSJO UBMZ effective monitoring of production, multiple well components, and well It will serve customers across Europe and analyse about 30,000 oil characteristics such as temperature, which help to optimize hydrocarbon samples a year.
In addition, improved monitoring of facilities is helping to t O QFUSPDIFNJDBMT PVS QSPQSJFUBSZ QSPDFTTJOH UFDIOPMPHJFT BOE reduce risk, reducing downtime and saving tens of millions of dollars.
operational experience continue to reduce the manufacturing costs and t O XF TVDDFTTGVMMZ DPNQMFUFE #1 XFMM BEWJTor module eld trials environmental impact of our plants, helping to maintain competitive in Azerbaijan, a technology designed to aid decision making, enhance advantage in puried terephthalic acid PTA, paraxylene and acetic acid.
safety, reduce cost and bring wells on line more quickly.
Through well A third PTA plant is currently being engineered for Zhuhai, China.
With advisor, we can harness real-time drilling data from sensors that see a capacity of 1.25 million tonnes per year it will be the first to employ ahead of the drill, enabling us to deploy technologies such as early BPs latest PTA technology, enabling scale and cost efficiencies which kick detection, which allow adjustments that can minimize down time signicantly reduce both capital and conversion costs to a lower level during this critical phase of development.
Rolling eld trials will continue than any other PTA technology.
t O UIF mFME PG VODPOWFOUJPOBM GFFETUPDLT XF DPMMBCPSBUF XJUI, #3 UP t &OIBODFE PJM SFDPWFSZ &03 UFDIOPMPHJFT DPOUJOVF UP QVTI SFDPWFSZ promote, market, and license the slurry-bed residue and coal-upgrading factors to new limits.
We believe that by increasing the overall recovery Veba combi-cracking VCC technology.
VCC is a hydrogen-addition factor from our elds by 1%, we could be able to add 2 billion boe to technology suitable for processing crude oil residuum into high-quality our estimated ultimate recovery from existing elds.
As at the end of distillates or synthetic crude oil in the rening, upstream-eld upgrading 2011, BP, using its Designer Water EOR technology, has treated 78 and coal-to-liquids sectors.
wells with Bright Water particles a BP idea in Alaska, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Pakistan and Russia.
These applications have delivered more than 20 million barrels of additional gross recoverable volumes at a development cost of less than $6 per barrel, and with an 80% success rate: BP has pumped almost 90% of all Bright Water treatments in the industry.
Bright Water treatments involve the design and deployment of this sweep-improving component with regular injection water over a period of several days.
These particles are activated deep in the reservoir to form a waterood sweep improving diversion at a point between the injection and production wells.
t 5IF 6 billion Clair Ridge project in the UK North Sea will be the first offshore project to use BPs LoSal EOR technology to increase the recovery of oil by modifying the salinity of the water injected into the reservoir.
LoSal EOR is part of BPs suite of Designer Water technologies.
Earlier in 2011, BP and its partners also announced plans for the $5 billion redevelopment of the Schiehallion and Loyal elds, ISS, Field of the Future, Designer Water and LoSal are all trademarks of BP p. l. c. TM Bright Water is a trademark of Nalco Energy Services LP.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 75
