Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders Relationships with suppliers Share prices and listings Markets and market prices and contractors The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange Essential contracts LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the Financial BP has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are also traded on support of its business activities.
This report does not contain information the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany.
about any of these third parties as none of our arrangements with them are Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of considered to be essential to the business of BP.
the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 for the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose primary Suppliers and contractors listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specic prices may Our processes are designed to enable us to choose suppliers carefully be sent electronically to the exchange by any rm that is a member of the on merit, avoiding conicts of interest and inappropriate gifts and LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as a principal.
We expect suppliers to comply with legal requirements orders are then anonymously displayed in the order book.
When there is and we seek to do business with suppliers who act in line with BPs a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed and automatically commitments to compliance and ethics, as outlined in our code of conduct.
Trading is continuous from 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. UK We engage with suppliers in a variety of ways, including performance time but, in the event of a 20% movement in the share price either way, review meetings to identify mutually advantageous ways to improve the LSE may impose a temporary halt in the trading of that companys performance.
shares in the order book to allow the market to re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and a Creditor payment policy and practice market-maker, via a member rm, outside the electronic order book.
Statutory regulations issued under the UK Companies Act 2006 require In the US, the companys securities are traded on the New York companies to make a statement of their policy and practice in respect Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase of the payment of trade creditors.
In view of the international nature of Bank, N. A. is the depositary the Depositary and transfer agent.
The the groups operations there is no specic group-wide policy in respect Depositarys principal ofce is 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, N. A.
Floor 21, of payments to suppliers.
Relationships with suppliers are, however, New York, NY 10005-1401, US.
Each ADS represents six ordinary shares.
governed by the groups policy commitment to long-term relationships ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADSs are evidenced founded on trust and mutual advantage.
Within this overall policy, individual by American depositary receipts ADRs, which may be issued in either operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for certicated or book entry form.
their business transactions and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the highest terms of payment.
and lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares and ADSs for the periods shown.
These are derived from the highest and lowest sales prices as reported on the LSE and NYSE, respectively.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 167
