Business review agreement dating back to the early 1970s.
The there were five BP-operated deepwater rigs engaged in abandonment restart and safe operation of Rhum remains contingent on the availability and appraisal activities in the Gulf of Mexico.
A permit to drill an appraisal of third parties to provide services to Rhum.
Such services are not as yet well at Kaskida was approved and drilling operations commenced in all available and it is presently unclear when resumption of production October.
Looking forward to 2012, plans include the drilling of exploration, may be possible.
appraisal and development wells and the start-up of additional three rigs, t 0O VMZ #1 BOE JUT DP WFOUVSFST BOOPVODFE BO BHSFFNFOU UP subject to receiving approvals from the US regulators.
progress a major redevelopment of the Schiehallion and Loyal oilelds t 0O 4FQUFNCFS #1 BOOPVODFE UIF ESJMMJOH PG B TVDDFTTGVM to the west of the Shetland Islands.
The investment of circa $5 billion appraisal well in a previously untested northern segment of the Mad Dog in the redevelopment of the elds is expected to extend the eld eld in the Gulf of Mexico.
The well, located on Green Canyon Block life to 2035.
The project involves replacing the existing Schiehallion 738, approximately 140 miles south of Grand Isle, Louisiana, confirms Floating, Production, Storage and Ofoading FPSO vessel with a a significant resource extension for the Mad Dog eld complex, which new FPSO which is scheduled to be installed in 2015.
BP will have a includes the existing eld, in production since 2005, and appraisal drilling 36.3% ownership interest in the new FPSO.
There will also be a major of the Mad Dog South eld in 2008 and 2009.
Due to the materiality investment in the upgrading and replacement of the subsea facilities of the Mad Dog South nds, BP has been advancing development to enable full development of the reserves.
Production is scheduled to options to increase production from Mad Dog and has now sanctioned commence from the new facilities in 2016. the final investment decision on Mad Dog Phase 2.
This will be the first t 0O 4FQUFNCFS #1 BOE JUT DP WFOUVSFST BOOPVODFE BO BHSFFNFOU BP-operated, standalone facility in a decade and will develop significant to invest up to $1.2 billion to progress a project to develop the Kinnoull additional resources through the addition of subsea water injection and reservoir in the central UK North Sea BP 77.06%.
The reservoir will installation of a new production host.
be connected to BPs Andrew platform, enabling production from the t 0O %FDFNCFS UIF #VSFBV PG 0DFBO &OFSHZ.
BOBHFNFOU IFME Andrew area to extend to 2021. its first western Gulf of Mexico lease sale since August 2009.
BP bid on t 0O 0DUPCFS #1 BOOPVODFE UIBU B NBKPS NJMFTUPOF IBE CFFO leases for 15 blocks and expects to be awarded leases for 11 blocks in reached on the Devenick gas project BP 88.7% with the installation of early 2012. a 600-tonne module to receive gas and condensate from the Devenick reservoir.
Production from the eld is due to commence in 2012.
Lower 48 states t 0O 0DUPCFS #1 BOOPVODFE UIF TVDDFTTGVM DPNQMFUJPO PG B The North America Gas business operates onshore in the Lower 48 states well drilled to establish a southwest extension of the Clair eld, west of producing natural gas, natural gas liquids and coalbed methane across nine Shetland in the UK North Sea.
This well confirmed recoverable oil from states.
In 2011, BP drilled 148 wells as operator across the US, including a new portion of the eld, and also discovered oil in a new, shallower the Wyoming, San Juan, Anadarko, Arkoma and East Texas basins.
During 2012, a further seismic survey of the eld is continues to participate in Eagle Ford, Fayetteville and other non-operated planned, to understand the reservoir structure in more detail.
"For further information on the use of fracking in our shale gas t ""MTP PO 0DUPCFS #1 BOOPVODFE UIBU UIF 6, HPWFSONFOU IBE assets see page 71. granted BP and its partners Shell, ConocoPhillips and Chevron, approval to proceed with the $7.6 billion Clair Ridge project BP 28.6%, the Alaska second phase of development of the Clair eld."
BP operates 15 North Slope oilelds including Prudhoe Bay, Endicott, Northstar, and Milne Point and four North Slope pipelines, and owns a Rest of Europe significant interest in six other producing elds.
Our activities in the Rest of Europe are in Norway.
t 5IF 1PJOU 5IPNTPO 6OJU 156 XBT UFSNJOBUFE CZ BENJOJTUSBUJWF t O UIF 7BMIBMM SFEFWFMPQNFOU QSPKFDU DPOUJOVFE, with production decision of the State of Alaska Department of Natural Resources DNR switch-over to the new facility scheduled for 2012.
The redevelopment in November 2006 BP 32%.
ExxonMobil, the operator, and the other consists of a new processing platform required as a result of the existing unit owners, including BP, appealed the unit termination in the Alaska platform suffering subsidence from extraction of hydrocarbons and Superior Court.
On 11 January 2010, the Alaska Superior Court reversed includes a power from shore system eliminating all gas-red equipment the DNRs administrative decision to terminate the unit, and in the offshore.
second quarter of 2010, the State of Alaska Supreme Court granted t 0O 4 August 2011, the FPSO vessel for the Skarv eld arrived on the DNRs petition for a limited review.
Briefs have been submitted to location in the Norwegian Sea.
Hook up of risers and commissioning work the Alaska Supreme Court, and a decision is expected in 2012.
In the is ongoing and production is due to commence at the Skarv eld in 2012. meantime, ExxonMobil and the State of Alaska have also informed the t 0O 0DUPCFS UIF 6MB mFME PO UIF PSXFHJBO $POUJOFOUBM 4IFMG other unit owners, including BP, that they have reached a preliminary celebrated 25 years of production.
BP and the other owners asked to participate in the settlement discussions but were precluded.
We are currently North America analysing the agreement.
United States t O MJHIU PG UIF DMPTVSF PG UIF %FOBMJ PQFSBUJPOT see page 88 for further Our activities within the US take place in three main areas: deepwater Gulf details BP continues to explore ways to commercialize its North Slope of Mexico, Lower 48 states and Alaska.
"t 0O PWFNCFS #1 &YQMPSBUJPO ""MBTLB OD #19"" QMFE HVJMUZ Deepwater Gulf of Mexico to a misdemeanour violation under the US Water Pollution Control Act For further information on the activities of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration to settle the criminal allegations by the state and federal government Organization established following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see related to leaks in 2006 from oil transit lines in the Prudhoe Bay unit."
The penalty included payment of $20 million with three years probation BP is the largest producer of hydrocarbons and the largest acreage that was due to expire on 29 November 2010.
On 29 November 2009, holder in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, operating seven production hubs.
a spill of approximately 360 barrels of crude oil and produced water was t 'PMMPXJOH #1 T TVDDFTT JO MFBTF TBMF JO.
BSDI TFWFO PG UIF discovered beneath a ruptured frozen three-phase ow line running from leases awarded in 2010 were executed in 2011 and a further five leases a well pad to the Lisburne Processing Center.
On 17 November 2010, from the sale were awarded and executed in 2011. the US Probation officer led a petition in federal district court to revoke t %VSJOH QSFQBSBUJPOT GPS TBGFMZ SFTUBSUJOH ESJMMJOH PQFSBUJPOT JO BPXAs probation based on an allegation that the Lisburne spill was a the Gulf of Mexico were progressed.
In July 2011, BP announced criminal violation of state or federal law.
In November 2011, a hearing the implementation of a new set of voluntary drilling standards for its was held in federal court in Anchorage.
On 27 December 2011, the operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
The standards go beyond existing court issued a final decision denying the governments petition and regulatory obligations and have been developed through lessons learned releasing BPXA from probation.
See page 165 in Legal proceedings for following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010.
By the end of 2011 further details.
84 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
