Business review: Group overview Our performance 2011 was a year of further stern tests for BP.
Our challenge was to stabilize the company and meet our commitments in the Gulf of Mexico while laying rm foundations for the future.
We went into 2011 with a clear set of strategic priorities and determination to rebuild the company.
Our employees have worked to make BP a safer business and to earn back trust.
We also pushed forward on the journey to grow value over the short, medium and long term.
The key measures in this section show our progress in numbers, and here you can also read about some of the significant actions and events that dened our year.
Left The BP-Husky Safety renery in Toledo, Our safety and operational risk function S&OR is driving the systematic and Ohio in operation since 1919. disciplined application of global standards in safety and operational risk across the company.
We recruited 87 new employees into S&OR during the year, taking its Right Azeri-ChiragGuneshli is the total headcount to around 600 against a target headcount of 800. largest oileld under During the year, as part of our enhanced focus on safety and operational risk development in the management, we completed a programme of 47 major upstream turnarounds.
Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian basin.
We set enhanced voluntary standards for how we drill in the Gulf of Mexico, and implemented new global standards in our operations worldwide.
For example, in deepwater drilling, where we use drill rigs that are maintained in position by computer-controlled systems rather than xed moorings, we require BP-contracted drill rigs to have no fewer than two blind shear rams and a casing In detail a shear ram in order to provide additional assurance.
For more information, see Safer drilling.
We initiated a review of the way we work with contractors and other Page 66 industry partners.
Guided by our findings, we have implemented a range of new measures, starting with our offshore rigs.
We also reviewed and updated our system of risk management see Our management of risk on pages 42-46.
And we reviewed and updated our values and behaviours, linked them explicitly to an enhanced code of conduct and embedded them in our approach to safety, performance management and reward.
a Shear rams are devices within a blowout preventer designed to cut the drill pipe and seal the well in the event of a blowout or other operational emergency.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 47
