Directors remuneration report The chart below shows the range of results possible for the group chief Remuneration policy executive depending on performance outcomes.
This section provides information on principles underlying the companys The on-target column assumes one-third of total bonus is deferred remuneration policy followed by an overview and an in-depth review of and matched, and the share element is valued at half the award.
The maximum column assumes that two-thirds of the total bonus is deferred and matched, and full vesting of the share element.
Remuneration principles Remuneration policy for executive directors is guided by key principles: Range of pay outcomes based on performance t Link to strategy A substantial portion of executive remuneration 1,200 should be linked to success in implementing the companys business Share element Deferred bonus including matching strategy.
Cash bonus received after deferral t Performance linked The major part of total remuneration should vary 1,000 Salary with performance, with the largest elements share based, further aligning interests with shareholders.
800 t Long-term based The structure of pay should reect the long-term nature of BPs business and the signicance of safety and 600 environmental risks.
t Rigorous process Performance conditions for variable pay should be 400 set by the committee at the start of each year and assessed by the committee at the end of each performance period.
Assessment should 200 take into account material changes in the market environment predominantly oil prices and BPs competitive position primarily Minimum On-target Maximum vis--vis other oil majors.
t Informed judgement There should be both quantitative and qualitative Remuneration is strongly performance dependent: assessments of performance with the committee making an informed t #POVT CBTFE PO NFUSJDT GSPN BOOVBM QMBO judgement within a framework approved by shareholders.
t %FGFSSFE CPOVT vesting based on additional safety and environment t Fair treatment The committee reviews the pay policy and levels for sustainability assessment.
executives below board, as well as pay and conditions of employees t 4IBSF FMFNFOU CBTFE PO NFUSJDT SFnFDUJOH TUSBUFHJD QSJPSJUJFT throughout the group.
These are considered when determining executive directors remuneration.
Salaries should be reviewed annually, It is also heavily weighted towards the long term: in the context of the total quantum of pay, and taking into account both t %FGFSSFE CPOVT o UISFF ZFBST external market and internal company conditions.
t 4IBSF FMFNFOU o TJY ZFBST t Personal shareholding Executives should develop and be required to hold a significant shareholding as this represents the best way to align their interests with those of shareholders.
t Shareholder engagement The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand shareholder preferences and be transparent in explaining its remuneration policy and practices.
These principles result in a remuneration policy that is directly linked to strategy, strongly performance related and heavily weighted towards long term.
144 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 % of salary Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy overview Component Policy 2012 application Salary Base salaries should be competitive relative to relevant market Peer group for executive directors includes large European peer groups.
multinationals and the oil majors.
Pension and other Executive directors should participate in the normal pension and Both UK and US executive directors remain on dened benefit benets benefit schemes applying in their home countries.
pension plans reecting respective national norms.
UK directors, as for all UK employees who exceed the annual allowance set by legislation, may receive a cash supplement in lieu of future service pension accrual.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus Annual bonus should be based on performance relative to Bonus measures for 2012 are: measures and targets reecting the annual plan.
Achieving plan results should equate to on-target bonus.
On-target bonus is set at 150% of salary for executive directors Process safety related major incident announcements with a maximum of 225% of salary.
Rening and Marketing net income per barrel.
Deferred bonus A portion of annual bonus should be paid in shares and deferred One-third of annual bonus is deferred on a mandatory basis and to add long-term sustainability and shareholder alignment to a further one-third can be deferred on a voluntary basis.
All deferred shares are matched on a one-for-one basis.
All deferred and matched shares vest after three years contingent on an assessment of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
Performance A large portion of total remuneration for executive directors The 2012-2014 share element will vest based equally on the shares should be tied to the long-term performance of the company.
following three performance metrics: t Total shareholder return versus oil majors.
Shares to a value of 5.5 times salary for the group chief t Operating cash ow.
executive and 4 times salary for the other executive directors t Strategic imperatives.
Reserves replacement versus oil majors.
Vesting of the shares after three years is dependent on Rebuilding trust.
performance relative to measures reecting the strategic priorities of the company.
Those shares that vest are held for an additional three-year retention period, after payment of tax on vesting.
Personal Executive directors should develop significant personal Executive directors are required to develop, and maintain, a shareholding shareholding in order to align their interests with shareholders.
shareholding equivalent to five times salary, within a reasonable in BP time of appointment.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 145 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy for 2012 in more depth In all cases, targets for each measure are set so that achieving plan levels of performance equates to an on-target bonus.
As in past years, This section contains a more detailed explanation of the components of in addition to the specic bonus metrics, the committee will also review total remuneration for executive directors and how they will be the underlying performance of the group in light of competitors results, implemented in 2012. analysts reports and the views of the chairmen of the other committees.
Based on this broader view, the committee can decide to adjust bonuses Salary where it is warranted and, in exceptional circumstances, to pay no The committee normally reviews salaries annually, taking into account bonuses.
other large Europe-based global companies, other oil majors, and relevant US companies.
It also considers salary treatment throughout the company Deferred bonus when determining appropriate increases for executive directors.
The structure of deferred bonus, paid in shares, places increased focus on long-term alignment with shareholders, and reinforces the critical Annual bonus importance of maintaining high safety and environmental standards.
It The group strategy provides the context for the companys annual plan, effectively translates the outcome of a portion of the annual performance from which measures and targets are derived at the start of the year for bonus into a long-term plan with additional performance hurdles.
As senior managers including executive directors.
Measures typically include shown below, the results of 2012 will form the basis for determining the a range of financial and operating metrics as well as those relating to deferred bonus in 2013. safety and environment, and people.
At the end of each year, performance is assessed relative to the Timeline for 2012 deferred bonus measures and targets established at the start of the year, adjusted for any material changes in the market environment predominantly oil prices.
Result of Result of Performance period annual annual Assessment includes both quantitative and qualitative views as well as performance performance Deferral Deferral Vesting Vesting input from the other committees on relevant aspects.
The committee 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 considers that this informed judgement is important to establishing a fair overall assessment.
For 2012, as last year, one-third of the annual bonus will be deferred The chart below shows the average annual bonus result before into shares for three years and matched by the company on a one-forany deferral and relative to an on-target level for executive directors for one basis.
Under the rules of the plan, the average share price over the current year and previous five.
the three days following announcement of full-year results is used to determine the number of shares.
Both deferred and matched shares History of annual bonus results will vest in February 2016 contingent on an assessment of safety and 200 environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
If the committee assesses that there has been a material deterioration in safety 150 and environmental metrics, or there have been major incidents revealing underlying weaknesses in safety and environmental management, then it 100 may conclude that shares should vest in part, or not at all.
In reaching its conclusion, the committee will obtain advice from the safety, ethics and 50 environment assurance committee SEEAC.
Executive directors may voluntarily defer a further one-third of their annual bonus into shares, which will be capable of vesting, and will qualify 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 for matching, on the same basis as set out above.
Where shares vest, on-target average actual result the executive director will also receive additional shares representing the value of the re-invested dividends.
For 2012, all executive directors will again be eligible for a total bonus including deferral of 150% of salary at target and 225% at maximum.
Performance shares Mr Dudleys bonus will be based entirely on group measures.
Mr Conn, The performance share element reects the committees policy that a Dr Gilvary and Dr Grote will have 70% of their bonus based on group large proportion of total remuneration is tied to long-term performance.
results and 30% on their respective segment or function.
Performance shares are awarded at the start of each year and vesting, The measures used to determine bonus results ow directly from after three years, is based on performance relative to measures and the groups annual plan which reects the strategic priorities of reinforcing targets derived from the companys strategic priorities.
Those shares safety and risk management, rebuilding trust, and reinforcing value that vest are then held for a further three-year retention period before creation.
being released to the executive after payment of tax on vesting.
At group level, safety and risk management measures include This gives executive directors a six-year incentive structure, which is recordable injury frequency, loss of primary containment and process designed to ensure their interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
related major incident announcements and high potential incidents.
Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional shares Rebuilding trust will be measured via surveys to assess both external representing the value of the re-invested dividends.
reputation and internal staff alignment and morale.
Restoring value will provide the dominant set of measures and include operating cash ow, Timeline for 2012-2014 share element underlying replacement cost profit, total cash costs, gearing, divestments, Performance period Retention period upstream production efficiency, major project delivery and Rening and Marketing profitability.
Award Award Vesting Vesting Release Release The Rening and Marketing segment will include specic safety 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 metrics for the segment.
Value metrics will include availability, efficiency, and profitability metrics, as well as divestments and major project delivery.
Finance function measures will include divestments, gearing and major project delivery.
The corporate business function will include profitability and compliance measures for IST and Alternative Energy.
146 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 % of target Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report The maximum number of shares that can be awarded will be 5.5 times peers.
It will explain any adjustments in the directors remuneration report salary for the group chief executive and 4 times salary for the other following vesting, in line with its commitment to transparency.
Performance shares will only vest to the extent that performance conditions, as described below, are met and subject to the Shareholding policy committee concluding that this is appropriate.
The history of vesting of The committees policy, reected in the Executive Directors Incentive the share element is shown below.
Plan EDIP, continues to be that each executive director builds and maintains a significant personal shareholding in BP to create strong History of share element vesting alignment with shareholders.
Executive directors, under the policy, are required to build a share base equating to five times salary, within a 100 reasonable time from their appointment.
Each directors shareholding as at 31 December 2011 is set out on page 117.
80 60 40 20 2004-2006 2005-2007 2006-2008 2007-2009 2008-2010 2009-2011 Performance conditions Performance conditions for the 2012-2014 share element will be aligned with the companys strategic agenda which continues to focus on value creation, reinforcing safety and risk management, and rebuilding trust.
Vesting of shares will be based one-third on BPs total shareholder return TSR compared to the other oil majors, reecting the central importance of restoring the value of the company.
A further one-third will be based on the operating cash ow of the company, reecting a central element of value creation.
The final one-third will be based on a set of strategic imperatives: in particular, reserves replacement, process safety, and rebuilding trust.
For the relative measures, TSR and the reserves replacement ratio, the comparator group will consist of ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
This group can be altered if circumstances change, for example, if there is significant consolidation in the industry.
While a narrow group, it continues to represent the comparators that both shareholders and management use in assessing relative performance.
The TSR will be calculated as the share price performance over the three-year period, assuming dividends are re-invested.
All share prices will be averaged over the three-month period before the beginning and end of the performance period.
They will be measured in US dollars.
The reserves replacement ratio is dened according to industry standard specications and its calculation is audited.
As in previous years, the methodology used for the relative measures will rank each of the five oil majors on each measure.
Performance shares for each component will vest at levels of 100%, 70% and 35% respectively, for performance equivalent to first, second and third rank.
No shares will vest for fourth or fifth place.
Operating cash ow has been identied as a core strategic priority of the company.
As has been communicated publicly, the target is to grow operating cash ow to $33 billion by 2014 based on $100 bbl oil price assumption.
Below $31 billion, there will be no vesting under this component.
Between $31 billion and $35 billion there will be a straight line vesting from 60% to 100% respectively.
Finally the remaining strategic imperatives relating to process safety and rebuilding trust will be determined by a mixture of internal targets and external assessment.
In the case of process safety, high potential incidents and major incident announcements will provide the key factual data as well as the input of the SEEAC.
The rebuilding trust component will include both external and internal surveys that will be used by the committee, along with input from the other board committees, to judge performance.
The results will be explained in subsequent directors remuneration reports.
The committee considers that this combination of quantitative and qualitative measures reects the long-term value creation priorities of the company as well as the key underpinnings for business sustainability.
As in previous years, the committee may exercise its discretion, in a reasonable and informed manner, to adjust vesting levels upwards or downwards if it concludes that the formulaic approach does not reect the true underlying health and performance of BPs business relative to its BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 147 % of maximum vested Directors remuneration report Pensions US directors Mr Dudley and Dr Grote participate in the US BP retirement accumulation Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension plan US pension plan, which features a cash balance formula.
Pension schemes applying in their home countries.
Details are set out in the benets are provided through a combination of tax-qualied and table below.
non-qualied benefit restoration plans, consistent with US tax regulations as applicable.
UK directors BP also provides a supplemental executive retirement benets plan UK directors are members of the regular BP pension scheme.
The core supplemental plan, which is a non-qualied arrangement that became benets under this scheme are non-contributory.
They include a pension effective on 1 January 2002 for US employees with salary above a accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of service, up to a maximum specified salary grade level.
Mr Dudley and Dr Grote are eligible to of two-thirds of final basic salary and a dependants benefit of two-thirds of participate under the supplemental plan.
The benefit formula is a target of the members pension.
The scheme pension is not integrated with state 1.3% of final average earnings base pay plus bonus for each year of pension benets.
service, inclusive of all other BP US qualied and non-qualied pension The rules of the BP pension scheme were amended in 2006 such arrangements.
This benefit is unfunded and therefore paid from corporate that the normal retirement age is 65.
Prior to 1 December 2006, scheme assets.
members could retire on or after age 60 without reduction.
Special early Mr Dudley retains the heritage Amoco retirement plan, which retirement terms apply to pre-1 December 2006 service for members with provides benets on a final average pay formula of 1.67% of highest long service as at 1 December 2006. average earnings base pay plus bonus in accordance with standard US Until the end of March 2011, pension benets in excess of the practice for each year of service, reduced by 1.5% of the primary social individual lifetime allowance set by legislation were paid via an unapproved, security benefit for each year of service.
The highest benefit of the plans unfunded pension arrangement provided directly by the company.
produced by the different formulas will be payable and this is currently the With the reduction in the annual allowance applicable to plans such benefit determined under the Amoco heritage terms.
as the BP pension scheme in 2011 the company reviewed the options Their pension accrual for 2011, shown in the table below, takes into available for employees who might wish to limit the increase in the value of account the total amount that could be payable under relevant plans.
their pension to remain within the new limit.
To provide employees with exibility, should they wish to limit the value of the increase in their Other benets pension to within the new limit, those impacted are able to elect a lower accrual rate and in addition receive a cash supplement so that the total cost Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee benefit to BP remains equivalent to the cost of providing 1 60th of basic salary.
plans and in all-employee share saving schemes applying in their home Some employees have had to cease pension accrual for future service to countries.
Benets in kind are not pensionable.
remain within the new annual allowance.
For these employees the cash supplement is equal to 35% of basic salary.
Mr Conn has elected to cease to accrue pension benets for future service in order to keep within the new annual allowance and has received a cash supplement of 35% of his basic salary from 1 April 2011.
This is included in the remuneration table on page 141.
Pensions audited thousand Additional pension Accrued pension earned during the Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of B-A less Service at entitlement year ended accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by a b b 31 Dec 2011 at 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2011 at 31 Dec 2010 A at 31 Dec 2011 B the director in 2011 R W Dudley US 32 years $948 $244 $10,336 $15,244 $4,908 I C Conn UK 26 years 307 20 5,373 6,582 1,209 Dr B E Grote US 32 years $1,328 $47 $16,501 $18,251 $1,750 a Additional pension earned during the year includes an ination increase of 4.8% for UK directors and 3.6% for US directors.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the actuarial profession.
148 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
