Directors remuneration report Bob Dudleys bonus was based entirely on group results, resulting in an Remuneration overview amount, including the deferred element, at on-target level.
Iain Conns and Byron Grotes bonuses were based 70% on group results and 30% on their respective business or functional units.
Mr Conns results met or Dear shareholder, exceeded targets resulting in a bonus just above on-target, and Dr Grotes largely met resulting in an on-target bonus.
In all cases one-third of their For the senior executives of BP, remuneration is directly linked to strategy, bonus is deferred into shares on a mandatory basis, matched, and will vest strongly performance related and heavily weighted towards the long term.
in three years subject to a review of safety and environmental sustainability In a year of consolidation following the events of 2010, the company during the period.
They may elect to defer an additional one-third into shares achieved a creditable performance overall in 2011.
The outcome of the on the same basis as the mandatory deferral, which they all chose to do for various plans that make up 2011 total remuneration for executive directors this years bonus.
All of the above is reected in the table opposite.
is set out in the table opposite.
The 2009-2011 share element included performance conditions The remuneration committee is keenly aware of its responsibility to relating to total shareholder return, production growth, group net income, balance sometimes conicting perspectives in making judgements on and Rening and Marketing profitability all relative to the other oil majors.
We recognize a concern by government, and society Of these all but Rening and Marketing profitability missed the level at large, of excess in this area, but cannot ignore the reality of a global required to vest.
Rening and Marketing profitability compared to the other competitive market for top executive talent.
We respect investors oil majors was strong, and based on this, the overall vesting was 16.67% expectation for pay to be strongly tied to performance while also wanting of the shares again reected in the table opposite.
The committee to ensure that executives receive fair reward for their achievements.
concluded that the result from a straight numerical assessment relative to The committees commitment to exercising judgement in a agreed metrics provided an appropriate vesting level in light of overall balanced way and being transparent in communicating its conclusions company performance during the period.
In years where performance has been strong, bonuses have For 2012 the overall policy for executive directors will remain largely reected that and when performance has been poor, bonuses have unchanged, as summarized below.
The committee will continue to monitor appropriately been reduced and even in some cases, as in 2010, trends and external perspectives in reviewing the quantum and structure of eliminated.
The long-term plan has, over the last five years, vested less total remuneration.
It will also continue to operate with independence and than 10% of the possible shares, reecting the impact of major incidents.
rigour in making its judgements.
Ultimately decisions will be guided by our In this context, the committee carefully considered 2011 commitment to both shareholder interests and executive engagement.
performance against targets set at the start of the year.
Safety and risk management metrics were all met or exceeded including recordable injury frequency, loss of primary containment, implementation of change Antony Burgmans, KBE programmes and capability building.
Group results were at or near target Chairman of the remuneration committee for financial metrics, including replacement cost profit, cash costs, 6 March 2012 upstream operating cash and downstream profitability.
External survey results show some modest recovery in the companys external reputation, as well as good results on internal employee morale.
The overall assessment of group results based on the above was judged to be on-target for the group as a whole.
Summary of remuneration components Salary t Salaries as at 1 January 2012 are: Bob Dudley $1,700,000, Iain Conn 730,000, Brian Gilvary 690,000 and Byron Grote $1,442,000.
Bonus t On-target bonus of 150% of salary and maximum of 225% of salary based on performance relative to targets set at start of year relating to financial and operational metrics.
Deferred bonus t 0OF UIJSE PG BDUVBM CPOVT BXBSEFE BT TIBSFT XJUI UISFF ZFBS EFGFSSBM and the ability to voluntarily defer an additional and match one-third.
"t ""MM EFGFSSFE TIBSFT NBUDIFE POF GPS POF with vesting of both subject to an assessment of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year period."
Performance shares t Award of shares of up to 5.5 times salary for group chief executive, and 4 times for other executive directors.
t Vesting after three years based on performance relative to other oil majors and strategic imperatives.
t Three-year retention period after vesting before release of shares.
Pension t 'JOBM TBMBSZ TDIFNF BQQSPQSJBUF UP IPNF DPVOUSZ PG FYFDVUJWF 140 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
