Corporate governance Principal accountants fees Memorandum and Articles and services of Association The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys engagement of the independent registered public accounting rm, Ernst Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax services.
The summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically 2006 Act and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
dened audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not prohibited For information on where investors can obtain copies of the Memorandum by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & Young are and Articles of Association see Documents on display on page 170. engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of BP are At the AGM held on 17 April 2008 shareholders voted to adopt new important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services were Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes in UK company awarded either through a full competitive tender process or following an law brought about by the Act.
Further amendments to the Articles of assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to that of other Association were approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 15 April potential service providers.
These services are for a xed term.
These amendments reect the full implementation of the Act, Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specic services within among other matters.
the following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control Objects and purposes reviews excluding any services relating to information systems design BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England and implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice on and Wales with the registered number 102498.
The provisions regulating business and accounting process improvement excluding any services the operations of the company, known as its objects, were historically relating to information systems design and implementation relating to BPs stated in a companys memorandum.
The Act abolished the need to have financial statements or accounting records : due diligence in connection object provisions and so at the AGM held on 15 April 2010 shareholders with acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures excluding valuation or approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other involvement in prospective financial information : income tax and indirect provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated as tax compliance and advisory services: employee tax services excluding forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
tax services that could impair independence : provision of, or access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, seminars and other training Directors materials: provision of reports from data gathered on non-financial policies The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The and information: and assistance with understanding non-financial regulatory companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be appointed requirements.
BP operates a two-tier system for audit and non-audit by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
For audit related services, the audit committee has a preperson appointed by the directors will hold ofce only until the next general approved aggregate level, within which specic work may be approved by meeting and will then be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
Non-audit services, including tax services, are pre-approved is no requirement for a director to retire on reaching any age.
for management to authorize per individual engagement, but above a The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director dened level must be approved by the chairman of the audit committee voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director has or the full committee.
The audit committee has delegated to the chairman a material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest in shares of the audit committee authority to approve permitted services provided in the company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest that the chairman reports any decisions to the committee at its next not indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a scheduled meeting.
Any proposed service not included in the approved quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the service list must be approved in advance by the audit committee chairman following matters: and reported to the committee, or approved by the full audit committee in t 5IF HJWJOH PG TFDVSJUZ PS JOEFNOJUZ XJUI SFTQFDU UP BOZ NPOFZ MFOU PS advance of commencement of the engagement.
obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the company The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors or any of its subsidiaries.
"The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the t ""OZ QSPQPTBM JO XIJDI UIF EJSFDUPS JT JOUFSFTUFE DPODFSOJOH UIF committee in the context of other global companies for cost effectiveness."
underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any The committee keeps under review the scope and results of audit work security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company or any of and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
"and BP policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead audit partner every t ""OZ QSPQPTBM DPODFSOJOH BOZ PUIFS DPNQBOZ JO XIJDI UIF EJSFDUPS JT five years."
See Financial statements Note 16 on page 209 and Audit interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder committee report on page 127 for details of audit fees.
or otherwise provided that the director and persons connected with such director are not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
"t ""OZ QSPQPTBM DPODFSOJOH UIF QVSDIBTF PS NBJOUFOBODF PG BOZ JOTVSBODF policy under which the director may benefit."
136 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Corporate governance Corporate governance The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested in Voting rights a contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the nature The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on of the directors interest at a meeting of the directors of the company.
resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other than The denition of interest includes the interests of spouses, children, resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show of companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that a director must avoid a hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two votes for that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the companys interests.
The every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
If voting is Act allows directors of public companies to authorize such conicts where on a show of hands, each shareholder who is present at the meeting in appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association so permit.
BPs Articles person or whose duly appointed proxy is present in person will have one of Association permit the authorization of such conicts.
The directors may vote, regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll is requested.
exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, except that the Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
amount remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including shall not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed the amount paid a beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their up on the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and behalf at any shareholders meeting.
revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the borrowing power of the Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak board may only be affected by amending the Articles of Association.
and vote at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. of them as proxies in aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such proxy directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
This committee is may also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are entitled to made up of non-executive directors only.
There is no requirement of share vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, who will vote ownership for a directors qualication.
the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance with their instructions.
Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: capital calls Proxies may be delivered electronically.
If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in and passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
An annual general meeting must be held once in every year.
also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
No An ordinary resolution requires the afrmative vote of a majority of dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution, the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
as determined under IFRS and the Act.
Dividends on ordinary shares are A special resolution requires the afrmative vote of not less than threepayable only after payment of dividends on BP preference shares.
Any fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date of declaration AGM requires 21 days notice.
The notice period for a general meeting is of such dividend shall be forfeited and reverts to BP.
14 days subject to the company obtaining annual shareholder approval, The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any failing which, a 21-day notice period will apply.
currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in US Liquidation rights: redemption provisions dollars.
In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and At the companys AGM held on 15 April 2010, shareholders applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of approved the introduction of a Scrip Dividend Programme Programme and secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled to include provisions in the Articles of Association to enable the company to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and to operate the Programme.
The Programme enables ordinary shareholders unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the and BP ADS holders to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares or capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the BP ADSs in the case of BP ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the of the Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro the scrip offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
directors decide not to offer the scrip in respect of any particular dividend, Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on cash will automatically be paid instead.
"the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions as if any is declared or announced, the Articles of Association provide that the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any such the directors may set aside: resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue shares that t "" TQFDJBM SFTFSWF GVOE PVU PG UIF CBMBODF PG QSPmUT FBDI ZFBS UP NBLF VQ are to be or may be redeemed."
any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
"t "" HFOFSBM SFTFSWF PVU PG UIF CBMBODF PG QSPmUT FBDI ZFBS XIJDI TIBMM Variation of rights be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent may properly be applied."
This may include capitalization of such sum, in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of the shares of Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to the ordinary manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
shares is one-third or more of the shares of that class.
Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid off.
All shares are fully paid.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 137 Corporate governance Shareholders meetings and notices Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the UK to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs.
The substance and timing of notices is described on page 137 under the heading Voting rights.
Under the Act, the AGM of shareholders must be held within the six-month period once every year.
All general meetings shall be held at a time and place determined by the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the meeting may be given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for action to be taken either before or at the meeting by authorized ofcers to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those attending.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or BP ADSs, other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
Disclosure of interests in shares The Act permits a public company to give notice to any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time during the three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have been interested in its voting shares requiring them to disclose certain information with respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required may lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely dened and will generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
138 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
