Our strategy In 2011, we put forward a clear 10-point plan of how we intend to build a stronger, safer BP.
Following the tragic Deepwater Horizon oil spill, we set out a strategy designed to deliver stability, and restore trust and value.
Our first priority was to work to make BP a safer, more risk-aware business.
We pursued that strategy with purpose through 2011 and have now laid out a 10-point plan for BPs future.
Our renewed strategy is designed to make BP a simpler, stronger company that plays to its strengths.
It concentrates our distinctive talents on high value, advantaged assets, with new and enhanced structures, process and discipline serving to support and sustain our businesses and operations.
Our goal is to grow operating cash flows to enable us to both invest for future growth and increase distributions to shareholders.
Our upstream strategic focus is aligned with what we see as the five key drivers of value growth in our operations.
These are: managing risk: increasing investment, with a particular focus on exploration: managing our portfolio actively: growing operating cash faster than production: and focusing on the major growth engines that capitalize on our strengths deepwater, gas value chains and giant fields.
Below BP has a In the downstream, we are in the business of hydrocarbon value chains, and significant presence in Trinidad & Tobago, with an intense focus on safe and reliable operations, we believe we now have operating 13 offshore the platform to sustain and grow a world-class business capable of generating platforms and holding an interest in Atlantic LNG.
leading returns and cash flow growth.
Above Having achieved our improved production target in 2010, BP and partners are working to refurbish the wells and facilities at the Rumaila field in Iraq.
BP Summary Review 2011 13 Our strategy: Our 10-point plan Our 10-point plan is how we intend to build a stronger, safer BP.
The first five points are things you can expect from us: the second five are things you can measure.
What you can expect from us What you can measure 1 We will keep a relentless focus on safety and 6 Active portfolio management managing risk We want to focus our portfolio further on our areas We are determined that BP will deliver worldof strength, and deliver increased financial flexibility.
class performance in safety, risk management and By the end of 2013, we expect to have completed operational discipline.
We will be a company that $38 billion of disposals since the start of 2010. systematically applies our global standards as a New projects with higher margins 7 single team.
We have a strong list of upstream projects due to We will play to our strengths come onstream over the next three years.
By 2014, 2 a We have had major successes at finding oil and unit cash margins on production from this new gas at scale.
We are also among the real pioneers wave of projects are expected to be around double b of deepwater exploration.
We have decades of our existing average.
experience managing giant fields and developing Operating cash flow growth 8 valuable gas value chains.
We have built a worldWe are aiming to generate an increase of around class downstream business.
Underpinning 50% net cash provided by additional operating these strengths are deep capabilities in building c activities by 2014 compared with 2011 relationships and in developing technologies.
approximately half from ending Deepwater Horizon We will be stronger and more focused Oil Spill Trust fund payments and around half from 3 We intend to be a stronger and more focused BP, operations.
with a base of assets that is high graded and high 9 Use of cash flow for reinvestment and distributions performing.
We will use additional operating cash prudently.
We 4 We will be simpler and more standardized want to use around half for increased investment Our organization is already much more standardized in our project inventory for growth, and around half than it was before the Deepwater Horizon oil for other purposes.
This may include increased spill.
The transformation of our Exploration and distributions to shareholders through dividends or Production segment from a regional business to one share buybacks or repayment of debt.
that is managed along lines of functional expertise Strong balance sheet 10 is an example of this.
Our footprint is smaller, with We intend to enhance the strength of our balance fewer assets and operations in fewer countries.
d sheet by targeting our level of gearing at the lower Our internal reward and performance processes half of the 10-20% range over time.
This should drive better and more sustainable performance in safety, quality and a Unit cash margin is net cash provided by operating activities for the efficiency, with less variation.
relevant projects in our Exploration and Production segment, divided by the total number of barrels of oil and gas equivalent produced for We will improve transparency through our reporting 5 the relevant projects.
It excludes dividends and production We will improve transparency in the reporting of for TNK-BP.
We now break out the Assuming a constant oil price of $100 per barrel.
c Assuming an oil price of $100 per barrel in 2014.
The projection numbers of certain parts of our businesses, such as reflects our expectation that all required payments into the lubricants and petrochemicals in the downstream.
$20-billion trust fund will have been completed by the end of 2012.
It does not reflect any cash flows relating to other liabilities, From the first quarter of 2012, the groups investment contingent liabilities, settlements or contingent assets arising from in TNK-BP will be reported as a separate operating the Gulf of Mexico oil spill which may or may not arise at that time.
We are not able to reliably estimate the amount or timing of a segment.
d Gearing refers to the ratio of the groups net debt to net debt plus equity and is a non-GAAP measure.
14 BP Summary Review 2011 We have set out a series of milestones by which our progress can be tracked.
These milestones mark our aspirations, plans and intended progress over the next three years.
At the Cherry Point refinery, BP is investing in a clean diesel project to produce cleaner burning fuels that 2012 2013-14 will comply with new lowersulphur specifications.
We see the full benefits of our 2011 Drilling up to 25 wells per year.
turnarounds as high-margin production A further nine major upstream project comes back onstream in Angola, the start-ups.
c Unit operating cash margins from new Exploration drilling activity increases upstream projects in 2014 expected to to 12 wells.
Six major upstream project start-ups.
We bring onstream the major upgrade Eight rigs expected to be operating in to the Whiting refinery in the second the Gulf of Mexico.
Completion of our payments into the We complete our $38-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust.
divestment programme by the end of 2013.
$2 billion of financial performance a improvement in Refining and We have a high value, focused portfolio Marketing since 2009. that plays to our strengths.
b Organic capital expenditure increases Overall operating cash flow in 2014 to e to around $22 billion.
We expect to use around half of the extra cash for increased investment and around half for other purposes, including increased distributions to shareholders.
a This performance improvement will be measured by comparing Refining and Marketings replacement cost profit before interest and tax for 2009 with that of 2012, after adjusting for non-operating items, fair value accounting effects and the impact of changes in the refining margin and petrochemicals environment including energy costs, foreign exchange impacts and price-lag effects for crude and product purchases.
This adjusted measure of replacement cost profit before interest and tax is a non-GAAP measure.
b Organic capital expenditure excludes acquisitions and asset exchanges.
c See footnote a on page 14. d See footnote b on page 14. e See footnote c on page 14.
