Business review Trend information Regulation of the groups business For information on external market trends, see Our market on pages 18-24.
We expect production excluding TNK-BP in 2012 to be broadly at BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, pipelines compared with 2011, after adjusting for divestments and at an oil price of and transportation, rening and marketing, petrochemicals production, $100 per barrel.
trading, alternative energy and shipping activities, are conducted in In Rening and Marketing, the level of BPs renery turnaround many different countries and are subject to a broad range of EU, US, activity is expected to be broadly similar in 2012 compared with 2011. international, regional and local legislation and regulations, including We also expect the marketing environment in fuels, lubricants and legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
These petrochemicals to remain subdued given the outlook for global demand.
cover virtually all aspects of our activities and include matters such as In 2012, we expect the quarterly loss, excluding non-operating licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, health and items, for Other businesses and corporate to average around $500 million.
safety protection, fuel specications and transportation, trading, pricing, As in previous years, this is likely to be volatile on an individual quarterly anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign exchange.
The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts We expect capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and asset under which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
exchanges, to increase to around $22 billion in 2012, as we invest to grow These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered in our Exploration and Production segment.
into with a government entity or state owned or controlled company Having completed disposals of almost $20 billion during 2010 and and are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
These 2011 combined, we expect to make further disposals that would bring the arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the form of total to $38 billion by the end of 2013. licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, although arrangements We intend to reduce the net debt ratio to the lower half of the with the US government can be by lease.
Arrangements with private 1020% range over time.
Net debt is a non-GAAP measure.
property owners are usually in the form of leases.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization in 2012 is expected to be Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for around $1.0 billion higher than in 2011. and exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the The discussion above contains forward-looking statements, risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides the particularly those regarding external market trends, the future level of nancing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled to production excluding TNK-BP, the expected level of turnarounds, the all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A licence holder marketing environment in fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals, the is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which may be in expected quarterly loss for Other businesses and corporate, the expected cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit hydrocarbons level of capital expenditures, expectations regarding future disposals, net under a service agreement with the host entity in exchange for debt and net debt ratio, and future levels of depreciation, depletion and reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather than production.
These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions PSAs entered into with a government entity or state owned or that management believes to be reasonable in the light of the groups controlled company generally require BP to provide all the nancing and operational and financial experience.
However, no assurance can be given bear the risk of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share that the forward-looking statements will be realized.
You should not rely on of the production remaining after royalties, if any.
past performance as an indicator of future performance.
You are urged to In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration read the cautionary statement on page 5 and Risk factors on pages 59-63, and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are which describe the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results limited to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by licence.
Both exploration and production licences are generally for a these forward-looking statements.
The company provides no commitment specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the US government to update the forward-looking statements or to publish financial projections typically remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended beyond for forward-looking statements in the future.
that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which these licences may be renewed vary from country to country.
Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in joint ventures or co-ownership arrangements with other international oil companies, state owned or controlled companies and or private companies.
These joint ventures may be incorporated or unincorporated ventures, while the co-ownerships are typically unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or unincorporated, relevant agreements will set out each partys level of participation or ownership interest in the joint venture or coownership.
Conventionally, all costs, benets, rights, obligations, liabilities and risks incurred in carrying out joint venture or co-ownership operations under a lease or licence are shared among the joint venture or co-owning parties according to these agreed ownership interests.
Ownership of joint venture or co-owned property and hydrocarbons to which the joint venture or co-ownership is entitled is also shared in these proportions.
To the extent that any liabilities arise, whether to governments or third parties, or as between the joint venture parties or co-owners themselves, each joint venture party or co-owner will generally be liable to meet these in proportion to its ownership interest see Financial statements Note 2 in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
In many upstream operations, a party known as the operator will be appointed pursuant to a joint operating agreement JOA to carry out day-to-day operations on behalf of the joint venture or co-ownership.
The operator is typically one of the joint venture parties or a co-owner and will carry out its duties either through its own staff, or by contracting out various elements to third-party contractors or service providers.
BP acts as operator on behalf of joint ventures and co-ownerships in a number of countries where we have exploration and production activities.
"106 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: BP in more depth Business review Frequently, work including drilling and related activities will be contracted United States out to third-party service providers who have the relevant expertise t 5IF $MFBO ""JS ""DU $"""" SFHVMBUFT BJS FNJTTJPOT QFSNJUUJOH GVFM and equipment not available within the joint venture or the co-owning specications and other aspects of our production, distribution and operators organization."
The relevant contract will specify the work to marketing activities.
Stricter limits on sulphur and benzene in fuels will be done and the remuneration to be paid and typically will set out how affect us in future, as will actions on greenhouse gas GHG emissions major risks will be allocated between the joint venture or co-ownership and other air pollutants.
Additionally, states may have separate, stricter and the service provider.
Generally, the joint venture or co-owner and air emission laws in addition to the CAA.
"the contractor would respectively allocate responsibility for and provide t 5IF &OFSHZ 1PMJDZ ""DU PG BOE UIF &OFSHZ OEFQFOEFODF BOE reciprocal indemnities to each other for harm caused to their respective Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other things, staff and property."
Depending on the service to be provided, an oil and gas imposing renewable fuel mandates and imposing GHG emissions industry service contract may also contain provisions allocating risks and thresholds for certain renewable fuels.
States such as California also liabilities associated with pollution and environmental damage, damage impose additional fuel carbon standards.
"to a well or hydrocarbon reservoir and for claims from third parties or t 5IF $MFBO 8BUFS ""DU SFHVMBUFT XBTUFXBUFS BOE PUIFS FGnVFOU EJTDIBSHFT other losses."
The allocation of those risks vary among contracts and are from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge permits, install determined through negotiation between the parties.
control equipment and implement operational controls and preventative In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated measures.
from production activities whether under a licence or PSAs.
"In addition, t 5IF 3FTPVSDF $POTFSWBUJPO BOE 3FDPWFSZ ""DU SFHVMBUFT UIF HFOFSBUJPO depending on the area, BPs production activities may be subject to a range storage, transportation and disposal of wastes associated with our of other taxes, levies and assessments, including special petroleum taxes operations and can require corrective action at locations where such and revenue taxes."
The taxes imposed on oil and gas production profits wastes have been released.
and activities may be substantially higher than those imposed on other t 5IF $PNQSFIFOTJWF &OWJSPONFOUBM 3FTQPOTF $PNQFOTBUJPO BOE activities, for example in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, Norway, the UK, the Liability Act CERCLA can, in certain circumstances, impose the entire US, Russia and Trinidad & Tobago.
cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or operated a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or arranged for disposal Environmental regulation of a hazardous substance at the site.
BP has incurred, or expects to BP operates in more than 80 countries and is subject to a wide variety incur, liability under the CERCLA or similar state laws, including costs of environmental regulations concerning our products, operations attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties.
BP is also subject to claims and activities.
Current and proposed fuel and product specications, for remediation costs under other federal and state laws, and to claims emission controls and climate change programmes under a number of for natural resource damages under the CERCLA, the Oil Pollution Act environmental laws may have a significant effect on the production, sale of 1990 OPA 90 discussed below and other federal and state laws.
and profitability of many of our products.
CERCLA also requires hazardous substance release notication.
"There are also environmental laws that require us to remediate t 5IF 5PYJD 4VCTUBODFT $POUSPM ""DU SFHVMBUFT #1 T JNQPSU FYQPSU BOE TBMF and restore areas damaged by the accidental or unauthorized release of new chemical products."
of hazardous substances or petroleum associated with our operations.
"t 5IF 0DDVQBUJPOBM 4BGFUZ BOE FBMUI ""DU JNQPTFT XPSLQMBDF TBGFUZ BOE These laws may apply to sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites health requirements on our operations along with significant process that it previously owned or operated, or sites used for the disposal of its safety management obligations."
"Provisions for environmental restoration and t 5IF &NFSHFODZ 1MBOOJOH BOE $PNNVOJUZ 3JHIU UP, OPX ""DU SFRVJSFT remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount of BPs emergency planning and hazardous substance release notication as legal obligation can be reliably estimated."
The cost of future environmental well as public disclosure of our chemical usage and emissions.
remediation obligations is often inherently difficult to estimate.
t 5IF 64 %FQBSUNFOU PG 5SBOTQPSUBUJPO %05 SFHVMBUFT UIF USBOTQPSU PG Uncertainties can include the extent of contamination, the appropriate BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline, and petrochemicals, corrective actions, technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
See and other hydrocarbon liquids.
Financial statements Note 36 on page 231 for the amounts provided in t 5IF.
"54"" UIF %05 B[BSEPVT respect of environmental remediation and decommissioning."
Materials HAZMAT and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings CFATS regulations impose security compliance regulations on against BP and certain subsidiaries under environmental laws could around 50 BP facilities.
These regulations require security vulnerability result in monetary sanctions.
We are also subject to environmental assessments, security risk mitigation plans and security upgrades, claims for personal injury and property damage alleging the release of increasing our cost of operations.
or exposure to hazardous substances.
The costs associated with such future environmental remediation obligations, governmental proceedings OPA 90 is implemented through regulation issued by the US Environmental and claims could be significant and may be material to the results Protection Agency EPA, the US Coast Guard, the DOT, the Occupational of operations in the period in which they are recognized.
We cannot Safety and Health Administration and various states, Alaska and the west accurately predict the effects of future developments on the group, such coast states currently have the most demanding state requirements as stricter environmental laws or enforcement policies, or future events although regulation in the Gulf of Mexico has increased following the at our facilities, and there can be no assurance that material liabilities and 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
There is an expectation that OPA 90 and costs will not be incurred in the future.
For a discussion of the groups its regulations will become more stringent in the future.
The impact will environmental expenditure see page 71. likely be more rigorous preparedness requirements the ability to respond Approximately 56% of our xed assets are located in the US over a longer period to larger spills, including the demonstration of that and the EU.
US and EU environmental, health and safety regulations preparedness.
There will be additional costs associated with this increased signicantly affect BPs exploration and production, rening and marketing, regulation.
In 2012, we expect more unannounced exercises and potential transportation and shipping operations.
significant legislation and regulation penalties for any failure to demonstrate required preparedness even in the US and the EU affecting our businesses and profitability includes the without any OPA 90 amendments.
following: As a consequence of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill we have become subject to claims under OPA 90 and other laws and have established a $20-billion trust fund for legitimate state and local government response claims, final judgments and settlement claims, legitimate state and local response costs, natural resource damages and related costs and legitimate individual and business claims.
We are also subject to Natural Resource Damages claims and numerous civil lawsuits BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 107 Business review by individuals, corporations and governmental entities.
The ultimate costs t 5IF &6 'VFMT 2VBMJUZ %JSFDUJWF BGGFDUT PVS QSPEVDUJPO BOE NBSLFUJOH PG for these claims cannot be determined at this time.
We also expect the transport fuels.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions in the industry in general, and BP in particular, to become subject to greater life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy as described in Greenhouse regulation and increased operating costs in the Gulf of Mexico in the gas regulation above, and tighter environmental fuel quality standards future.
For further disclosures relating to the consequences of the 2010 for petrol and diesel for example see Greenhouse gas regulation on Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see Legal proceedings on page 160. page 109.
"On 31 March 2009, the United States led a complaint seeking civil t 5IF &6 3FHJTUSBUJPO &WBMVBUJPO BOE ""VUIPSJ[BUJPO PG $IFNJDBMT 3&""$ penalties and damages relating to oil leaks from oil transit lines operated by Regulation requires registration of chemical substances, manufactured BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe Bay unit on the North in, or imported into, the EU in quantities greater than 1 tonne per annum Slope of Alaska."
See Legal proceedings on page 165.
The complaint also per legal entity, together with the submission of relevant hazard and involved claims related to asbestos handling, allegations of non-compliance risk data.
REACH affects our rening, petrochemicals, exploration and at multiple facilities for failure to comply with EPAs spill prevention plan production, biofuels, lubricants and other manufacturing or trading import regulations, and for non-compliance with US Department of Transportation operations.
The parties settled the dispute and on 13 July 2011 t BWJOH DPNQMFUFE SFHJTUSBUJPO PG BMM UIF TVCTUBODFT UIBU XF XFSF the Court entered a Consent Agreement in which BPXA agreed to pay a required to submit by the regulatory deadline of 1 December 2010, $25-million penalty and to perform certain injunctive measures over the we are now preparing registration dossiers for those substances next three years with respect to pipeline inspection and maintenance.
manufactured or imported in amounts in the range 100-1,000 tonnes Various environmental groups and the EPA have challenged per annum legal entity that are due to be submitted before 1 June certain aspects of the air permits issued by the Indiana Department of 2013.
Substances registered in 2010 are subject to evaluation and Environmental Management IDEM for upgrades to the Whiting renery.
or authorization restriction procedures by the authorities and this may In response to these challenges, the IDEM has reviewed the permits and impact activities, product sales and their profitability.
responded formally to the EPA.
BP is in discussions with EPA, the IDEM t O BEEJUJPO &VSPQF IBT BEPQUFE UIF 6 MPCBM BSNPOJ[BUJPO 4ZTUFN and certain environmental groups over these and other CAA issues relating for hazard classication and labelling of chemicals and products through to the Whiting renery.
BP has also been in settlement discussions with the Classication Labelling and Packaging CLP Regulation.
This EPA to resolve alleged CAA violations at the Toledo, Carson and Cherry requires us to assess the hazards of all of our chemicals and products Point reneries.
against new criteria and will, over time, result in significant changes to warning labels and material safety data sheets.
All our European Material European Union Safety Data Sheets will need to be updated to include both REACH BPs operations in the EU are subject to a number of current and proposed and CLP information.
We have completed updates for all chemicals regulatory requirements that affect or could affect our operations and substances we manufacture and market in the EU by the compliance profitability.
These include: deadline of 3 January 2011, and have implemented a process to t 5IF &6 $MJNBUF BOE &OFSHZ 1BDLBHF BOE UIF &NJTTJPOT 5SBEJOH 4DIFNF maintain compliance in our European operations.
We have also notied ETS Directive see Greenhouse gas regulation on page 109. the European Chemicals Agency of hazard classications for our t 5IF &6 OEVTUSJBM &NJTTJPOT %JSFDUJWF &% SFWJTJOH BOE SFQMBDJOH UIF manufactured and imported chemicals, for inclusion in a publicly available Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Directive IPPC and several inventory of hazardous chemicals.
CLP will also apply to mixtures other industrial directives including the Large Combustion Plant Directive e. g. lubricants by 2015.
Activities covered by both CLP and REACH LCPD are in the process of transposition by the EU Member States.
are subject to possible enforcement activity by national regulatory The IED provides the framework for setting permits for major industrial authorities.
Relative to IPPC and LCPD, the IED imposes tighter emission t O UIF 6, TJHOJmDBOU IFBMUI BOE TBGFUZ MFHJTMBUJPO BGGFDUJOH #1 JODMVEFT standards for some large combustion plants and is more prescriptive the Health and Safety at Work Act and regulations and the Control of regarding the setting of emission of limit values based on use of Best Major Accident Hazards Regulations.
Available Techniques BAT in permits for other discharges to air and water.
The emission limit values are informed by the Sector specic and The EU Commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation on safety cross-Sector BAT Reference documents BREFs which are reviewed of offshore oil and gas prospection, exploration and production activities.
The outcome of the review of several BREFs key to our The proposed regulation aims to introduce harmonized regulation of the major sites is expected in 2012 2013.
The IED transposition and output potential environmental, health and safety impacts of the offshore oil and from the BREF revisions may result in requirements for further emission gas industry throughout EU waters.
Although it is at an early stage in the reductions at our EU sites.
"legislative process, as published the proposal is not entirely aligned with t 5IF &VSPQFBO $PNNJTTJPO 5IFNBUJD 4USBUFHZ PO ""JS 1PMMVUJPO BOE UIF the regime operating in the UK and could also, if adopted, have the effect related work on revisions to the Gothenburg Protocol and National of extending liability for clean-up and compensation of environmental Emissions Ceiling Directive NECD will establish national ceilings for damage to marine waters."
emissions of a variety of air pollutants in order to achieve EU-wide health and environmental improvement targets.
This may result in requirements Environmental maritime regulations for further emission reductions at our EU sites.
BPs shipping operations are subject to extensive national and international t 5IF &6 3FHVMBUJPO PO P[POF EFQMFUJOH TVCTUBODFT 0%4 XIJDI regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill prevention and implements the Montreal Protocol Protocol on ODS was most recently insurance.
"It requires BP to reduce the use of ODS and phase t O 64 XBUFST 01"" JNQPTFT MJBCJMJUZ BOE TQJMM QSFWFOUJPO BOE QMBOOJOH out use of certain ODS substances."
BP continues to replace ODS in requirements governing, among others, tankers, barges and offshore refrigerants and or equipment, in the EU and elsewhere, in accordance facilities.
It also mandates a levy on imported and domestically produced with the Protocol and related legislation.
Methyl bromide an ODS is oil to fund the oil spill response.
Some states, including Alaska, a minor by-product in the production of puried terephthalic acid in Washington, Oregon and California, impose additional liability for oil our petrochemicals operations.
The progressive phase-out of methyl spills.
bromide uses may result in future pressure to reduce our emissions of t 0VUTJEF 64 UFSSJUPSJBM XBUFST #1 4IJQQJOH UBOLFST BSF TVCKFDU UP methyl bromide.
international liability, spill response and preparedness regulations under the UNs International Maritime Organization, including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, the MARPOL, the International Convention on Oil Pollution, Preparedness, Response and Co-operation and the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In April 2010, a new protocol, the 108 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: BP in more depth Business review Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Convention 2010 was adopted targets for emissions not covered by the EU Emissions Trading Scheme to address issues that have inhibited ratication of the International ETS : binding national renewable energy targets to double renewable Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection energy in the EU including at least a 10% share of final energy in with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea 1996 transport: a legal framework to promote carbon capture and storage the HNS Convention.
This protocol will enter into force when at least CCS : and a revised EU ETS Phase 3.
EU ETS revisions include a GHG 12 states have agreed to be bound by it four of the states must have at reduction of 21% from 2005 levels, a significant increase in allowance least 2 million gross tonnes of shipping and contributing parties in the auctioning, an expanded scope sectors and gases, no free allocations consenting states have received at least 40 million tonnes of contributing for electricity production but free allocations for energy-intense and trade cargoes in the preceding year.
The EU ETS regulates approximately onet OUFSOBUJPOBM NBSJOF GVFM SFHVMBUJPOT VOEFS OUFSOBUJPOBM.
BSJUJNF fifth of our reported 2011 global GHG emissions and can be expected Organization IMO and International Convention for the Prevention to require additional expenditure from 2013 when Phase 3 comes into of Pollution from Ships MARPOL regimes impose stricter sulphur effect.
Finally, EU energy efficiency policy is currently addressed via emission restrictions on ships in EU ports and inland waterways and national energy efficiency action plans.
"the North and Baltic seas since 2010 and with a stricter global cap on t ""SUJDMF B PG UIF SFWJTFE &6 'VFMT 2VBMJUZ %JSFDUJWF SFRVJSFT GVFM TVQQMJFST marine sulphur emissions beginning in 2012."
Further reductions are to to reduce the life cycle GHG emissions per unit of fuel and energy be phased in thereafter.
These restrictions require the use of compliant supplied in certain transport markets.
"heavy fuel oil HFO or distillate, or the installation of abatement t ""VTUSBMJB IBT DPNNJUUFE UP SFEVDF JUT FNJTTJPOT CZ BU MFBTU technologies on ships."
These regulations will place additional costs on below 2000 levels by 2020.
In support of this, a Clean Energy legislative reneries producing marine fuel, including costs to dispose of sulphur, package of 19 bills was passed in November 2011 which includes as well as increased GHG emissions and energy costs for additional imposing a carbon price on the top 500 emitting entities meeting the rening.
The carbon price is scheduled to take effect from 1 July 2012 with a xed price of $23 Australian dollar indexed to To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP Shipping maintains forecast ination until 1 July 2015, an international linked price trading marine liability pollution insurance to a maximum limit of $1 billion for each with oor and ceiling prices from 1 July 2015 through to 1 July 2018, and occurrence through mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs but there a market based price trading forward.
A certain portion of allowances can be no assurance that a spill will necessarily be adequately covered by will be distributed to emission intensive trade exposed businesses for insurance or that liabilities will not exceed insurance recoveries.
no cost: this transitional support decreases with time.
The majority of our Australia business emissions will be subject to the pricing scheme and Greenhouse gas regulation will require additional expenditures for compliance.
Increasing concerns about climate change have led to a number of t FX :FBMBOE IBT BHSFFE UP DVU FNJTTJPOT CZ CFMPX international climate agreements and negotiations are ongoing.
1990 levels by 2020, subject to a comprehensive global agreement t 5IF, ZPUP 1SPUPDPM DPNNJUT UIF QBSUJFT BOE PUIFS FOUJUJFT UP NFFU for emissions reductions coming into force.
New Zealands emission emissions targets in the first commitment period from 2008 to 2012. trading scheme NZ ETS commenced on 1 July 2010 for transport fuels, t 5IF 6 TVNNJU JO $BODVO JO %FDFNCFS XIFSF parties to the industrial processes, and stationary energy.
The agriculture sector 45% UN Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC reached of New Zealands GHG emissions has been proposed to join the NZ ETS formal agreement on a balanced package of measures to 2020.
New Zealand also employs a portfolio of mandatory Cancun Agreement recognizes that deep cuts in global GHG emissions and voluntary complementary measures aimed at GHG reductions.
A are required to hold the increase in global temperature to below 2C.
September 2011 review of the scheme recommended effective delays Signatories formally commit to carbon reduction targets or actions by to near-term emissions reductions targets, citing a lack of international 2020.
Around 114 countries, including all the major economies and many action on cutting emissions.
developing countries, have made such commitments supplemented t O UIF 64 XJUI OP DVSSFOU QPUFOUJBM GPS QBTTJOH DPNQSFIFOTJWF DMJNBUF currently by an additional 27 parties that have agreed to be listed as legislation, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA continues to agreeing to the accord.
Supporting those efforts, principles were pursue regulatory measures to address GHGs under the Clean Air Act CAA.
agreed for monitoring, verifying and reporting emissions reductions: In late 2009, the EPA released a GHG endangerment nding to establishment of a green fund to help developing countries limit and establish its authority to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA.
adapt to climate change: and measures to protect forests and transfer Subsequent to this, the EPA nalized regulations imposing light duty low-carbon technology to poorer nations.
vehicle emissions standards for GHGs.
t O PWFNCFS QBSUJFT UP UIF 6 '$$$ DPOGFSFODF JO %VSCBO $01 The EPA nalized the initial GHG mandatory reporting rule GHGRR 17 agreed several measures.
One was a roadmap for negotiating in 2009 and continues to make amendments to the rule.
The first a legal framework by 2015 for action on climate change involving all reports under the GHGRR were due on or before 30 September 2011. countries by 2020, to close the ambition gap between existing GHG The majority of BPs US businesses were affected by the GHGRR reduction pledges and what is required to achieve the goal of limiting and submitted their first GHG emissions reports to the EPA under the global temperature rise to 2C.
Another was a second commitment GHGRR on or before the 30 September 2011 deadline.
In addition period for the Kyoto Protocol, to begin immediately after the first period to direct emissions from affected facilities, producers and importers and run for five or eight years.
However, it will not include the US, exporters of petroleum products, certain natural gas liquids, and GHGs Canada, Japan and Russia, and quantitative targets and the rules for were required to report product volumes and notional GHG emissions carry-over of allowances from the first commitment will not be agreed should these products be fully combusted.
The EPA released until the end of 2012. direct emission data and a small subset of product supplier data on 11 January 2012, with certain condential business information These international concerns and agreements are reected in national protections, in a tool enabled database which allows transparency and regional measures to limit GHG emissions.
Additional stricter to the individual facility entity level.
Release of the balance of the measures can be expected in the future.
These measures can increase product supply data is expected soon along with release of additional our production costs for certain products, increase demand for competing non-condential information which will enable aggregation of reported energy alternatives or products with lower-carbon intensity and affect the emissions to the highest level US parent company.
sales and specications of many of our products.
Current measures and The EPA nalized permitting requirements for new or modied large developments potentially affecting our businesses include the following: GHG emission sources in 2010, with these regulations taking effect in t 5IF &VSPQFBO 6OJPO &6 IBT BHSFFE BO PWFSBMM SFEVDUJPO UBSHFU January 2011 and the second phase taking effect on 1 July 2011.
To meet this, a Climate and Energy Package of EPA has committed to additional actions, beginning in 2012, relating regulatory measures has been adopted including: national reduction to smaller sources of GHG emissions.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 109
