Business review: BP in more depth Business review Completing the response At the request of the FOSC, several NEBA studies and specialized activities Throughout 2011, BP, working under the direction of the US Coast Guards were carried out, including an effort to detect anchors that had been Federal On-Scene Coordinator FOSC, and collaboratively with individual deployed during the response to keep containment boom in place.
Based federal and state entities, continued to complete the Deepwater Horizon on the NEBA results, the NEBA team recommended that the FOSC let operational response activities as described below.
the anchors remain in place to allow them to degrade through natural processes.
Source control and site remediation During the first half of 2011, BP completed the decommissioning of all Economic restoration source control equipment including all vessels used in the response.
We BP continued to support economic recovery in local communities through a also completed plugging and abandonment P&A of the second relief well variety of actions and programmes in 2011. and conducted a seabed survey.
BP conducted a further site survey of the Macondo wellhead and the two relief wells during the third quarter of Deepwater Horizon Trust activity 2011.
Following these surveys it was determined that no further activity is BP has established the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust in the necessary at the well site.
amount of $20 billion to be used in compensating individuals, businesses, During the year we continued our efforts to recover and recycle government entities and others who have been impacted by the oil spill.
waste material in order to minimize impacts.
We also continued or The Trust provides funds to satisfy legitimate state and local government completed the site remediation of multiple locations that were used during claims resolved by BP, final judgments and settlements, legitimate state the response.
and local response costs, natural resource damages and related costs, and legitimate individual and business claims administered by the GCCF, Residual clean-up in the Gulf of Mexico which has been managed by Kenneth Feinberg.
The proposed economic Since the beginning of the Deepwater Horizon response multi-party loss settlement announced on 3 March 2012 with the Plaintiffs Steering Shoreline Clean-up Assessment Technique SCAT teams have Committee on MDL 2179 provides for a transition from the GCCF.
A courtcontinuously and systematically surveyed the shoreline to assess oiling supervised transitional claims process for economic loss claims will be in conditions and develop shoreline treatment recommendations STRs, operation while the infrastructure for the new settlement claims process which are implemented at the direction of the FOSC.
Over 110,000 miles is put in place.
During this transitional period, the processing of claims that of aerial reconnaissance ights were conducted across the 11,000 miles of have been submitted to the GCCF will continue and new claimants may Gulf Coast shoreline.
From this surveillance information, the SCAT teams submit their claims.
The establishment of the Trust does not represent identied more than 4,300 miles for further, ground-based survey.
Of the a cap or oor on BPs liabilities and BP does not admit to a liability of Gulf Coast shoreline, 635 miles required some measure of mechanical or this amount.
In 2011, $1 billion was voluntarily set aside in the Trust for NRD During 2011, mechanical or manual cleaning of the majority of early restoration projects.
BP is working with federal and state trustees to the segments was completed.
Patrolling and maintenance activities select appropriate projects that will enhance habitats, wildlife and access were initiated and will continue until the shoreline segments meet the for recreational use.
applicable clean-up standards for the FOSC to determine that operational As at 31 December 2011, BPs cumulative contributions to the removal activity is complete.
In November 2011, the FOSC also approved Trust amounted to $15.1 billion since its inception, including our secondthe Shoreline Clean-up Completion plan.
This plan describes the process year commitment of $5 billion and a total of $5.1 billion cash settlements whereby the various shoreline segments included in the area of response received during 2011 from MOEX USA Corporation MOEX, Weatherford operations can be surveyed, veried as meeting the applicable clean-up US.
L. P. Weatherford, and Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Anadarko.
standards, and moved out of operational activity.
It is expected that the The remaining committed contributions as at 31 December 2011 totalling majority of the 4,300 miles of the Gulf Coast shoreline within the area of $4.9 billion are scheduled to be made by the end of 2012.
In January response will be deemed operationally complete within 2012.
2012, we contributed to the Trust the $250 million settlement received Environmentally sensitive areas were often hand cleaned.
In some from Cameron International Corporation Cameron.
The Trust disbursed areas cleaning was paused at the direction of, or in consultation with, $3.7 billion in 2011 and the total paid out since its establishment amounted wildlife scientists, to minimize interference with migration patterns or to $6.7 billion by the end of 2011. breeding cycles.
The Coast Guard has indicated that if oil is discovered in a segment Claims payments that has been deemed operationally complete, the Coast Guard will follow All payments that were made in 2011 for legitimate claims by individuals, long-standing response protocols established under the law and contact businesses and government entities were paid from the Trust.
During the whoever it believes is the responsible party or parties.
year, individuals and businesses received $3.1 billion in payments through the GCCF.
More than 189,000 individual and business claimants accepted Response efforts guided by science full and final settlements, while about 33,000 received interim payments.
At the direction of the FOSC, scientific studies were conducted to study Since May 2010, more than $6.2 billion has been paid to individuals and the status of oil and dispersants in the water and sediments of the Gulf.
businesses through the claims process, with the Trust paying $5.8 billion of These studies are being used to guide continuing response activities in the this and BP paying the remainder prior to the establishment of the Trust.
near shore environment and to better understand the potential impacts Government entities received more than $40 million in claims of residual oil.
These results have been published in Operational scientific payments during 2011.
Nearly 60 loss-of-revenue claims have been paid to Advisory Team OSAT reports OSAT-1 and OSAT-2 reports, and a toxicity government entities since May 2010.
By the end of 2011, BP had resolved addendum and Net Environmental Benets Analysis reports NEBAs.
over 90% of government claims led.
These reports confirmed the appropriateness of the steps taken to During 2011, BP paid a total of $7.7 million to vessel owners whose remove oil and mitigate the impact on the environment.
The OSAT-2 report vessels were involved in clean-up and protection activities as part of the determined that further efforts, beyond guidelines established by the Vessels of Opportunity VoO programme.
In an effort to ensure fairness, FOSC to remove the residual oil from the shoreline, could potentially pose BP instructed the external adjusters to broaden the original compensation a greater risk to the environment than allowing the residual oil to degrade guidelines.
Once the new guidelines were established, adjusters have and naturally.
are continuing to re-examine property damage claims from about 1,200 To assess the potential impacts on fauna, the FOSC directed the vessel owners, whose property-damage claims had previously been denied OSAT scientists to conduct a comprehensive toxicity study.
The report, or partially paid to ensure that property damages reported by claimants which was an addendum to the OSAT-1 report, was issued on 8 July 2011. have been adequately addressed.
Of the approximately 3,500 toxicity tests conducted, 90% showed no statistically significant effects on wildlife.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 77
