Miscellaneous terms In this document, unless the context Joint control mmcf d otherwise requires, the following terms Joint control is the contractually agreed million cubic feet per day.
shall have the meaning set out below.
sharing of control over an economic MW ADR activity, and exists only when the Megawatt.
strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require NGLs ADS the unanimous consent of the parties Natural gas liquids.
OECD AGM Joint venture Organization for Economic Co-operation Annual general meeting.
A contractual arrangement whereby two and Development.
Amoco or more parties undertake an economic OPEC The former Amoco Corporation and its activity that is subject to joint control.
Organization of Petroleum Exporting subsidiaries.
Atlantic Richeld A joint venture where the venturers Ordinary shares Atlantic Richeld Company and its jointly control, and often have a direct Ordinary fully paid shares in BP p. l. c. of subsidiaries.
ownership interest in the assets of the 25c each.
The assets are used to obtain Associate Pence or p benets for the venturers.
Each venturer An entity, including an unincorporated One-hundredth of a pound sterling.
may take a share of the output from the entity such as a partnership, over which assets and each bears an agreed share Pound, sterling or the group has significant influence and of the expenses incurred.
that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
significant influence is the Jointly controlled entity Preference shares power to participate in the financial and A joint venture that involves the Cumulative First Preference Shares and operating policy decisions of an entity establishment of a corporation, Cumulative Second Preference Shares in but is not control or joint control over partnership or other entity in which each BP p. l. c. of 1 each.
A contractual PSA arrangement between the venturers Barrel bbl A production-sharing agreement PSA is establishes joint control over the 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
an arrangement through which an oil economic activity of the entity.
b d company bears the risks and costs of Liquids barrels per day.
exploration, development and Crude oil, condensate and natural gas production.
In return, if exploration is boe liquids.
successful, the oil company receives barrels of oil equivalent.
entitlement to variable physical volumes LNG BP, BP group or the group of hydrocarbons, representing recovery Liqueed natural gas.
BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries.
of the costs incurred and a stipulated London Stock Exchange or LSE share of the production remaining after Burmah Castrol London Stock Exchange plc.
Burmah Castrol PLC and its subsidiaries.
LPG SEC Cent or c Liqueed petroleum gas.
The United States Securities and One-hundredth of the US dollar.
The company Multi-District Litigation proceedings Subsidiary BP p. l. c. pending in New Orleans.
An entity that is controlled by the BP Dollar or $ group.
Control is the power to govern MDL 2185 The US dollar.
the financial and operating policies of an Multi-District Litigation proceedings entity so as to obtain the benets from pending in Houston.
mb d Tonne thousand barrels per day.
mboe d thousand barrels of oil equivalent per Trust Gas day.
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust.
mmBtu UK GCRO million British thermal units.
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Gulf Coast Restoration Organization.
mmboe Hydrocarbons million barrels of oil equivalent.
US Crude oil and natural gas.
mmcf IFRS million cubic feet.
4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
