Corporate governance continued to make progress in addressing the main safety, ethical and Gulf of Mexico committee environmental challenges confronting it since it was formed in 2003.
The Chairmans introduction committee will continue to monitor progress regularly.
The Gulf of Mexico committee was very active in 2011, meeting 16 times The committee continued to receive reports on the joint venture over the course of the year.
In addition to overseeing efforts to mitigate the operations in Iraq, and in particular was briefed by the companys head of effects of the spill, the companys strategy for resolving claims, and actions security on the risks and management of security in Iraq.
As mentioned to restore the groups reputation, the committee focused a considerable above, the committee reviewed the companys shipping activities in 2011 portion of its attention on legal matters.
Some of these legal matters and was briefed on the functions response to the threat of piracy in the included settlements reached with BPs partners in the Macondo well and waters off the Somali coast.
various contractors, preparations for the upcoming trial in the Multi-District The committee also examined quarterly audit reports from BPs Litigation and ongoing governmental investigations.
internal audit and safety and operational risk functions which highlighted We have been joined in meetings by the leadership, management key findings and material actions arising from audits which had taken and counsel of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO, which was place at segment, functional and regional levels and tracked their close formed in mid-2010 to manage the companys long-term response to the out.
During the year the committee also received written reports from the tragic Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
The committee members understanding group ethics and compliance officer.
of the important issues and numerous interdependencies has been Activities from the executive-level group operations risk committee facilitated by the frequency of meetings and the breadth of topics covered.
GORC are reported to the SEEAC by the group chief executive and I believe the committee has maintained a rigorous approach to its executive vice president S&OR at each meeting.
Improved co-ordination work, providing effective oversight on behalf of the board, to which reports of agenda planning was achieved to facilitate executive management level are provided following committee meetings.
The report below summarizes review of key risk topics prior to board level review at SEEAC.
The SEEAC the activities of the committee in 2011.
I anticipate 2012 will be an equally also received regular updates on the companys interaction with regulatory demanding year but the committee is well prepared to conduct its tasks.
Ian Davis Committee evaluation Gulf of Mexico committee chair For its 2011 evaluation, the SEEAC again used a questionnaire administered by external consultants to examine the committees Committee members performance and effectiveness.
The committee responded to the same Ian Davis committee chair questions as used in 2010 so that any change trends could be discerned.
Paul Anderson The topics covered included the balance of skills and experience among its Frank Bowman joined the committee 3 February 2012 membership, quality and timeliness of information the committee receives, Sir William Castell the level of challenge between committee members and management and George David how well the committee communicates its activities and findings to the board.
In 2011 the membership of the Gulf of Mexico committee remained the In 2010 the committee had concluded that it should increase its site same as in 2010, including two US-based non-executive directors and the visits and training.
In 2011, as reported above, the committee believed it previous and present chairmen of the SEEAC.
There is cross-membership had increased these activities signicantly and agreed it should continue to with the audit committee, helping to inform discussions at the latter do so in 2012.
It also noted that given its broad remit across non-financial regarding financial controls and incident-related costs.
Frank Bowman risk, it would need to continue to balance that breadth with heightened joined the committee in February 2012. focus on specic risk and performance topics.
It viewed its increased Each meeting of the committee is attended by Lamar McKay, use of member visits and briengs as important tool towards achieving President and CEO of the GCRO, and by Jack Lynch, chief counsel to the that heightened focus.
Overall the committee considered that its current GCRO.
The chairman, group chief executive and group general counsel join membership provided a well-balanced and experienced resource, and also the meeting whenever possible.
Meetings also include private sessions noted the valuable contribution made by Mr Wilson in his capacity as the attended by non-executive members only.
Committee role and structure The purpose of the committee is to provide non-executive oversight of the GCRO and to support efforts to rebuild trust in BP and BPs reputation with a particular focus on the US.
The work of the committee is fully integrated with the work of the board on reputation, safety, strategy and financial planning, and the board retains ultimate accountability for oversight of the groups response to the incident.
Directors are invited to attend and observe committee meetings.
Committee meeting minutes are circulated to the board, and the committee chairman provides verbal reports on the committees activities at board meetings.
The committee met 16 times in 2011.
During the course of 2011, the committee has undertaken the following tasks: t 0WFSTFF BOE SFDFJWF SFHVMBS SFQPSUT PO XPSL VOEFSUBLFO UP NJUJHBUF UIF effects of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico area.
t 0WFSTFF $30 T DP-ordinated response programme for affected communities and states, along with its strategies for managing external relationships on issues relating to the incident.
t 0WFSTFF UIF MFHBM TUSBUFHZ GPS MJUJHBUJPO BOE JOWFTUJHBUJPOT JOWPMWJOH UIF group arising from the incident or its aftermath.
t 0WFSTFF $30 T TUSBUFHZ GPS SFTPMWJOH DMBJNT SFDPHOJzing the independent role of the Gulf Coast Claims Facility.
130 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
