Business review Midstream activities via BPs LNG marketing and trading business to a variety of markets Oil and natural gas transportation including the US, the Dominican Republic, Spain, the UK, Japan, India The group has direct or indirect interests in certain crude oil and natural and South Korea.
"The following narrative details the significant t 8F IBWF B FRVJUZ TIBSFIPMEJOH JO UIF ""CV %IBCJ BTJRVFGBDUJPO events that occurred during 2011 by country."
Company, which in 2011 supplied 5.76 million tonnes of LNG 297 billion BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related cubic feet equivalent regasied.
"transportation assets are included under Rening and Marketing see t #1 IBT B TIBSF JO UIF ""OHPMB - QSPKFDU XIJDI JT FYQFDUFE UP page 94. receive approximately 1 billion cubic feet of associated gas per day from offshore producing blocks and to produce 5.2 million tonnes per annum Alaska of LNG gross, as well as related gas liquids products."
Construction and BP owns a 46.9% interest in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System TAPS, implementation of the project is proceeding and the plant is expected to with the balance owned by four other companies.
The TAPS transports start up in 2012. crude oil from Prudhoe Bay on the Alaska North Slope to the port of t O OEPOFTJB #1 JT JOWPMWFE JO UXP PG UIF UISFF - DFOUSFT JO UIF Valdez in south-east Alaska.
BP also owns a 50% interest in a joint venture country.
BP participates in Indonesias LNG exports through its holdings company called Denali The Alaska Gas Pipeline Denali.
BZ %FOBMJ BOOPVODFE UIBU JUT PQFO TFBTPO FGGPSUT EJE OPU around 13% of the total gas feed to Bontang, one of the worlds largest result in the commitments necessary to continue work on the Alaska LNG plants.
The Bontang plant produced more than 15 million tonnes of North Slope gas pipeline project.
Denali also indicated that it planned to LNG in 2011. close out its operations over the remainder of 2011.
"As a 50% owner in t ""MTP JO OEPOFTJB #1 IBT JUT mSTU PQFSBUFE - QMBOU 5BOHHVI #1 Denali, BP, along with co-owner ConocoPhillips, was directly involved 37.16%, in Papua Barat."
The asset comprises of 14 producing wells, in the decision to terminate Denalis activities.
BPs focus as an owner two offshore platforms, two pipelines and an LNG plant with two in Denali was to create a viable alternative for the owners of the North production trains with a total capacity of 7.6 million tonnes per annum.
Slope gas resource to commercialize their gas.
BP has determined that Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in China, South Korea, Mexico and the North American natural gas market does not support the project at Japan through long-term contracts.
BP is currently progressing options to this time.
The Denali effort marked an important step in advancing the expand the Tangguh facilities.
industry understanding of the gas pipeline opportunity in Alaska.
"BP will t O ""VTUSBMJB #1 JT POF PG TFWFO QBSUOFST JO UIF 84 WFOUVSF 5IF KPJOU continue to pursue ways to commercialize our Alaskan gas resource."
venture operation covers offshore production platforms, trunklines, onshore gas and LNG processing plants and LNG carriers.
BPs net share North Sea of the capacity of NWS LNG trains 1-5 is 2.7 million tonnes per annum In the UK sector of the North Sea, BP operates the Forties Pipeline System of LNG.
BP is one of five partners in the Browse LNG venture operated FPS BP 100%, an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and processing by Woodside and holds approximately a 17% interest.
A greeneld system that handles production from more than 50 elds in the central LNG development at a proposed state government LNG precinct in North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than 1 million barrels per the Kimberley region is currently in the early design stage and remains day, with average throughput in 2011 of 473mboe d. BP also operates subject to regulatory, company and partner approvals.
and has a 36% interest in the Central Area Transmission System CATS, t #1 IBT B FRVJUZ TUBLF JO UIF NUQB DBQBDJUZ VBOHEPOH - a 400-kilometre natural gas pipeline system in the central UK sector of regasication and pipeline project in south-east China, making it the the North Sea.
The pipeline has a transportation capacity of 293mboe d only foreign partner in Chinas LNG import business.
The terminal is to a natural gas terminal at Teesside in north-east England.
Average also supplied under a long-term contract with Australias NWS project in throughput in 2011 was 39mboe d. CATS offers natural gas transportation which BP has an interest.
"In addition, BP operates the Sullom Voe oil t O CPUI UIF ""UMBOUJD BOE ""TJBO SFHJPOT #1 JT NBSLFUJOH - VTJOH #1 and gas terminal in Shetland and the Dimlington Easington Terminals in LNG shipping and contractual rights to access import terminal capacity in Humberside."
Dimlington and Easington form part of the southern gas the liquid markets of the US via Cove Point and Elba Island, the UK via assets that BP announced its intention to sell in February 2011 see the Isle of Grain and Italy Rovigo, and is supplying Asian customers in Disposals on page 83.
Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.
Asia Gas marketing and trading activities BP, as operator, holds a 30.1% interest in and manages the Baku-TbilisiGas and power marketing and trading activity is undertaken primarily in Ceyhan BTC oil pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline transports oil the US, Canada and Europe to market both BP production and third-party from the BP-operated ACG oileld in the Caspian Sea to the eastern natural gas, to support group LNG activities and manage market price risk, Mediterranean port of Ceyhan and has a capacity of 1.2 million barrels as well as to create incremental trading opportunities through the use of per day.
BP is technical operator of, and holds a 25.5% interest in, the commodity derivative contracts.
Additionally, this activity generates fee 693-kilometre South Caucasus Pipeline, which takes gas from Azerbaijan income and enhances margins from sources such as the management of through Georgia to the Turkish border and has a capacity of 780mmscf d. price risk on behalf of third-party customers.
These markets are large, liquid In addition, BP operates the Azerbaijan section of the Western Export and volatile.
Market conditions have become more challenging over the Route Pipeline between Azerbaijan and the Black Sea coast of Georgia past few years due to the availability of shale gas and increased pipeline as operator of Azerbaijan International Operating Company.
This has resulted in limited basis differentials and faster changes in production volumes in response to price movements.
Liqueed natural gas However, new markets are continuing to develop with continental Our LNG activities are focused on building competitively advantaged European markets opening up and LNG becoming more liquid.
The liquefaction projects, establishing diversied market positions to create business including support functions operates primarily from ofces in maximum value for our upstream natural gas resources and capturing thirdHouston and London and employs around 1,500 people.
party LNG supply to complement our equity ows.
Assets and significant In connection with its trading activities, the group uses a range events in 2011 included: of commodity derivative contracts and storage and transport contracts.
"a t O 5SJOJEBE #1 T OFU TIBSF PG UIF DBQBDJUZ PG ""UMBOUJD - USBJOT 1, These include commodity derivatives such as futures, swaps and options 2, 3 and 4 is 6 million tonnes of LNG per year 292 billion cubic feet to manage price risk and forward contracts used to buy and sell gas and equivalent regasied."
All of the LNG from Atlantic train 1 and most of power in the marketplace.
Using these contracts, in combination with the LNG from trains 2 and 3 is sold to third parties in the US and Spain rights to access storage and transportation capacity, allows the group to under long-term contracts.
All of BPs LNG entitlement from Atlantic a See footnote a on page 87.
LNG train 4 and some of its entitlement from trains 2 and 3 is marketed 88 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
