Additional information for shareholders two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in federal court in Houston for Legal proceedings the securities, derivative, ERISA and dividend cases and another in federal court in New Orleans for the remaining cases.
Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill On 1 June 2010, the US Department of Justice DoJ announced BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BP E&P and various other BP that it is conducting an investigation into the Incident encompassing entities collectively referred to as BP are among the companies named possible violations of US civil or criminal laws.
The types of enforcement as defendants in approximately 600 private civil lawsuits resulting from the action that might be pursued and the nature of the remedies that might 20 April 2010 explosions and re on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater be sought will depend on the judgement and discretion of the prosecutors Horizon and resulting oil spill the Incident and further actions are likely and regulatory authorities and their assessment as to whether BP has to be brought.
BP E&P is lease operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block violated any applicable laws and its culpability following their investigations.
252 in the Gulf of Mexico Macondo, where the Deepwater Horizon was Such enforcement actions could include criminal proceedings against deployed at the time of the Incident.
The other working interest owners at BP and or employees of the group.
Prosecutors have broad discretion in the time of the Incident were Anadarko Petroleum Company Anadarko identifying what, if any, charges to pursue, but such charges could include, and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
The Deepwater Horizon, among others, criminal environmental, criminal securities, manslaughter which was owned and operated by certain afliates of Transocean Ltd. and obstruction-related offences.
The United States led a civil complaint Transocean, sank on 22 April 2010.
The pending lawsuits and or claims in the multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans against BP E&P arising from the Incident have been brought in US federal and state courts.
and others on 15 December 2010 DoJ Action.
The complaint seeks a Plaintiffs include individuals, corporations, insurers, and governmental declaration of liability under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 and civil entities and many of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits penalties under the Clean Water Act and sets forth a purported reservation assert, among others, claims for personal injury in connection with the of rights on behalf of the US to amend the complaint or le additional Incident itself and the response to it, wrongful death, commercial and complaints seeking various remedies under various US federal laws economic injury, breach of contract and violations of statutes.
On 8 December 2011, the US brought a motion for partial seek various remedies including compensation to injured workers and summary judgment seeking, among other things, an order nding that BP, families of deceased workers, recovery for commercial losses and property Transocean, and Anadarko are strictly liable for a civil penalty under Section damage, claims for environmental damage, remediation costs, claims 311 b 7 A of the Clean Water Act.
for unpaid wages, injunctive and declaratory relief, treble damages and On 18 February 2011, Transocean led a third-party complaint punitive damages.
Purported classes of claimants include residents of against BP, the US government, and other corporations involved in the the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Incident, naming those entities as formal parties in its Limitation of Liability Kentucky, Georgia and South Carolina, property owners and rental agents, action pending in federal court in New Orleans.
shermen and persons dependent on the shing industry, charter boat On 4 April 2011, BP initiated contractual out-of-court dispute owners and deck hands, marina owners, gasoline distributors, shipping resolution proceedings against Anadarko and MOEX, claiming that interests, restaurant and hotel owners, cruise lines and others who are they have breached the parties contract by failing to reimburse BP property and or business owners alleged to have suffered economic loss.
for their working-interest share of Incident-related costs.
On 19 April Among other claims arising from the spill response efforts, lawsuits have 2011, Anadarko led a cross-claim against BP, alleging gross negligence been led claiming that additional payments are due by BP under certain and 15 other counts under state and federal laws.
Anadarko sought a Master Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the declaration that it was excused from its contractual obligation to pay Vessels of Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to Incident-related costs.
Anadarko also sought damages from alleged the Incident.
economic losses and contribution or indemnity for claims led against it Shareholder derivative lawsuits related to the Incident have also by other parties.
On 20 May 2011, BP and MOEX announced a settlement been led in US federal and state courts against various current and agreement of all claims between them, including a cross-claim brought former ofcers and directors of BP alleging, among other things, breach by MOEX on 19 April 2011 similar to the Anadarko claim.
Under the of duciary duty, gross mismanagement, abuse of control and waste of settlement agreement, MOEX has paid BP $1.065 billion, which BP has corporate assets.
On 15 September 2011, the judge in the federal multiapplied towards the $20-billion Trust and has also agreed to transfer all of district litigation proceeding in Houston granted BPs motion to dismiss the its 10% interest in the MC252 lease to BP.
On 17 October 2011, BP and consolidated shareholder derivative litigation pending there on the grounds Anadarko announced that they had reached a final agreement to settle all that the courts of England are the appropriate forum for the litigation.
On claims between the companies related to the Incident, including mutual 8 December 2011, a final judgment was entered dismissing the shareholder releases of all claims between BP and Anadarko that are subject to the derivative case, and on 3 January 2012, one of the derivative plaintiffs led contractual out-of-court dispute resolution proceedings or the federal a notice of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
Under the settlement On 13 February 2012, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation agreement, Anadarko has paid BP $4 billion, which BP has applied towards proceeding in Houston issued two decisions on the defendants motions to the $20-billion Trust, and has also agreed to transfer all of its 25% interest dismiss the two consolidated securities fraud complaints led on behalf of in the MC252 lease to BP.
The settlement agreement also grants Anadarko purported classes of BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders.
In those the opportunity for a 12.5% participation in certain future recoveries decisions the court dismissed all of the claims of the ordinary shareholders, from third parties and certain insurance proceeds in the event that such dismissed the claims of the lead class of ADS holders against most of the recoveries and proceeds exceed $1.5 billion in aggregate.
Any such individual defendants while holding that a subset of the claims against two payments to Anadarko are capped at a total of $1 billion.
BP has agreed to individual defendants and the corporate defendants could proceed, and indemnify Anadarko and MOEX for certain claims arising from the Incident dismissed all of the claims of a smaller purported subclass with leave to excluding civil, criminal or administrative fines and penalties, claims for re-plead in 20 days.
punitive damages, and certain other claims.
The settlement agreements Purported class action lawsuits have been led in US federal courts with Anadarko and MOEX are not an admission of liability by any party against BP entities and various current and former ofcers and directors regarding the Incident.
alleging, among other things, securities fraud claims, violations of the On 20 April 2011, Transocean led claims in its Limitation of Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA and contractual and Liability action alleging that BP had breached BP America Production quasi-contractual claims related to the cancellation of the dividend on Companys contract with Transocean Holdings LLC by BP not agreeing 16 June 2010.
In addition, BP has been named in several lawsuits alleging to indemnify Transocean against liability related to the Incident and by not claims under the Racketeer-influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act paying certain invoices.
Transocean also asserted claims against BP under RICO.
In August 2010, many of the lawsuits pending in federal court were state law, maritime law, and OPA 90 for contribution.
On 1 November consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation into 2011, Transocean led a motion for partial summary judgment on certain claims led in the Limitation Action and the DoJ Action between BP and Transocean.
Transoceans motion sought an order which would bar BPs 160 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders contribution claims against Transocean and require BP to defend and liable for punitive damages or for civil penalties under the Clean Water indemnify Transocean against all pollution claims, including those resulting Act.
The court further held that BPs obligation to defend Halliburton for from any gross negligence, and from civil fines and penalties sought by the third-party claims does not require BP to fund Halliburtons defence of government.
On 7 December 2011, BP led a cross-motion for third-party claims at this time, nor does it include Halliburtons expenses in summary judgment seeking an order that BP is not required to indemnify proving its right to indemnity.
The court deferred ruling on whether BP is Transocean for any civil fines and penalties sought by the government or required to indemnify Halliburton for any penalties or fines under the Outer for punitive damages.
It also deferred ruling on whether Halliburton On 26 January 2012, the judge ruled on BPs and Transoceans acted so as to invalidate the indemnity by breaching its contract with BP, indemnity motions, holding that BP is required to indemnify Transocean by committing fraud, or by committing another act that materially increased for third-party claims for compensatory damages resulting from pollution the risk to BP or prejudiced the rights of BP as an indemnitor.
originating beneath the surface of the water, regardless of whether On 1 September 2011, Halliburton led an additional lawsuit the claim results from Transoceans strict liability, negligence, or gross against BP in Texas state court.
Its complaint alleges that BP did not negligence.
The court, however, ruled that BP does not owe Transocean identify the existence of a purported hydrocarbon zone at the Macondo indemnity for such claims to the extent Transocean is held liable for well to Halliburton in connection with Halliburtons cement work performed punitive damages or for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act, or before the Incident and that BP has concealed the existence of this if Transocean acted with intentional or wilful misconduct in excess of purported hydrocarbon zone following the Incident.
Halliburton claims that gross negligence.
The court further held that BPs obligation to defend the alleged failure to identify this information has harmed its business Transocean for third-party claims does not require BP to fund Transoceans ventures and reputation and resulted in lost profits and other damages.
On defence of third-party claims at this time, nor does it include Transoceans 16 September 2011, BP removed the action to federal court, where it was expenses in proving its right to indemnity.
The court deferred a final ruling stayed pending a decision by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation on the question of whether Transocean breached its drilling contract with on transfer of the action to the multi-district litigation proceeding in New BP so as to invalidate the contracts indemnity clause.
On 1 September 2011, Halliburton also moved to amend its On 22 February 2012, the judge ruled on motions led in the claims in Transoceans Limitation of Liability action to add claims for fraud DoJ Action by the US, Anadarko, and Transocean seeking early rulings based on similar factual allegations to those included in its 1 September regarding the liability of BP, Anadarko, and Transocean under OPA 90 and 2011 lawsuit against BP in Texas state court.
On 11 October 2011, the the Clean Water Act, but limited the order to addressing the discharge of magistrate judge in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New hydrocarbons occurring under the surface of the water.
Regarding OPA Orleans denied Halliburtons motion to amend its claims, and Halliburtons 90, the judge held that BP and Anadarko are responsible parties under motion to review the order was denied by the judge on 19 December OPA 90 with regard to the subsurface discharge.
The judge ruled that BP 2011. and Anadarko have joint and several liability under OPA 90 for removal On 20 April 2011, BP asserted claims against Cameron, Halliburton, costs and damages for such discharge, but did not rule on whether such and Transocean in the Limitation of Liability action.
BPs claims against liability under OPA 90 is unlimited.
While the judge held that Transocean Transocean include breach of contract, unseaworthiness of the Deepwater is not a responsible party under OPA 90 for subsurface discharge, the Horizon vessel, negligence or gross negligence and or gross fault as judge left open the question of whether Transocean may be liable under may be established at trial based upon the evidence, contribution and OPA 90 for removal costs for such discharge as the owner operator of the subrogation for costs including those arising from litigation claims Deepwater Horizon.
Regarding the Clean Water Act, the judge held that resulting from the Incident, as well as a declaratory claim that Transocean the subsurface discharge was from the Macondo well, rather than from the is wholly or partly at fault for the Incident and responsible for its Deepwater Horizon, and that BP and Anadarko are liable for civil penalties proportionate share of the costs and damages.
BP asserted claims against under Section 311 of the Clean Water Act as owners of the well.
The judge Halliburton for fraud and fraudulent concealment based on Halliburtons left open the question of whether Transocean may be liable under the misrepresentations to BP concerning, among other things, the stability Clean Water Act as an operator of the Macondo well.
testing on the foamed cement used at the Macondo well: for negligence On 20 April 2011, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. Halliburton, or, if established by the evidence at trial, gross negligence based on led claims in Transoceans Limitation of Liability action seeking Halliburtons performance of its professional services, including cementing indemnification from BP for claims brought against Halliburton in that and mud logging services: and for contribution and subrogation for action, and Cameron International Corporation Cameron asserted claims amounts that BP has paid in responding to the Incident, as well as in OPA against BP for contribution under state law, maritime law, and OPA 90, as assessments and in payments to plaintiffs.
BP led a similar complaint in well as for contribution on the basis of comparative fault.
Halliburton also federal court in the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, against asserted a claim for negligence, gross negligence and wilful misconduct Halliburton, and the action was transferred on 4 May 2011 to the federal against BP and others.
On 19 April 2011, Halliburton led a separate multi-district litigation proceeding pending in New Orleans.
lawsuit in Texas state court seeking indemnification from BP E&P for On 20 April 2011, BP led claims against Cameron, Halliburton, and certain tort and pollution-related liabilities resulting from the Incident.
On Transocean in the DoJ Action, seeking contribution for any assessments 3 May 2011, BP E&P removed Halliburtons case to federal court, and against BP under OPA 90 based on those entities fault.
On 20 June 2011, on 9 August 2011, the action was transferred to the federal multi-district Cameron and Halliburton moved to dismiss BPs claims against them in litigation proceedings pending in New Orleans.
BPs claim against Cameron has been resolved pursuant to Subsequently, on 30 November 2011, Halliburton led a motion settlement, but Halliburtons motion remains pending.
for summary judgment in the federal multi-district litigation proceedings On 16 December 2011, BP and Cameron announced their pending in New Orleans.
Halliburtons motion seeks an order stating that agreement to settle all claims between the companies related to the Halliburton is entitled to full and complete indemnity, including payment of Incident, including mutual releases of claims between BP and Cameron defence costs, from BP for claims related to the Incident and denying BPs that are subject to the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New claims seeking contribution against Halliburton.
Under the settlement agreement, Cameron has paid BP $250 led a cross-motion for partial summary judgment seeking an order that BP million in cash in January 2012, which BP has applied towards the has no contractual obligation to indemnify Halliburton for fines, penalties, or $20-billion Trust.
BP has agreed to indemnify Cameron for compensatory punitive damages resulting from the Incident.
claims arising from the Incident, including claims brought relating to On 31 January 2012, the judge ruled on BPs and Halliburtons pollution damage or any damage to natural resources, but excluding civil, indemnity motions, holding that BP is required to indemnify Halliburton for criminal or administrative fines and penalties, claims for punitive damages, third-party claims for compensatory damages resulting from pollution that and certain other claims.
did not originate from property or equipment of Halliburton located above On 20 May 2011, Dril-Quip, Inc. and M-I L. L. C. M-I led claims the surface of the land or water, regardless of whether the claims result against BP in Transoceans Limitation of Liability action, each claiming from Halliburtons gross negligence.
The court, however, ruled that BP a right to contribution from BP for damages assessed against them as does not owe Halliburton indemnity to the extent that Halliburton is held a result of the Incident, based on allegations of negligence.
M-I also BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 161 Additional information for shareholders claimed a right to indemnity for such damages based on its well services and to include issues asserted in or relevant to the claims, counterclaims, contracts with BP.
On 20 June 2011, BP led counter-complaints against cross-claims, third-party claims, and comparative fault defences raised in Dril-Quip, Inc. and M-I, asking for contribution and subrogation based on Transoceans Limitation of Liability Action.
those entities fault in connection with the Incident and under OPA 90, On 18 October 2011, Cameron led a petition for writ of mandamus and seeking declaratory judgment that Dril-Quip, Inc. and M-I caused or with US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit seeking an order vacating the contributed to, and are responsible in whole or in part for damages incurred trial plan for the 27 February 2012 trial and requiring that all claims against by BP in relation to, the Incident.
On 20 January 2012, the court granted Cameron in that proceeding be tried before a jury.
On 26 December 2011, Dril-Quip, Inc. s motion for summary judgment, dismissing with prejudice the Court of Appeals denied the application for mandamus.
all claims asserted against Dril-Quip in the federal multi-district litigation The State of Alabama has led a lawsuit seeking damages for proceeding in New Orleans.
alleged economic and environmental harms, including natural resource On 21 January 2012, BP and M-I entered into an agreement settling damages, civil penalties under state law, declaratory and injunctive all claims between the companies related to the Incident, including mutual relief, and punitive damages as a result of the Incident.
The State of releases of claims between BP and M-I that are subject to the federal Louisiana has led a lawsuit to declare various BP entities as well as multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans.
Under the settlement other entities liable for removal costs and damages, including natural agreement, M-I has agreed to indemnify BP for personal injury and death resource damages under federal and state law, to recover civil penalties, claims brought by M-I employees.
BP has agreed to indemnify M-I for attorneys fees, and response costs under state law, and to recover claims resulting from the Incident, but excluding certain claims.
for alleged negligence, nuisance, trespass, fraudulent concealment On 30 May 2011, Transocean led claims against BP in the DoJ and negligent misrepresentation of material facts regarding safety Action alleging that BP America Production Company had breached its procedures and BPs and other defendants ability to manage the contract with Transocean Holdings LLC by not agreeing to indemnify oil spill, unjust enrichment from economic and other damages to the Transocean against liability related to the Incident.
Transocean also State of Louisiana and its citizens, and punitive damages.
The Louisiana asserted claims against BP under state law, maritime law, and OPA 90 for Department of Environmental Quality has issued an administrative order contribution.
On 20 June 2011, Cameron led similar claims against BP in seeking environmental civil penalties and other relief under state law.
On 23 September 2011, BP removed this matter to federal district court.
On 26 August 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district litigation Several local governments in the State of Louisiana have led suits proceeding in New Orleans granted in part BPs motion to dismiss a under state wildlife statutes seeking penalties for damage to wildlife as a master complaint raising claims for economic loss by private plaintiffs, result of the spill.
On 10 December 2010, the Mississippi Department of dismissing plaintiffs state law claims and limiting the types of maritime law Environmental Quality issued a Complaint and Notice of Violation alleging claims plaintiffs may pursue, but also held that certain classes of claimants violations of several state environmental statutes.
may seek punitive damages under general maritime law.
The judge did not, On 14 November 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual complaints raising litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted in part BPs motion to those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal of the master complaint to dismiss the complaints led by the States of Alabama and Louisiana.
The judges order dismissed the States claims brought under state law, On 14 September 2011, the BOEMRE issued its report BOEMRE including claims for civil penalties and the State of Louisianas request Report regarding the causes of the 20 April 2010 Macondo well blowout.
for a declaratory judgment under the Louisiana Oil Spill Prevention and The BOEMRE Report states that decisions by BP, Halliburton and Response Act, holding that those claims were pre-empted by federal Transocean increased the risk or failed to fully consider or mitigate the law.
It also dismissed the State of Louisianas claims of nuisance and risk of a blowout on 20 April 2010.
The BOEMRE Report also states that trespass under general maritime law.
The judges order further held that BP, and Transocean and Halliburton, violated certain regulations related the States have stated claims for negligence and products liability under to offshore drilling.
In itself, the BOEMRE Report does not constitute general maritime law, that the States have sufciently alleged presentment the initiation of enforcement proceedings relating to any violation.
On of their claims under OPA 90, and that the States may seek punitive 12 October 2011, the U. S. Department of the Interior Bureau of Safety damages under general maritime law.
On 9 December 2011, the judge and Environmental Enforcement issued to BP E&P, Transocean, and in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted Halliburton Notication of Incidents of Noncompliance INCs.
The in part BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint brought on behalf of notication issued to BP E&P is for a number of alleged regulatory local government entities.
The judges order dismissed plaintiffs state law violations concerning Macondo well operations.
The Department of claims and limited the types of maritime law claims plaintiffs may pursue, Interior has indicated that this list of violations may be supplemented as but also held that the plaintiffs have sufciently alleged presentment additional evidence is reviewed, and on 7 December 2011, the Bureau of of their claims under OPA 90 and that certain local government entity Safety and Environmental Enforcement issued to BP E&P a second INC. claimants may seek punitive damages under general maritime law.
The This notication was issued to BP for five alleged violations related to judge did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual drilling and abandonment operations at the Macondo well.
BP has led an complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal of the administrative appeal with respect to the first and second INCs.
BP has master complaint to those individual complaints.
also led a joint stay of proceedings with the Department of Interior with On 9 December 2011 and 28 December 2011, the judge in the respect to the 12 October 2011 INCs and plans to le a joint stay regarding federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans also granted BPs the 7 December 2011 INCs.
motions to dismiss complaints led by the District Attorneys of 11 parishes On 30 September 2011, the judge in the federal multi-district in the State of Louisiana seeking penalties for damage to wildlife, holding litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted in part BPs motion to dismiss that those claims are pre-empted by the Clean Water Act.
Many of the a master complaint asserting personal injury claims on behalf of persons parishes have led notices of appeal to the U. S. Court of Appeals for the exposed to crude oil or chemical dispersants, dismissing plaintiffs state Fifth Circuit.
law claims, claims by seamen for punitive damages, claims for medical On 3 March 2012, BP announced a settlement with the Plaintiffs monitoring damages by asymptomatic plaintiffs, claims for battery and Steering Committee PSC in the federal Multi-District Litigation nuisance under maritime law, and claims alleging negligence per se.
As proceedings pending in New Orleans MDL 2179 to resolve the substantial with his other rulings on motions to dismiss master complaints, the judge majority of legitimate private economic loss and medical claims stemming did not lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual complaints raising from the Incident.
The agreement in principle is subject to final written those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal of the master complaint to agreement and court approvals.
The proposed settlement is comprised of two separate A Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration, and Fault Allocation agreements.
The first of these resolves economic loss claims and the was originally scheduled to begin in the federal multi-district litigation other resolves medical claims.
The proposed agreement to resolve proceeding in New Orleans in February 2012.
The courts pre-trial order economic loss claims includes a $2.3 billion BP commitment to help issued 14 September 2011 provided for the trial to proceed in three phases resolve economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry and a 162 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders fund to support continued advertising that promotes Gulf Coast tourism.
members rights, including the right to opt out of the classes, and the It also resolves claims for additional payments under certain Master processes for making claims.
The court would then conduct fairness Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of hearings at which class members and various other parties would have an Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the Incident.
opportunity to be heard and present evidence and decide whether or not to The proposed agreement to resolve medical claims involves approve each proposed settlement agreement.
Should the number of class payments based on a matrix for certain currently manifested physical members opting out exceed an agreed and court-approved threshold, BP conditions, as well as a 21-year medical consultation programme for will have the right to terminate the proposed settlement.
It also provides that class members claiming The proposed settlement does not include claims made against later-manifested physical conditions may pursue their claims through a BP by the DoJ or other federal agencies including under the Clean Water mediation litigation process.
Consistent with its commitment to the Gulf, Act and for Natural Resource Damages under the Oil Pollution Act or by BP has also agreed to provide $105 million to improve the availability, the states and local governments.
Also excluded are certain other claims scope and quality of healthcare in Gulf communities.
This healthcare against BP, such as securities and shareholder claims pending in MDL outreach programme would be available to all individuals in those 2185, and claims based solely on the deepwater drilling moratorium and or communities, regardless of whether they are class members.
Each proposed agreement provides that class members would be The court has subsequently ordered that the first phase of the trial compensated for their claims on a claims-made basis, according to agreed be adjourned.
The court will schedule a status conference to discuss issues compensation protocols in separate court-supervised claims processes.
raised by the proposed settlement and to set a new trial date.
The compensation protocols under the proposed economic loss settlement On 15 September 2010, three Mexican states bordering the Gulf of agreement include a risk transfer premium RTP.
The RTP is an agreed Mexico Veracruz, Quintana Roo, and Tamaulipas led lawsuits in federal factor to be used in calculating certain types of damages, including court in Texas against several BP entities.
These lawsuits allege that the potential future damages that are not currently known, relating to the Incident harmed their tourism, shing, and commercial shipping industries Incident.
resulting in, among other things, diminished tax revenue, damaged natural BP estimates the cost of the proposed settlement would be resources and the environment, and caused the states to incur expenses approximately $7.8 billion including the $2.3 billion commitment to in preparing a response to the Incident.
On 9 December 2011, the judge help resolve economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry.
in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted While this is BPs reliable best estimate of the cost of the proposed in part BPs motion to dismiss the three Mexican states complaints, settlement, it is possible that the actual cost could be higher or lower dismissing their claims under OPA 90 and for nuisance and negligence than this estimate depending on the outcomes of the court-supervised per se, and preserving their claims for negligence and gross negligence claims processes.
In accordance with its normal procedures, BP will only to the extent there has been a physical injury to a proprietary re-evaluate the assumptions underlying this estimate on a quarterly basis interest of the states.
On 5 April 2011, the State of Yucatan submitted as more information, including the outcomes of the court-supervised a claim to the GCCF alleging potential damage to its natural resources claims processes, becomes available.
For more information, see Financial and environment, and seeking to recover the cost of assessing the statements Note 36. alleged damage.
BP anticipates further claims from the Mexican federal At this time, BP expects all settlements under these agreements government.
Other costs to be paid from the Trust include Citizens groups have also led either lawsuits or notices of intent state and local government claims, state and local response costs, to le lawsuits seeking civil penalties and injunctive relief under the Clean natural resource damages and related claims, and final judgments and Water Act and other environmental statutes.
On 16 June 2011, the judge settlements.
It is not possible at this time to determine whether the Trust in the federal multi-district litigation proceeding in New Orleans granted will be sufficient to satisfy all of these claims as well as those under the BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint raising claims for injunctive proposed settlement.
Should the Trust not be sufficient, payments under relief under various federal environmental statutes brought by various the proposed settlement would be made by BP directly.
The judge did not, however, lift an earlier stay The proposed economic loss settlement provides for a transition on the underlying individual complaints raising those claims for injunctive from the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF to a new court-supervised relief or otherwise apply his dismissal of the master complaint to those claims programme, to administer payments made to qualifying class individual complaints.
In addition, a different set of environmental groups members.
A court-supervised transitional claims process will be in led a motion to reconsider dismissal of their Endangered Species Act operation while the infrastructure for the new settlement claims process claims on 14 July 2011.
On 31 January is put in place.
During this transitional period, the processing of claims 2012, the court, on motion by the Center for Biological Diversity, entered that have been submitted to the GCCF will continue, and new claimants final judgment on the basis of the 16 June 2011 order with respect to two may submit their claims.
BP has agreed not to wait for final approval of actions brought against BP by that plaintiff.
On 2 February 2012, the Center the economic loss settlement before claims are paid.
The economic loss for Biological Diversity led a notice of appeal of both actions.
claims process will continue under court supervision before final approval On 15 July 2011, the judge granted BPs motion to dismiss a of the settlement, first under the transitional claims process, and then master complaint raising RICO claims against BP.
The courts order through the settlement claims process established by the proposed dismissed the claims of the plaintiffs in four RICO cases encompassed by economic loss settlement.
Under the proposed settlement, class members would release and The DoJ announced on 7 March 2011 that it created a unied task dismiss their claims against BP.
The proposed settlement also provides force of federal agencies, led by the DoJ Criminal Division, to investigate that, to the extent permitted by law, BP will assign to the PSC certain of the Incident.
Other US federal agencies may commence investigations its claims, rights and recoveries against Transocean and Halliburton for relating to the Incident.
The SEC and DoJ are investigating securities damages with protections such that Transocean and Halliburton cannot matters arising in relation to the Incident.
pass those damages through to BP.
On 21 April 2011, BP entered a framework agreement with natural The proposed settlement is subject to reaching denitive and fullyresource trustees for the US and five Gulf coast states, providing for up documented agreements within 45 days of 2 March 2012, and if those to $1 billion to be spent on early restoration projects to address natural agreements are not reached, either party has the right to terminate the resource injuries resulting from the Incident.
Funding for these projects will proposed settlement.
Once denitive agreements have been reached, BP come from the $20-billion Trust fund.
and the PSC will seek the courts preliminary approval of the settlement.
BPs potential liabilities resulting from threatened, pending and Under US federal law, there is an established procedure for determining potential future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of class action settlements.
the Incident, together with the potential cost of implementing remedies Pursuant to this procedure, and subject to the court granting preliminary sought in the various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time approval of both agreements, there would be an extensive outreach but they have had and are expected to have a material adverse impact programme to the public to explain settlement agreements and class on the groups business, competitive position, cash ows, prospects, BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 163 Additional information for shareholders liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, On 18 March 2011, the US Coast Guard ISPR team released its final particularly in the US.
These potential liabilities may continue to have a report capturing lessons learned from the Incident as well as making material adverse effect on the groups results and financial condition.
See recommendations on how to improve future oil spill response and recovery Financial statements Note 2 on pages 190-194 for information regarding efforts.
the financial impact of the Incident.
Additionally, since April 2010, BP representatives have testied multiple times before the US Congress regarding the Incident.
BP has Investigations and reports relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill provided documents and written information in response to requests from BP is subject to a number of investigations related to the Incident by Members, committees and subcommittees of the US Congress.
numerous agencies of the US government.
The related published reports are available on the websites of the agencies and commissions referred to Other legal proceedings below.
The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the US On 11 January 2011, the National Commission on the BP Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC are currently investigating Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling National Commission, several BP entities regarding trading in the next-day natural gas market at established by President Obama, published its report on the causes of the Houston Ship Channel during September, October and November 2008.
Incident and its recommendations for policy and regulatory changes for The FERC Ofce of Enforcement staff notied BP on 12 November 2010 offshore drilling.
On 17 February 2011, the National Commissions Chief of their preliminary conclusions relating to alleged market manipulation in Counsel published a separate report on his investigation that provides violation of 18 C. F. R. Sec.
On 30 November 2010, CFTC Enforcement additional information regarding the causes of the Incident.
staff also provided BP with a notice of intent to recommend charges In a report dated 20 March 2011, with an Addendum dated based on the same conduct alleging that BP engaged in attempted market 30 April 2011, the Joint Investigation Team JIT for the Marine Board of manipulation in violation of Section 6 c, 6 d, and 9 a 2 of the Commodity Investigation established by the US Coast Guard and Bureau of Ocean Exchange Act.
On 23 December 2010, BP submitted responses to the Energy Management BOEMRE issued the Final Report of the Forensic FERC and CFTC November 2010 notices providing a detailed response Examination of the Deepwater Horizon Blowout Preventer BOP prepared that it did not engage in any inappropriate or unlawful activity.
On 28 July by Det Norske Veritas BOP Report.
The BOP Report concludes that 2011, the FERC staff issued a Notice of Alleged Violations stating that it the position of the drill pipe against the blind shear rams prevented the had preliminarily determined that several BP entities fraudulently traded BOP from functioning as intended.
Subsequently, BP helped to sponsor physical natural gas in the Houston Ship Channel and Katy markets additional BOP testing conducted by Det Norske Veritas under court and trading points to increase the value of their financial swing spread auspices, which concluded on 21 June 2011.
BP continues to review the positions.
Other investigations into BPs trading activities continue to be BOP Report and is in the process of evaluating the data obtained from the conducted from time to time.
On 23 March 2005, an explosion and re occurred in the On 22 April 2011, the US Coast Guard issued its report Maritime isomerization unit of BP Products North Americas BP Products Texas Report focused upon the maritime aspects of the Incident.
The Maritime City renery as the unit was coming out of planned maintenance.
Fifteen Report criticizes Transoceans maintenance operations and safety culture, workers died in the incident and many others were injured.
BP Products while also criticizing the Republic of the Marshall Islands the ag state has resolved all civil injury claims arising from the March 2005 incident.
responsible for certifying Transoceans Deepwater Horizon vessel.
In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation The US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB Board CSB issued a report on the incident.
The report contained is also conducting an investigation of the Incident that is focused on the recommendations to the Texas City renery and to the board of directors explosions and re, and not the resulting oil spill or response efforts.
In May 2007, BP responded to the CSBs recommendations.
BP and CSB is expected to issue a single investigation report in 2012 that will the CSB will continue to discuss BPs responses with the objective of the seek to identify the alleged root cause s of the Incident, and recommend CSBs agreeing to close out its recommendations.
improvements to BP and industry practices and to regulatory programmes On 25 October 2007, the DoJ announced that it had entered to prevent recurrence and mitigate potential consequences.
into a criminal plea agreement with BP Products related to the March Also, at the request of the Department of the Interior, the National 2005 explosion and re.
On 4 February 2008, BP Products pleaded Academy of Engineering National Research Council established a guilty, pursuant to the plea agreement, to one felony violation of the risk Committee Committee to examine the performance of the technologies management planning regulations promulgated under the US Clean Air and practices involved in the probable causes of the Incident and to identify Act CAA and on 12 March 2009, the court accepted the plea agreement.
and recommend technologies, practices, standards and other measures to In connection with the plea agreement, BP Products paid a $50-million avoid similar future events.
On 17 November 2010, the Committee publicly criminal ne and was sentenced to three years probation which is set released its interim report setting forth the Committees preliminary to expire on 12 March 2012.
Compliance with a 2005 US Occupational findings and observations on various actions and decisions including well Safety and Health Administration OSHA settlement agreement 2005 design, cementing operations, well monitoring, and well control actions.
Agreement and a 2006 agreed order entered into by BP Products with The interim report also considers management, oversight, and regulation of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TCEQ are conditions of offshore operations.
On 14 December 2011, the Committee published its probation.
final report, including findings and recommendations.
A second, unrelated The Texas Ofce of Attorney General, on behalf of the Texas National Academies Committee will be looking at the methodologies Commission on Environmental Quality TCEQ, has led a petition against available for assessing spill impacts on ecosystem services in the Gulf of BP Products asserting certain air emissions and reporting violations at the Mexico, with a final report expected in late 2012 or early 2013, and a third Texas City renery from 2005 to 2010.
BP Products settled this lawsuit by National Academies Committee will be studying methods for assessing the an Agreed Final Judgment entered by the court on 20 December 2011. effectiveness of safety and environmental management systems SEMS The Texas Attorney General led a separate petition against BP established by offshore oil and gas operators.
Products asserting emissions violations relating to a 6 April 2010 aring On 10 March 2011, the Flow Rate Technical Group FRTG, event.
This lawsuit was also settled by the Agreed Final Judgment Department of the Interior, issued its final report titled Assessment mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
This emissions event is also the of Flow Rate Estimates for the Deepwater Horizon Macondo Well Oil subject of a number of civil suits by many area workers and residents Spill.
The report provides a summary of the strengths and limitations of alleging personal injury and property damages and seeking substantial the different methods used by the US government to estimate the ow damages.
In addition, this emissions event is the subject of a federal rate and a range of estimates from 13,000 b d to over 100,000 b d. The governmental investigation.
report concludes that the most accurate estimate was 53,000 b d just In September 2009, BP Products led a petition to clarify specic prior to shut in, with an uncertainty on that value of 10% based on FRTG required actions and deadlines under the 2005 Agreement with OSHA.
collective experience and judgement, and, based on modelling, the ow on That agreement resolved citations issued in connection with the March day one of the Incident was 62,000 b d. 2005 Texas City renery explosion.
OSHA denied BP Products petition.
164 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders In October 2009 OSHA issued citations to the Texas City renery seeking and for non-compliance with US Department of Transportation orders and a total of $87.4 million in civil penalties for alleged violations of the 2005 regulations.
The parties settled the dispute and on 13 July 2011 the Court Agreement and alleged process safety management violations.
entered a Consent Agreement in which BPXA agreed to pay a $25-million A settlement agreement between BP Products and OSHA in penalty and to perform certain injunctive measures over the next three August 2010 2010 Agreement resolved the petition led by BP Products years with respect to pipeline inspection and maintenance.
On 31 March in September 2009 and the alleged violations of the 2005 Agreement.
2009, the State of Alaska led a complaint seeking civil penalties and BP Products has paid a penalty of $50.6 million in that matter and damages relating to these events.
The complaint alleges that the two agreed to perform certain abatement actions.
Compliance with the 2010 releases and BPXAs corrosion management practices violated various Agreement which is set to expire on 12 March 2012 is also a condition of statutory, contractual and common law duties to the State, resulting probation due to the linkage between this 2010 Agreement and the 2005 in penalty liability, damages for lost royalties and taxes, and liability for Agreement.
In December 2011, the State of Alaska and BPXA On 6 May 2010, certain persons qualifying under the US Crime entered into a Dispute Resolution Agreement concerning this matter that Victims Rights Act as victims in relation to the Texas City plea agreement will result in arbitration of the amount of the States lost royalty income and requested that the federal court revoke BP Products probation based payment by BPXA of the additional amount of $10 million on account of on alleged violations of the Courts conditions of probation.
The alleged other claims in the complaint.
violations of probation relate to the alleged failure to comply with the 2005 Approximately 200 lawsuits were led in state and federal courts Agreement.
in Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the The OSHA process safety management citations issued in October Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of 2009 were not resolved by the August 2010 settlement agreement.
those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service The proposed penalties in that matter are $30.7 million.
The matter is Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the currently before the OSH Review Commission which has assigned an other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to Administrative Law Judge for purposes of mediation.
These citations do the spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 46.9% not allege violations of the 2005 Agreement.
interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips A shareholder derivative action was led against several current in Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briey indirectly and former BP ofcers and directors based on alleged violations of the US owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Clean Air Act CAA and Occupational Safety and Health Administration Atlantic Richeld.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims against OSHA regulations at the Texas City renery subsequent to the March them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may le a claim for 2005 explosion and re.
An investigation by a special committee of contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and damages that it BPs board into the shareholder allegations has been completed and the has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that affect Alyeska and its committee has recommended that the allegations do not warrant action owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
by BP against the ofcers and directors.
BP led a motion to dismiss the Since 1987, Atlantic Richeld Company Atlantic Richeld, a shareholder derivative action and a plea to the jurisdiction.
On 16 June subsidiary of BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits 2011, the court granted BPs plea to the jurisdiction and dismissed the brought in the US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead action in its entirety.
The shareholder has appealed the dismissal and the pigment in paint.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or appeal is pending.
Atlantic Richeld is named in these In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines lawsuits as alleged successor to International Smelting and Rening operated by BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe Bay unit and another company that manufactured lead pigment during the period on the North Slope of Alaska.
Several legal proceedings resulted from 1920-1946.
Plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
On 29 November 2007, BPXA entered into a criminal plea Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek agreement with the DoJ relating to these leaks.
BPXAs guilty plea, to a various remedies including compensation to lead-poisoned children, cost misdemeanour violation of the US Water Pollution Control Act, included to nd and remove lead paint from buildings, medical monitoring and a term of three years probation.
On 29 November 2009, a spill of screening programmes, public warning and education of lead hazards, approximately 360 barrels of crude oil and produced water was discovered reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for beneath a line running from a well pad to the Lisburne Processing Center lead-poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska.
On 17 November 2010, the US Probation officer Richeld has been settled nor has Atlantic Richeld been subject to a final led a petition in federal district court to revoke BPXAs probation based adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if such on allegations that the Lisburne event was a criminal violation of state suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in and federal law and therefore BPXA was in violation of its probation the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible to predict obligations.
BPXA contested the petition at an evidentiary hearing that the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richeld believes that it has was completed on 7 December 2011 in U. S. District Court in Anchorage, valid defences.
It intends to defend such actions vigorously and believes Alaska.
On 27 December 2011, the Court issued a decision and order that the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that nding that BPXA did not violate the terms of its probation, dismissing the the impact of these lawsuits on the groups results, financial position or governments petition and terminating BPXAs probation.
liquidity will not be material.
On 12 May 2008, a BP p. l. c. shareholder led a consolidated On 8 March 2010, OSHA issued citations to BPs Toledo renery complaint alleging violations of federal securities law on behalf of a putative alleging violations of the Process Safety Management Standard, with class of BP p. l. c. shareholders against BP p. l. c. BPXA, BP America, and penalties of approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from an four ofcers of the companies, based on alleged misrepresentations inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Renery Process concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay pipeline before its shutdown Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
BP Products has on 6 August 2006.
On 8 February 2010, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals contested the citations, and the matter is currently scheduled for trial accepted BPs appeal from a decision of the lower court granting in part before the OSH Review Commission in June 2012. and denying in part BPs motion to dismiss the lawsuit.
On 29 June In April 2009, Kenneth Abbott, as relator, led a US False Claims 2011, the Ninth Circuit ruled in BPs favour that the ling of a trust related Act lawsuit against BP, alleging that BP violated federal regulations, and agreement with the SEC containing contractual obligations on the part of made false statements in connection with its compliance with those BP was not a misrepresentation which violated federal securities laws.
The regulations, by failing to have necessary documentation for the Atlantis BP p. l. c. shareholder has led an amended complaint, in response to which subsea and other systems.
BP is the operator and 56% interest owner BP led a new motion to dismiss, which is pending.
On 31 March 2009, of the Atlantis unit in production in the Gulf of Mexico.
That complaint the United States led a complaint seeking civil penalties and damages was unsealed in May 2010 and served on BP in June 2010.
Abbott seeks relating to the events at Prudhoe Bay.
The complaint also involved claims damages measured by the value, net of royalties, of all past and future related to asbestos handling, allegations of non-compliance at multiple production from the Atlantis platform, trebled, plus penalties.
In September facilities for failure to comply with EPAs spill prevention plan regulations, 2010, Kenneth Abbott and Food & Water Watch led an amended BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 165 Additional information for shareholders complaint in the False Claims Act lawsuit seeking an injunction shutting On 17 May 2011, BP announced that both the Rosneft Share Swap down the Atlantis platform.
The court denied BPs motion to dismiss Agreement and the Arctic Opportunity, originally announced on 14 January the complaint in March 2011.
Separately, also in March 2011, BOEMRE 2011, had terminated.
This termination was as a result of the deadline issued its investigation report of the Abbott Atlantis allegations, which for the satisfaction of conditions precedent having expired following concluded that Mr Abbotts allegations that Atlantis operations personnel delays resulting from the interim orders referred to above.
These interim lacked access to critical, engineer-approved drawings were without merit orders did not address the question of whether or not BP breached the and that his allegations about false submissions by BP to BOEMRE were Shareholders Agreement.
The arbitration proceedings, which are subject to unfounded.
Trial is scheduled to begin on 10 April 2012. strict condentiality obligations, are ongoing.
BP Products US reneries are subject to a 2001 consent Five minority shareholders of OAO TNK-BP Holding TBH have decree with the EPA that resolved alleged violations of the CAA, led two civil actions in Tyumen, Siberia, against BP Russia Investments and implementation of the decrees requirements continues.
A 2009 Limited and BP p. l. c. and against two of the BP nominated directors amendment to the decree resolves remaining alleged air violations at of TBH.
These two actions sought to recover alleged losses to TBH the Texas City renery through the payment of a $12-million civil ne, of $13 billion and $2.7 billion respectively.
On 11 November 2011, a $6-million supplemental environmental project and enhanced CAA the Tyumen Court dismissed both claims fully on their merits.
The compliance measures estimated to cost approximately $150 million.
The shareholders appealed both of these decisions to the Omsk Appellate ne has been paid, and BP Products is implementing the other provisions.
On 26 January 2012, the Appellate court upheld the Tyumen Courts On 30 September 2010, the EPA and BP Products lodged a dismissal of the claim in relation to the BP nominated directors of TBH.
The civil consent decree with the federal court in Houston.
Following a Omsk Appellate court subsequently confirmed the Tyumen court of first public comment period, the federal court approved the settlement on instances dismissal of the minority suits against BP Russia Investments 30 December 2010.
The decree resolves allegations of civil violations of Limited and BP p. l. c. BP believes the allegations made are wholly without the risk management planning regulations promulgated under the CAA that merit.
No losses have been incurred and BP believes the likelihood of the are alleged to have occurred in 2004 and 2005 at the Texas City renery.
claims being ultimately successful is remote.
Consequently no amounts BP Products has paid the $15-million civil penalty and the Texas City have been provided and the claim is not disclosed as a contingent liability.
renery is implementing requirements to enhance reporting to On 9 February 2011, Apache Canada Ltd Apache commenced the EPA regarding employee training, equipment inspection and an arbitration against BP Canada Energy.
Apache alleges that various incident investigation.
properties sites in respect of which it acquired interests from BP Canada Various environmental groups and the EPA have challenged Energy pursuant to the parties Purchase and Sale Agreement signed in certain aspects of the air permits issued by the Indiana Department of July 2010 will require work to bring the properties sites into compliance Environmental Management IDEM for upgrades to the Whiting renery.
with applicable environmental laws, and Apache claims that the purchase In response to these challenges, the IDEM has reviewed the permits and price should be adjusted for its estimated possible costs.
BP Canada responded formally to the EPA.
BP is in discussions with the EPA, the Energy denies such costs will arise or require any adjustment to the IDEM and certain environmental groups over these and other CAA issues purchase price.
The parties have appointed the arbitrator, and currently relating to the Whiting renery.
BP has also been in settlement discussions the hearing on the merits is scheduled to commence during the second with EPA to resolve alleged CAA violations at the Toledo, Carson and quarter of 2012.
On 24 January 2012, the Republic of Bolivia issued a press An application was brought in the English High Court on 1 February statement declaring its intent to nationalize Pan American Energys 2011 by Alfa Petroleum Holdings Limited and OGIP Ventures Limited interests in the Caipipendi Operations Contract.
No formal nationalization against BP International Limited and BP Russian Investments Limited process has yet commenced.
Pan American Energy and its shareholders alleging breach of a Shareholders Agreement on the part of BP and BP and Bridas intend to vigorously defend their legal interests under the seeking an interim injunction restraining BP from taking steps to conclude, Caipipendi Operations Contract and available Bilateral Investment Treaties.
implement or perform the transactions with Rosneft Oil Company, originally announced on 14 January 2011, relating to oil and gas exploration, production, rening and marketing in Russia the Arctic Opportunity.
Those transactions included the issue or transfer of shares between Rosneft Oil Company and any BP group company pursuant to the Rosneft Share Swap Agreement.
The court granted an interim order restraining BP from taking any further steps in relation to the Rosneft transactions pending an expedited UNCITRAL arbitration procedure in accordance with the Shareholders Agreement between the parties.
The arbitration has commenced and the interim injunction was continued by the arbitration panel.
166 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
