Business review: BP in more depth Business review balance of participation and capital employed from established to growth Our performance regions.
2011 performance In March 2010, we set a target to shareholders to deliver a Safety and operational risk performance improvement of at least $2 billion by 2012 relative to a 2009 Safety remains the top priority across BP, and we are committed to a baseline and we believe we are on track to deliver this by the end of 2012. leadership in process safety and to ensuring that our operations are safe, In addition, post-2012, we plan to grow our margin further through our compliant and reliable with regard to both personal and process safety.
focus on growth markets and expansion of our margin capture capability, Rening and Marketing utilizes the groups operating management which we expect to achieve through projects such as those described system OMS.
OMS provides a set of group-wide requirements and a below.
systematic way of working to continuously improve the way we operate.
In our fuels business, as previously announced, we are planning OMS is explained in more detail on page 65.
While all Rening and to dispose of our Texas City renery and the southern part of the Marketing entities have transitioned on to OMS, we continue to work to US West Coast FVC before the end of 2012.
We are investing in our enhance local systems and processes at all our sites.
existing operations to sustain safe, compliant standards and selectively All our major manufacturing entities reneries and petrochemicals investing in cash margin capture projects.
The largest of these projects sites have been through two performance improvement cycles PIC of is the repositioning of the Whiting renery towards heavy feedstock OMS, and all other entities across our FVCs will have completed their advantage, which is already under way and scheduled to come onstream second PIC by the end of 2012.
The PIC is a management review carried in the second half of 2013.
In addition to the repositioning of the Whiting out within each entity of their local operating management system, which renery, margin capture projects include the Cherry Point renery clean identies areas where further actions can be taken to enhance our systems diesel project, Toledo renery continuous catalytic reforming project, and processes.
These actions are risk-prioritized and form an integral part Gelsenkirchen renery margin improvement programme and the recently of each entitys annual and longer-term planning.
Where appropriate, announced Brazil aviation acquisition see Acquisitions and disposals actions are aggregated to provide common solutions.
Direction and oversight of safety in Rening and Marketing is We are also well positioned for growth in our lubricants and provided by the segment operating risk committee SORC chaired by the petrochemicals businesses.
In our lubricants business, around half of our chief executive officer of Rening and Marketing.
Monitoring of safety and profit growth in recent years has come from the emerging economies in compliance in our operations is conducted by the newly-formed safety non-OECD countries as we have expanded in these markets.
We have and operational risk function, for which there is a Rening and Marketing a material presence in the Indian automotive lubricant market.
These segment team independent of the segment CEO.
positions provide a strong base to capture further long-term growth.
In As outlined on page 65, BP has further strengthened its risk review petrochemicals around 45% of our capacity is in the demand centre of process, and this process was applied to Rening and Marketing to ensure Asia.
Growth options are enabled by our distinctive technology, operational that appropriate risk management and mitigating actions were prioritized capability and access through key strategic relationships.
the latest example of our strategy deployment was the signing of a We measure our personal safety performance through the memorandum of understanding with IndianOil Corp IOC to explore the employment of a recordable injury frequency RIF rate and a days away potential for establishing a 50:50 joint venture to invest in a 1 million tonne from work case frequency DAFWCF rate, as well as a severe vehicle per annum mtpa acetic acid plant in Gujarat, India.
The joint venture will accident rate.
use BPs latest Cativa catalyst and technology, while the associated In 2011, our RIF measured by the number of recordable injuries gasication facilities would utilize petroleum coke feedstock from IOC.
to the BP workforce per 200,000 hours worked was 0.37, slightly higher Additionally, in 2011 BP received local government approval for a 1.25mtpa than the 2010 rate of 0.35.
The 2011 DAFWCF a subset of the RIF that PTA plant in Zhuhai, China, and is now seeking final central governmental measures the number of cases where an employee misses one or more approval.
days from work was 0.108, compared with 0.114 in 2010.
There was a From 2012 we plan to create a new revenue stream in significant improvement in the severe vehicle accident rate SVAR in 2011 petrochemicals through licencing our technology, beginning with our with 61 severe vehicle accidents compared with 77 in 2010. aromatics products of PX and PTA.
While progress has been made in the area of personal safety, there As part of our drive towards more efficient operations, we have were two workplace fatalities in 2011.
These tragic events have been fully been transforming our back ofce.
In 2011, we made further progress on investigated, and the learnings shared and actioned.
our global SAP implementation within the fuels and lubricants businesses.
Process safety is measured by the process safety incident index We also continued to expand the scale of our business service centres PSII, a weighted index which reects both the number and severity of BSCs.
BSCs are regional centres for certain finance, operational events per 200,000 hours worked.
The PSII for 2011 was 0.36, equal to procurement and IT services for the BP group.
the 2010 rate, and better than the 2009 rate of 0.48.
While the number of PSII events has increased from 2010, the overall severity of the events has a This performance improvement will be measured by comparing Rening and Marketings reduced.
replacement cost profit before interest and tax for 2009 with that of 2012, after adjusting for In terms of operational integrity, the number of losses of primary non-operating items, fair value accounting effects and the impact of changes in the rening margin and petrochemicals environment including energy costs, foreign exchange impacts and price-lag containment LOPC, a measure of unplanned or uncontrolled releases of effects for crude and product purchases.
This adjusted measure of replacement cost profit before material from primary containment, was 5% lower in 2011 than in 2010. interest and tax is non-GAAP.
We believe the measure is useful to investors because it is one that is viewed and closely tracked by management as an important indicator of segment performance.
The number of oil spills greater than one barrel was slightly higher in 2011 145 than 2010 132 however the volumes of oil spills were signicantly lower in 2011 than in 2010 at 0.4 million litres compared with 1.3 million litres respectively.
In our US reneries, we continue to implement the recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel and regulatory bodies.
See the Safety section on page 67 for further information on progress.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 95
