Business review: BP in more depth Business review LPG In 2011, approximately 45% of the lubricants replacement cost profit Our global LPG marketing business sells bulk, bottled, automotive and before interest and tax was generated from non-OECD markets.
wholesale LPG products in 10 countries, with sales of over 50 thousand barrels per day.
As noted in the Acquisitions and disposals section, BP Petrochemicals announced in February 2012 its intent to sell the bulk and bottled LPG Our petrochemicals business is global, with operations in the US, Europe businesses in nine countries, and will retain the autogas and wholesale and Asia.
The business buys a range of feedstocks for input into our LPG sales from reneries which will be integrated into the fuels value manufacturing units, the majority of which have been built and operate chains.
We manufacture and market four main product lines: puried terephthalic acid PTA, paraxylene PX, acetic acid, Lubricants and, through joint ventures, olens and derivatives O&D.
We also produce Our lubricants business manufactures and markets lubricants and related a number of other speciality petrochemicals products.
At the end of 2011, products and services to the automotive, industrial, marine, aviation and the operating capital employed relating to the petrochemicals business was energy markets across the world.
At the end of 2011, the operating capital approximately $5 billion.
employed relating to the lubricants business was approximately $5 billion Our strategy is to leverage our industry-leading technology in the including goodwill of around $3 billion see Financial statements Note 10 markets in which we choose to participate, to grow the business, and to on pages 206-207. deliver industry-leading returns.
New investments are targeted principally in We organize our lubricants business into customer sectors.
The the higher-growth Asian markets.
We both own and operate 100%-owned automotive sector serves the needs of land-based vehicles including cars, assets, and have also invested in a number of joint ventures in Asia, where trucks, motorbikes, buses, tractors, earth movers and other vehicles.
our partners are leading companies within their domestic market.
Our industrial sector serves customers who run or maintain plant and PTA is a raw material used in the manufacture of polyesters used equipment: our marine sector serves users of river and sea-going vessels: in bres, textiles and lm, and polyethylene terephthalate PET bottles.
aviation serves aircraft operators and maintenance industries: and our PTA production requires PX as a feedstock, which we produce in the US energy sector serves the oil and gas and power industries.
and Europe and buy in Asia.
PTA is then reacted with glycol to produce In the automotive lubricants sector, which accounts for more than polyester chips or bres, which are in turn used to produce PET bottles, two-thirds of our lubricants sales, we supply lubricants and other related polyester bres and various speciality products, including protective products and services to intermediate customers such as retailers and screens for computers and TVs.
PX production is primarily from the mixed workshops.
These, in turn, serve end-consumers such as car, truck and xylene stream produced in a reformer within a renery.
Acetic acid is a versatile intermediate chemical used in a variety BPs marine lubricants business is one of the largest global of products such as paints, adhesives and solvents, as well as in the suppliers of lubricants to the marine industry, with a global presence in production of PTA.
In producing acetic acid, we purchase methanol and over 800 ports.
BPs industrial lubricants business is a leading supplier to either make or buy carbon monoxide CO. CO can be produced from a those sectors of the market involved in the manufacturing of automobiles, variety of hydrocarbon feedstocks, including natural gas, naphtha, fuel oil trucks, machinery components and steel.
We are also a leading supplier of and coal.
lubricants for the oil, gas and aviation industries.
In the oil and gas industry Our O&D business is based in China and is focused on serving we supply some of worlds largest production and drilling companies, and the Chinese and Asian markets.
The SECCO joint venture between BP, we estimate that we supply over 30% of the worlds subsea control uids.
Sinopec and its subsidiary, Shanghai Petrochemical Company, is our main In the aviation industry, we are the lubricants supplier for around 40% of O&D site and is BPs single largest investment in China.
BP also co-owns the jet engines of the worlds commercial airlines.
one other naphtha cracker site outside Asia, which is integrated with our We look to market and sell our products across the world.
We sell Gelsenkirchen renery in Germany.
products direct to our customers in around 45 countries and use approved The petrochemicals business runs 16 manufacturing sites in local distributors for other geographies.
Approximately 40% of our the UK, the US, Belgium, Germany, China, Indonesia, South Korea, employees are located in non-OECD markets and around 20% of staff are Malaysia and Taiwan, including our joint ventures, and we also have two located in China and India alone.
We are particularly strong in Europe and petrochemicals plants which are managed by the fuels business as they key Asia Pacic markets including India.
utilize feedstock from our Gelsenkirchen renery.
Our lubricants business markets primarily through our major brands of Castrol and BP, and through the Aral brand in specic European markets, notably Germany.
Castrol is a recognized brand worldwide and we believe it provides us with a significant competitive advantage.
Distinctive brands, superior technology and building and sustaining customer relationships remain the cornerstones of our long-term strategy.
Our participation in the value chain is focused on areas of competitive differentiation and strength.
These fall into three main areas: the development of formulations and the application of cutting-edge technology: developing product brands and communicating the benets that our products provide to our customers: and building and extending our relationships with customers so that our products and services are delivered in a manner which best meets their needs.
We have chosen not to participate at scale in base oil or additives manufacturing.
We are, however, one of the largest purchasers of base oil in the market.
We participate in blending in locations where scale and competitive advantage can be sustained, or where customer service or security of supply are of critical importance and otherwise difficult to secure.
We have a network of 27 wholly-owned and operated blending plants worldwide and joint ownership in five others operated by third parties.
Our focus is on developing premium products, and we often work alongside original equipment manufacturers OEMs in doing this.
The new Castrol EDGE professional range was launched in 2011 to the franchised workshop market in Europe and Africa.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 99
