Business review our review of all the plans, we are introducing additional requirements to Mr Wilson reports to the board through the chairman of BPs safety, enhance the mitigation of similar risks across our rening business.
ethics and environment assurance committee.
In addition to an annual written report, he makes periodic oral reports of his observations to Operational planning and controls the committee, in which he gives status updates on BPs progress in Each BP-operated entity develops an annual plan drawing on the output implementing the Panels recommendations.
from the performance improvement cycle including the risk management process.
The plan is prioritized with the aim of continually driving reductions Safety performance in the level of risk at the sites.
We plan our work taking account of the Oil spills and loss of primary containment capacity needed to deliver the safety-related activities required.
We monitor the integrity of our operations, tanks, vessels and pipelines Control of work has been an area of major focus in our rening used to produce, process and transport oil and other hydrocarbons with business since 2008.
We continue to see improvement in the execution the aim of preventing the loss of material from its primary containment.
of our maintenance planning, scheduling and work activities across our Accordingly, we record losses of material, including hydrocarbons, from our rening sites as the overall control of work process is better understood, assets, and losses or spills that reach land or water.
learning shared and efficiency opportunities identied.
The loss of primary containment metric below includes unplanned or uncontrolled releases from a tank, vessel, pipe, rail car or equipment Competence and capability used for containment or transfer within our operational boundary, excluding Renery leaders are experienced operations professionals with many non-hazardous releases such as water.
years experience within the industry and have typically attended the BP The US government and third parties have announced various Operations Academy.
Each renery, with S&OR direction and expertise, estimates of the ow rate or total volume of oil spilled from the Deepwater is developing a consistent competency framework against which safety Horizon incident.
The multi-district litigation beginning in 2012 in New critical roles are assessed.
The US reneries completed process safety Orleans will address the amount of oil spilled.
See Financial statements competency assessments of over 3,500 employees in safety-critical roles Note 36 on page 233 for information about the volume used to determine and developed gap closure plans in 2011. the estimated liabilities.
A key element within this competency development plan is the development of high delity process simulators.
These will be used to train Loss of primary containment and oil spills excluding Deepwater operators via simulations to respond to low probability, high consequence Horizon oil spill in respect of 2010 volume scenarios, similar to methods used with airline pilots.
2011 2010 2009 Loss of primary containment Measurement, evaluation and corrective action a number of all incidents 361 418 537 Regional vice presidents conduct performance reviews at each renery.
Loss of primary containment We now use a set of common safety metrics that are standard across all b number of oil spills 228 261 234 sites to help us proactively identify opportunities for improvement.
Number of oil spills to land and A quarterly assurance process has been introduced to enable S&OR water 102 142 122 to develop an ongoing, independent view of OMS conformance by the Volume of oil spilled sites.
Each site is assessed on their OMS self-assessment processes, the thousand litres 556 1,719 1,191 strength of existing risk mitigations and progress on risk reduction plans.
Volume of oil unrecovered Periodic S&OR audits against OMS requirements provide valuable insights thousand litres 281 758 222 from experts outside the site and result in actions to close identied gaps.
a Does not include either small or non-hazardous releases.
In 2011, we strengthened and standardized our approach to b Number of spills greater than or equal to one barrel 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
incident learning in our rening business, issuing briengs and alerts on lessons learned from incidents and near misses and requiring each Process safety renery to assure that similar risks are assessed and appropriate actions BP uses a disciplined framework for managing the integrity of hazardous completed.
We apply a combination of good design principles, engineering, and operating and maintenance practices to help Reports of the US reneries Independent Expert deliver process safety performance and we monitor the number of process L. Duane Wilson was appointed in 2007 by the board as an Independent safety events occurring across our operations.
The recently introduced Expert to provide an objective assessment of BPs progress in American Petroleum Institute RP-754 standard, which sets out leading implementing the recommendations of the BP US Reneries Independent and lagging process safety indicators, organized into different tiers is used Safety Review Panel the Panel aimed at improving process safety as the basis for our internal process safety-related reporting.
API tier 1 performance at BPs five US reneries.
Mr Wilson is expected to deliver process safety events are the losses of primary containment of greatest his fifth annual report in April 2012, and BP will publish it at bp.
com consequence causing harm to a member of the workforce or costly independentexpert.
As in prior years, BP will have an opportunity to review damage to equipment, or exceeding dened quantities.
Seventy-four tier 1 and comment on Mr Wilsons draft report for factual accuracy, but he is process safety events were reported in BP in 2011. solely responsible for the reports ultimate content.
The Independent Expert conducts his assessment of BPs Personal safety implementation of the Panels recommendations both through sampling BP reports publicly on its personal safety performance according to and in-depth monitoring, evaluation and conrmation.
Mr Wilson visited standard industry metrics.
In 2011, our overall reported recordable injury each BP US renery at least twice in 2011 and interviewed personnel at frequency RIF was 0.36, compared with 0.61 in 2010 and 0.34 in 2009. many levels in the organization.
He also engaged regularly with senior and Our reported day away from work case frequency DAFWCF in 2011 executive management, both within Rening and Marketing and our safety was 0.090, compared with 0.193 in 2010 and 0.069 in 2009.
The 2010 and operational risk function, to gauge implementation progress.
Mr Wilson group personal safety data was affected by the Gulf Coast response effort.
also reviews progress reports and other documentation from BP.
These include implementation status reports, process safety performance reports, overtime reports to monitor the potential for worker fatigue, open and overdue process safety action item reports, incident investigations reports and safety audit reports.
68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
