Business review: Group overview Our organization: Business model BPs business model is to create value across the entire hydrocarbon value chain.
This starts with exploration and ends with the supply of energy and other products that are fundamental to everyday life.
a BP is one of the worlds leading integrated oil and gas companies.
Our objective is to create value for shareholders and supplies of energy for the world in a safe and responsible way.
We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer.
At each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain there are opportunities for us to create value both through the successful execution of activities that are core to our industry, and through the application of our own distinctive strengths and Above When completed in the capabilities in performing those activities.
second half of 2013, modernization We have two main business segments: Exploration and Production, and work at our Whiting renery should enable BP to capture additional Rening and Marketing.
Through these, our activities are focused on nding, margins.
developing and producing essential sources of energy, and turning these sources into products that people need.
We provide our customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday items like plastic bottles.
We also invest in renewable energy sources, which we believe will be an increasing source of value for BP.
Our activities are focused on biofuels and wind.
These are managed through our Alternative Energy business, which is reported in In detail For more information about Other businesses and corporate.
Alternative Energy, see Other Our projects and operations help to generate employment, investment and businesses and corporate.
Page 101 tax revenues in countries and communities around the world.
The relationships we form with governments, partners, contractors, customers, franchisees and suppliers are very important to the success of our business.
We are committed to being responsible, meeting our obligations, and building long-lasting relationships.
As a global group, our interests and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures or associates established in and subject to the laws and regulations of many different jurisdictions.
Our worldwide headquarters is in London.
The UK is a centre for trading, legal, finance and other business functions as well as three of BPs major global research and technology In detail groups.
We have well-established operations in Europe, the US, Canada, Russia, For denitions of subsidiaries, South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
Around 61% of the groups joint ventures and associates, see Miscellaneous terms.
xed assets are located in OECD countries, including around 37% in the US and Page 4 around 18% in Europe.
The significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2011 and the group percentage of ordinary share capital to the nearest whole number are set out in Financial statements Note 45 on page 251.
For information on significant jointly controlled entities and associates of the group, see Financial statements Notes 24 and 25 on pages 215 and 216 respectively.
a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves and production.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 25
