Business review: Group overview Rening margins In 2011, demand for oil products continued to grow, albeit more slowly than a year ago, with all of the demand increase occurring in non-OECD markets In detail For more information, see and with overall demand in the OECD resuming its structural decline.
As new Rening and Marketing.
rening capacity continued to be commissioned in Asia and the Far East, global Page 94 renery utilization rates fell in 2011.
Despite this, a number of factors supported an increase in rening margins across all regions for a second consecutive year.
The a BP rening marker margin RMM averaged $11.64 per barrel in 2011, compared with $10.02 per barrel in 2010 and $9.19 per barrel in 2009.
In 2011, diesel prices relative to crude reached highs not seen since 2008 as the trend to lower-sulphur fuels continued and demand grew.
Gasoline prices were volatile in 2011.
In the US, short-term supply issues supported gasoline prices in the middle of the year despite a reduction in demand compared with last year.
By the fourth quarter, US gasoline prices relative to crude had fallen to the lowest levels seen for at least 23 years.
Rening margins improved in Asia Pacic, due to continuing oil demand growth and the disruption to Japanese rening operations caused by the earthquake and tsunami.
US mid-continent crude oils including the key marker grade of West Texas Intermediate were heavily discounted throughout the year because of increasing production in the US Lower 48 states and in Canada, coupled with constrained logistics.
This allowed reners that are able to access these crudes to capture additional margins.
The loss of Libyan crude oil supply in the first quarter of 2011 and production problems in the North Sea during the summer resulted in record high prices for low-sulphur grades of crude oil.
This adversely impacted the margin for reners congured to process these grades, particularly in Europe, the US East Coast and Asia.
By contrast, in 2010 the RMM increase compared with 2009 was due to strongly-improved demand for oil products, in line with the economic bounce-back from recession, despite unused rening capacity.
Looking ahead, the overall economic environment is expected to result in limited demand growth such that renery utilization levels are likely to remain low, despite the announced shutdown of capacity in Europe and the US.
a See page 94 for further information on RMM.
Left In 2011, we received local government approval for a 1.25mtpa PTA plant to be added to existing BP petrochemicals facilities in Zhuhai, China.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 21
