Business review Further note on certain activities BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint venture and trades in During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries or other small quantities of lubricants.
BP sold small quantities of lubricants to third non-US entities of BP conducted limited activities in, or with persons parties that were resold in Sudan: BP has terminated these sales.
from, certain countries identied by the US Department of State as BP has equity interests in non-operated joint ventures with air State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions fuel sellers, re-sellers, and fuel delivery services around the world.
These activities continue to be insignicant to time to time, the joint venture operator may sell or deliver fuel to airlines the groups financial condition and results of operations.
In 2011, the US from Sanctioned Countries or ights to Sanctioned Countries without enacted additional sanctions against Iran which included lower monetary BPs knowledge or consent.
BP has registered and paid required fees for thresholds for certain investments in Iran for the development or rening patents and trademarks in Sanctioned Countries.
of petroleum resources, new restrictions on the petrochemicals industry and restrictions on transactions with the Iran Central Bank, including financial transactions for the purchase of Iranian-origin crude oil.
Further legislation is pending in the US Congress which may enact additional sanctions against Iran.
The UK adopted sanctions prohibiting UK persons from engaging in any financial transactions with the Iran Central Bank or other financial institutions incorporated in Iran.
Both the US and the EU enacted strong sanctions against Syria including a prohibition on the purchase of Syrian-origin crude and a US prohibition on the provision of services by US persons.
Libya sanctions were enacted in early 2011 and largely lifted by the end of the year.
In January 2012, the EU imposed an embargo on Iranian crude, among other measures, to be phased in over a period of months.
The EU also adopted more stringent sanctions against Syria including a prohibition on supplying certain equipment used in the production, rening, or liquefaction of petroleum resources as well as restrictions on dealing with the Central Bank of Syria and numerous other Syrian financial institutions.
BP monitors its activities with Sanctioned Countries and keeps them under review to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations of the US, the EU and other countries where BP operates.
BP has interests in, and is the operator of, two elds the North Sea Rhum eld and the Azerbaijan Shah Deniz eld and, serving the Shah Deniz eld, a gas marketing entity and an entity that owns a gas pipeline both entities and related assets located outside Iran, in which Naftiran Intertrade Co. Ltd NICO and NICO SPV Limited collectively NICO or Iranian Oil Company UK Limited IOC UK have interests.
Production was suspended at the North Sea Rhum eld in which IOC UK has a 50% interest in November 2010 and Rhum remains shut-in.
It is presently unclear when it may be possible to resume production.
The Shah Deniz eld, its gas marketing entity and the entity that owns a pipeline in which NICO has a 10% or less non-operating interest continues in operation in full compliance with current US and EU sanctions.
BP has no operations in Iran and does not purchase or ship crude oil or other products of Iranian origin.
Joint venture participants in non-BP controlled or operated joint ventures may purchase Iranian-origin crude oil or other components as feedstock for facilities located outside the EU and US.
BP does not sell crude oil or other products into Iran, except that small quantities of lubricants are sold to non-Iranian third parties for resale or use in Iran.
Until January 2010, BP held an equity interest in an Iranian joint venture that blended and marketed lubricants for sale to domestic consumers in Iran.
BP sold its equity interest but continues to sell small quantities of lubricant components to the current owner.
Transactions with Iranian shipping companies have been terminated.
Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions against Syria, BP terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum products into Syria, though continues to supply aviation fuel to non-governmental Syrian resellers outside of Syria.
Prior to the imposition of Syrian sanctions in 2011, BP sold lubricants through third parties and obtained crude oil and renery feedstocks for sale to third parties in Europe and for use in certain of its non-US reneries.
BP also bought and sold crude oil and rened products into and from Syria and incurred port costs for vessels utilizing Syrian ports.
Sales and purchases to and from Syrian shipping companies have been terminated.
64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
