Additional information for shareholders Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours trading of 1.45.
On 2 January 2012 the overriding royalty interest was recalculated off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the market prices for as $7.1 billion.
The Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement also ADSs on the NYSE, are closely related due to arbitrage among the various changed the denition of an event of default to be a failure by BP to make markets, although differences may exist from time to time due to various required payments pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement.
factors, including UK stamp duty reserve tax.
On 17 February 2012, 838,650,908 ADSs equivalent to approximately 5,031,905,448 ordinary shares or some 26.51% of the total Exchange controls issued share capital, excluding shares held in treasury were outstanding There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on and were held by approximately 109,640 ADS holders.
Of these, about remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the 108,369 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the companys operations.
registered holders of ADSs represents some 811,108 underlying holders.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under On 17 February 2012, there were approximately 303,020 holders the companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident of record of ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 1,585 had registered or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,331,996 ordinary shares.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers and other nominees, the number of holders of record in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of Taxation residence.
This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder who Material contracts holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of holders On 6 August 2010, BP entered into a trust agreement with John S Martin, subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% Jr and Kent D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup Trust-Delaware, or more of the companys voting stock.
In addition, if a partnership holds N. A. as corporate trustee the Trust Agreement which established the the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to be funded in the amount of generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the $20 billion the trust fund over the period to the fourth quarter of 2013.
The partnership and may not be described fully below.
trust fund is available to satisfy legitimate individual and business claims A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF, state and local is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and settlements, state a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US and local response costs, and natural resource damages and related costs.
federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court Fines, penalties and claims administration costs are not covered by the trust can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or fund.
Under the terms of the Trust Agreement, BP has no right to access more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the the funds once they have been contributed to the trust fund.
funds from the trust fund only upon its expiration, if there are any funds This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, remaining at that point.
BP has the authority under the Trust Agreement to as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations present certain resolved claims, including natural resource damages claims thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws and state and local response claims, to the Trust for payment, by providing of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention the trustees with all the required documents establishing that such claims between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 are valid under the Trust Agreement.
However, any such payments can the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive only be made on the authority of the trustee and any funds distributed are basis.
This section is further based in part on the representations of the paid directly to the claimants, not to BP.
The Trust Agreement is governed Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement by the laws of the State of Delaware.
and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
On 30 September 2010, BP entered a pledge and collateral For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention agreement in favour of John S Martin, Jr and Kent D Syverud the Pledge the Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK Agreement, which pledged certain Gulf of Mexico assets as collateral taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as for the trust fund funding obligation.
The pledged collateral consists of an the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
overriding royalty interest in oil and gas production of BPs Thunder Horse, Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares Atlantis, Mad Dog, Great White and Mars, Ursa and Na Kika assets in the generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation Gulf of Mexico.
A wholly-owned company called Verano Collateral Holdings other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
LLC Verano has been created to hold the overriding royalty interest, which Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US was capped at $1.25 billion per quarter and $17 billion in total.
Verano federal, state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and pledged the overriding royalty interest to the Trust as collateral for BPs disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, remaining contribution obligations to the Trust.
An event of default under and in particular whether they are eligible for the benets of the Treaty.
the Pledge Agreement arose if BP failed to make any contribution under the Trust Agreement when due or otherwise failed to observe certain other Taxation of dividends obligations, subject to specified cure periods.
Following an event of default, UK taxation the trustees were entitled to exercise all remedies as secured parties in Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from respect of the collateral, including receipt of royalty interests from the dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
pledged assets, having all or part of the limited liability company interests A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK registered in the trustees name and selling the collateral at public or or trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will private sale.
The Pledge Agreement was governed by the laws of the State not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
On 9 November 2011 the Pledge Agreement and the related shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is overriding royalty interest conveyance and mortgage were amended and subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on restated such documents collectively referred to as the Amended and ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the Restated Pledge Agreement to change the overriding royalty interest cash dividend.
effective as of 1 October 2011 to $14.7 billion.
Beginning on 2 January 2012, and on the first business day of each subsequent calendar quarter, the overriding royalty interest is recalculated as the remaining outstanding contributions owed by BP to the Trust as of that date multiplied by a factor 168 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
