Business review The Deepwater Horizon oil spill demanded a response at an order of Canadian oil sands magnitude never required before.
We learned a great deal and made Canadas oil sands are believed to hold one of the worlds largest untapped advances in response technology and systems.
As a result we are updating supplies of oil, third in size to the resources in Saudi Arabia and Venezuela.
our group requirements and are sharing our knowledge with the industry BP is involved in three oil sands projects, all of which are located in the and regulators.
Development of the Sunrise project, our joint venture In 2012, we will be working on the development of enhanced operated by Husky Energy, is under way, with production from Phase 1 oil spill preparedness and response requirements for all BP entities that expected to start in 2014.
The other two proposed projects Pike, which handle oil in a way that gives rise to a risk of an oil spill.
Once these will be operated by Devon, and Terre fide Grace, which will be BP-operated requirements are incorporated into OMS, they will require relevant are still in the early stages of development.
businesses to follow a planning process to predict how the spilled oil will We reviewed and approved the decision to invest in Canadian oil behave: identify, assess and understand the environmental and social sands projects, taking into consideration greenhouse gas GHG emissions, sensitivities at risk: define effective response strategies and confirm that impacts on land, water use and local communities, and commercial appropriate response capabilities are in place.
This practice will incorporate viability.
As with all joint ventures in which we are not the operator, we will our deepwater technical requirements, further enabling a single, consistent monitor the progress of these projects and the mitigation of risk.
The extraction process to be used, in situ steam-assisted gravity drainage SAGD technology, involves the injection of steam Sensitivity mapping underground.
The steam liquees the bitumen, allowing it to ow to the Understanding the environmental and socio-economic sensitivities where surface through production wells.
This production technique reduces land we operate is an important part of planning for an effective response.
We disturbance and aligns to our strengths, particularly to our expertise with obtain sensitivity information from many sources, including environmental wells and improving large-scale reservoir performance.
Unlike mining, and social impact assessments ESIAs for many of our projects.
These in situ processes create a smaller physical footprint and do not involve ESIAs include information about the potential environmental and sociotailing ponds.
economic impacts of planned activities and also the potential impacts that A key concern around oil sands operations using SAGD is the might occur in the event of an unplanned event, such as an oil spill.
In 2011, amount of greenhouse gas emissions produced for steam generation we have used high resolution satellite imagery to enhance our sensitivity and the processing of the produced bitumen.
A well-to-wheels study mapping across thousands of miles of coastlines, and submersibles to conducted in 2009, which measured total GHG emissions from production characterize the deep ocean.
This has helped us better understand our through to consumption, found the lifecycle emissions for oil sands-based environmental risks in regions like Angola, Brazil and the US.
products to be 5-15% higher than those from products from average crude oils consumed in the US.
Contingency planning Identifying and assessing environmentally and socio-economically Climate change sensitive areas helps us to develop appropriate oil spill response and crisis Climate change represents a significant challenge for society, the energy management plans.
The objective is to use response techniques to avoid industry and BP.
In response to the challenges and opportunities, BP is or minimize the environmental and socio-economic impact of a spill to the taking a number of practical steps, including investing in lower-carbon extent feasible based upon an assessment of the sensitivity of the local energy products such as biofuels and wind, and ventures focused on environment.
These plans are backed up by robust response capability, the sustainable energy solutions: and seeking to manage our own GHG tools and people required to mount an effective response to an incident.
emissions through a focus on operational energy efficiency, reductions How we work with designated government regulatory bodies in in aring and venting and the engineering design for new projects.
We the event of a spill is critical.
Sharing lessons learned and maintaining a see natural gas playing a key strategic role as a lower-carbon fuel that is dialogue with regulators in the regions where we operate is an important increasingly secure and affordable.
We also consider the potential impacts part of our approach.
In many countries where BP operates, the regulator of a changing climate on our operations.
will ultimately determine the procedures to deal with the environmental and socio-economic impact.
Greenhouse gas emissions a Acute response plans are often focused on the physical Our direct GHG emissions were 61.8 million tonnes Mte in 2011, containment and recovery of the spilled oil, though they also recognize that compared with 64.9 Mte in 2010.
This decrease of 3.1 Mte is primarily components in dispersed oil will be subject to processes of biodegradation, explained by the temporary reduction in activity in some of our businesses which may be facilitated and accelerated by the application of chemical as a result of maintenance work and also by the sale of assets as part of dispersants.
We achieved 0.2 Mte of sustainable emissions For onshore operations, for example, BP reneries spill response reductions in 2011. plans include passive and active containment measures that are designed Over the long-term it is likely that the carbon intensity of parts of for the specic location and types of operations.
In our upstream operations this is because In the event of concurrent spills at multiple locations, each affected we expect to move further into technically difficult and potentially more facility would activate its independent oil spill response plan and respond energy intensive areas.
The intensity of certain rening operations may also accordingly.
Although responding to multiple spills of the same magnitude increase with the trend towards processing heavier crudes which requires and complexity as occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 would be a more energy.
challenge for the group, our response plans are not interdependent.
In 2010 we did not report on GHG emissions associated with See Safety on pages 65-69 for further information on BPs approach the Deepwater Horizon incident or response.
We have since estimated to oil spill prevention and preparedness.
the CO equivalent emissions from response activities in 2010 to be 2 approximately 481,000 metric tonnes, which includes major vessels Gulf of Mexico our long-term commitments deployed.
This gure does not include emissions associated with the See Gulf of Mexico oil spill on pages 76-79 for further information on vessels of opportunity programme, the onshore vehicles and equipment BPs response to the incident and environment and economic restoration and the incident itself, which are estimated to be minor.
a We report GHG emissions on a COequivalent basis, including CO and methane.
This represents 2 2 all consolidated entities and BPs share of equity-accounted entities except TNK-BP.
70 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
