Business review Rening profitability can be volatile, with both periodic over-supply and Liquidity, financial capacity and financial exposure failure to operate supply tightness in various regional markets, coupled with uctuations within our financial framework could impact our ability to operate in demand.
Sectors of the petrochemicals industry are also subject to and result in financial loss.
Exchange rate uctuations can impact our uctuations in supply and demand, with a consequent effect on prices and underlying costs and revenues.
The group seeks to maintain a financial framework to ensure that it is able to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity.
This Climate change and carbon pricing climate change and carbon framework constrains the level of assessed capital at risk for the purposes pricing policies could result in higher costs and reduction in future of positions taken in financial instruments.
Failure to accurately forecast or revenue and strategic growth opportunities.
maintain sufficient liquidity and credit to meet these needs could impact Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating our ability to operate and result in a financial loss.
Commercial credit risk is to climate change could result in substantial capital expenditure, taxes, measured and controlled to determine the groups total credit risk.
Inability reduced profitability from changes in operating costs, and revenue to determine adequately our credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
A generation and strategic growth opportunities being impacted.
Our credit crisis affecting banks and other sectors of the economy could impact commitment to the transition to a lower-carbon economy may create the ability of counterparties to meet their financial obligations to the group.
expectations for our activities, and the level of participation in alternative It could also affect our ability to raise capital to fund growth and to meet energies carries reputational, economic and technology risks.
The change in the groups financial framework during 2010 to make it more prudent may not be sufficient to avoid a substantial and Socio-political the diverse nature of our operations around the unexpected cash call.
world exposes us to a wide range of political developments and BPs clean-up costs and potential liabilities resulting from pending consequent changes to the operating environment, regulatory and future claims, lawsuits, settlements and enforcement actions environment and law.
relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, together with the potential cost of We have operations, and are seeking new opportunities, in countries implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, cannot be fully where political, economic and social transition is taking place.
Some estimated at this time but they have had, and could continue to have, a countries have experienced, or may experience in the future, political material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, instability, changes to the regulatory environment, changes in taxation, financial performance, cash ows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, particularly in the war and insurrections.
Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or US.
Furthermore, we recognized a pre-tax charge of $40.9 billion in 2010 terminate our operations, causing our development activities to be curtailed and a pre-tax credit of $3.7 billion in 2011, and further potential liabilities or terminated in these areas, or our production to decline, could limit our may continue to have a material adverse effect on the groups results of ability to pursue new opportunities and could cause us to incur additional operations and financial condition.
See Financial statements Note 2 on costs.
In particular, our investments in the US, Russia, Iraq, Egypt, Libya, pages 190-194 and Legal proceedings on pages 160-166.
More stringent Bolivia, Argentina and other countries could be adversely affected by regulation of the oil and gas industry arising from the Incident, and of BPs heightened political and economic environment risks.
See pages 34-35 for activities specifically, could increase this risk.
information on the locations of our major assets and activities.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while sales of We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and aspire rened products may be in a variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in exchange to contribute to a better quality of life through the products and services rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange exposures, with a we provide.
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or advancing the consequent impact on underlying costs and revenues.
economic and social progress of the communities in which we operate, our See Financial statements Note 26 on page 217 for more reputation and shareholder value could be damaged.
information on financial instruments and financial risk factors.
Competition BPs group strategy depends upon continuous Insurance BPs insurance strategy means that the group could, innovation in a highly competitive market.
from time to time, be exposed to material uninsured losses which The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
There could have a material adverse effect on BPs financial condition and is strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other results of operations.
industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the In the context of the limited capacity of the insurance market, many home.
Competition puts pressure on product prices, affects oil products significant risks are retained by BP.
The group generally restricts its marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit purchase of insurance to situations where this is required for legal or costs and improving efficiency, while ensuring safety and operational contractual reasons.
This means that the group could be exposed to risk is not compromised.
The implementation of group strategy requires material uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect continued technological advances and innovation including advances in on its financial condition and results of operations.
In particular, these exploration, production, rening, petrochemicals manufacturing technology uninsured costs could arise at a time when BP is facing material costs and advances in technology related to energy usage.
Our performance arising out of some other event which could put pressure on BPs liquidity could be impeded if competitors developed or acquired intellectual and cash ows.
For example, BP has borne and will continue to bear the property rights to technology that we required or if our innovation lagged entire burden of its share of any property damage, well control, pollution the industry.
clean-up and third-party liability expenses arising out of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Investment efficiency poor investment decisions could negatively impact our business.
Compliance and control risks Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options Regulatory the oil industry in general, and in particular the US and investing in the best options.
Ineffective investment selection and industry following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, faces increased development could lead to loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
regulation that could increase the cost of regulatory compliance and limit our access to new exploration properties.
Reserves replacement inability to progress upstream resources in a After the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, it is likely that there will be more stringent timely manner could adversely affect our long-term replacement of regulation of oil and gas activities in the US and elsewhere, particularly reserves and negatively impact our business.
relating to environmental, health and safety controls and oversight of Successful execution of our group strategy depends critically on sustaining drilling operations, as well as access to new drilling areas.
Regulatory or long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are not progressed legislative action may impact the industry as a whole and could be directed in a timely and efficient manner, we will be unable to sustain long-term specifically towards BP.
The US government imposed a moratorium on replacement of reserves.
certain offshore drilling activities, which was subsequently lifted in October 60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: BP in more depth Business review 2010.
Similar actions may be taken by governments elsewhere in the violations of statutes, property and other environmental damage, securities world.
New regulations and legislation, as well as evolving practices, could law claims and various other claims.
See Legal proceedings on pages increase the cost of compliance and may require changes to our drilling 160-166. operations, exploration, development and decommissioning plans, and BP is subject to a number of investigations related to the Incident could impact our ability to capitalize on our assets and limit our access to by numerous federal and State agencies.
See Legal proceedings on pages new exploration properties or operatorships, particularly in the deepwater 160-166.
The types of enforcement action pursued and the nature of the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, increases in taxes, royalties and other amounts remedies sought will depend on the discretion of the prosecutors and payable to governments or governmental agencies, or restrictions on regulatory authorities and, in some circumstances, their assessment of availability of tax relief, could also be imposed as a response to the BPs culpability, if any, following their investigations.
actions could include criminal proceedings against BP and or employees In addition, the oil industry is subject to regulation and intervention of the group.
In addition to fines and penalties, such enforcement actions by governments throughout the world in such matters as the award of could result in the suspension of operating licences and debarment from exploration and production interests, the imposition of specic drilling government contracts.
Debarment of BP Exploration & Production Inc. obligations, environmental, health and safety controls, controls over the would prevent it from bidding on or entering into new federal contracts or development and decommissioning of a eld including restrictions on other federal transactions, and from obtaining new orders or extensions production and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or to existing federal contracts, including federal procurement contracts or non-renewal of contract rights.
We buy, sell and trade oil and gas products leases.
Dependent on the circumstances, debarment or suspension may in certain regulated commodity markets.
Failure to respond to changes also be sought against afliated entities of BP Exploration & Production in trading regulations could result in regulatory action and damage to our Inc.
Although BP believes that there are costs arising out of the spill that reputation.
The oil industry is also subject to the payment of royalties and are recoverable from its partners and other parties responsible under OPA taxation, which tend to be high compared with those payable in respect 90, and although settlements have been agreed during 2011 with both of other commercial activities, and operates in certain tax jurisdictions that partners, one contractor, and the manufacturer of the blowout preventer at have a degree of uncertainty relating to the interpretation of, and changes the Macondo well, further recoveries are not certain and so have not been to, tax law.
As a result of new laws and regulations or other factors, we recognized in the financial statements see Financial statements Note 2 could be required to curtail or cease certain operations, or we could incur on pages 190-194. additional costs.
Any nding of gross negligence for purposes of penalties sought See pages 107-110 for more information on environmental against the group under the Clean Water Act would also have a material regulation.
adverse impact on the groups reputation, would affect our ability to recover costs relating to the Incident from other parties responsible under Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or OPA 90 and could affect the fines and penalties payable by the group with breaches of applicable laws by our employees could be damaging to respect to the Incident under enforcement actions outside the Clean Water our reputation and shareholder value.
Our code of conduct, which applies to all employees, defines our The Gulf of Mexico oil spill has damaged BPs reputation.
This, commitment to integrity, compliance with all applicable legal requirements, combined with other past events in the US including the 2005 explosion high ethical standards and the behaviours and actions we expect of our at the Texas City renery and the 2006 pipeline leaks in Alaska, may lead businesses and people wherever we operate.
Our renewed values, to an increase in the number of citations and or the level of fines imposed which were launched in 2011, are intended to guide the way we and our in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and any future alleged breaches of employees behave and do business.
Incidents of ethical misconduct or safety or environmental regulations.
non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including nonClaims by individuals and businesses under OPA 90s claims compliance with anti-bribery, anti-corruption and other applicable laws process have been administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value.
Multiple events headed by Kenneth Feinberg, who was appointed jointly by BP and the of non-compliance could call into question the integrity of our operations.
The proposed economic loss settlement reached with For example, in our trading businesses, there is the risk that a determined the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC, acting on behalf of individual and individual could operate as a rogue trader, acting outside BPs delegations, business plaintiffs in MDL 2179, provides for a transition from the GCCF.
A controls or code of conduct and in contravention of our renewed values in court-supervised transitional claims process for economic loss claims will be pursuit of personal objectives that could be to the detriment of BP and its in operation while the infrastructure for the new settlement claims process shareholders.
During this transitional period, the processing of claims that For certain legal proceedings involving the group, see Legal have been submitted to the GCCF will continue, and new claimants may proceedings on pages 160-166.
For further information on the risks submit their claims.
involved in BPs trading activities, see Operational risks Treasury and The proposed settlement is subject to final written agreement and trading activities on page 63. court approvals and payments under the proposed settlement, and any other payments that may be made by BP in respect of any other individual Liabilities and provisions BPs potential liabilities resulting from and business claims under OPA 90, could ultimately be higher than the pending and future claims, lawsuits, settlements and enforcement amount for which we have recognized a provision.
See Legal proceedings actions relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, together with the on pages 160-164 and Financial statements Note 36 on pages 231-234. potential cost and burdens of implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time but they Changes in external factors could affect our results of operations and have had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse the adequacy of our provisions.
impact on the groups business.
We remain exposed to changes in the external environment, such as Under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90, BP Exploration & Production new laws and regulations whether imposed by international treaty or by Inc. is one of the parties nancially responsible for the clean-up of the Gulf national or local governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate, of Mexico oil spill and for certain economic damages as provided for in changes in tax or royalty regimes, price controls, government actions to OPA 90, as well as certain natural resource damages associated with the cancel or renegotiate contracts, market volatility or other factors.
Such spill and certain costs determined by federal and state trustees engaged in factors could reduce our profitability from operations in certain jurisdictions, a joint assessment of such natural resource damages.
limit our opportunities for new access, require us to divest or write-down BP and certain of its subsidiaries have also been named as certain assets or affect the adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, defendants in numerous lawsuits in the US arising out of the Incident, environmental and legal liabilities.
Potential changes to pension or financial including actions for personal injury and wrongful death, purported class market regulation could also impact funding requirements of the group.
actions for commercial or economic injury, actions for breach of contract, BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 61
