Business review: BP in more depth Business review t O. BSDI 5, #1 DPNQMFUFE UIF BDRVJTJUJPO PG PG $ 4$ Middle East Toplivozapravochny kompleks Sheremetyevo, the operator of jet fuel Production in the Middle East consists principally of the production storage and into-wing fuelling services at Sheremetyevo International entitlement of associates in Abu Dhabi, where we have equity interests of Airport in Moscow.
9.5% and 14.67% in onshore and offshore concessions respectively.
The t O VOF 5, #1 DPNQMFUFE UIF BDRVJTJUJPO GSPN #1 PG TUBLFT JO Abu Dhabi onshore concession expires in January 2014 with a consequent three upstream assets in Venezuela.
"Acquisition of these assets was reduction in production of approximately 140mb d. announced in October 2010. t O UIF mSTU RVBSUFS PG FYUFOEFE XFMM UFTU QSPEVDUJPO CFHBO JO 0NBO t O 0DUPCFS 5, #1 FOUFSFE JOUP BO BHSFFNFOU XJUI 35 0JM BT t O ""VHVTU UIF TFJTNJD TVSWFZ PG UIF 3JTIB DPODFTTJPO JO PSEBO for the acquisition of a 45% stake in 21 blocks in the Brazilian Solimoes was successfully completed."
These oil and gas exploration blocks are operated by HRT Oil & India 2 Gas, and cover an area of approximately 48,000km.
"t 0O ""VHVTU #1 BOE 3FMJBODF OEVTUSJFTJNJUFE 3 - BOOPVODFE t ""MTP JO 0DUPCFS 5, #1 BOOPVODFE UIBU UIF 7JFUOBNFTF."
JOJTUSZ the completion of BPs acquisition of a 30% stake in 21 oil and gas PSAs of Investment and Trade granted TNK Vietnam, a Vietnam-based that RIL operates in India, including the producing KG D6 block.
BP paid subsidiary of TNK-BP, the investment licence to operate offshore gas RIL an aggregate consideration of $7.0 billion for the interests acquired Block 6.1.
TNK-BP acquired BPs 35% stake in Block 6.1, an integrated in the 21 PSAs.
Further performance payments of up to $1.8 billion could gas to power project which contains the Lan Tay and Lan Do gas be paid in case of exploration success in certain blocks that result in condensate elds.
As part of the deal, TNK-BP also acquired BPs 32.7% the development of commercial discoveries.
This step commenced the interest in the Nam Con Son Pipeline.
Acquisition of these assets was planned alliance which will operate across the gas value chain in India, announced in October 2010. from exploration and production to distribution and marketing.
t 'JWF NJOPSJUZ TIBreholders of OAO TNK-BP Holding TBH led a civil t 0O PWFNCFS UIF UXP DPNQBOJFT GPSNFE B KPJOU WFOUVSF action in Tyumen, Siberia, against BP Russia Investments Limited and for the sourcing and marketing of gas in India.
BP p. l. c. seeking to recover alleged losses of $13 billion relating to BPs attempt to form a strategic alliance with Rosneft in January 2011.
The Iraq action was dismissed by the Tyumen court fully on its merits.
The Omsk Following a successful bid with PetroChina to run the Rumaila oileld Appellate court confirmed the Tyumen court of first instances dismissal in June 2009, the technical service contract TSC became effective of the minority suits.
See Legal proceedings on page 166 for further on 17 December 2009.
BP holds a 38% working interest and is the information.
Rumaila is one of the worlds largest oilelds and was t On 9 February 2012, BP reached agreement with its Russian partners discovered by BP in 1953 and comprises five producing reservoirs.
BP in TNK-BP on temporary amendments to the memorandum and articles together with its partners is actively refurbishing the wells and facilities.
of association of TNK-BP Limited and the SHA that reduce quorum With the achievement of the improved production target on 25 December requirements to require presence of directors nominated by BP and 2010, BP and PetroChina became eligible for service fees pursuant to the AAR only.
The amendments are aimed at enabling the continuing TSC.
In 2011 both companies lifted cargoes from the Basra terminal as functioning of the board of directors of TNK-BP board of directors while payment for service fees due.
two independent directors who recently resigned are being replaced.
This change is currently set to expire on 31 March 2012, unless both Australasia independent directors are appointed earlier.
Australia t 0O 'FCSVBSZ #1 BMTP SFBDIFE BHSFFNFOU XJUI JUT 3VTTJBO BP is one of seven partners in the North West Shelf NWS venture which partners in TNK-BP regarding certain changes to the management board has been producing LNG, pipeline gas, condensate, LPG and oil since the of its main management company in Russia OAO TNK-BP Management 1980s.
Six partners including BP hold an equal 16.67% interest in the management board.
The changes were aimed at restructuring and gas infrastructure and an equal 15.78% interest in the gas and condensate optimizing the management board, following the elimination of the reserves, with a seventh partner owning the remaining 5.32%.
BP also has deputy TNK-BP group chief executive officer role.
The restructured a 16.67% interest in the NWS oil reserves and related infrastructure.
The management board will now consist of six people.
BP will have the NWS venture is currently the principal supplier to the domestic market in right to nominate the chairman of the management board, as well Western Australia and one of the largest LNG export projects in Asia with a as two executive directors in charge of upstream and downstream five LNG trains in operation.
BP also holds a 5.375% interest in the respectively the BP members.
AAR will have the right to nominate Jansz-Io eld which is part of the Greater Gorgon project Chevron, two other executive directors the AAR members.
The sixth member ExxonMobil and Shell and is currently being developed.
the chief financial officer will be nominated by the chairman of the t O BOVBSZ #1 BOOPVODFE UIBU JU IBE CFFO BXBSEFE GPVS management board.
The chairman of the management board will in time deepwater offshore exploration blocks in the Ceduna Sub Basin also have the right to nominate the executive directors, subject to prior within the Great Australian Bight, off the coast of South Australia.
The concurrence by the respective shareholder.
All of the aforementioned exploration work is to be phased over six years with a 3D seismic survey 2 nominations will require approval by the board of directors as a majority covering approximately 12,500km commenced in November 2011 and matter, except for the chairman of the management board whose continuing into 2012.
Following interpretation of the seismic survey, BP appointment will require approval as a unanimous reserved matter.
As will drill four deepwater wells in this frontier exploration basin.
"part of the agreement, BP and AAR agreed to approve the continued appointment of the chief executive officer and the appointment of their Eastern Indonesia respective executive directors, with such appointments to expire no later BP has a 100% interest in an exploration asset, the North Arafura PSA, than 31 December 2013. located on the coast of the Arafura Sea, 480 kilometres south east of our t ""MM PUIFS QSPWJTJPOT PG UIF 4 "" JODMVEJOH UIPTF SFMBUFE UP UIF SFWJFX Tangguh LNG plant BP 37.16% and operator and covering an area of just 2 of new business opportunities, the board of directors and dispute over 5,000km."
In addition, BP owns a 32% interest in Chevrons operated resolution remain unchanged.
West Papua I and III PSAs, located circa 120 kilometres to the south of the Tangguh LNG plant see Liqueed natural gas on page 88.
Sakhalin t O %FDFNCFS #1 TJHOFE DPOUSBDUT XJUI UIF PWFSONFOU PG BP has interests in Sakhalin through a joint venture company, Elvary Indonesia for two deepwater PSAs: West Aru I and II.
The PSAs are Neftegaz, in which BP holds a 49% equity interest, and its partner, located 500 kilometres south west of the North Arafura PSA and 200 2 Rosneft, holds the remaining 51% interest.
In 2011, the process to exit kilometres west of the Aru island group, covering areas of 8,100km and 2 the licence areas held by Elvary Neftegaz and liquidate the joint venture 8,300km respectively.
BP holds 100% interest in the PSAs and expects commenced.
This follows the write-down of BPs investment at the end of to commence seismic operations in the near future.
2010 following an unsuccessful exploration programme.
a An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify LNG.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 87
