Business review: BP in more depth Business review Greenhouse gas regulation With our industry association IPIECA, BP has also participated in the In the future, we expect that additional regulation of GHG emissions development of a new customized oil and gas version of the World aimed at addressing climate change will have an increasing impact on Business Council for Sustainable Developments Global Water Tool, which our businesses, operating costs and strategic planning, but may also helps oil and gas companies map their water use and assess risks of offer opportunities for the development of low-carbon technologies and freshwater scarcity and related biodiversity impacts, across their portfolio businesses.
See Regulation of the groups business Greenhouse gas of sites.
BP has also invested in a water risk management tool, which is regulation on page 109. currently being piloted at a number of BPs operations, to investigate the To help address potential future regulation, we factor a carbon cost risks of water use and availability at a local level.
into our investment appraisals and engineering designs for new projects.
In the future, these tools will provide BP with a means of We do this by requiring larger projects, and those for which emissions consistently dening water risks and opportunities across a number of costs would be a material part of the project, to apply a standard carbon our operations, enabling us to establish a more consistent approach to cost to the projected GHG emissions over the life of the project.
The managing water issues throughout the group.
standard cost is based on our estimate of the carbon price that might realistically be expected in particular parts of the world.
In industrialized Hydraulic fracturing countries, this standard cost assumption is currently $40 per tonne of Technology helps to make it possible for BP to extract unconventional gas CO equivalent.
We use this as a basis for assessing the economic value resources safely and responsibly to help meet the growing global demand 2 of the investment and as one consideration in optimizing the way the for gas.
Unconventional gas can be classied into three categories: tight project is engineered with respect to emissions.
This helps to assess our gas, coalbed methane and shale gas.
BP is pursuing unconventional gas in investments under scenarios in which the price of carbon emissions is the US and in other countries such as Algeria, Oman and Indonesia.
higher than the current market price.
Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a process of pumping water mixed with a small proportion of sand and chemicals underground at Adaptation to impacts resulting from a changing climate high pressure to fracture the rock and release gas that would otherwise We have funded research into the impacts of climate change on our not be accessible.
Some stakeholders have expressed concerns about operations for many years, to better understand the possible types of the potential environmental impacts.
BP recognizes these concerns and climate change impacts, potential effects on the environment and on our seeks to apply responsible well design and construction, surface operation facilities and to develop potential responses to these impacts.
and uid handling practices and engages constructively with government In the Beaufort Sea in Canada, for example, where BP is in the early and industry to promote sound policies and regulation that protect water stages of an oil exploration project, we have collaborated with ArcticNet, resources and the environment.
We expect that many of the jurisdictions a local research organization devoted to understanding climate change in which we operate will adopt stricter regulations governing fracking and impacts in the Arctic, on a two-year environmental baseline study.
For other unconventional gas extraction technologies in the future which could ArcticNet the information gleaned will provide valuable data for analysis, adversely affect our operations and profitability in our unconventional gas while for BP the data will provide a useful baseline with which to compare business.
future research, helping us to understand and chart the effects of climate change in this deepwater ocean environment.
Environmental expenditure Projects implementing our environmental and social practices are $ million 2011 2010 2009 required to assess the potential impacts to the project from the changing Environmental expenditure relating to climate.
Any significant potential impacts identied are managed via the the Gulf of Mexico oil spill projects risk management process.
To support this risk assessment Spill response 586 13,628 process, we continually update and improve our climate impact modelling Additions to environmental tools.
In the Caspian region, for example, we are working with meteorology remediation provision 1,167 929 and oceanology consultants to enhance the existing modelling capability Other environmental expenditure and develop a regional climate model to provide long-term forecasts and Operating expenditure 704 716 701 trends of wind speed, wave height and sea level.
Capital expenditure 819 911 955 We also have a guide on adapting to a changing climate which is Clean-ups 53 55 70 available for all projects and operations.
This document sets out guidance Additions to environmental to help businesses across BP make appropriate allowance for the potential remediation provision 510 361 588 effects of climate change.
Additions to decommissioning For projects where climate change impacts are identied as a provision 4,596 1,800 169 risk, our engineers typically seek to address them like any other physical and ecological hazard, rather than as a discrete category.
We periodically BP continues to incur significant costs related to the 2010 Gulf of Mexico review and adjust existing design criteria and engineering technology oil spill.
Of the spill response cost of $586 million incurred in the year 2010 practices.
For example, we adapt our drainage design practices based $13,628 million $336 million 2010 $1,043 million remains as a provision on the frequency and severity of storms as well as rainfall and runoff at 31 December 2011. amounts: if storms are anticipated to become more frequent, or heavier, The environmental remediation provision includes amounts the engineering design will accommodate this.
for BPs commitment to fund the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative, natural resource damage NRD assessment costs and emergency NRD Water restoration projects.
In addition, during the year BP entered a framework We are taking a more strategic approach to water use and assessing agreement with natural resource trustees for the United States and water-related risks within our businesses, including those associated with five Gulf Coast states, providing for up to $1 billion to be spent on early the growing global issue of water scarcity.
Our focus is on increasing restoration projects to address natural resource injuries resulting from our ability to forecast, measure and manage emerging water risks and the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Further amounts for spill response costs were engaging with external organizations to better understand these risks and provided during the year primarily to recognize increased costs of shoreline develop sustainable water management practices, particularly where water clean-up, patrolling and maintenance and vessel decontamination.
majority of the active clean-up of the shorelines had been completed by the end of the year.
See Financial statements Note 2 on page 190, Note 36 on page 231 and Note 43 on page 249 for further information relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 71
