Corporate governance Corporate governance The companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies and Controls and procedures procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reect transactions and dispositions of assets: Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such term to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS is dened in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance that information required to be disclosed in reports the company les or with authorizations of management and the directors of BP: and provide submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets that could have Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated a material effect on our financial statements.
BPs internal control over and communicated to management, including the companys group financial reporting as of 31 December 2011 has been audited by chief executive and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting rm, decisions regarding required disclosure.
as stated in their report appearing on page 177 of this Annual Report and In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, Form 20-F 2011. our management, including the group chief executive and chief financial officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how Changes in internal control over financial reporting well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, There were no changes in the groups internal controls over financial assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F that are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control internal controls over financial reporting.
issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures our management necessarily was required to apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities.
As we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
The companys disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards.
The companys management, with the participation of the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group chief executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal executive and financial ofcers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of BPs financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
As of the end of the 2011 scal year, management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull.
Based on this assessment, management has determined that BPs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011 was effective.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 135
