Business review transportation and storage.
The project is a joint venture between BP Aluminium 40% and Masdar 60%.
During 2011, we terminated our interest in this business with the disposal of our wholly-owned subsidiary, ARCO Aluminum Inc. to a consortium of Shipping Japanese companies for cash consideration of $680 million.
We transport our products across oceans, around coastlines and along waterways, using a combination of BP-operated, time-chartered and Treasury spot-chartered vessels.
All vessels conducting BP activities are subject to Treasury manages the nancing of the group centrally, ensuring liquidity our health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
The primary sufficient to meet group requirements and manages key financial risks purpose of our shipping and chartering activities is the transportation of including interest rate, foreign exchange, pension and financial institution our hydrocarbon products.
In addition, we may use surplus capacity to credit risk.
From locations in the UK, the US and the Asia-Pacic region, transport third-party products.
Treasury provides the interface between BP and the international financial markets and supports the nancing of BPs projects around the world.
International fleet Treasury trades foreign exchange and interest rate products in the At the end of 2011, we had 53 international vessels 37 medium-size financial markets, hedging group exposures and generating incremental crude and product carriers, three very large crude carriers, one North Sea value through optimizing and managing cash ows.
Trading activities shuttle tanker, eight LNG carriers and four LPG carriers.
All these ships are are underpinned by the compliance, control, and risk management double-hulled.
Of the eight LNG carriers, BP manages one on behalf of a infrastructure common to all BP trading activities.
For further information, joint venture in which it is a participant.
see Financial statements Note 26 on page 217.
Regional and specialist vessels Insurance In Alaska, we retain a fleet of four double-hulled vessels.
Outside the US, The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where we had 14 specialist vessels two double-hulled lubricants oil barges and this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
Losses are borne as they 12 offshore support vessels.
arise, rather than being spread over time through insurance premiums with attendant transaction costs.
This approach was reviewed following the Time-charter vessels Deepwater Horizon oil spill but the group concluded that it will continue At the end of 2011 BP had 93 hydrocarbon-carrying vessels above 600 with its current approach of not generally purchasing insurance cover.
deadweight tonnes on time-charter, all of which are double-hulled.
All these vessels participate in BPs time-charter assurance programme.
Spot-charter vessels BP spot-charters vessels, typically for single voyages.
These vessels are always vetted for safety assurance prior to each use.
Other vessels BP uses various craft such as tugs, crew boats and seismic vessels in support of the groups business.
We also use sub-600 deadweight tonne barges to carry hydrocarbons on inland waterways.
Maritime security issues At a strategic level, BP avoids known areas of pirate attack or armed robbery: where this is not possible for trading reasons and we consider it safe to do so, we will continue to trade vessels through these areas, subject to the adoption of heightened security measures.
2011 has seen continuing pirate activity in the Gulf of Aden, Indian Ocean up to approximately 200 miles west of the Indian coast and the Arabian Sea.
Activity has further extended into the north Arabian Sea approximately 200 miles south of Pakistan and the southern Red Sea.
Despite an increasing level of piracy activity the number of vessels actually attacked and or hijacked has remained roughly the same as in 2010, and the percentage success rate of the pirates has reduced.
This is as a result of stronger naval intervention off the Somali coast, heightened awareness of the threat, and protective measures adopted by transiting ships.
At present, we follow available military and government agency advice and are participating in protective group transits through the Gulf of Aden Internationally Recommended Transit Corridor.
BP uses the protective measures recommended in the international shipping industry guide BMP 4 Best Management Practices for Protection against Somalia Based Piracy, jointly published by industry bodies, including Oil Companies International Marine Forum and supported by military operations in the region.
We continue to monitor other areas where piracy is known to occur e. g. West Africa and the South China Sea.
102 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
