Business review: BP in more depth Business review Working with partners and contractors Environmental and social BP, like our industry peers, rarely works in isolation we need to work with suppliers, contractors and partners to carry out our operations.
In 2011, responsibility more than 55% of the 374 million hours worked by BP were carried out by contractors.
The worlds demand for energy is increasing and our business of nding Our ability to full our corporate responsibility depends in part and producing some of that energy means we operate in increasingly on the conduct of our suppliers, contractors and partners.
We address diverse locations globally.
Many of these locations have environmental and this in a variety of ways, from training and dialogue to conrming social sensitivities.
operational standards through legally binding agreements.
When we select To BP, working responsibly means managing our impacts on the contractors, our due diligence is designed to identify safety, bribery and areas where we operate, and making this a core principle in all of our corruption, money laundering and trade sanctions risks.
From the initial planning stages of a new project through to suppliers, contractors and partners to comply with legal requirements and its eventual decommissioning and any remediation work that follows, operate consistently with the principles of our code of conduct when they our operating management system OMS lays out the standards and work on our behalf.
processes required for environmentally and socially responsible operations.
Within our operating management system we have group-wide and Wherever we work, we strive to minimize our impact on the business-specic requirements and practices for working with contractors.
environment whether to land, air, water or wildlife and to ensure that The objective is to provide assurance that goods, equipment and services local people are engaged, human rights are respected and cultural heritage provided by third parties meet contractual and BP requirements and is conserved.
that there is a consistent, shared understanding of responsibilities.
For example, in our drilling operations, where we have evaluated differences Our environmental and social practices between our own standards and those of contractors, we require bridging We are taking an increasingly systematic approach to the management of documents to be put in place.
These define how two or more safety the environmental and social impacts of our projects.
Our environmental management systems co-exist to allow co-operation and co-ordination and social practices, which form part of our OMS, set out how the major between BP and the contractor.
projects to which they apply should identify and manage environmental and social impacts.
The practices also apply to projects that involve new Contractor management review access, projects that could affect an international protected area and some Following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, we began an in-depth review BP acquisition negotiations.
of contractor management practices, with the aim of documenting and The practices help us deliver on the intent of the relevant sections learning from best practice throughout BP and across a number of sectors of the OMS, the BP code of conduct and on our external commitments.
and industries that use contractors in potentially dangerous activities.
We They include several key requirements on impact assessment, security studied 21 major organizations in six different sectors airlines, mining, and human rights, indigenous people, international protected areas, construction, pharmaceuticals and chemicals, nuclear and space.
greenhouse gas emissions, energy management, water management, We found that these organizations working in potentially highozone depleting substances, drilling wastes, and moving communities.
risk arenas tended to have fewer and longer-lasting relationships with Early in the planning stage, applicable projects complete a screening contractors, supported by shared structures and practices.
Clearly process to identify environmental and social impacts that could arise from dened responsibilities and decision rights at every stage of each process their activities.
Between implementation in April 2010 and the end of 2011, are needed to make contractor relationships work including training, nearly 60 projects had completed the screening process with the support monitoring and auditing.
Rigorous qualication of suppliers, including of a trained and independent screening facilitator.
competency assessments for critical roles, is also important.
More information about our approach to environmental and The findings of this review are informing our contractor social issues may be found in the BP Sustainability Review and on management approach, with initial work focusing on contracts in our bp.
upstream supply chain that involve potentially high-consequence activities.
Working in internationally protected areas Our partners in joint ventures Our environmental and social practices require the projects to which they We seek to work in partnership with companies that share our apply to understand the potential to affect international protected areas.
commitment to ethical and sustainable working practices.
However, in The UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centres World Database on some of our joint ventures, we do not directly control how our partners and Protected Areas is used to inform this screening process.
Our international their employees approach these issues.
protected areas classication includes areas designated as protected by the Typically, our level of influence or control over a project or operation International Union for the Conservation of Nature categories I-IV, Ramsar is linked to the size of our financial stake compared to other participants.
and World Heritage sites, as well as areas proposed for protected status.
In some joint ventures we act as the operator.
Where we are the operator, Where screening indicates that a proposed BP project may and where legal and contractual arrangements allow, our policies, potentially affect an international protected area a high-level risk standards and operating systems apply.
Our safety and operational risk function provides In other cases, for example where one of our partners is the an independent review to inform the risk assessment, and before any designated operator or where the operator is a joint venture company physical activity begins permission is sought from senior management, owned by BP and other partners, we are not the day-to-day operator.
In together with appropriate mitigation measures.
The Great Australian Bight those cases our OMS provides for our businesses to consider whether Project completed this process in 2011. the management system used by the operator provides similar levels of risk and performance management to our own.
We seek to influence our Oil spill contingency planning and response partners through dialogue and constructive engagement.
Applicable laws generally include requirements for dealing with the In 2011, BP initiated a review into our approach to the management environmental and socio-economic impacts of oil spills or leaks.
In some of our relationships with non-operated joint venture operators and partners.
countries, regulators require as part of our licences to operate that plans This work includes safety and operational risk as well as bribery and are in place for responding to accidents and unplanned events such as corruption risk.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 69
