Corporate governance Brendan Nelson became chair of the audit committee upon the retirement Committee reports of Douglas Flint from the board in April 2011.
Mr Nelson, who was formerly vice chairman of KPMG, is chairman of the Group Audit Committee of The Audit committee Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel, Vice President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Chairmans introduction of Scotland and a director of the Financial Skills Partnership.
The board is In the first quarter of the year the committee, under Douglas Flints satisfied that Mr Nelson, in succession to Mr Flint, is the audit committee chairmanship, continued to spend considerable time reviewing and member with recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the challenging BPs assessment of its financial responsibilities relating to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers that the committee as a tragic incident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010.
This task has remained a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial key area of focus under my chairmanship during the remainder of the year.
and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to address.
The board We have continued to seek assurance that where liabilities are estimable, also determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria they are fully provided for, and where uncertainty is too great to support provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a provision that appropriate disclosure is made.
Some greater clarity that Mr Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as developed during the year as experience was gained about the operation dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F. of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust fund, and as settlements were reached with two of the partners in the Macondo well and two of the Committee role and structure contractors involved.
However, as reported elsewhere in this document, The role and responsibilities of the audit committee are set out in the major uncertainty remains in respect of litigation, potential fines and appendix of BPs board governance principles which is available on our penalties and other matters which will require significant attention from the website.
We keep these under review and test their effectiveness in audit committee for the foreseeable future.
The committee has therefore our annual evaluation of the audit committee.
In addition, the chairs and taken care to preserve its regular agenda content so as to continue fullling secretaries of the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance its remit to the board with respect to monitoring risk management systems committees have worked together to ensure their respective agendas and internal controls and financial reporting.
neither duplicate nor omit coverage of key risk areas.
Amongst other topics, we have reviewed controls in trading, debt The committee met 11 times over the past year including one joint and liquidity management and the companys response to the UK Bribery meeting with the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee Act.
During the course of the year, I have also participated in the group SEEAC.
This joint meeting reviews the general auditors report on internal chief executives audit forum and the group financial risk committee control and risk management systems for the year in preparation for the GFRC.
In preparation for audit committee meetings, I have met regularly boards report to shareholders in the annual report.
It also reviews the with the chief financial officer, general auditor and the lead partner of the general auditors audit programme for the year ahead to ensure both external auditors.
I also spent time with the leadership team of the internal committees endorse the coverage.
Each audit committee meeting is attended by the group chief I valued the time I took to visit one of the companys largest data financial officer, the group controller, the general auditor head of internal centres in London, its European business service centre in Budapest, and audit and the chief accounting officer.
The lead partner of our external the trading oors in Houston and London.
Such visits and interaction with auditors Ernst & Young is also present.
staff at all levels of the organization enhance both our understanding of The committee also holds separate private sessions during the the companys activities and our assurance over the way they are being year with the external auditor and the general auditor these sessions are managed.
without the presence of executive management.
Although we lost Douglas Flint from the committee when he The board is kept updated and informed of the audit committees stepped down from the board, I am delighted that Andrew Shilston has activities and any issues arising through verbal reports at its meetings from now joined us.
Andrews experience as the CFO at Rolls Royce, and his the committee chair and the circulation of the committees minutes.
previous background in the energy business, complements the skills already present in the committees membership.
I believe we have a Audit committee processes very good mix of commercial, financial and audit expertise to address Information and advice the complex accounting, audit and risk issues which the committee Information and reports for the committee are received directly from monitors.
I would also like to thank Ian Davis for his contribution to the accountable functional and business managers and from relevant external audit committee over the last two years.
Ian is now stepping down from sources.
In addition, like our board and other committees, the audit the committee in anticipation of a period of heavier workload related to the committee can access independent advice and counsel when needed Gulf of Mexico committee.
During 2011, external specialist legal advice in Our report below seeks to highlight the key activities undertaken relation to corporate reporting was provided to the committee by Sullivan & in 2011 and provide some insight into the outcomes of the committees Cromwell LLP.
As part of its annual evaluation, the committee reviews the work.
I believe 2012 will be equally intense but the committee is well adequacy of reliable and timely information from management that enables equipped to address the tasks it faces.
it to full its responsibilities.
The 2011 evaluation indicated that members recognized the openness and transparent nature of the materials and Brendan Nelson presentations provided by management.
Chairman of the audit committee Training and visits Committee members In continuing to respond to the consequences of the Gulf of Mexico oil Brendan Nelson committee chair from 14 April 2011 spill, the committee placed emphasis on receiving appropriate briengs on George David the relevant applications of accounting policy, particularly provisioning and Ian Davis retired from the committee on 3 February 2012 related disclosure.
The committee received regular technical updates from Phuthuma Nhleko appointed 1 February 2011 the chief accounting officer on developments in financial reporting and an Andrew Shilston appointed 3 February 2012 annual brieng on oil and gas reserves disclosures.
In addition the external auditors provided insight and commentary on international accounting Members who left during the year: policy developments.
Douglas Flint previously chair of the committee retired 14 April 2011 Induction programmes are provided for new members and are tailored around their roles on the audit committee.
During 2011 Brendan The audit committee is composed of independent, non-executive directors Nelson and Phuthuma Nhleko completed their audit committee induction selected to provide a wide range of financial, international and commercial programmes.
This included sessions on tax, trading operations, accounting, expertise appropriate to full the committees duties.
126 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
