Business review: Group overview Our organization: Business model BPs business model is to create value across the entire hydrocarbon value chain.
This starts with exploration and ends with the supply of energy and other products that are fundamental to everyday life.
a BP is one of the worlds leading integrated oil and gas companies.
Our objective is to create value for shareholders and supplies of energy for the world in a safe and responsible way.
We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer.
At each stage of the hydrocarbon value chain there are opportunities for us to create value both through the successful execution of activities that are core to our industry, and through the application of our own distinctive strengths and Above When completed in the capabilities in performing those activities.
second half of 2013, modernization We have two main business segments: Exploration and Production, and work at our Whiting renery should enable BP to capture additional Rening and Marketing.
Through these, our activities are focused on nding, margins.
developing and producing essential sources of energy, and turning these sources into products that people need.
We provide our customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday items like plastic bottles.
We also invest in renewable energy sources, which we believe will be an increasing source of value for BP.
Our activities are focused on biofuels and wind.
These are managed through our Alternative Energy business, which is reported in In detail For more information about Other businesses and corporate.
Alternative Energy, see Other Our projects and operations help to generate employment, investment and businesses and corporate.
Page 101 tax revenues in countries and communities around the world.
The relationships we form with governments, partners, contractors, customers, franchisees and suppliers are very important to the success of our business.
We are committed to being responsible, meeting our obligations, and building long-lasting relationships.
As a global group, our interests and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures or associates established in and subject to the laws and regulations of many different jurisdictions.
Our worldwide headquarters is in London.
The UK is a centre for trading, legal, finance and other business functions as well as three of BPs major global research and technology In detail groups.
We have well-established operations in Europe, the US, Canada, Russia, For denitions of subsidiaries, South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
Around 61% of the groups joint ventures and associates, see Miscellaneous terms.
xed assets are located in OECD countries, including around 37% in the US and Page 4 around 18% in Europe.
The significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2011 and the group percentage of ordinary share capital to the nearest whole number are set out in Financial statements Note 45 on page 251.
For information on significant jointly controlled entities and associates of the group, see Financial statements Notes 24 and 25 on pages 215 and 216 respectively.
a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves and production.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 25 Our organization: Business model Value creation in our industry BPs core activities are similar to those carried out by other global, integrated, oil and gas companies.
First, we acquire the rights to explore for oil and gas.
When we are successful in nding hydrocarbon resources, we create value by seeking to develop them into proved reserves or by selling them on if they do not t with our strategic objectives.
We often work with partners to mitigate risk or gain from complementary skills.
Through disciplined execution of capital projects we then develop, extract and sell the resources.
The benets are shared with governments and other partners.
We move oil and gas through pipelines and by ship, truck and rail.
We use our skills and knowledge to nd the best routes to deliver supplies to the most attractive markets.
We manufacture fuels and products, creating value by seeking to operate a high-quality portfolio of well-located assets safely, reliably and efficiently.
We use our sales and marketing skills to add value to our fuels and other products.
And we also invest in renewable energy sources, with a focus on biofuels and wind.
Integrated model 2 3 Developing Moving oil and extracting and gas oil and gas Finding oil 1 and gas Selling fuels 5 and products Making fuels 4 and products Investing in 6 renewable energy 26 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: Group overview BPs distinctive capabilities and sources of value By operating across the full hydrocarbon value chain we believe we can create more value for shareholders, as benets and costs can often be shared by our two segments.
We can develop shared functional excellence more efficiently in areas such as safety and operational risk, environmental and social practices, procurement, technology and treasury management.
We have a distinctive integrated supply and trading function, which aims to maximize the value of our production while ensuring our reneries are fully supplied.
We buy and sell at each stage in the value chain to optimize value for the group, often selling our own production and buying from elsewhere to satisfy demand from our reneries and customers.
The function also creates value through entrepreneurial trading, where our presence across the major energy trading hubs of the world provides access to vital information on the fundamentals of markets that are increasingly connected.
We consider our ability to build a wide range of strong, long-term relationships to be both a key strength and crucial to our success.
We form partnerships with national oil companies and our international oil company peers.
We partner with universities and governments in pursuit of improving the technologies available to us, in order to enhance our operations and develop new products.
We also actively participate in industry bodies such as the American Petroleum Institute and the Marine Well Containment Company in the US and the Oil Spill Preventions and Response Advisory Group in the UK.
Regular review and audit processes enable us to maintain strong links with contractors and suppliers.
We work with our partners through the management frameworks embedded in our joint venture and shareholder agreements to ensure safe and reliable operations, and for our mutual commercial benefit.
Left Employees at Prudhoe Bay one of the 15 North Slope oilelds that BP operates in Alaska.
Right During 2011, full commercial operations started at Cedar Creek 2 wind farm in Colorado.
We believe our development and application of technology represents a distinctive capability that is central to our reputation and competitive advantage.
For us, technology is the practical application of scientific knowledge to manage risks, capture business value and inform strategy development.
This includes the research, development, demonstration and acquisition of new technical capabilities and support for the deployment of BPs know-how.
We monitor the potential opportunities and risks presented by emerging science, interdisciplinary innovation and new players: natural resource issues and climate concerns: and evolving policy concerns, including the current emphasis on energy security and efficiency.
In detail Our technology advisory council, which is comprised of eminent For more information, technology leaders from business and academia, advises the board and executive see Technology.
Page 74 management on research and technology matters.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 27 Our organization: Business model Upstream and midstream playing to our strengths Our Exploration and Production segment is responsible for our activities in oil and natural gas exploration, eld development and production: midstream In detail For more information on transportation, storage and processing: and the marketing and trading of natural Exploration and Production, gas, including liqueed natural gas, together with power and natural gas liquids.
Page 80 Our exploration division obtains access to and nds resources at scale in the worlds key hydrocarbon basins.
We are an industry leader in seismic imaging, a key technology in the identication of potential hydrocarbon resources.
Our developments division develops our hydrocarbon resources, applying effective project execution and capital efficiency.
Our production division then extracts resources efficiently and maximizes their recovery.
We focus on areas that play to our strengths deepwater, gas value chains including the infrastructure required from eld to market and giant elds.
We are increasing investment with a particular focus on exploration.
We actively manage our portfolio, including divesting assets when we believe they may be more valuable to others than to ourselves.
This allows us to focus our leadership, technical resources, and organizational capability on the resources we believe are most likely to ourish in our portfolio.
In 2011, our upstream and midstream activities took place in 30 countries including Angola, Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, Norway, Russia, Trinidad & Tobago Trinidad, the UK, the US and other locations within Asia, Australasia, South America, North Africa and the Middle East.
Exploration and Production also includes gas marketing and trading activities, primarily in Canada, Europe and the US.
In Russia, we have an important associate through our 50% shareholding in TNK-BP, a major oil company with exploration assets, reneries and other downstream infrastructure.
Upstream technology Inherently reliable facilities agships Managing and reducing integrity risk.
Field of the Future Well advisor Applying real-time Delivering safe, reliable data capabilities to and efficient well enable safe and efficient operations through the operations.
Advanced seismic imaging Deepwater facilities Locating and accessing Researching and new resource through engineering advanced industry-leading imaging.
equipment for safer, more reliable deepwater subsea systems.
Beyond sand control Unconventional gas Maximizing production Recovering gas from and managing risk from unconventional rocks using sand-prone reservoirs.
Pushing reservoir limits Unconventional oil Growing recovery factors Developing new technologies to maximize resources to recover heavy oil.
28 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: Group overview MARKETING SUPPLY REFINING LUBRICANTS BLENDING PETROCHEMICALS Technology will continue to play a critical role in our upstream activities, as the upstream technology agships diagram demonstrates.
In addition, our Project TM 20K is a significant new initiative that illustrates how new advances have the potential to deliver material value.
Through this, we are investing in technology to enable exploration, development and production of reservoirs that were previously beyond reach due to high reservoir pressures, including those at a pressure between 15,000 and 20,000 pounds per square inch.
Successful deployment of these technologies would enable us to further develop a number of our existing resources substantially, and we also see opportunities to develop new onshore and offshore resources both as BP and in partnership with national oil companies.
Downstream working across our value chains Our Rening and Marketing segment is responsible for the rening, manufacturing, In detail For more information on marketing, transportation, and supply and trading of crude oil, petroleum, Rening and Marketing, petrochemicals products and related services to wholesale and retail customers.
Page 94 We have significant operations in Europe, North America and Asia, and we also manufacture and market our products across Australasia, southern Africa and Central and South America.
In total we market our products in more than 70 countries.
The segment comprises three main businesses: fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
All of our businesses operate as value chains.
Previously we discussed the segment under the headings of fuels value chains and international businesses, but we now report the value chains by business.
The fuels businesses sell rened petroleum products including gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel.
Within this, the fuels value chains FVCs integrate the Downstream technology Rening technology Optimizes crude oil selection, utilization and renery processing capability to produce high-quality petroleum products.
End products: fuels, oils, bitumen, coke Conversion technology Conversion of unconventional feedstocks, including renewables, to fuels and petrochemicals.
Fuels technology Develops and implements new high-efficiency fuel products.
Petrochemicals technology End products: Develops, deploys and optimizes gasoline, diesel, proprietary technologies to produce aviation fuel, Lubricants technology high-value petrochemicals intermediates.
marine fuel Develops unique lubricants and End products: solvents resins, high-performance uids for plastics, textiles bres transportation and industrial applications.
End products: lubricants BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 29 Our organization: Business model activities of rening, logistics, marketing, and supply and trading on a regional basis.
This recognizes the geographic nature of the markets in which we compete, providing the opportunity to optimize our activities from crude oil purchases to end-consumer sales through our physical assets reneries, terminals, pipelines and retail stations.
In addition, we operate a global aviation fuels business and an LPG marketing business, from which we intend to divest the bulk and bottled LPG marketing operations.
We own or have a share in 16 reneries including five in the US and seven in Europe.
Our focus is on complex, upgraded reneries that are able to process cheaper feedstocks yet yield more valuable products.
We also market fuels through around 21,800 retail sites, principally in the US, Europe, Australia and southern Africa.
Many of our retail sites are now operated by franchisees with whom we work in close partnership as we seek to ensure our standards and brand are consistently applied.
We divest assets and businesses when we believe they will be of greater value to others.
In 2011, we announced that we are seeking buyers for our Texas City renery: and for our Carson renery near Los Angeles, together with its associated integrated marketing business in southern California, Arizona and Nevada.
Our lubricants business is involved in manufacturing and marketing lubricants and related services to markets around the world.
In 2011, approximately 45% of our profit from lubricants was generated from non-OECD markets, and we see good opportunities for further growth in these areas.
We market lubricants to the automotive, industrial, marine, aviation and energy markets.
The business blends and markets lubricants globally through our key brands of Castrol, BP and Aral.
Our strategic relationships with our original equipment manufacturing partners provide the ongoing collaboration needed to develop the next generation of highperformance lubricants, such as Castrol EDGE.
Our petrochemicals business operates on a global basis and includes the manufacture and marketing of petrochemicals that are used in many everyday products, such as plastic bottles and textiles for clothing.
Future growth in our business is focused on the demand centres of Asia, where our relationships with joint venture partners are key to our strategy in these increasingly important markets.
From 2012 we plan to create a new revenue stream in petrochemicals through licensing some of our leading technology.
Above BP is working with Mendel Biotechnology to develop and commercialize seed products with high resistance to environmental stresses, such as water and nutrient limitation.
Left Developed with Imperial College London, new Permasense sensors are helping BP corrosion engineers to see what is happening inside pipes.
30 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
