Business review: Group overview Information about this report This document constitutes the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance and response and crisis management, plans to spend $700 million on with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance certain renery-related safety measures, plans to implement enhanced and with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for BP p. l. c. for the year ended standardized technical practices across the rening business, the timing for 31 December 2011.
A cross reference to Form 20-F requirements is on the completion of the Shoreline Clean-up, the timing of, cost of, source of page 2. payment and provision for future remediation and restoration programmes This document contains the Directors Report, including the and environmental operating and capital expenditures, the anticipated future Business Review and Management Report, on pages 7-138 and 153-172, level of time for conversion of proved undeveloped reserves to proved and 174.
The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 139-151.
The reserves, expectations regarding Rening and Marketings intentions to consolidated financial statements of the group are on pages 173-281 and achieve $2 billion in performance improvement by the end of 2012, plans to the corresponding reports of the auditor are on pages 175-177.
The parent halve US rening capacity by the end of 2012, the timing for the completion company financial statements of BP p. l. c. and corresponding auditors report of construction at the Cherry Point renery, anticipated investment in are on pages PC1-PC14 and page PC1 respectively.
Alternative Energy, expectations regarding greater regulation and increased The statement of directors responsibilities, the independent operating costs in the Gulf of Mexico in the future, and costs for providing auditors report on the annual report and accounts to the members of pension and other post-retirement benets: iii the statements in the BP p. l. c. and the parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. and Business review pages 103-106 with regard to future dividend and optional corresponding auditors report do not form part of BPs Annual Report on scrip dividend payments, future capital expenditures and capital expenditure Form 20-F as led with the SEC.
commitments, taxation, intentions to maintain a significant liquidity buffer, BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 and BP Summary Review future working capital and cash ows, gearing and the net debt ratio, 2011 may be downloaded from bp.
No material on the BP expected payments under contractual and commercial commitments and website, other than the items identied as BP Annual Report and Form 20-F purchase obligations, and including under Liquidity and capital resources 2011 or BP Summary Review 2011, forms any part of those documents.
Trend information, with regard to production excluding TNK-BP, the BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
expected level of turnarounds, the marketing environment in fuels, lubricants Unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish between the activities and petrochemicals, underlying average quarterly charge from Other and operations of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries.
businesses and corporate, and expectations regarding future disposals: The term shareholder in this report means, unless the context and iv certain statements in the Business review page 84 and Additional otherwise requires, investors in the equity capital of BP p. l. c. both direct information for shareholders pages 160-166 regarding the anticipated and indirect.
As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the New York timing of trial proceedings, court decisions and potential investigations and Stock Exchange NYSE, an Annual Report on Form 20-F is led with the US civil or criminal actions by US state and or local governments: are all forward Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and Cautionary statement uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances In order to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of BP.
Actual Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the PSLRA, BP is providing the results may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, following cautionary statement.
This document contains certain forward depending on a variety of factors, including the specic factors identied in looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA with respect to the the discussions accompanying such forward-looking statements: the timing financial condition, results of operations and businesses of BP and certain of bringing new elds onstream: the timing of certain disposals: future levels of the plans and objectives of BP with respect to these items.
These of industry product supply, demand and pricing: OPEC quota restrictions: statements may generally, but not always, be identied by the use of words PSA effects: operational problems: general economic conditions: political such as will, expects, is expected to, aims, should, may, objective, stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: changes in is likely to, intends, believes, anticipates, plans, we see or similar laws and governmental regulations: regulatory or legal actions including the expressions.
In particular, among other statements, i certain statements in types of enforcement action pursued and the nature of remedies sought: the Chairmans letter pages 8-11, the Group chief executives letter pages the actions of prosecutors, regulatory authorities and courts: the actions 14-17 and the Business review pages 18-111, including but not limited of all parties to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill-related litigation at various to statements under the headings Our Strategy, Outlook and Looking phases of the litigation: exchange rate uctuations: development and use Ahead, with regard to strategy and strategic priorities, plans to deliver of new technology: the success or otherwise of partnering: the actions shareholder value, expectations regarding the 10-point plan, expectations of competitors: the actions of contractors: natural disasters and adverse regarding future dividend payments, BPs outlook on global energy trends to weather conditions: changes in public expectations and other changes 2030 and beyond, the intention to make $38 billion of disposals, anticipated to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: and other increase in operating cash ow and margins, future capital expenditure, factors discussed elsewhere in this report including under Risk factors expected level of investments, the anticipated timing for completion of and pages 59-63.
In addition to factors set forth elsewhere in this report, those final proceeds from the disposition of certain BP assets, future production set out above are important factors, although not exhaustive, that may cause levels including expectations for an increase in high-margin production, actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or the timing and composition of future projects including expected start implied by these forward-looking statements.
up, completion, timing of production, level of production and margins, expectations for drilling and rig activity in the Gulf of Mexico, the timing and Statements regarding competitive position quantum of and timing for completion of contributions to and payments from Statements referring to BPs competitive position are based on the the $20-billion Trust fund, the expected terms of the proposed settlement companys belief and, in some cases, rely on a range of sources, including agreement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee in MDL 2179 and the investment analysts reports, independent market studies and BPs internal expected timing of the fairness hearing and court approvals in respect assessments of market share based on publicly available information about thereof, the expected amount, source and timing of payments under any the financial results and performance of market participants.
settlements, expectations regarding regulation and taxation of the energy industry and energy users, future global renery capacity and utilization, the timing for completion of the Whiting renery upgrade, plans regarding the implementation of enhancements to BPs risk management system, Unless otherwise indicated, information in this document reects 100% of the assets and operations of the company and its subsidiaries that were consolidated at the date or for the expectations regarding the reduction of net debt and the net debt ratio, periods indicated, including minority interests.
The company was incorporated in 1909 in England the expected future level of depreciation, depletion and amortization, the and Wales and changed its name to BP p. l. c. in 2001.
BPs primary share listing is the London expected level of the rening marker margin, the completion of planned and Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares are also traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany announced divestments, including the planned disposals of the Texas City and, in the US, the companys securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs see page 167 for more details.
renery and the southern part of the US West Coast FVC, dates or periods in which production is scheduled or expected to come onstream or a project The registered ofce of BP p. l. c. and our worldwide headquarters, is: or action is scheduled or expected to begin or be completed, and the level of 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK.
future turnaround activity: ii the statements in the Business review pages Tel 44 0 20 7496 4000.
18-111, Corporate governance pages 119-138, the Directors remuneration Registered in England and Wales No.
report pages 139-151 and Additional information for shareholders pages 153-172 with regard to plans to continue the ongoing process of embedding Our agent in the US is BP America Inc. 501 Westlake Park Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77079.
OMS, the timing for the implementation of the Bly report recommendations, Tel 1 281 366 2000. intentions to implement group-wide practices for oil spill preparedness BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 5 6 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
