Our strategy: Strategic priorities Our 10-point plan Our 10-point plan is how we intend to build a stronger, safer BP.
The first five points are things you can expect from us: the second five are things you can measure.
What you can expect from us 1 We will keep a relentless focus on safety and managing risk We are determined that BP will deliver world-class performance in safety, risk management and operational discipline.
We will be a company that systematically applies our global standards as a single team.
2 We will play to our strengths We have had major successes at nding oil and gas at scale.
We are also among the real pioneers of deepwater exploration.
We have decades of experience managing giant elds and developing valuable gas value chains.
We have built a world-class downstream business.
Underpinning these strengths are deep capabilities in building relationships and in developing technologies.
Left BP moves gas from 6,000 metres below the Shah Deniz eld in Azerbaijan to markets in Western Europe, 3,000 kilometres away.
Right As part of a $1.2 billion investment announced in 2011, the Kinnoull reservoir, UK North Sea, will be connected to BPs Andrew platform.
3 We will be stronger and more focused We intend to be a stronger and more focused BP, with a base of assets that is high graded and high performing.
4 We will be simpler and more standardized Our organization is already much more standardized than it was before the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
The transformation of our Exploration and Production segment from a regional business to one that is managed along lines of functional expertise is an example of this.
Our footprint is smaller, with fewer assets and operations in fewer countries.
Our internal reward and performance processes are more streamlined.
This should drive better and more sustainable performance in safety, quality and efficiency, with less variation.
5 We will improve transparency through our reporting We will improve transparency in the reporting of our business segments.
We now break out the numbers of certain parts of our businesses, such as lubricants and petrochemicals in the downstream.
From the first quarter of 2012, the groups investment in TNK-BP will be reported as a separate operating segment.
38 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: Group overview What you can measure 6 Active portfolio management We want to focus our portfolio further on our areas of strength, and deliver increased financial exibility.
By the end of 2013, we expect to have completed $38 billion of disposals since the start of 2010.
7 New projects with higher margins We have a strong list of upstream projects due to come onstream over the a next three years.
By 2014, unit cash margins on production from this new b wave of projects are expected to be around double our existing average.
8 Operating cash ow growth We are aiming to generate an increase of around 50% net cash provided by c additional operating activities by 2014 compared with 2011 approximately half from ending Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust fund payments and around half from operations.
9 Use of cash ow for reinvestment and distributions We will use additional operating cash prudently.
We want to use around half for increased investment in our project inventory for growth, and around half for other purposes.
This may include increased distributions to shareholders through dividends or share buybacks or repayment of debt.
10 Strong balance sheet We intend to enhance the strength of our balance sheet by targeting our d level of gearing at the lower half of the 10-20% range over time.
a Unit cash margin is net cash provided by operating activities for the relevant projects in our Exploration and Production segment, divided by the total number of barrels of oil and gas equivalent produced for the relevant projects.
It excludes dividends and production for TNK-BP.
b Assuming a constant oil price of $100 per barrel.
c Assuming an oil price of $100 per barrel in 2014.
The projection reects our expectation that all required payments into the $20-billion trust fund will have been completed by the end of 2012.
It does not reect any cash ows relating to other liabilities, contingent liabilities, settlements or contingent assets arising from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill which may or may not arise at that time.
We are not able to reliably estimate the amount or timing of a number of contingent liabilities.
See Financial statements Note 43 on page 249 for further information.
d Gearing refers to the ratio of the groups net debt to net debt plus equity and is a non-GAAP measure.
See Financial statements Note 35 on page 230 for further information including a reconciliation to gross debt, which is the nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis.
Operating cash ow momentum 2011 operating Completion of Operational Divested 2014 operating cash estimate contributions to restoration operations cash estimate the $20-billion and growth.
at oil price of and at oil price trust fund.
Left Lingen renery in Germany is one of Europes most complex reneries due to its ability to fully upgrade crude during processing.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 39 Our strategy A stronger, safer BP We have set out a series of milestones by which our progress can be tracked.
These milestones mark our aspirations, plans and intended progress over the next three years.
At the Cherry Point renery, BP is investing in a clean diesel project to produce cleaner burning fuels that will comply with new lowersulphur specications.
40 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: Group overview B Business review: Group overview usiness review: G Gr ro oup ove erv vi iew 2012 2013-14 We see the full benets of our 2011 Drilling up to 25 wells per year.
turnarounds as high-margin production comes back onstream in Angola, the A further nine major upstream project North Sea and elsewhere.
c Exploration drilling activity increases Unit operating cash margins from new to 12 wells.
upstream projects in 2014 expected to d be double the 2011 average.
Six major upstream project start-ups.
We bring onstream the major upgrade Eight rigs expected to be operating in to the Whiting renery in the second the Gulf of Mexico.
Completion of our payments into the We complete our $38-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust.
divestment programme by the end of 2013.
$2 billion of financial performance a improvement in Rening and We have a high value, focused portfolio Marketing since 2009. that plays to our strengths.
b Organic capital expenditure increases Overall operating cash ow in 2014 to e to around $22 billion.
increase by 50% compared with 2011. a Rening and Marketings performance We expect to use around half of the improvement is a non-GAAP measure.
extra cash for increased investment See footnote a on page 95 for further information.
b Organic capital expenditure excludes acquisitions and around half for other purposes, and asset exchanges.
including increased distributions to shareholders.
c See footnote a on page 39. d See footnote b on page 39. e See footnote c on page 39.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 41
