Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report, together with the The Company holds a total of 5,068,374 ordinary shares in audited Financial Statements of the Company Registration No.
treasury being 5.43% of the total issued share capital of 3119779 for the year ended June 30, 2011.
Principal Activities Directors and Directors Interests The principal activities of the Company comprise development The names and biographical details of the current Directors and marketing of capture driven business process automation appear on pages 17 and 18.
Wade Loo was appointed to the software and services.
board of directors as a non-executive director on February 4, 2011.
No other Board appointments or resignations were made Business Review during the course of the year.
The Chief Executive and Financial Officers Reviews on pages 3 The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their to 11 of this report include the Directors view on the families in the issued share capital of the Company as well as development of the business, its position at the end of the details of share options granted to the Directors are given in the fiscal year, and future prospects, with reference to performance Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 35.
No Director or indicators used by the Directors to monitor the business.
The member of the executive management team had any interest in key performance indicators discussed are: any subsidiary at the beginning or end of the year.
Software License Revenue Qualifying Third Party Indemnities Total Revenue The Company has granted an indemnity to all of its Directors Adjusted EBITA against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in Section 234 of the Adjusted Diluted EPS Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity Cash Position provision was in force throughout the fiscal year and remains in The Chief Financial Officers report on pages 7 to 11 discusses force as at the date of approving the Directors report.
the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Employees Involvement The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 15 to 16 The success of the Company depends on the quality and discusses the Companys activities in the areas of performance of its employees, and the Company ensures this environmental matters, social and community issues and by communicating with its employees about both local and Company employees.
This communication is conducted through personal briefings, regular meetings and emails on a Financial Instruments regular basis.
The Company encourages all of its employees to The financial risk management objectives and policies of the participate in the growth of the Company and welcomes staff Company are discussed in note 27 to the Financial Statements input at all levels.
Some employees share directly in the on pages 70 to 74. success of the Company through the Kofax share option Profits and Dividends schemes and performance based incentive cash compensation The profit attributable to shareholders for the year ended schemes.
Employee involvement in profitability of the Company June 30, 2011 was $7.1m 2010: $8.3m.
is encouraged through bonus and profit related pay schemes.
Training programs for staff continue to focus on management, In the year ended June 30, 2010 the Directors decided to technical and people skills to meet the needs of a high growth suspend the payment of a regular dividend.
An induction program is in place for all new hires.
Research and Development Disabled Employees The Company remains committed to research and development The Company is committed to a policy of recruitment and to maintain its position as a market leader.
During the year the promotion on the basis of aptitude and ability without Company expensed $31.5m 2010: $33.0m related to research discrimination.
The Company gives full consideration to and development.
The basis of accounting for this expenditure is applications for employment from disabled persons where the set out in note 1 to the Financial Statements on page 44. requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a Share Capital handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees Details of changes in the issued share capital of the Company become disabled, it is the policy of the Company wherever during the year ended June 30, 2011 are set out in note 30. practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be development and promotion wherever appropriate.
seeking authority to purchase its ordinary shares.
Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in 2010, Foreign Branches but expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
Two foreign branches of the Company exist as of June 30, 2011 in There were no purchases of the Company shares by the Croatia and the Netherlands.
Company during the year ended June 30, 2011.
Directors Report 21 Accounts, which is available on the Companys website at Supplier Payment Policy www.
The Company is responsible for agreeing to terms and conditions with suppliers when purchase contracts are entered into, taking Re-election of Wade Loo as a director of the Company into account best practices, and seeks to abide by these payment resolution 3 terms whenever satisfied that the supplier has provided the Wade Loo, who was appointed as a Director February 4, goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and 2011, retires in accordance with the Articles of Association.
At June 30, 2011, the Company had an average of 36 His biography is on page 18 of the Annual Report and days 2010: 62 days purchases owed to trade creditors.
Accounts and appears on the Companys website at www.
Major Interests in Shares The information provided to the Company pursuant to the Re-election of Directors resolutions 4 to 11 Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the 2010 UK Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service Corporate Governance Code, all the directors are subject to and on the Companys website.
At August 31, 2011, the annual re-election by shareholders.
Directors biographies Company had been notified under DTR 5 of the following are set out on pages 17 and 18 of the Annual Report and significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Name Number of Percentage of issued ordinary shares share capital % 65 BR Trust Natasha Foundation Conversion Master Fund Limited 16,115,702 17.25% Standard Life Investments 8,486,205 9.62% Schroder Investment Management 3,025,257 3.39% Legal & General Investment Management 2,940,520 3.28% F&C Asset Management 2,635,745 2.94% Henderson Global Investors 2,374,523 2.57% William T Comfort III indirectly holds 16,115,702 or 17.25% of the current shares outstanding through the aggregated holdings of 65 BR Trust, the Natasha Foundation and the Conversion Master Fund Limited.
Please note that the percentage figures are based on the number Accounts and appear on the Companys website at of issued shares: this figure excludes treasury shares.
Having considered the performance of, number of ordinary shares including treasury shares as of August and contribution made by, each of the Directors standing 31, 2011 was 93,422,120.
There are 5,068,374 ordinary shares for re-election, the Board remains satisfied that the held in treasury, and therefore the total number of issued performance of each of the relevant Directors continues to ordinary shares with voting rights in the Company is 88,353,746. be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and as such recommends their re-election.
Auditors Re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for During the year, Ernst & Young LLP remained as the Companys the ensuing year and authorization of the Directors to auditors.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to set the auditors remuneration resolution 12 continue in office.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the The second part of the meeting will be held to consider the Companys auditors and authorising the Directors to set their following special business, which will be proposed as to remuneration will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
resolution 13 and 14 as ordinary resolutions and, as to resolutions 15 and 16, as special resolutions: Annual General Meeting Notice of the Companys Annual General Meeting is given on Extension of the Kofax 2000 Share Option Plan pages 85 to 87 at the end of this document.
The first part of the resolution 13 meeting will consider the following matters that comprise the The current plan period for the Kofax 2000 Share Option ordinary business of the meeting and which will be proposed as Plan ends 26 January 2012.
The Directors recommend, by ordinary resolutions: resolution 13, that the term of the Kofax 2000 Share Option Plan be extended for a subsequent two years.
Approval of the accounts of the Company for the year ended June 30, 2011 and the reports of the Directors Authority to allot relevant securities in the Company and auditors thereon resolution 1 resolution 14 The directors of the Company must present the accounts The Directors recommend, by resolution 14, that a new to the AGM.
authority under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares in the Company be granted which will expire Approval of the Remuneration Report of the Directors on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General for the year ended June 30, 2011 resolution 2 Meeting and the date falling 15 months following the In line with legislation, this vote will be advisory and in passing of Resolution 14. respect of the overall remuneration package, and not specific to individual levels of remuneration.
You can find If resolution 14 is approved by shareholders, the Directors the Report on pages 31 to 35 of the Annual Report and will have authority to allot up to 29,460,103 ordinary shares 22 Directors Report representing approximately one third of the Companys Questions in Advance total issued ordinary share capital.
The Board wishes to offer shareholders the opportunity to submit questions in advance of the Annual General Meeting.
If you The Directors have no present intention of exercising the wish to put a question at the Annual General Meeting, you can authority except in connection with the issue of shares send your questions in writing for the attention of the Company under the Companys share option schemes.
The Directors Secretary at the following email address: AGM2011@kofax.
intend to renew this authority annually.
At the Annual General Meeting, issues will be addressed which, Authority to allot equity securities for cash resolution 15 on the basis of the questions submitted, appear to be of most The Directors recommend, by resolution 15, that a new interest to shareholders generally.
However, submitting a question authority under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies now will not preclude shareholders, if they attend the meeting Act 2006 to allot equity securities for cash, other than to in person, from asking that question, or any other question.
existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, be The proxy votes for and against each resolution, including granted which will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of abstentions, will be counted before the Annual General Meeting the 2012 Annual General Meeting and the date falling 15 and the results will be made available at the meeting after the months following the passing of resolution 15. shareholders have voted on a show of hands.
If resolution 15 is approved by shareholders, the Directors will be authorized to allot equity securities for cash, other Takeover Directive than to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, The Company has previously implemented the requirements of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 110,475 4,419,015 the Takeover Directive and discloses the following information: ordinary shares being equal to approximately five percent of The structure of the Companys capital and the rights and the Companys total issued ordinary share capital.
The obligations attached to those shares are given in note 30 to Directors intend to renew this authority annually.
the Financial Statements: Authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities of the resolution 16 Company, including limits on holding: The Directors recommend, by resolution 16, that the All persons with a significant holding are given in the table Company be authorized, for the purposes of section 701 of above: the Companies Act 2006 and in substitution for any existing authority for the Company, to make market purchases of There is no person holding securities with special control ordinary shares as further described below.
The Directors rights: will exercise this power only when, in the light of market All shares issued under option scheme are directly conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the exercisable by the employees: effect of such purchases will be to increase earnings per There are no agreements between shareholders that may share and will be likely to promote the success of the result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Other voting rights: investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into The rules on appointment of Directors are given on page account when exercising this authority.
Any changes of Articles of Association must be purchased pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, any approved at a general meeting of the shareholders by 75% shares purchased in this way will be cancelled and the majority of those who vote in person or by proxy: number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
The Directors can exercise the full power of the Company Company may hold in treasury any of its own shares that it unless required by company law to obtain approval in a purchases pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 and the general meeting: authority conferred by this resolution.
This gives the Company the ability to reissue treasury shares quickly and The changes in the share capital of the Company are given cost effectively and provides the Company with greater on page 80: flexibility in the management of its capital base.
It also Details regarding the election and re-election of Directors gives the Company the opportunity to satisfy employee are given on pages 27 to 29: share scheme awards with treasury shares.
The proposed Indemnification of Directors, auditors, Secretary and other authority would be limited to purchases of up to 8,838,031 officers: ordinary shares which is equal to approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at There are no predetermined provisions between the August 31, 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to Company and its Directors regarding compensation for loss publication of the notice.
The resolution specifies the of office.
This position is not impacted in the event of a maximum and minimum prices at which the Companys takeover: and shares may be bought.
Resolution 16 will be proposed as a There are no significant agreements entered into by the special resolution to provide the Company with the Company that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change necessary authority.
If given, this authority will expire at of control following a takeover bid.
the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company in 2012 or, if earlier, the date falling 15 months following the passing of Resolution 16.
Directors Report 23 Compliance with DTR 7.2.
6 As stated above, the Company has previously implemented the requirements of the Takeover Directive and hence the Company considers that it has complied with DTR 7.2.
In addition, the Companys Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders, the system of internal control and risk management, and the audit process in compliance with DTR 7.2.
6, as further described in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Events Since the Balance Sheet Date There are no events since the Balance Sheet Date to report.
Political and Charitable Donations During the Financial Year 2011, the Company donated $51,372 to disaster relief, community assistance, environmental preservation, and medical relief programs as part of its Corporate Donation and Employee Matching Program, whereby the Company matches donations made by employees to specifically designated and reputable charitable organizations.
No political contributions were made during the Financial Year 2011.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are listed on page 27.
Having made inquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each Director confirms that: To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditor was unaware: and Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of all relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Authorization of Financial Statements The Financial Statements for Kofax plc for the year ended June 30, 2011 were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on October 3, 2011 and the Balance Sheets were signed on behalf of the Board by Greg Lock and James Arnold, Jr. Kofax plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
By order of the Board Bradford Weller Company Secretary October 3, 2011 24 Directors Report
