Executive Management T eam Reynolds C. Bish James Arnold, Jr. Alan Kerr Martyn Christian Anthony Macciola Bradford Weller Jim Nicol Lynne Scheid Charles Padgett Reynolds C. Bish - please refer to Reynolds biography on page 17.
James Arnold, Jr. - please refer to Jamies biography on page 17.
Alan Kerr 55 is Executive Vice President of Field Operations.
He is responsible for Kofaxs customer-facing functions on a global basis, including all sales, professional services, maintenance services, channel management, business development and sales operations activities.
Alan comes to Kofax from HP, where he was most recently Vice President of Global Sales and Distribution within HP Software, the companys enterprise software group.
During his tenure with HP Software, he also served as Vice President of Global Operations, where he oversaw the integration of Mercury Interactive into the HP Software organization.
Prior to HP, Alan was part of the executive management team at Peregrine Systems, Inc, where he was instrumental in restructuring that business prior to it being acquired by HP.
He previously held senior sales management positions at a number of other technology companies, including Ascential Software, Informix Software, Software AG and Data General.
Martyn Christian 49 is Chief Marketing Officer CMO, having been appointed as of July 28, 2010.
He is responsible for all marketing initiatives, including brand, product, industry and field marketing functions.
Martyn has more than 25 years of marketing and general management experience within the software industry.
Prior to joining Kofax, he served as Director of Marketing Programs U. K. & Ireland and Vice President of ECM Marketing at IBM.
Prior to that, he was Chief Marketing Officer at FileNet Corporation, where he spent 18 years in a wide range of marketing and sales roles in Europe and the U. S. He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Business Studies from Coventry University, is a member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing and is a Fellow and former Chair of the Association for Information and Image Management AIIM.
Anthony Macciola 48 is Chief Technology Officer CTO.
He originally worked for Kofax from 1990 to May 2000, when he left to become the Vice President of Worldwide Marketing for Lantronix, Inc. a company focused on the network enabling market.
In 2002, Anthony returned to Kofax.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Management Information Systems from California State University, Fullerton.
Bradford Weller 53 is Executive Vice President of Legal Affairs, General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Brad has had a successful career both working as an attorney at a law firm and as an in house attorney at a number of publicly held technology companies, including Captiva Software Corporation, where he worked for then CEO Reynolds C. Bish as General Counsel, Vice President of Legal Affairs and Secretary.
Brad has complete responsibility for the management of all of our in-house attorneys, our use of any and all external law firms and our corporate Secretary function.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Stanford University and a Juris Doctor from Hastings College of the Law.
Executive Management Team 19 Jim Nicol 58 is Executive Vice President of Products at Kofax.
He served as Vice President and General Manager of the Captiva Product Business Unit at EMC, where he was responsible for product strategy, product management and marketing, engineering, quality assurance, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic initiatives.
Prior to Captiva, Jim led engineering, quality assurance and product management at FutureTrade, Inc.
He also served as Vice President of Development & Technical Operations at Previo and held several senior management positions at IBM and Lotus Development Corporation, where he assisted the CEO with the merger of specific IBM and Lotus products.
He holds a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and a Master of Science from California State University, Chico.
Lynne Scheid 53 is Vice President of Human Resources.
She has been with Kofax since 1989.
Before joining Kofax, she worked in Human Resources for Century Data Systems a Xerox company and Charleston Associates eventually acquired by Anacomp.
Lynne is responsible for all human resources functions.
She holds a certificate in Human Resources Management from the University of California, Irvine, and she studied Business Administration at California State University, Fullerton.
Charles Padgett 51 is Senior Vice President of Acquisitions and Integration.
He is responsible for Kofaxs acquisition activity, including integration of acquired businesses into the Kofax organization.
Charles has held a number of executive and management positions with publicly held and early stage private companies, including EMC, Captiva, Boeing, Wireless Facilities, The Walter Group, British Petroleum and KPMG.
Charles holds a Bachelors Degree in Finance and History from the University of Oregon and in Accounting from the University of Alaska, Anchorage.
