Board of Directors Reynolds C. Bish James Arnold, Jr. Greg Lock Bruce Powell Chris Conway Mark Wells William T Comfort III Joe Rose Wade Loo Executive Directors Reynolds C. Bish 59 was appointed as Chief Executive Officer and a member of Kofaxs Board of Directors on November 5, 2007.
Reynolds has been active in enterprise software markets for more than 20 years.
In 1989, he co-founded Captiva Software Corporation, which became a leading provider of input management solutions and a NASDAQ listed company CPTV.
He served as Captivas CEO until its acquisition by EMC Corporation in December 2005.
He then served as Vice President of EMCs Enterprise Software Group until June 2006 when he resigned to take a sabbatical.
Prior to Captiva, Reynolds was CEO of Unibase Systems, Inc. the first company to provide data entry systems on industry standard, open platforms.
He has served on the Board of Directors of many industry organizations, including AeA, AIIM and TAWPI and in 2003 was named Ernst & Youngs Software Entrepreneur of the Year for the San Diego area.
He holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from the Pennsylvania State University.
James Arnold, Jr. 55 was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and a member of Kofaxs Board of Directors on June 15, 2010.
He has almost 30 years of executive financial management experience.
Most recently, he was with Nuance Communications, Inc. a leading provider of speech and imaging solutions, where he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2004 to August 2008, and then a consultant to September 2009.
From 2003 to 2004, James was Vice President and Corporate Controller at Cadence Design Systems, Inc. From 1997 to 2003, he held several senior financial management roles at Informix Software, Inc. including Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and from 1995 to 1997, he served as Corporate Controller at Centura Software Corporation.
James began his career at .
He holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Finance from Delta State University and a Master of Business Administration from Loyola University.
Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 64 is the Companys Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
In addition to serving on Kofaxs Board, he is a member of the Board of Directors at Computacenter plc, United Business Media and Target Group.
Between 1970 and 2000, Greg held various positions with IBM Corporation.
Most notably, from 1998 to 2000, he was General Manager of IBMs Global Industrial sector.
He served as a member of IBMs Worldwide Management Committee and as governor of the IBM Academy of Technology.
He holds a Master of Arts in Natural Sciences from Churchill College, Cambridge and is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, Manufacturers and Commerce.
He was appointed to the Kofax Board on March 15, 2007.
Bruce Powell 62 is Chairman of Kofaxs Audit Committee and a member of its Nomination Committee.
He was involved as Finance Director in the operational management and initial flotations of Acal Group plc and VideoLogic Group plc which changed its name to Imagination Technologies Group plc on August 31,1999.
He has held a portfolio of Non-Executive Directorships of both listed and unlisted technology companies.
Until its recent successful exit in March 2010 he was CFO and latterly Non-Executive Director of ApaTech Ltd.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and holds a Master of Arts from the University of Cambridge.
He was appointed to the Kofax Board on March 16, 1996.
Board of Directors 17 Chris Conway 66 is Chairman of Kofaxs Remuneration Committee and a member of its Audit and Nomination Committees.
In addition, he is Non-Executive Chairman of two privately held technology companies: Artificial Solutions, a private equity backed company that provides customer service optimization solutions to a wide range of European clients, and WTG Web Technology Group, which provides web-based services to U. K. government and commercial enterprises.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of South Africa.
He was appointed to the Kofax Board on December 15, 2004.
Mark Wells 55 is a member of Kofaxs Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is Non-Executive Director of INVU Plc, Qubit Digital Limited, Owen Russell Group Limited and Chairman of Truthtek Limited.
Previously Mark was Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of CODA Plc before its sale to Unit 4 Agresso in 2008.
He holds a Bachelor of Science in Electronic Engineering from the University of Bath and a Master of Business Administration from Cranfield University.
William T Comfort III 45 is a member of Kofaxs Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He has extensive experience in investing in the public and private markets.
In 2003 he founded Conversion Capital Partners Ltd, an investment partnership with offices in London and New York.
Prior to Conversion, he worked for CVC Capital Partners and advised Citicorp Venture Capital in London, focusing on European mid to large management buyouts.
He is currently Chairman of the marketing technology solutions company Lyris, Inc.
He holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from Boston University and a Juris Doctor and Master of Laws in tax law from New York University School of Law.
He is also a member of the New York State Bar.
He was appointed to the Kofax Board on August 24, 2007.
Joe Rose 60 is a member of Kofaxs Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He brings extensive board and executive management experience in the software, business process outsourcing BPO and other technology based industries to Kofax, having formerly served as a Non-Executive Director alongside then CEO Reynolds C. Bish at Captiva Software Corporation and as a Director at Attenex, Inc. Form Maker Software, Inc. Identitech, Inc. SourceCorp, Inc. and People Support, Inc. and in executive management positions at companies such as SourceCorp, Inc. Form Maker Software, Inc. National Data Corporation and John H. Harland Company.
He previously was President, CEO and Director at Health Payment Specialists, Inc. HPS and currently serves on the Board of eOriginal, Inc. and its parent company, Paperless Transaction Management as well.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Texas Tech University.
He was appointed to the Kofax Board on April 1, 2009.
Wade Loo 51 is a member of Kofaxs Audit Committee.
He was with KPMG from 1980 to 2010, ultimately serving as the senior partner in charge of KPMGs Northern California audit practice, including the San Francisco, Silicon Valley, Sacramento and Honolulu areas.
Wade led KPMGs Audit Committee Institute Roundtables and Audit Committee Chair Peer Exchanges in Silicon Valley.
He has significant experience working with software and technology companies that are publicly held or in the process of affecting initial public offerings in the United States.
Wade also has significant international experience having worked in Beijing, Singapore and Tokyo.
In addition, Wade serves on the Board of JobTrain, an organization helping people in the East Palo Alto and surrounding communities to find meaningful jobs.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Denver.
He was appointed to the Kofax board on February 4, 2011.
