Capture Driven Business Process Automation Forms, Documents & Other Communications from Customers, Suppliers, Partners & Employees Arising in... Paper Paper Paper Faxes Digital Scanners Enterprise Applications & MFPs MFDs Repositories Portals Capture BPM Electronic Sources SMSs Electronic Automates ERP CRM LOB Sources Emails Input ECM Database & & & MS Ofce Files Records Provides Archives PDF TIFF JPEG Mgmt.
A Common IT & Telcom XML EDI Onramp Infrastructure Print Data Streams to addressing these needs can adversely impact an organizations OUR MARKETS, SOFTWARE revenues, operating expenses, regulatory compliance and interactions with customers, suppliers, partners and employees.
PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND All of this becomes even more challenging as organizations contend with increasingly distributed operations and supply chains CUSTOMERS and seek to effectively conduct business on a global basis.
Capture Driven Business Process Automation Traditional methods for entering business critical information into An enormous number of communications flow into businesses, an organizations enterprise software applications and the storage government agencies and other organizations on a daily basis.
and retrieval of paper documents principally rely upon manual data Most of this information arrives from customers, suppliers, entry and cabinet drawer based filing systems.
As with most partners and employees conducting business through the use manual, labor intensive processes, these are expensive, time of paper, faxes, emails, internet browser based portals, text consuming tasks that are also prone to errors and poorly utilize messages, software applications that generate Electronic Data valuable human resources.
Interchange EDI and eXtensible Markup Language XML data Most of these limitations and challenges remain when streams and other means.
This would include, for example, letters, communications arrive in electronic formats.
Expensive custom resumes, new account enrollments, loan applications, insurance programming is usually required to interface with each unique claims, invoices, tax returns, legal briefs, regulatory filings and source, identify the business critical information, implement the many other information intensive forms and documents.
business rules needed to ensure the accuracy and validity of Business critical information in all of these communications must that information, resolve inconsistencies or exceptions and then be entered into an organizations enterprise software applications interface with each unique enterprise software application and for additional processing and use, and the original communications repository for export purposes.
Maintaining such custom programs must be stored in repositories for retrieval purposes.
Processing and ensuring their effective and consistent performance is delays, inaccurate or invalid information and inefficient approaches typically also an expensive burden.
12 Our Markets, Software Products, Services and Customers Enabling Accelerated Implementation Timeframes Our Solution Our software incorporates graphically oriented, easy to use Given these challenges and as the volume of communications modules and pre-built enterprise application programming continue to grow, many entities desire a more comprehensive interfaces that enable rapid application development, testing solution to address these limitations and challenges.
We and many of our resellers also offer there is a significant opportunity to automate these processes professional services to assist customers with these tasks or using a single capture driven business process automation perform them entirely on their behalf, and possess significant platform.
This typically offers a more accurate, timely and cost vertical market experience and knowledge to provide the effective alternative that also lets an entity improve its end-to-end solutions customers desire.
This allows our responsiveness and gain competitive advantage while customers to achieve lower implementation costs and enhancing regulatory compliance efforts and realizing a rapid accelerated deployment timeframes.
ROI a very compelling value proposition.
The key benefits of our solutions for our customers include: Providing a Rapid Return on Investment Our software offers a more accurate, timely and cost effective A Comprehensive Capture Driven Business Process solution that automates what would otherwise be handled by Automation Solution manual, labor intensive processes that are expensive, time We enable the paperless office by providing an automated consuming tasks that are prone to errors and inefficiently utilize onramp that allows organizations to design, deploy and operate valuable human resources.
Customers realize value from our comprehensive solutions that automate the conversion of data software through cost savings, improved responsiveness and from paper and electronic forms, documents and other increased productivity.
As a result, we believe many of our communications.
Communications received from customers, customers realize a rapid return on investment.
suppliers, partners, employees and other sources in paper form are scanned to produce digital images that are then enhanced Software Products or improved for viewing and information extraction Our capture driven business process automation software purposes.
Those images and extracted information can then be products include a broad array of offerings optimized to provide exported into one or more of our customers enterprise a high level of system performance and availability and to be software applications or digital repositories.
scalable from single, standalone personal computers through Ensuring the Accuracy and Validity of Business Information large, enterprise wide deployments.
They generally address and Our solutions are able to apply a configurable set of business rules can be categorized into one of the following four types of to extracted information to ensure its accuracy and validity before customer needs: being entered into other information technology systems.
Image Capture enables image based storage and solutions can be configured to automatically correct errors or to retrieval, thereby eliminating the need to file and facilitate exception handling procedures to ensure that the retrieve original paper documents, which in turn makes information is accurate.
These business rules can also ensure the those communications more accessible and usable.
validity of data by, for example, comparing them to lists of permitted 2.
Content Capture automates the entry of large values in customer databases.
This also allows organizations to amounts of business critical information into enterprise invest in developing, testing, deploying and maintaining one set of software applications in a more accurate, timely and business rules rather than a unique set for each independent source cost effective manner while allowing the customer to and in turn minimize their total cost of ownership.
improve its responsiveness and gain competitive Providing a Highly Flexible, Open and Scalable Platform advantage.
Our software provides a modular platform with an open 3.
System Administration design, deploy and administer architecture that is scalable from a single personal computer to systems.
large, multi-user networks processing from several hundred to hundreds of thousands of communications or more per day.
Solutions provides packaged solutions for very allows customers to configure systems and supplement our specific processing requirements.
software with third party software and hardware products in order to meet their unique requirements and easily expand systems over time.
Image Capture Content Capture System Administration Solutions Kofax Capture MarkView for Accounts Payable Kofax Front Ofce Server Kofax Transformation Modules MarkView AP Advisor Kofax VRS Kofax e-Transactions Kofax Monitor MarkView Supplier Express Kofax Express Kofax Communication Server Kofax for Medical Claims Atalasoft Dotimage Our Markets, Software Products, Services and Customers 13 Business Process Outsourcing Services MailSource UK, a leading business process Our technical and professional services staff offer a outsourcing firm focused on mailroom and comprehensive range of services that allow us to better address document management solutions, the deployment and support needs of our end user customers implemented a Kofax distributed capture and achieve a greater level of customer satisfaction.
Our solution to support its customers across technical services staff provide maintenance for the dependable Europe.
The Kofax software enables MailSource UK to capture, and timely resolution of technical inquiries by telephone, email classify and extract data from incoming mail and deliver the and over the Internet.
Our professional services staff provides resulting information in a standardized format to drive customer training, project management, functional and detailed workflows.
This reduces manual processing, decreases specification preparation, application development, system operating costs, increases data accuracy and productivity and configuration, testing, installation and application specific improves profitability.
It also enables MailSource UK to meet training services to end user customers.
While our resellers also service level agreements that often require the delivery of provide these services to their customers, they sometimes ask information within hours of a documents receipt.
us to provide these services on a sub contract basis.
Healthcare Customers The leading regulator of health and social We have licensed our software to over 20,000 end user services in England selected a Kofax solution customers.
Our software is designed to address capture driven to automatically capture, exchange and output business process automation needs in a broad range of vertical information from more than three million markets, with the largest being banking, insurance, medical records annually.
The Kofax software government, business process outsourcing, healthcare and enables the agency to receive documents from social workers, supply chain manufacturing, distribution, retail and logistics.
field representatives and agency staff via fax for processing and thereby consolidate and streamline its communications into a Banking centralized, automated system.
This reduces labor intensive, One of the largest financial services institutions mistake prone manual processing tasks and allows faster in the U. S. selected Kofax to provide solutions processing times, significant cost savings and better in three different divisions.
The wholesale compliance with stringent health information privacy and banking division captures information from over security mandates.
60 million customer account documents, credit Supply Chain applications, tax forms and invoices received annually from its One of the worlds largest providers of cable, network of branches: the business banking division captures entertainment and communications products, and extracts information from over 10 million financial serving millions of cable, high speed Internet documents annually: and the corporate properties group and digital telephone customers, selected automates its accounts payable process by capturing and Kofax to provide an enterprise level automated extracting information from the thousands of invoices it receives invoice and expense report processing solution.
solution captures and extracts information from more than eight Insurance million invoices and expense reports annually.
As a result, the Aviva, the worlds fifth largest insurance group, organization can automate its manual business processes, selected a Kofax solution to process more than reduce costs and improve operational efficiency.
The solution five million pages of structured and further ensures that extracted information from paper unstructured paper documents and forms that documents is accurate and valid before it is used, resulting in arrive every year at its centers in Singapore and fewer exceptions, improved data quality and faster processing.
The Kofax solution captures images and extracts information, routes it to staff for additional processing and delivers it into the groups document management system for archiving.
This enables Aviva to reduce operational costs, increase data accuracy and better enable its workers to consistently meet or exceed customer service levels and expectations.
Government The U. S. Bureau of the Census, the nations leading source of statistical information about its people and economy, selected a Kofax solution to capture and process more than 17 million pages of employment applications and background materials every year.
The Kofax software captures images and data that must be legally assessed and verified quickly, securely and accurately, enabling the organization to reduce time consuming manual tasks, automate paper intensive activities and process vital data more cost effectively.
14 Our Markets, Software Products, Services and Customers
