12 Business overview Our strategy Our strategy is to develop and build on our core competencies in energetic materials and electronics for sensors, electronic warfare and network protection.
Group strategy Vision The Group strategy is focused on our four market segments Counter-IED, Countermeasures, Pyrotechnics and Munitions.
Our vision is to be the leading producer of With the growing importance of electronics throughout our protection systems and energetic products business, our future vision statement includes a broader fide nition for the global defence market of protection systems, including electronic countermeasures and IED detection systems.
Our core strategy over the next five years is to develop and build Counter-IED Countermeasures on our key core competencies: Establish technology Maintain market share Energetic materials We will focus on products where we can leadership Exploit lead in special exploit our extensive knowledge and expertise in explosive, Become the world leader in material, spectral and pyrotechnic and pyrophoric materials.
We will address IED, chemical and biological thrusted ares niche, highly pro table markets with signi cant value-added threat detection manufacture assembly where barriers to entry are high.
We will Develop a market lead in exploit the commonality of technology and design expertise to Maintain technological lead naval launchers and decoys generate a broad centre-of-expertise that can be maintained in ground penetrating radar Become the world over the long-term future.
and counter-IED jamming leader in dismounted Electronics for sensors, electronic warfare and network Become world leader in and vehicle electronic protection A growing proportion of our business will be IED neutralisation and warfare equipment based on high integrity, high-speed electronics for detecting demolition stores Establish niche position and analysing threats as well as enabling a timely response.
in network protection Many of these electronic systems will be network-based.
Organic strategy Pyrotechnics Munitions Our organic growth strategy is based on two elements: Displace weak competitors Develop niche prime position Geographic expansion outside NATO Establish undisputed Become a leading prime New product development world lead contractor for non-NATO Our geographic strategy is to establish a strong local Develop new products to Become a supplier of manufacturing presence in the worlds leading defence spending transform user operations choice for NATO primes countries and to export vigorously around the world.
We have businesses in the US and Europes top five spending countries UK, Germany, France, Italy and Spain, and export to over 80 countries around the world.
As the emphasis of global defence spending migrates from NATO to the Middle East, Far East and South America, we will develop our presence in these regions.
Establish Maintain Displace Develop technology market weak niche prime We are in the process of establishing joint ventures in India, leadership share competitors positions Saudi Arabia and Brazil.
Top 15 defence spending countries 698 150 Joint venture targets 100 50 0 Counter-IED Countermeasures Pyrotechnics Munitions Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 USA China UK France Russia Japan Saudi Arabia Germany India Italy Brazil South Korea Australia Canada Turkey $ billion Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 13 Electronic warfare Ground troops using the Queens Award winning RESOLVE system Secondly, we will maintain a strong focus on developing Acquisition strategy world-leading products.
As a growing proportion of our business Acquisitions have been an important element of the recent growth is based on advanced electronics, we have developed parallel of the business.
The successful completion of eighteen acquisitions energetics and electronics technology strategies.
over the last six years has broadened our capabilities, diversi ed our segmental and geographic activities, and has directly Our energetics technology strategy is focused on materials contributed to the overall growth of the Group.
technology and applications engineering in five key areas: Revenue growth 20052011 Explosive materials We will develop and optimise material formulations to improve their performance and safety.
800 Warheads We will build a lead in missile warheads and will offer 700 insensitive munitions IM variants of our ammunition products.
600 Propellants We will develop a new generation of low vulnerability ammunition LOVA propellants and will build a 500 capability in composite rocket motors.
400 Pyrotechnic countermeasures and illumination We will maintain our world lead in air countermeasures and will develop a full 300 range of spectrally-optimised pyrotechnic payloads.
200 Pyrotechnic obscurants We will lead development of safer, multi-spectral smokes and less-lethal technologies.
100 Our electronics technology strategy builds on our leadership in 0 key niches: 2005 Organic Acquisitive Foreign 2011 growth growth exchange Initiation Is the interface to energetic products, and we will Acquisitive growth comprises extend the application of electronics to improve the performance Full year revenue of prior year acquisitions of our munitions and pyrotechnic products.
Revenue contribution of businesses acquired in the year Detection We will maintain our lead in stand-off threat Our strategy for acquisitions is to continue to target opportunities detection technologies and will enhance these with sensor fusion and advanced algorithm development.
which add capability, technology and market access.
We will exploit synergies from such acquisitions by creating , Electronic warfare EW We will extend our lead in man-portable investing in new products and selling our products though our electronic intelligence equipment, and will develop worldwide channels to market.
vehicle-mounted variants of our products.
We intend to maintain a balance of acquisition investment across all Electronic countermeasures We will establish a world lead our segments, markets and technologies.
in active off-board decoys, and will develop a step-change in portable counter-IED jammers.
Our acquisition investments over the last six years can be analysed as follows: Network protection We will apply our leading capability in fast electronic hardware to lawful intercept applications and the Total investment on acquisitions 20052011 c. 480 million protection of wirelessly networked military systems.
We will maintain an underpinning technology base to enable a cycle of rapid product development and technology insertion through internal research and partnerships with universities, research institutions and technology companies.
Where we cannot quickly develop critical capabilities and technologies organically, we will supplement this with targeted acquisitions.
Geographical spread Business activity UK 22% Pyrotechnics 39% Europe 23% Munitions 31% USA 55% Counter-IED 24% Countermeasures 6% Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 million
