34 Corporate governance Directors and corporate information Peter C F Hickson Dr David J Price Paul A Rayner FCA Sarah L Ellard FCIS David R Evans CBE DSc PhD CEng CSci Non-Executive Chief Executive Finance Director Group Legal Director & Non-Executive Director Chairman Joined the Group in April Joined the Group in Company Secretary Joined the Group in 1987 Joined the Group 2005 as Chief Executive.
June 1994 and acted Joined the Group in as Managing Director of as a non-executive He is also a non-executive as Finance Director to 1994, and was appointed the Countermeasures director on 1 July 2010 director of AZ Electronics several Group companies as the Group Company business and appointed and was appointed Materials S. A. and a before being appointed Secretary in 1998. to the Board in 1988.
Chairman of the Board member of the Council for to the Board in August She was appointed to the Prior to joining the Group on 1 October 2010.
Formerly a Senior Board on 7 October 2011. he was a Managing Currently Chairman of Formerly Managing Audit Manager with Prior to joining the Group, Director of GEC-Marconis Communisis plc and a Director, Naval Marine Deloitte LLP.
Fellow of she trained and worked division responsible for non-executive director at Rolls-Royce plc and the Institute of Chartered at Ernst & Young LLP.
He has Managing Director of Accountants.
Fellow of the Institute of his current position as a had senior management Thomson UK Holdings Chartered Secretaries non-executive director in Aged 50. experience with a number Ltd now part of the and Administrators.
April 2005, after stepping of large international Thales Group.
Fellow down as Chief Executive, Aged 41. companies, and previous of the Institute of a position he had held appointments include Engineering & Technology, since January 1999.
Chairman of Anglian the Institute of Marine Currently a non-executive Water Group, Senior Engineering, Science director and Chairman Independent Director & Technology, the designate of Avon Rubber of London & Continental Institute of Directors, plc, and previously a Railways Ltd, Finance and Companion non-executive director Director of Powergen of the Chartered of Whatman PLC.
plc and non-executive Management Institute.
Aged 65. directorships of Scottish Aged 56.
Power plc, Marconi Corporation plc, RAC plc and Kazakhymys PLC.
He is also a trustee and Board member of Orbis Charitable Trust, the international sight saving charity, and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Membership of Board committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 35 The Rt Hon Ian F R Much Air Marshal Vanda Murray OBE Lord Freeman Sir Peter Norriss KBE CB AFC MA FRAeS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Headquarters and Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as a Joined the Group as registered of ce non-executive director non-executive director in non-executive director in non-executive director Chemring House in May 2006.
1500 Parkway of the Audit Committee.
Independent Director consultant to Tessella plc Currently holds a Whiteley Currently a Consultant and Chairman of the and a Senior Adviser to portfolio of non-executive Fareham formerly Partner to Remuneration Committee.
He is also a directorships, including Hampshire , Previous appointments member of major Carillion plc, where she PO15 7AF Chairman of Thales UK include Chief Executive programme review chairs the Remuneration England Advisory Board and a of fide La Rue plc and teams for the Of ce of Committee, The Tel: 44 1489 881880 non-executive director of T&N plc, and non-executive Government Commerce Manchester Airport Fax: 44 1489 881123 Savile Group PLC.
He is directorships of and an adviser or Group plc and Microgen Website: also on the main Board Admiral plc, Camelot plc, court member at four plc.
Formerly appointed to the Board Partner with Lehman and Simplyhealth Deputy Chief of Defence of Fenner plc as senior Registration number Brothers Investment Group Ltd.
Currently Procurement Operations non-executive director 86662 Bankers between 1969 Senior Independent and Controller Aircraft on and takes up this role in and 1985.
Member of Director and Chairman the Air Force Board.
Previous Registrars Parliament from 1983 of the Remuneration Past President of the appointments include Computershare Investor to 1997.
Made a Privy Committee of Senior plc, Royal Aeronautical Deputy Chairman of the Services PLC Councillor in 1993. and Chairman of the Society 2003-4.
North West Regional The Pavilions Minister 1985-1997.
Remuneration Committee Development Agency, Aged 67.
Bridgwater Road of BTG plc.
Bristol SIG plc, Chief Executive Aged 67.
BS13 8AE Of cer of Blick plc and UK Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC.
She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and in 2002 was appointed OBE for Services to Industry and to Export.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
