14 Business overview Counter IED The closing order book for Counter-IED was 127 million, up 28% on 2010, and a clear indicator of continued revenue growth in 2012. for operational maintenance in-theatre, Strategy Highlights in 2011 generating an increase in revenue of 24% Our strategy is to become the world leader Revenue 46% higher than 2010 compared with the previous year.
in the global counter-IED improvised NIITEK delivered 77 complete HMDS explosive device market with high In the middle of the year, a system upgrade and range of spares, increasing its technology products to detect, disable and was introduced to all new HMDS radar revenue by 24% defeat the threat posed by IEDs, as well systems.
This upgrade provided greater as chemical and biological agents.
We will sensitivity and a higher ground clearance Acquisition of Chemring Detection invest in advanced sensor technology mount to minimise panel damage during Systems provides world-leading for the detection of explosive, biological, transit.
A remote-controlled version of capability in chemical and chemical and nuclear threats, as well as the Husky system was also deployed to biological detection the data fusion necessary to deliver high Afghanistan and is currently undergoing Chemring Ordnance won US reliability detection performance.
production contract for Anti-Personnel also develop portable wide-band adaptive NIITEK also won a contract from the Obstacle Breaching System APOBS, jamming capabilities to disable remotely US Army for a Talon-based GPR system worth up to $150 million controlled devices, and will develop and with an embedded metal detector coil.
qualify advanced technology disruptors and Closing order book for Counter-IED The system has successfully completed the full range of safer demolition stores to was 127 million, up 28% on 2010 US trials and safety testing.
It is expected defeat them.
to start operational evaluation during Key information 2012 and production should commence Analysis Orders shortly thereafter.
The global market for counter-IED equipment is estimated to be 3 billion.
Roke has been funded by the UK Ministry 207m Our revenue in 2011 was 168 million, of Defence to develop a family of new 46% higher than the previous year, which hand-held detector systems, called Revenue equates to a market share of 6%.
An early prototype system was Groups strongest focus is on detection deployed to Afghanistan during the year 168m systems, and revenue from this part of the and the results achieved were described business increased by 51% to 149 million, as very encouraging.
A fully functional Operating pro t representing a 25% market share of this key product has recently been completed and a high technology area.
Our success has been rapid quali cation programme is expected 32m driven by the demand from the US Army for in 2012. highly effective ground penetrating radar Operating margin The acquisition of Chemring Detection GPR.
In July, the acquisition of Chemring Systems provides the Group with a Detection Systems was completed and, world-leading capability in chemical and 19% in the last four months of the financial biological detection, as it is the incumbent year, the business contributed 15 million supplier for two major US military of revenue.
vehicle-mounted detection programmes: The closing order book for Counter-IED the Joint Biological Point Detection System was 127 million, up 28% on 2010, and a JBPDS and the Joint Service Lightweight clear indicator of continued revenue growth Stand-off Chemical Agent Detector in 2012.
Chemring Detection Systems continued its customer-funded development Activities during the year programme during the year and moved Detect on to Phase 3 of the Biological Detection The detection of IEDs continued to System Upgrade Program.
These updates dominate the activities of our Counter-IED will be implemented into new production division during the year, with continued systems, as well as retro tted into existing growth at NIITEK in support of the Husky eld units.
Mounted Detection System HMDS ground Chemring Detection Systems also launched penetrating radars currently deployed in a commercially available variant of the Afghanistan.
This product provides ground 77 complete radar systems, over 2,700 platforms, xed sites and shipboard radar panels, and a wide variety of spares installations with state-of-the-art remote Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 15 Chemical biological detection JUNO hand held detector in use chemical agent detection capabilities.
programme, to meet the needs of our Our products A recent test demonstrated its ability to export and commercial customers, has Detect detect stimulants out to a full 5km range.
commenced, and UK quali cation will Vehicle-mounted IED detection systems A first export contract has been received follow in summer 2012.
A number of export from a Far East country, and strong interest customers have already placed orders and Chemical and biological detection has been expressed by a number of Middle there continues to be strong interest in the systems East customers.
product from all parts of the global market.
Stand-off IED detectors Chemring Detection Systems also continued Our business units and companies Remote IED inspection equipment work in 2011 on a customer-funded Chemring Energetics UK Ltd development for the Lightguard stand-off Under-vehicle surveillance systems Specialises in the design and explosives detector.
Three systems were Disable manufacture of energetic materials, fabricated and delivered for early user testing.
Additional work is expected in detonators, and demolition stores.
Electronic countermeasures 2012 to continue user testing, to complete a Chemring EOD Ltd UK Defeat production readiness phase of the current Manufactures a range of products for generation system, and to work on a next Remote initiators detection, assessment and neutralisation generation system for vehicle-mounted Detonators of threats from improvised explosive applications with on-the-move capability.
Explosive charges Defeat Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA Mine eld breaching systems In June 2011, our US subsidiary Chemring Ordnance won a highly competitive contract Recoilless fide-armers disruptors Supplies Anti-Personnel Obstacle to produce the MK7 MOD 2 Anti-Personnel Breaching System APOBS, a Obstacle Breaching System APOBS for the rocket-deployed mine clearance system, US Army and Marine Corps.
The contract to the US Army.
is for three years and is worth up to Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. USA $150 million.
The APOBS is a self-contained, one-shot, expendable linear demolition Leading US developer and supplier of charge, which can be transported and vehicle-mounted chemical and biological deployed by a two person team.
The detection systems for the US Army.
system is capable of safely clearing a Non-Intrusive Inspection Technology, footpath through anti-personnel mines and Inc. USA multi-strand wire obstacles.
This contract award expands our position in the US The leading manufacturer of demolition stores market.
A new production vehicle-mounted ground penetrating facility, to assemble the product, is now radar mine detection systems.
Roke Manor Research Ltd UK This year has seen the successful A world-class developer of electronic development and quali cation of a new countermeasures and threat detection generation of Bangalore Torpedo under technologies.
contract from the UK Ministry of Defence.
Although the concept of the Bangalore Torpedo is over 100 years old, our development has produced a substantial improvement in performance whilst ensuring that it meets the criteria for an insensitive munition.
The development of the SABREX exible linear cutting charge has continued throughout the year with final design, to meet the underwater performance requirements, being achieved in the summer.
A commercial quali cation Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
