16 Business overview Countermeasures Kilgore Flares, one of our US subsidiaries, had an excellent year, with revenue up 5% to a new record.
Our land-based electronic warfare business Strategy Highlights in 2011 grew substantially, re ecting the full year The core strategy for our Countermeasures Revenues from fast jet decoys contribution of Roke and the success division is to maintain our share of the increased by 7% to 97 million of its RESOLVE product in the UK and expendable countermeasures market and to export markets.
Chemring Countermeasures supported expand the business in line with the market, peacekeeping operations over Libya, which is expected to grow over the next five The closing order book for the delivering enhanced capability to to ten years.
We will continue to invest in Countermeasures division was protect UK combat aircraft new products and technologies that build on 234 million, down 12% on the previous our current leadership in special materials, year.
This re ected lower orders for Two key naval decoy upgrade spectral and thrusted are technologies.
helicopter and transport applications, programmes completed We will also invest signi cantly in both decoy and slower growth in demand for fast jet Roke completed deliveries of the and launcher technologies for the naval ares, as Typhoon war stock procurement RESOLVE man-portable electronic market, which we expect to grow rapidly for European and Middle East customers warfare system to the UK Army in the future.
A new generation of active was delayed by dispenser issues.
off-board decoys will be developed, building Key information Activities during the year on our world-leading position in expendable Orders countermeasures and our capabilities in During the year, Chemring Countermeasures provided strong support for the UK advanced, miniaturised radio frequency RF electronics.
We will build on our strong peacekeeping operation over Libya, rapidly 155m position in man-portable electronic warfare delivering enhanced capability to protect Revenue both Typhoon and Tornado fast jets.
equipment to establish ourselves as a world leader in dismounted and vehicle-mounted These products were made available to operational aircraft within days of issue of systems.
We will also establish a niche 201m position in network protection, based on our the requirement, ensuring that platforms Operating pro t capabilities in fast electronic hardware and sent to Libya were protected from a variety of potential surface-to-air missile threats.
Overall, production volumes remained 47m Analysis stable at around 450,000 decoys.
Operating margin The market for expendable countermeasures Kilgore Flares, one of our US subsidiaries, is estimated to be 360 million.
In 2011, our had an excellent year, with revenue up revenue was 201 million, up 3% on the 23% 5% to a new record on steady production previous year, but this included a full year volumes of around 1 million ares.
This was of revenue from Roke which was acquired in principally driven by a four-fold growth in 2010.
Excluding Roke, organic revenue fell the production volumes of ares used to 18%, re ecting reduced demand for ares protect the B-52 aircraft.
Following final for the protection of helicopter and transport quali cation of the Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, as customers reduce stockpiles in JSF are set, Kilgore will continue with anticipation of withdrawal from Afghanistan.
low rate production over the next two This reduction was larger than expected years while the overall aircraft programme as both US and UK governments have is completed.
Although currently a sole continued to delay order placement because source provider, Kilgore has entered into of the tight budgetary constraints.
Sales at a manufacturing license agreement which our US subsidiary, Alloy Surfaces, and at our will facilitate the transfer of production of UK subsidiary, Chemring Countermeasures, a JSF are to Chemring Australia in the were most affected.
On the other hand, coming years.
BAE Systems, Lockheed sales of decoys used on fast jets increased Martin, the US Navy Program Of ce, and by 7% to 97 million, despite the fact that the JSF Program Of ce are all part of a joint there was no production of the MJU-7 ares effort to establish this important industrial used to protect the F-15 and F-16 ghters.
Revenue from naval countermeasures was lower than 2010, due to the extended time Following the September 2010 incident at taken to complete development of two key Kilgore, we are rebuilding the final assembly naval round upgrade programmes, which building that was damaged in the incident.
prevented volume production in the year.
The building will have numerous safety Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 17 Dispensing ares F-22 aircraft deploys ares and productivity improvements, including integration of the Centurion trainable Our business units and companies increased automation, and is on schedule launcher, and for a range of electronic Alloy Surfaces Company, Inc. USA for commissioning by the end of the first warfare systems for land forces.
Deliveries The worlds only manufacturer of special half of this financial year.
Production of the to the UK Army of our RESOLVE electronic material decoys for the US Department MJU-7 are, used to protect the F-15 and warfare system, designed to be carried of Defense and militaries worldwide.
by an individual soldier, were completed Alloys patented technology employs during the year.
Operational feedback has Our other US subsidiary, Alloy Surfaces, been extremely positive and export interest pyrophoric materials to decoy attacking had a more dif cult year, with a substantial enemy missiles.
has grown substantially, particularly from reduction in revenue from lower production Middle East customers.
Roke has also Chemring Australia Pty Ltd volumes of 1.3 million decoys, 32% down demonstrated a vehicle-mounted system, on last year.
This was principally driven by Australias only on-shore manufacturer of which is attracting strong export interest.
the 50% reduction in volumes of MJU-50 aircraft expendable countermeasures.
decoys that are mainly used by the US Air In 2011, Roke developed Battle eld Connect, Chemring Countermeasures Ltd UK Force on transport aircraft.
This reduction the worlds first wide area military 3G in volumes had an adverse impact on our base station.
Capable of 40km range and A world leader in the design, development operating margin, and resulted in the high bandwidths, Battle eld Connect and manufacture of advanced expendable closure of one of Alloy Surfaces three is interoperable with existing military countermeasures for air and sea platforms, production sites in Philadelphia and a command infrastructure systems and can and is also developing next generation reduction of over one hundred staff.
support defence applications including launchers for deploying naval decoys.
streaming video to unmanned air vehicles, Alloy Surfaces has, however, made progress Kilgore Flares Company LLC USA imagery and biometric information with its development of two next generation exchange, and simultaneous voice and Develops and produces airborne decoys for the protection of helicopters.
This year, Roke The business has received a contract to expendable IR countermeasure decoys has partnered with a major international and naval decoys.
deliver 1,500 developmental units of one defence communications supplier to bring decoy for US Air Force effectiveness testing Roke Manor Research Ltd UK the full product to market.
in early 2012, with a production order A world-class developer of electronic expected later in the year.
The other decoy Roke is also part of the industry consortium countermeasures, electronic intelligence is designed for the protection of small that has been awarded a contract to deliver and network protection technologies.
Flight tests have the UK Ministry of Defences Intelligence, shown excellent performance, and further Surveillance, Target Acquisition and Our products effectiveness testing is expected to begin in Reconnaissance ISTAR Information the second quarter.
Integration and Management I3M Air countermeasures programme, which sits at the heart of the Alloy Surfaces has also been developing Conventional and advanced ares capacity of the armed forces to effectively a new pre-emptive, long duration, use the information gleaned from their Special material decoys infra-red countermeasure with exceptional many platforms and sensors.
It will expand countermeasure Chaff protection capabilities for both the F-16 Roke has successfully deployed a number Naval countermeasures and F-18 aircraft.
Initial US Navy tests were of next generation Aquila Deep Packet completed in September 2011 and further Inspection probes into our existing RF decoys ight tests are scheduled for early 2012. customer base with positive feedback to IR decoys date.
Aquilas patented search technology Chemring Australias new manufacturing has the highest density data processing Naval decoy launchers facility is currently being commissioned.
capability on the market, with less The first are has been manufactured Land EW than half the footprint of comparable and volume production is scheduled to be Electronic intelligence equipment platforms.
Network protection is a fast underway by summer 2012.
Further upgrades growing market for Roke, providing key to support the JSF programme will be Electronic countermeasures expertise and research and development implemented over the next few years.
Lawful intercept equipment technology to a number of long term UK The acquisition of Roke in September government programmes.
2010 signi cantly enhanced the Groups electronics capabilities for the design of the next generation active-RF expendable countermeasures, for the design and Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
