36 Corporate governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 October 2011 The directors present their annual report, together with the audited Substantial shareholdings financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year At 23 January 2012 the following substantial holdings in the ended 31 October 2011. ordinary share capital of the Company had been noti ed to the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Principal activities Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture Name % Interest and sale of counter-IED equipment, countermeasures, pyrotechnics and munitions.
Invesco Limited 29.90 Cantillon Capital Management LLC 5.18 Business review Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13 The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director, together Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.07 with the sections of the annual report on each of the business JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.94 segments, key performance indicators and principal risks, and AXA S. A. and its group of companies 4.84 the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 4 to 33, provide a Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.57 review of the Groups business development, performance and position during and at the end of the financial year: its strategy Legal and General Group PLC 3.97 and likely future development: key performance indicators: and BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of the BT a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Pension Scheme 3.84 business.
Further information regarding financial risk management Hermes Equity Ownership Services Ltd 2.94 policies and financial instruments is given in Note 25 of the financial statements.
There have been no signi cant events since the balance sheet date.
Employees and employee consultation Details of the Groups employment policies and employee Results and dividends consultation practices are set out in the Corporate Responsibility The pro t attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year Review on page 31. was 73.9 million 2010: 66.7 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 10.8p per ordinary share, which together with Charitable and political donations the interim dividend of 4p per ordinary share paid in August 2011 Charitable donations amounting to 129,000 2010: 98,400 were gives a total for the year of 14.8p 2010: 11.8p.
The final dividend is made during the year.
No political donations were made during the subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting year nil 2010: nil.
on 21 March 2012, and accordingly has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Contractual arrangements The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, comprising Directors and their interests governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs across the The present directors are shown on pages 34 and 35. globe.
The US Department of Defense is the largest single customer, Mrs S L Ellard was appointed as a director on 7 October 2011 and procures the Groups products under a signi cant number of and Mrs V Murray was appointed as a director on 1 November separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
Both of these directors will be seeking re-appointment The Groups businesses utilise many suppliers across the world, and under Article 87.1 of the Companys Articles of Association at arrangements are in place to ensure that businesses are not totally the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of Mrs Ellards reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
service contract with the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 44.
Mrs Murray does not have a Policy on payment of suppliers service contract with the Company.
It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all with suppliers.
These will range from standard written terms to directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every individually negotiated contracts.
Creditor days of the Group as at three years.
However, in order to ensure compliance with the 31 October 2011 amounted to 49 days 2010: 61 days.
UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan General Meeting.
the PSP Details of the service contracts between the Company and the The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during executive directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration the year: Report on page 44.
The non-executive directors do not have Total number of Number of participants service contracts with the Company.
Date of award shares awarded receiving awards The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions 19 January 2011 693,720 36 for the bene t of its directors, which were effected during the year 24 October 2011 17,492 1 and remain in force at the date of this report.
Total 711,212 37 None of the directors had a bene cial interest in any contract of signi cance to which the Group was a party during the year ended Restated to re ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares 31 October 2011.
Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 37 The Company is not aware of any agreements between The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of the UK Sharesave Plan securities and or voting rights.
On 29 July 2011, options were granted over 182,629 ordinary shares.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may Options over 85,885 ordinary shares were exercised during the only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting year and options on 40,680 shares lapsed.
Issue of shares The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Under the provisions of section 551 of the Act, the Board is Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan prevented from exercising its powers under the Articles to allot On 29 July 2011, options were granted over 40,635 ordinary shares.
shares without an authority in terms of the Act contained either Options over 42,111 ordinary shares were exercised during the year in the Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders in general and options on 20,089 shares lapsed.
Additional information is set meeting.
The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period out in Note 32. of five years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at each Annual General Meeting.
Such proposal is set out as Approach to share ownership resolution 13 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for cash future success of the Group.
A fourth grant of options under may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan, which shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms were launched in 2008, took place during the year.
In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small considering the establishment of similar schemes for employees issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening in Group companies outside of the UK and the US.
a general meeting the Board proposes that advantage be taken of the provisions of section 571 of the Act to not apply the Acts Share capital and shareholder rights pre-emptive requirements.
Accordingly, a special resolution set General out as resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will At the Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2011, the shareholders be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the approved the subdivision of the Companys ordinary shares of 5p directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued each into ordinary shares of 1p each.
The Companys share capital ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 561 of the now consists of ordinary shares of 1p each and preference shares Act.
No issue of these shares will be made which would effectively of 1 each, which are fully paid-up and quoted on the main market alter the control of the Company without prior approval of the of the London Stock Exchange.
Full details of the movements in the shareholders in general meeting.
issued share capital of the Company during the financial year are provided in Note 28 of the financial statements.
Purchase of own shares During the year, the Company purchased 300,000 2010: 634,400 All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and of its ordinary shares, and 456,855 2010: 500,055 ordinary shares vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a were distributed following vesting of awards under the Chemring proxy or proxies to exercise these rights.
At a general meeting, Group Performance Share Plan.
At 31 October 2011, the Company every shareholder present in person, by proxy or in the case of a held a total of 1,343,145 ordinary shares in treasury representing corporate member by corporate representative has one vote on a 0.69% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2011. show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
During November 2011 and prior to the start of the close period To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice leading up to release of the Companys full year results, the of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than forty eight Company purchased 1,000,000 additional ordinary shares for hours before the meeting, by which shareholders must have been treasury.
At 23 January 2012, the Company therefore held a total entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote of 2,343,145 ordinary shares in treasury representing 1.2% of at the meeting.
the ordinary shares in issue on 23 January 2012.
All purchases If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under of ordinary shares were made by way of market purchases on the section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act requiring London Stock Exchange.
Further details can be found in Note 30 of information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply the financial statements.
such information within fourteen days after the service of the A special resolution set out as resolution 15 in the Notice of Annual notice, then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual shareholder meeting.
General Meeting, to renew the Companys authority to purchase its There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may share capital.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading resolution.
The directors believe that it is advantageous for the law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Company to have this exibility to make market purchases of its Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of own shares.
The directors of the Company may consider holding the Company to deal in its shares.
repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a resolution as treasury shares.
This will give the Company the ability dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and will instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Holders of provide the Company with additional exibility in the management the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of 1 per share of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the together with any arrears of dividends.
10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
Restated to re ect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 1p ordinary shares.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 38 Corporate governance Directors Report continued The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satis ed Directors Responsibility Statement that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings We con rm that to the best of our knowledge: per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view Statement of Directors Responsibilities of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law taken as a whole: and and regulations.
the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Executive, the Review by the Finance Director, together with the for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required sections of the annual report on each of the business segments, to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with key performance indicators and principal risks, and the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Corporate Responsibility Review, which are cross-referred from the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have the Directors Report, include a fair review of the development elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in and performance of the business and the position of the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the risks and uncertainties that they face.
accounts unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or loss Provision of information to auditors of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent company Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report financial statements, the directors are required to: con rms that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit consistently: information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken and prudent: as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been information and to establish that the Companys auditors are followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and aware of that information.
explained in the financial statements: and This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Close company provisions As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of In preparing the Group financial statements, International the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: change in that respect since 31 October 2011. properly select and apply accounting policies: Auditors present information, including accounting policies, in a A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be proposed manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and at the Annual General Meeting.
understandable information: Annual General Meeting provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in IFRSs are insuf cient to enable users to The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting understand the impact of particular transactions, other events to be held on 21 March 2012, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and all shareholders.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 January 2012 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Signed on behalf of the Board records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys S L Ellard transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
