18 Business overview Pyrotechnics In September, Chemring Ordnance won two new marine pyrotechnic production contracts, worth up to $31 million, from the US Navy.
took six months to hold the competition Strategy Highlights in 2011 for the 40mm prime contract covering Our strategy is to become the world US Army declared the M992 black the next five years.
This extended period leader in pyrotechnics, through focused light illumination round produced by forced re-quali cation of all production investment in new products that displace Chemring Ordnance as one of its top lines, and the Army decided to give priority existing incumbents and which better meet ten inventions to its non-pyrotechnic requirements.
our customers requirements and transform Production is restarting in 2012 with good Chemring Energetics UK selected to their operational capabilities.
We intend to volumes for M662 Red Star and M992 deliver components associated with the expand our activities in the space sector Blacklight rounds.
In September, the emergency oxygen deployment system by developing improved products for US Army declared the M992 was one of its for the Boeing 787 initiation, stage separation, and satellite top ten award-winning inventions.
and sub-system deployment for military and Chemring Energetic Devices completed commercial customers.
This will address the Mecar has completed the initial development initial deliveries of its Joint Combined US, European and emerging international of a 120mm mortar spotting round, which Aircraft Systems Testers JCAST, for markets.
We intend to expand our safety is used to improve long-range ring testing life-support systems for F-16 systems activities, both in military and accuracy as well as operator and forward and F-22 aircraft civil aircraft.
This new product uses a Key information proprietary composition that replaces the Analysis conventional white phosphorus payload.
In Orders The global market for pyrotechnics is 2012, Mecar will also develop an infra-red currently estimated to be 1.6 billion.
and visible light screening round for towed 107m Our revenue in 2010 was 140 million, and turreted 120mm mortar systems.
which is 18% lower than the previous year Revenue In September, Chemring Ordnance won and represents a reduction in global market two new marine pyrotechnic production share to 9%.
The majority of this decline contracts, worth up to $31 million, from the 140m was driven by reduced sales of smoke and US Navy.
The first was for Mk 140 series illumination products, which were 25% lower Operating pro t day night signals that are launched from than the previous year.
Sales of training submarines to signal surface vessels or and simulation products were down 5%, aircraft.
The second was for the MK124 re ecting reduced European sales which 32m day night pyrotechnic marking signal, a were partially offset by increased deliveries Operating margin hand-held device utilised by the US Navy of US training grenades.
and US Air Force aircrew in air and sea The closing order book was 145 million, rescue and recovery operations.
These 23% down 16% on the previous year due to new contracts establish Chemring as delayed order placement from many of our one of the largest suppliers of submarine customers.
However, demand is recovering location markers.
in this sector and revenues are expected to Training recover to pre-2011 levels.
In 2010, Chemring Ordnance upgraded Activities during the year the M228 training grenade to incorporate Smoke and illumination the con dence clip tted to live grenades The Group continues to focus on the used by the US Army to prevent accidental development of advance blacklight and removal of the ring pin.
During 2011, the visible illumination payloads for a wide automated production line was increased variety of ordnance rounds and missiles.
to 20 units per minute and over two million During the year, volume production was units were made.
The company also passed started on 105mm ammunition payloads several pre-quali cation tests for a next and this has generated considerable generation pyrotechnic simulator, which interest with the US Army.
A number of provides a safe and realistic visible effect air-launched products are also under to orientate air and ground personnel to development and should enter production the launch of a MANPADS surface-to-air in the next few years.
The MANPADS simulator will be utilised to train personnel involved in rotary Production of US 40mm pyrotechnic wing close air support and UAV operations.
rounds slowed in 2011, when the US Army Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 19 Troop concealment Training with smoke grenades Safety systems Our business units and companies Our products Chemring Energetics UK has been selected Chemring Australia Pty Ltd Space and satellite launch by BE Aerospace to deliver components Supplies a range of pyrotechnics, military Initiators associated with the emergency oxygen training and marine safety products.
deployment system for the Boeing 787.
Separation sub-systems The initial components have been delivered Chemring Defence Europe Thrusters and actuators as part of the quali cation programme for Centre-of-excellence for the design, the system, and we have signed a long-term Training development and production of smoke and agreement with BE Aerospace to deliver Pyrotechnics and launchers illumination pyrotechnics and payloads for these components over an extended period.
military, OEM and safety customers.
We are also supporting proposals for an Smoke and illumination emergency oxygen delivery system on the Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Military smokes, ares and rockets Airbus 350.
A leading supplier of rocket motors, Distraction and screening products In early September, Chemring Energetic canopy cutting cords and pyromechanisms Devices completed initial deliveries of its Pyrotechnic payloads for safety and aircrew egress.
Joint Combined Aircraft Systems Testers Commercial marine pyrotechnics Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA JCAST, which are used to test oxygen Submarine distress signals systems, helmets, noise reduction headsets Supplier of pyrotechnic and and chemical defence systems on F-16 and electromechanical systems for space, Safety systems F-22 aircraft.
These testers were used by safety and military training applications.
Rocket motors the US Air Force to assess the quality of Chemring Marine Ltd UK the oxygen systems that grounded the Canopy cutting charges F-22 fleet during 2011.
Each of the F-22 The worlds leading supplier of marine Cartridge actuated devices squadrons now has an onsite test capability.
distress signals to commercial and We are also under contract to provide leisure markets, under the brand names additional systems to the US Air Force Air Pains Wessex and Comet.
Combat Command for its F-16 units in 2012, Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA and have started working with the Air Force on fide ning the modi cations necessary to Leading US manufacturer of military service the multi-national F-35 Joint Strike training pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic Fighter programme.
Space Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA Our commercial launch and satellite Leading supplier of space quali ed segment continues to grow, and defence initiators and low shock satellite customers are combining their requirements separation systems, and a range of with the commercial side to realise cost pyromechanisms for aircrew egress.
The constant need for weather, navigation and increased communications bandwidth will have a positive impact on this marketplace.
The market is becoming more global with both Europe and Asia increasing their rate of launches, and in order to exploit this change, Hi-Shear and Chemring Energetics UK have entered into an agreement to expand Chemrings space presence in Europe.
We are solidifying our relationship with both ANA and Mitsubishi in Japan, and we have begun to explore relationships in India.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 20 Business overview Munitions The closing order book for the Munitions division was 372 million, an increase of 39% on the previous year.
Strategy Activities during the year Highlights in 2011 Our principal strategy is to develop our Naval Revenue up 104% on 2010 position as a niche prime contractor 76mm naval ammunition continued to be Large calibre ammunition sales grew of specialist ammunition products for in demand during the year, with production strongly with revenues up 198% European and non-NATO markets.
We will volumes up 83% to 13,000 rounds.
There build on our world-leading position in naval has been strong interest from many of our New microwave fuze, jointly developed ammunition, our growing strength in the naval customers in Europe, the Middle East, with Oto Melara, recently completed supply of ammunition for light armoured the Far East and South America.
A new NATO quali cation vehicles LAVs, and our broad range of microwave fuze, jointly developed with Continued growth in demand for mortar and 40mm grenade products.
Oto Melara, has recently completed NATO 40mm grenades, with a 200% increase We will focus on new product development quali cation and a livering demonstration in production and investment in facilities that will allow for a number of Middle East customers is us to expand our presence in a growing scheduled to take place shortly in Italy.
Closing order book for Munitions international market.
We intend to build was 372 million, an increase of 39% Land our position as a key strategic supplier on 2010 Our sales of large calibre ammunition grew of energetic material components and strongly during the year with revenues Key information sub-systems to the key prime contractors up 198% for Middle East and Far East for ammunition and missiles in Europe Orders customers.
Demand for advanced 90mm and the US.
This will be achieved by and 105mm ammunition for LAVs has developing and qualifying components continued to increase with more and more 349m for next generation weapon systems, non-NATO countries upgrading their eets displacing poorly performing incumbents on Revenue to make them more effective.
Demand for legacy products, investment in automated 81mm and 120mmm mortar products also manufacturing facilities, and by further increased and we recently signed our first 237m complementary acquisitions where contract with an important Middle East there is a clear opportunity to enhance Operating pro t Navy customer.
Demand for our range of 40mm grenades 41m Analysis has also continued to grow, with a 200% The global market for ammunition, increase in production volumes for Operating margin excluding small calibre, is estimated to Australian and Middle East customers.
Our total revenue in 2011 Our US subsidiary, Chemring Ordnance, 17% was 237 million, a 104% increase on the continues to develop, qualify, and eld previous year and equating to a market advanced products for the US market and share of 6%.
Our highest growth comes this year we quali ed a family of extended from the sale of ammunition for LAVs, range, low velocity rounds and the next which increased by 198% to 158 million of generation door-breaching round used by revenue.
Naval ammunition sales increased special forces for forced entry operations.
by 122% to 20 million, as deliveries Components and sub-systems of 76mm ammunition started to ramp Demand for our high performance, high upwards.
The global market for munitions reliability components and sub-systems components is estimated to be 2 billion.
continues to grow with increased sales to In 2011, our revenue from components both US and European prime contractors.
was 58 million, representing 24% of our During the year, there was a substantial total Munitions revenue, an increase of increase in the deliveries of warheads to 8% compared with the previous year and MBDA for use on their Sea Viper air defence equating to a market share of 3%.
missile, that protects the UKs Daring class The closing order book for the Munitions destroyers.
There was also strong growth in division was 372 million, an increase of sales of fuzing and safety arming systems 39% on the previous year, and a clear that initiate warheads and rocket motors indication of further growth in 2012. with over 20,000 ordnance fuzes delivered About 71% of the order book is from to Far East customers.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 21 105mm tank ammunition 105mm MGS Stryker BCT vehicle The Group also manufactures critical Our business units and companies Our products components of fuzing systems used Chemring Energetics UK Ltd Naval ammunition in a large number of US missiles and A leading supplier of detonators, Medium and large calibre ammunition ammunition rounds.
A new 25mm airburst actuators, rocket motors, high explosive round, called the XM-25, was quali ed Land forces ammunition lling and pyromechanical sub-assemblies.
during the year and then evaluated in the Medium and large calibre ammunition eld by US Special Forces.
Highly automated Chemring Energetic Devices, Inc. USA manufacturing systems will be set up 40mm grenades Manufactures a range of materials, during 2012 to handle the start of full rate Mortar ammunition components and sub-systems for leading production in 2014. missile and ammunition prime contractors.
Components Chemring Military Products, Inc. USA Propellants and rocket motors Provides load, assemble, pack Fuze and safe arm units and procurement services to the Pyromechanisms and actuators US government and prime contractors.
Energetic materials Chemring Nobel AS Norway Manufactures niche energetic materials with insensitive munitions IM characteristics for munition and oileld applications.
Chemring Ordnance, Inc. USA Niche supplier of 40mm grenade ammunition.
Hi-Shear Technology Corporation USA Develops advanced sub-systems for ballistic missile defence and tactical weapons.
Mecar S. A. Belgium A niche supplier of medium and large calibre ammunition for light armoured vehicles.
Simmel Difesa S. p. A. Italy A leading supplier of naval ammunition, advanced fuzing technology and missile components.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
