A Quality partner to help businesses grow Flexible Storage Solutions Flexi Offices No two businesses are alike, which is why we tailor our storage space to their requirements.
This means a business customer only ever pays for the space they need with no complex leases to sign.
Its also far more cost effective than traditional warehousing with no business rates, V AT or additional overheads to pay.
Security is of paramount importance to all our business customers, which is why our stores have perimeter fencing, electronic gates, 24 hour digital CCTV, PIN access and individually alarmed rooms.
This consistent level of security is unique in the UK self storage industry.
11 Businesses across the UK choose Big Yellow because we offer: Flexible space ranging from 10 sq ft to 5,000 sq ft No business rates, VAT or additional overheads to pay Store from as little as seven days No complex leases to sign Out of hours access Secure storage with perimeter fencing, PIN code access, individually alarmed rooms and 24 hour digital CCTV Easily accessible locations off main roads Large loading bays, trolleys, pallet trucks and fork lifts Staff on hand 7 days a week National accounts for easier management Flexible and helpful Flexi Offices We understand businesses have different At many of our stores, we offer storage requirements at different times.
This offices for rent which have is why we are flexible.
many advantages over traditional office space.
Businesses can change their room size whenever they need it and without penalty.
No long term lease to sign R They only ever pay for the space they need.
R Move-in straight away Our staff are also on hand 7 days a week to make life easier for our business customers, Only 4 weeks notice to vacate R whether thats fork lifting or accepting deliveries on their behalf.
At Big Yellow Completely secure PIN code R we are building lasting relationships with access, 24 hour digital CCTV and our business clients.
perimeter fencing R Rents include rates and water Free parking R 12 National Accounts Supporting charities For businesses that require Big Yellow are proud to storage in different locations continue our support for local around the country, it neednt and national charities this get complicated.
The Big year, through the donation of Yellow National Accounts storage space as well as fund service provides businesses raising activities from the with a dedicated account Big Yellow staff.
The National manager, a single master Childcare Trust, Cash For Kids, contract and one monthly READ International, Cancer invoice covering all locations Research UK and the RSPCA for easy accounting.
Its how are just some of the charitable we make sure everything organisations who we have runs like clockwork.
Big Yellow Business Online We have recently launched a dedicated business section of the Big Yellow website allowing business customers to fully understand the benefits of our services.
This includes videos demonstrating how we can help businesses grow.
13 Were always on hand to understand our customers storage needs so we can provide the best service possible.
