Report on Corporate Governance Introduction The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued in 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board also takes account of the corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Code.
Statement about applying the principles of the Code The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report and Audit Committee Report.
The Board of Directors The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
The Board ensures that its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of management.
The Board currently consists of nine Directors: four Executives and five Non-Executives.
The Board considers Tim Clark, Mark Richardson, Steve Johnson and Jonathan Short to be wholly independent and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement throughout the year.
Jonathan Short is considered an independent Non-Executive, even though as he has served on the Board for eleven years, exceeding the Combined Code recommended limit.
This was concluded after considering his integrity and the effectiveness with which he carries out his responsibilities to the Company.
The Board does not consider that Philip Burks is an independent Non-Executive, given that he was a co-founder of the Group and was an Executive Director from September 1998 until March 2007.
Tim Clark is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
All the Non-Executive Directors bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to Board deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
Philip Burks has legacy LTIPs from his time as an Executive Director.
The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with Executive Directors between formal Board meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Executive Directors being present.
Details of the Board and its principal committees are set out below.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure where appropriate the attendance of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
Attendance at meetings of the individual Directors at the Board and for the members of the Committees that they were eligible to attend is shown in the table below: Director Position Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Philip Burks Non-Executive Director 6 6 Tim Clark Non-Executive Director 6 6 3 3 5 5 3 3 James Gibson Chief Executive Officer 6 6 Steve Johnson Non-Executive Director 3 4 2 2 1 1 Adrian Lee Operations Director 6 6 Mark Richardson Non-Executive Director 6 6 3 3 5 5 3 3 Jonathan Short Non-Executive Director 5 6 3 3 5 5 3 3 John Trotman Chief Financial Officer 6 6 Nicholas Vetch Executive Chairman 6 6 The Board meets on a regular basis approximately once every two months to discuss a whole range of significant matters including strategic decisions, major asset acquisitions and performance.
A procedure to enable Directors to take independent professional advice if required has been agreed by the Board and formally confirmed by all Directors.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards attention including the approval of Group strategy and policies: major acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects and financing, Group budgets and material contracts entered into other than in the normal course of business.
The Board also considers matters of non-financial risk.
