Biographies of Directors and Senior Management Executive Directors Nicholas Vetch, aged 50, Executive Chairman, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc, which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Blue Self Storage S. L a self storage operation in Spain, and a Non-Executive Director of Local Shopping REIT plc.
James Gibson, aged 50, Chief Executive Officer, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Arthur Andersen & Co. where he specialised in the property and construction sectors, before leaving in 1989.
He was Finance Director of Heron Property Corporation Limited and then Edge Properties plc which he joined in 1994.
Edge Properties was listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and shareholder of AnyJunk Limited.
Adrian Lee, aged 45, Operations Director, was previously a senior Executive at Edge Properties plc, which he joined in 1996.
Prior to that he was a corporate financier at Lazard for five years, having previously qualified as a surveyor at Knight Frank.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2000.
John Trotman, aged 33, Chief Financial Officer, is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Deloitte LLP, where he specialised in the real estate sector and self storage.
On leaving Deloitte in 2005, John worked for a subsidiary of the Kajima Corporation.
He joined Big Yellow in June 2007, and was appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Non-Executive Directors Tim Clark, aged 60, Non-Executive Director.
He was a partner in Slaughter and May, one of the leading international law firms in the world, for 25 years: initially working as a corporate and M&A adviser to a range of companies and institutions and then for the last seven years as senior partner before retiring in April 2008.
He is also Deputy Chairman of G3, and a Director trustee of the COIF charitable funds.
He is also a Senior Adviser to Chatham House and a member of the International Chamber of Commerce UK Governing Body, the Advisory Board of Uria Menendez, the Board of the Royal National Theatre and the Development Committee of the National Gallery.
He is Chairman of the trustees of the Economist Trust and a member of the Audit Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
He was appointed to the Board in August 2008.
Jonathan Short, aged 49, Non-Executive Director, Founding Partner and Executive Chairman of Internos Real Investors LLP, a pan European real estate investment management business.
Non-Executive Director of Great Portland Estates plc, Independent Director to the Grosvenor Shopping Centre Fund and Trustee and UK Chairman of the Urban Land Institute.
He was appointed to the Board in February 2000.
Philip Burks, aged 52, Non-Executive Director, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Philip was the Groups Property Director until 30 March 2007, at which date he stepped down to become a Non-Executive Director.
He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Goals Soccer Centres plc in December 2010.
Mark Richardson, aged 54, Non-Executive Director, retired from Deloitte in 2008 after a career there of 29 years, the last 19 as an audit partner specialising in clients in the Real Estate and Construction sectors.
Mark is a co-opted member of the Audit and Risk Committee of the Natural History Museum and he is also a trustee of the childrens communication charity ICAN.
He was appointed to the Board in July 2008 and is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Steve Johnson, aged 47, Non-Executive Director, started his career at Bain in the 1980s before joining Asda in 1993, where he carried out a number of roles, culminating in Marketing Director.
He left Asda in 2000, to join GUS as a Sales & Marketing Director, departing in 2002 to take up his first CEO role at Focus DIY, where he remained until 2007.
Steves most recent Executive appointment was at Woolworths which he joined as part of the final turnaround team in late 2008.
He has most recently been working as an operating executive for Texas Pacific Group.
He joined the Board in September 2010.
Senior Management Biographies Shauna Beavis, aged 36, Financial Controller and Company Secretary, joined Big Yellow in March 2000, qualifying with CIMA in 2003.
Prior to that she was a Project Manager within the IT industry.
Anthony Chenery, aged 39, Head of Marketing and E-Commerce, joined Big Yellow in February 2011, having previously been employed as Head of Online Marketing with Teletext Holidays for seven years.
Prior to this, he has held marketing roles within the gaming and publishing industries and with the marketing agency Proximity London previously BHWG Proximity.
Paul Donnelly, aged 57, Corporate Social Responsibility Manager joined Big Yellow in August 2007 and is an Associate Member of the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment.
Paul was previously the Sustainable Development Manager at Crest Nicholson PLC.
Prior to that he was also Environmental Manager at John Laing PLC.
Stuart Grinnall, aged 36, IT Manager, joined Big Yellow in July 2000.
He is a systems engineer with several years experience developing IT solutions for growth companies and NHS Hospital Trusts.
Nigel Hartley, aged 47, Construction Director, joined Big Yellow in January 2000.
He is a chartered surveyor with over 19 years experience in the construction industry, both overseas and in the UK, principally in the retail and industrial sectors.
Cheryl Hathaway, aged 45, Head of Human Resources, joined Big Yellow in March 2000, having previously been employed as a Human Resources Manager within the Harrods Group.
Prior to this she worked for Debenhams in a variety of human resources roles, both within head offices and in stores.
Chris Herbert, aged 56, Construction Manager, joined Big Yellow in September 1999, having previously worked for Leslie Clark, a Construction Consultancy, for 10 years.
Prior to that, he spent 10 years as a contracts project manager with John Lelliot Building Contractors.
Nicola Jordan, aged 44, Head of Store Operations, joined Big Yellow in March 2003, having previously been employed as an Area Manager with Superdrug for 5 years.
Prior to this she has held operational roles with Little Chef, Travelodge and Victoria Wine.
David Knight, aged 47, Head of Facilities, joined Big Yellow in June 2000.
He was previously an Estates Manager at Whitbread which he joined in 1997.
Prior to this he was Group Facilities Manager at Central Transport Rental Group Plc formerly Tiphook Plc having previously qualified as a surveyor at Edwin Hill.
Andrew Watson, aged 42 Property Director, joined Big Yellow in October 2000 having previously worked as a property acquisition surveyor for McDonalds Restaurants.
Prior to that, he was an acquisitions surveyor for Victoria Wine, having previously qualified as a chartered surveyor at Herring Baker Harris.
Tom Wilcockson, aged 54, Head of New Business Development, joined Big Yellow in July 2007.
He has significant experience of developing new business channels including international franchising, BTB and direct selling through key roles at Bhs and Early Learning Centre.
