Directors Report continued Directors and their Interests The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year except as noted and to the date of approval of the financial statements were as follows: Philip Burks Tim Clark James Gibson Steve Johnson appointed 24 September 2010 Adrian Lee Mark Richardson Jonathan Short John Trotman Nicholas Vetch Details of the interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 68 to 69.
No changes took place in the interests of the Directors between 31 March 2011 and 23 May 2011.
Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 71.
Reappointment of Directors The Directors listed above constituted the Board during the year.
Following a performance appraisal process, the Board has concluded that the Directors retiring by rotation are effective, committed to their roles and should continue in office.
All of the Directors will retire in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The biographies of all Directors standing for re-election are included on page 71.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company purchases liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Payment of Suppliers The policy of the Group is to settle supplier invoices within the terms of trade agreed with individual suppliers.
Trade creditor days of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011 were 24 days 2010: 28 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Group by its suppliers in the year and the amounts due, at the year end to trade creditors within one year.
Properties The changes in investment and development property during the year and details of property valuations at 31 March 2011 are shown in notes 13a and 14 to the financial statements.
Further commentary on our investment property portfolio is contained in the Financial Review.
Donations Charitable donations totalling 25,000 2010: 17,000 were made to UK resident charities in the year.
The Group also provided free storage to charities during the year worth 400,000 2010: 277,000.
No political donations were made in either year.
The Group encourages employee involvement in charitable giving and frequently matches any amounts raised by individuals.
Key management have been allocated budgets to support local charitable causes and the community.
Substantial Shareholdings On 23 May 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
of voting rights ordinary and issued shares share capital Directors 18,333,756 13.99% Blackrock inc 6,581,933 5.02% Axa SA 6,578,222 5.02% BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA 6,316,133 4.82% Morgan Stanley Invs Mgmt Ltd 5,731,207 4.38% 60 Employees Adrian Lee, Operations Director, has responsibility to the Board for all employee matters.
The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff who are encouraged to address queries to the Executive Directors.
The Directors Executive meetings are held in stores frequently and in addition Directors and senior management visit the stores on a regular basis.
Furthermore, there are regular team briefings at store level to provide employees with information about the performance of and initiatives in their store.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups Intranet, including the e-publication of the Groups financial results and all press releases, the publication of a quarterly newsletter, and the publication of a weekly operations bulletin.
The Group carries out annual surveys of employee satisfaction.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups performance through Employee Share Schemes and performance related bonuses.
Customer service is a key priority of the Group and this is achieved through recruiting good people and investing in training and development leading to high levels of retention.
The Groups recruitment policy is committed to promote equality, judging neither by race, nationality, religion, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, nor political opinion and to treat all stakeholders fairly.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Health and Safety The Board recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business.
The Groups Health and Safety policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
It is applied in two distinct areas construction and operations.
The policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and safety but that managers have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on Adrian Lee, Operations Director, to keep the Board advised on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy in respect of construction activity and store operations respectively.
The Group has a Health and Safety Committee, which meets quarterly and comprises Adrian Lee and appointed managers.
They meet to discuss any issues that have been reported from meetings held at head office and the stores, and any construction sites.
In addition, the Group has appointed an external consultant to review policy and perform audits of stores on a rolling programme to ensure the implementation of the Groups Health and Safety policies.
Health and Safety audits are also carried out by external consultants on each construction site prior to the opening of a store.
A review of health and safety for the year is included within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 49 to 56.
Annual General Meeting The notice for the 2011 Annual General Meeting is distributed as a separate document.
The meeting will be held at 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA on 18 July 2011.
Auditors In respect of each Director of the Company, at the date when this report was approved, to the best of their knowledge and belief: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he might have reasonably been expected to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Shauna Beavis Secretary 23 May 2011 61 Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the Combined Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee The Company has established a Remuneration Committee which is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The members of the Committee at the year end were Tim Clark, Steve Johnson, Mark Richardson and Jonathan Short, who are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Tim Clark.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-today involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board.
In making these recommendations, the Committee consults with the Executive Chairman, Nicholas Vetch, about his proposals, on a range of matters relating to the remuneration of the Executive Directors including the levels of overall remuneration, salary and bonus, and awards and distributions under the share incentive and bonus plans.
Remuneration Policy Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the high calibre required and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
Individual remuneration packages are structured to align rewards with the performance of the Company and the interests of the shareholders.
The main principles are to: ensure that salaries are set at a market competitive level by benchmarking against appropriate external comparators: support a high performance culture by rewarding upper quartile performance with upper quartile reward: maintain a balance of fixed and performance related pay which delivers appropriate rewards over the short, medium and longer term, with an increasing emphasis on longer term rewards based on shares: align long term rewards with shareholder returns by expecting Directors to hold at least 50% of the shares vesting under these plans until a minimum shareholding has been achieved.
The shareholding is expected to be at least 1 times salary for Executive Directors: and ensure that the overall package reflects relevant market practice and takes account levels of remuneration elsewhere in the Group.
The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and the determination of their annual remuneration package is undertaken by the Committee in consultation with the Executive Chairman, save for discussions on his remuneration package.
No Director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the full Board.
The 2011 remuneration package is not considered to be above market levels for comparable companies.
There are currently five main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management: Element Purpose Operation Salary To provide competitive fixed remuneration that Reviewed every twelve months and benchmarked against will attract and retain key employees and reflect appropriate market comparators.
their experience and position in the Company.
Linked to individual performance and contribution.
Annual head office bonus To incentivise achievement of annual objectives The bonus is based on the Companys key performance which support the short to medium term strategy indicators plus individual targets.
of the Company and applies across the head office team.
Long term incentive plan To incentivise Executives to achieve superior Share awards are made annually to senior executives and other returns to shareholders over a three year period.
senior management and are based on a combination of TSR and EPS targets over a three year period.
To retain key individuals in the medium term and align rewards with shareholder returns.
Long term bonus To ensure that the total remuneration package is Three year award, based on a series of financial and nonperformance plan more competitive and supports the Companys financial targets aligned with the annual business plan to bring strategy and its ability to react to changing salary more in line with market.
Pension Provide competitive post retirement benefits.
All executives receive a fixed contribution to their personal pension plans.
