8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 30 RETAIL STRATEGY RETAIL IS CORE TO BRITISH LANDS PROPERTY PORTFOLIO.
IT CONTRIBUTES SIGNIFICANTLY TO THE SUSTAINABLE CASH FLOWS WHICH UNDERPIN OUR DIVIDEND AND FINANCE OUR GROWTH.
British Land owns some of the best retail assets Which are flexible the unit configuration can be adapted to retailers changing needs: in the country: according to CACI, the retail Which have the right environment where consumers want research group, the average British Land asset to shop and spend their leisure time.
ranks in the top 5% of most dominant retail centres in the country and we own one of the In line with the Groups objectives of delivering total returns, top three shopping centres in the UK, nine of the we will continue to add to our prime portfolio through asset management investment and development and will: top 25 retail parks in the UK including five of the top ten retail super parks.
In total, our shopping Actively manage our prime portfolio to capture the recovery in retail rents and generate rental income growth.
centres and retail parks access around 40% Investing in upgrading our retail offer to meet the evolving of the population of the UK.
needs of todays retailers and actively managing our occupier base which will allow us both to maintain our high Our focus is on high-quality locations where consumers want levels of occupancy and capture the rental growth potential to shop and retailers trade efficiently and profitability.
Our portfolio in our portfolio.
is well positioned to benefit from the significant changes to the Invest in high-quality prime assets.
retail market discussed on page 8.
A reflection of this is that We will continue to seek to grow our portfolio by buying our rental values have grown by 0.8% per annum over the last five assets in the best locations which meet the current and years versus the IPD benchmark at 0.6%.
Through the recent future needs of our occupiers.
downturn, our portfolio has remained almost fully occupied and our rental values have started to grow at a time when rental Invest in good secondary assets which have good values across the market continue to fall.
This means schemes which are well located and locally Looking forward, we expect retailers will continue to rationalise dominant where rents have stabilised and are at affordable their stores, focusing on fewer locations.
The growth in internet levels and yields realistically compensate for relatively modest sales will add to the pressure on weaker locations but are likely levels of expected rental growth.
These represent good solid to be highly complementary to prime.
Vacancy rates are generally investment opportunities where the bulk of our total returns low in the better located schemes and there is relatively little will be delivered through income.
new stock coming to the market over the next few years.
There Recycle capital to dispose of assets where we believe the are beginning to be signs of upward pressure on rents at the best valuations are not justified by their rental growth prospects.
retail locations, which should grow as the economy improves.
We will continue to refresh and upgrade our portfolio to We continue to believe in the out-of-town retail format.
However, ensure it is optimally positioned to grow and outperform.
our view is that property outperformance will require a much Increase our exposure to opportunities where we can more asset specific approach than has been the case in the create incremental value: development, repositioning recent past.
As the retail market rebalances, opportunities will and refurbishment opportunities.
present themselves both out-of-town or in town.
We believe the This will enable us to add to our prime estate and generate best performing assets will be ones: incremental value.
At a time when the availability of highWhich are in the right location locally dominant and quality retail space is limited, we are actively expanding our accessible for consumers and suppliers : development pipeline.
Where rents are affordable where retailers can trade profitably: Which have the right unit configuration and size the right type of retail space: 30 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
