Understanding British Land Strategy Our portfolio Financing strategy Corporate responsibility Pages 0109 Pages 1123 Pages 2557 Pages 5961 Pages 6370 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:46 Page 59 FINANCING STRATEGY WE AIM TO ENSURE BRITISH LAND IS OPTIMALLY FINANCED WITH SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT OUR STRATEGY AND COVER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS WHICH MAY ARISE 59 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:46 Page 60 FINANCING STRATEGY THE SCALE OF OUR BUSINESS, COMBINED WITH THE SECURITY AND STABILITY OF OUR RENTAL INCOME FLOWS, MEANS WE ARE ABLE TO FINANCE OUR BUSINESS ON COMPETITIVE TERMS FROM A BROAD RANGE OF SOURCES.
Debt financing is used to enhance returns.
In determining the We believe this gives us a significant advantage optimal level of gearing for the business, the Board considers a over the many smaller, less well capitalised range of factors including our ability to refinance and the impact property companies particularly in todays on the aggregate risk of the business including development risk.
environment where the availability of debt Our preferred range of gearing is a Loan to Value ratio LTV on a proportionally consolidated basis of 40% to 50%, with a shortfinance is highly constrained.
We aim to ensure that the Group and its joint ventures and funds Our debt financing is provided from a variety of sources.
which account for half of our assets are optimally financed with The average maturity of our debt is long at 10.1 years on a sufficient resources both to implement the strategy agreed by the proportionally consolidated basis, reflecting the long-term nature Board together with our partners in the case of joint ventures of our lease structures.
Our debt financing includes long-term and funds and cover additional requirements and opportunities securitisations, secured debentures, unsecured loan notes, which may arise.
and shorter-term unsecured facilities available for immediate drawdown.
This provides us with significant flexibility enabling The principal objectives of our financing policy therefore are to: us to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
Minimise the cost of capital through a mix of debt and equity finance: The joint ventures and funds are able to raise finance on the strength of their assets with no recourse to the partners: Raise debt from a variety of sources, accessing attractive we agree the financing strategy with our partners and other market opportunities from time-to-time: co-investors.
The greater proportion of our joint ventures Maintain a spread of maturities, including longer-term and funds by value are financed by long-term ring-fenced financing supported by committed income under long leases: securitised debt where rents comfortably exceed interest and amortisation payments.
Others are financed by shorter-term Maintain significant committed undrawn loan facilities, specific facilities or purely by funds provided by shareholders to support current and future business requirements: in each case structured to support the strategic objectives Actively manage financial risks, including interest rate, of the fund or joint venture, while providing flexibility.
foreign exchange, liquidity and counterparty risks.
Our joint ventures and funds are included in our accounts as equity net investments and are not fully consolidated.
We consider the equity and debt funding structure of British Land both on a group statutory basis and a proportionally consolidated basis, including the Groups share of joint ventures and funds.
60 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
