8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 120 REMUNERATION REPORT UNAUDITED INFORMATION Each year the Committee reviews its policy in the light of any changes to the The Remuneration Committee comprises Lord Turnbull, Chairman of the strategy by management.
During 2011 12 the Committee will look at measures Committee, John Gildersleeve and Dido Harding.
The Committees Terms used by the LTIP to ensure that the Company gets best alignment and focus of Reference are available on the Companys website.
The Remuneration Committee took advice during the year from Strategic i Basic salary and benefits Remuneration, Chris Grigg, and Anthony Braine.
The Committee has retained Basic salary and benefits in kind for each Director are reviewed annually Alan Judes as its independent adviser throughout the year via his consultancy, by the Remuneration Committee, taking account of the Directors performance Strategic Remuneration.
A copy of the letter of engagement between the and responsibilities.
Company and Strategic Remuneration is on the Companys website.
Strategic Remuneration also gave advice to the Company on personnel and share plan The Committee considers basic salary levels against two peer groups.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no conflict in Strategic where corporate size and scope characteristics drive duties, basic pay levels Remuneration providing such services to the Company.
and recruitment sources, a peer group of major UK companies across market sectors with a median market capitalisation broadly comparable to British Land STATEMENT OF COMPANYS POLICY ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION is used to establish basic salary levels.
British Land is an industry leader and a FTSE 100 Company.
The Companys goal is to achieve sustained outperformance for shareholders.
The business model For other posts, the Committee will look at pay levels in other organisations such is people-light and asset-heavy it leverages the work, skill and judgement as agents, fund managers or with comparably sized support functions to match of a relatively small staff over a large value of assets.
with roles of comparable speciality, scope and responsibility to those within British Land.
This reflects the people-light and asset-heavy business model.
To accomplish British Lands performance goals the Company targets a high performance, open and meritocratic culture where people are motivated Basic salaries are targeted around the median of the relevant peer group in individually and as a team to outperform competitors, subject to maintenance both cases.
The Company utilises pay surveys from time to time to ensure pay of quality and security.
is correctly positioned against the market.
Appropriate increases are made to base salary to reflect individual merit and remain competitive with the market.
It is important that pay policy reinforces the Companys goals, providing effective incentives for exceptional Company, team and individual performance with ii Annual incentive plan significant upward and downward variability.
The annual incentive plan consists of an amount payable to Directors reflecting Company performance and the individuals contribution during the preceding As well as providing motivation to perform, pay plays an important retention role year.
One third of the annual incentive is paid in fully vested shares subject to and hence needs to be competitive with alternative employment opportunities.
a three-year holding requirement under the Companys Matching Share Plan This is particularly so as British Lands demands on staff are high and there is described below.
a scarcity value on proven performers.
We do recognise, however, that there are circumstances under which key staff members cannot be kept in the Company.
For 2011 12 the On Target award level for the Chief Executive continues to be 90% of salary with a maximum award of 180% of salary.
On Target award It is even more important to have strong alignment of management incentives levels for the other executive Directors are 75% of base salary with a maximum with measures that matter to British Lands shareholders and with shareholder of 150% of salary.
The awards are not contractual and are not pensionable.
These levels are unchanged from previous years.
The policy is to set basic salary and benefits at norms broadly consistent with The Remuneration Committees approach to setting annual incentives is twothe Companys FTSE position with appropriate variance for specialist positions, fold.
Each individuals performance is considered in relation to the goals agreed but to provide Annual Incentive and Long-Term Incentive levels that would for their specific areas of responsibility, such as: move total pay above median towards upper quartile if performance so merits.
The success of purchases and sales: Directors remuneration packages comprise a fixed part consisting of a basic Successful progress on developments: salary and benefits together with an annual incentive, matching share plan Lettings and rent reviews: and long-term incentive plans.
Asset management activities: The total pay position is analysed by looking across each of the different Successful execution of debt financings: elements of pay: basic salary and benefits, annual incentive awards and longterm incentives.
This provides the Committee with a total remuneration view Control over the Groups finances and accounts: rather than just the competitiveness of the individual pay elements and may Management of administrative services and human resources: vary widely to correspond to the need of the role and the performance delivered.
Progress on strengthening the dividend.
In using salary and other remuneration data the Committee is mindful of not unnecessarily ratcheting up the remuneration levels, while properly incentivising The Committee also considers team contributions made by each individual performance and being able to attract and retain the best people.
The Committee to corporate performance, using as external indicators: also has regard to economic factors, remuneration trends and the level Accounting Return total NAV based return plus dividends relative of pay increases throughout the Company when determining Directors pay.
to property majors and relevant indices: Unlevered property capital returns relative to IPD: 120 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
