Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 101 Although secured assets and other assets of non-recourse principal repayments with the balance outstanding reducing companies are excluded from Unencumbered Assets for the to approximately 2030% of the original amount raised by covenant calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from the expected final maturity.
These debt structures, which were surplus value of these assets above the related debt and the arranged by British Land, permitted us to introduce thirdfree cash flow from them.
During the year ended 31 March party investors and effectively dispose of a 50% share in the 2011, these assets generated 59 million of surplus cash after investment without requiring repayment of the debt.
In addition, while investments in joint ventures do not form part of Unencumbered Assets, our share of Although a combination of fixed and floating rate debt has been profits generated by these ventures are passed up to the Group.
issued in the securitisations, all the floating rate instruments have been fully swapped into fixed rate debt, from the date Debentures without recourse to British Land are those issued of issue.
Transaction-specific derivatives are employed by the by BLD Property Holdings Limited formerly Asda Property relevant borrowing entity in the joint ventures and funds Holdings Limited a company acquired by the Group in 2006. to achieve the desired interest rate profile when floating rate There are three fixed rate debentures of 111 million in total: debt is raised through other debt structures.
10.3125% First Mortgage Debenture Stock 2011: TAX STRATEGY 6.125% First Mortgage Debenture Stock 2014: Our tax strategy is an important aspect of our business.
Being a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT significantly reduces the 9.125% First Mortgage Debenture Stock 2020. taxation costs of the Group, but brings with it a responsibility to our shareholders and to the UK tax authorities HMRC to Asset value and income ratio cover requirements are managed operate within the rules of the REIT regime.
In 2007, we paid and remediable as necessary, in line with our other debentures.
a one-off corporation tax charge of 291 million to convert to REIT status in return for which we do not pay tax on our JOINT VENTURES AND FUNDS property income or gains on property sales, provided that we Joint ventures and funds are each financed and interest distribute at least 90% of our property income to shareholders, rate-managed separately, without recourse to British Land which becomes taxable in their hands.
In addition, we have for repayment.
External debt in total of 5.9 billion 2010: to meet certain conditions such as ensuring our property 6.1 billion has been arranged through securitisation or rental business represents more than 75% of our total profits bank debt according to the requirements of the business and assets.
Refinancing of these facilities is addressed by the relevant entities as appropriate for their businesses.
We do pay tax on overseas earnings, which is subject to overseas taxation, and any UK income that does not qualify Those debt arrangements which include Loan to Value ratio as property income within the REIT rules such as fees and covenants have maximum levels ranging from 55% to 90% interest is subject to tax in the normal way.
We also collect except for one fund in which we have a small interest where VAT and withholding tax on dividends as well as employment the LTV is 35% : several of the debt arrangements have rental taxes.
So we have a major responsibility for deducting, income to interest or debt service cover requirements.
There collecting, accounting for and paying significant amounts is no obligation on British Land to remedy any breach of these to the Government in the year to 31 March 2011 we paid covenants and any remedy needed would be considered by the a total of 118 million to HMRC.
We maintain a regular dialogue with HMRC to let them know Our joint ventures at Broadgate, Meadowhall and Sainsbury what we are doing and to maintain transparency and we have Superstores, each contain securitised debt, raised based on been awarded and have maintained a low risk rating with the cash flows generated from the specific assets or pools HMRC.
Where there are a range of ways in which a transaction of assets.
The strength of these cash flows allows credit-rated could be undertaken we consider the relative merits and seek debt to be raised with long maturities.
pre-clearance from HMRC in complex areas.
We engage in discussions on potential or proposed changes in the taxation The securitisations of the Broadgate estate 1,905 million, system that might affect us, particularly those relating to REIT Meadowhall 811 million and the Sainsburys Superstores legislation, seeking to ensure a successful and fair outcome portfolio 657 million have weighted average maturities for the Group.
We ensure that our tax returns are correct and of 15.3 years, 13.6 years, and 10.0 years respectively.
The only are filed within agreed timelines.
Our tax policy and approach financial covenant applicable to these securitisations is that to taxation is regularly reviewed by the Board.
income must cover interest and scheduled amortisation 1 times.
These securitisations provide for quarterly The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 101
