8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 44 OFFICES STRATEGY OUR OFFICES PORTFOLIO IS FOCUSED ON THE CENTRAL LONDON MARKET WHICH TODAY ACCOUNTS FOR 99% OF THE 4.5 BILLION OF OFFICES WE OWN AND MANAGE IN THE UK.
Our focus on the London market reflects its Actively manage our office weighting to deliver outperformance being a major source of performance position as a leading global City and one of the for the Group during a cyclical upturn through development largest centres for financial services in the and acquisitions: and recycling capital as the cycle matures.
London attracts a depth and quality We have a long track record of successfully developing and selling on profitably.
Since 2004, we have developed 3.3 of demand from occupiers and investors not million sq ft in the City and sold the vast majority profitably.
Increase our exposure to the West End the West End will form the long-term core of our office portfolio, helping We believe that the office market in London will continue to be the Group achieve one of its main strategic objectives of a primary beneficiary of the capitals pivotal global position with a growing, sustainable rental income.
We have steadily demand for high-quality space expanding over the long term.
increased our exposure to the West End with 38% of our However, the market is also likely to continue to experience office portfolio today compared to 13% five years ago.
periodic cycles as the balance between supply and demand fluctuates, particularly in the City given its proximity to Canary Selective investment in residential to support office Wharf where the planning regimes are more relaxed.
The West developments and add value residential elements are End is one of the few sub sectors in real estate which has a core part of our West End mixed-use developments and experienced long-term rental growth due to sustained occupier we will seek to leverage our skills and expertise in residential demand and low supply as a result of its restrictive planning to enhance the value of these developments and create regime.
additional incremental value for the Group where we see attractive opportunities.
Like retail, the changes in occupier trends in the office market have been significant.
Today, occupiers increasingly want flexible, We recognised early on that we were at the start of a major high-quality open plan offices with larger floor plates, which are office cycle in Central London with a structural improvement in technologically and environmentally friendly.
This is increasingly demand, falling levels of supply, rents having reached their lowest polarising occupier and investor demand between the best point and early signs on prime schemes of an improving rental offices which are occupied by high-quality businesses on long tone.
During the year, we committed 1.1 billion of the Groups leases and secondary offices which tend to be let to occupiers with capital to develop 2.2 million sq ft of mainly office space in Central lower quality covenants on much shorter terms in buildings which London.
At todays values, fully developed, these represent 27% become economically obsolete.
Our office investments over the of our office portfolio and are balanced between the City and West years have been focused on high-quality prime buildings in the End in terms of British Lands net exposure.
Given the prospects City and the West End with active management of our estates for rental growth and investor appetite for Central London, we ensuring that we meet the changing demands of our occupiers.
expect these developments to contribute significant additional performance to our portfolio.
Looking forward, our strategic priorities in offices will be: In support of our development programme, we made a number Continue to focus our office portfolio on modern, flexible of early cycle acquisitions with Victoria Street, Baker Street, work environments within Central London ensuring we and Marble Arch House all of which are in the West End.
provide occupiers with high-quality spaces which meet their We are actively looking to make more acquisitions, where we can evolving needs.
enhance returns through development and asset management.
Concentrate on assets where we can add value by managing and improving income through active asset management of lease re-gears and new lettings.
44 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Understanding British Land Strategy Our portfolio Financing strategy Corporate responsibility Pages 0109 Pages 1123 Pages 2557 Pages 5961 Pages 6370 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 45 CONSTRUCTION OF THE 20-STOREY, 594,000 SQ FT ROPEMAKER PLACE, LOCATED CLOSE TO MOORGATE AND LIVERPOOL STREET, WAS COMPLETED IN MAY 2009.
Designed and engineered by Arup Associates around a third of specification and high levels of sustainability enable the building the building was pre-let during construction and the offices are to meet the demanding requirements of a range of City occupiers.
It offers some of the biggest floor plates in the City combined with great efficiency and adaptability.
Achieving this level of occupancy during the challenging market of 2009 10 is testimony to the buildings quality.
Ropemaker Place Key occupiers include Macquarie Group, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, is the first building in the City to achieve LEED pre-certification Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, Markit and Liberum Capital with an rating of Platinum in addition to being rated BREEAM Excellent, average weighted unexpired lease term certain of 15.6 years at making it one of the Citys most sustainable buildings.
Some an average contracted rent of 44 per sq ft. 50,000 sq ft of roof terraces, stunning architecture, a robust The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45
