Understanding British Land Strategy Our portfolio Financing strategy Corporate responsibility Pages 0109 Pages 1123 Pages 2557 Pages 5961 Pages 6370 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 27 OUR PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE AND STRATEGY BRITISH LAND OWNS AND MANAGES A PORTFOLIO OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY WORTH 14.9 BILLION, OF WHICH OUR SHARE IS 9.6 BILLION.
Our portfolio is well balanced with a substantial returns is strong.
The majority of the remainder is in City offices where the upswing in returns can be more cyclical in nature weighting to high-quality investments in sectors and where we will look to moderate our exposure over time.
with the potential for long-term growth, principally UK retail and London offices with % of portfolio Reported March 2011 Pro-forma a small high-quality retail portfolio in Europe.
Retail 65.8 61.6 Offices: City 19.6 21.3 West End 12.3 15.0 A combination of strong and consistent rental streams, future Provincial 0.2 0.2 rental growth potential and sustained demand from occupiers Total offices 32.1 36.5 for our retail and office portfolio means that British Land is well Other 2.1 1.9 positioned to deliver excellent performance.
Within these sectors, our focus is on prime assets.
These are high performance Total 100.0 100.0 buildings, in the right locations which meet the current and Of which development 4.0 11.4 future needs of occupiers.
They consistently attract high-quality occupiers willing to take long-term leases on favourable terms.
PERFORMANCE We regularly undertake rigorous analysis of the property portfolio We believe that prime assets, underpinned by a sustainable to establish the optimal structure and ensure each asset is and growing rental income, generally deliver more growth than meeting our performance expectations.
Our asset allocation and average or poorer quality property.
We will continue to focus on focus on prime has delivered consistent outperformance against renewing and upgrading our core portfolio through acquisitions the broader property market as measured by IPD, in rental and and developments.
capital value terms, both over the short and medium term.
LOOKING AHEAD The balance of our portfolio comprises properties held for We believe the market will continue to polarise between prime development, good quality secondary property with strong cash and good secondary and poor quality assets in both the flows and assets which can be improved to deliver added value.
We are well positioned Our objective is to generate meaningful incremental value over with a portfolio of exceptional quality and sustainable cash flows time by investing in development, by repositioning assets and and a strong development pipeline.
We are well placed to through exploiting market anomalies.
Our exposure to these enhance returns through development and take advantage assets will fluctuate depending on market circumstances, our of a growing volume of investment opportunities.
assessment of risk and the availability of opportunities.
Over the next year, we expect our exposure to increase reflecting the growing We have the capacity and access to finance to invest further and volume of attractive investment opportunities and our desire expect a more diverse range of opportunities to emerge in 2011, to increase our risk profile at this point in the economic cycle.
particularly as the lending institutions continue to work through their property loan books.
The most attractive opportunities We have significantly increased our weighting to development are likely to be the more complex deals where we can leverage over the past 12 months and British Lands share of our total the breadth of our property and financial skills with the strength commitment stands at 1.2 billion at the year-end.
On a proof our balance sheet.
forma basis, that is including the developments at their estimated completion value, and our standing investments at todays values, Going forward we will remain focused on three main priorities: our development exposure is 11% of gross asset value.
The majority of our programme is focused on the Central London Actively managing our portfolio to maximise income growth: office market where we have invested early in a cyclical upturn Executing our substantial development programme and and expect returns to significantly exceed those available from extracting value through pre-letting: standing prime investments.
Our programme in the West End, which represents 44% of the total, is intended to build our Taking advantage of an increasing supply of investment exposure to a market where the long-term outlook for growth and opportunities at more sustainable valuations.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27
