8231 2 Report 2011 71 to 106 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:48 Page 98 FINANCIAL REVIEW continued As a result of finance arranged in 200407, the Group ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS holds substantial available bank facilities and has not In preparing these financial statements, the key accounting 1.
1bn needed to raise new debt over the last three years during judgement relates to the carrying value of properties and REFINANCING difficult market conditions.
In recent months, we have investments, which are stated at market value.
The Group recommenced a gradual refinancing programme to ensure uses external professional valuers to determine the ARRANGED adequate finance is in place for the business going forward.
BY THE GROUP Following the year-end, in May, British Land agreed a The primary source of evidence for property valuations AND JOINT new 560 million five-year unsecured revolving facility should be recent, comparable market transactions on an VENTURES OVER with a syndicate of 11 banks, including several who are arms-length basis.
However, the valuation of the Groups new unsecured lenders to the Group.
The margin is 125 bps property portfolio is inherently subjective, as it is made on LAST 18 MONTHS over LIBOR.
This facility, increased from 350 million due the basis of assumptions made by the valuers which may to over-subscription, will replace an existing 720 million not prove to be accurate.
facility which would have expired in August 2011.
As a result, total bank facilities with maturity of more than three REIT status: the Company has elected for REIT status.
years have increased to 1.5 billion 1.2 billion undrawn To continue to benefit from this tax regime, the Group and the date at which the Group has a refinancing is required to comply with certain conditions as defined in requirement based on projected expenditure has been the REIT legislation.
Management intends that the Group extended to June 2014. should continue as a REIT for the foreseeable future.
While market pricing has increased and there continues to Accounting for joint ventures and funds: an assessment be pressure on banks liquidity.
The Groups strong balance is required to determine the degree of control or influence sheet, supported by the quality of assets and the cash flows the Group exercises and the form of any control to ensure from them, continues to be attractive to debt investors.
that financial statement treatment is appropriate.
Interest in the Groups joint ventures is commonly driven by Two joint ventures between British Land and Tesco plc the terms of partnership agreements which ensure were successfully refinanced during the year, raising that control is shared between the partners.
These are a total of 245 million.
In November, BLT Properties accounted for under the equity method, whereby the Limited secured a new 185 million seven-year loan and, consolidated balance sheet incorporates the Groups in March, The Tesco British Land Property Partnership share of the net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
completed a new 60 million five-year loan facility The consolidated income statement incorporates the in each case the overall finance rate was lower than Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after the maturing facility.
These financings followed that tax upon elimination of upstream transactions.
arranged in December 2009 for another joint venture, Tesco BL Properties, for 315 million.
The total refinancing arranged by the Group and joint ventures during the last 18 months has exceeded 1.1 billion.
Over the next two year years, 1,364 million British Land share 572 million of drawn debt within joint ventures and funds is due to mature.
This includes 100 million British Land share for PREF, which has commenced negotiations with a number of banks for refinancing later this year.
98 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
