Understanding British Land Strategy Our portfolio Financing strategy Corporate responsibility Pages 0109 Pages 1123 Pages 2557 Pages 5961 Pages 6370 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 13 OUR STRATEGY BY CHRIS GRIGG ESTABLISHED IN 2007, REITS ARE NOW COMING OF AGE.
BRITISH LANDS BUSINESS, WITH PRIME PROPERTIES GENERATING RENTAL INCOME SECURED BY HIGH-QUALITY OCCUPIERS ON LONG LEASES, IS WELL SUITED TO OUR REIT STATUS.
Our portfolio is well balanced and focused on sectors with good long-term potential growth in income and value.
Chris Grigg Chief Executive The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 14 Our view is that the REIT structure OUR STRATEGY means we need to be more focused AN OVERVIEW on ensuring that our investors can rely on a secure and growing dividend underpinned by sustainable property rental income flows.
British Land has been a Real Estate Investment between 2006 and 2008.
The resilience of our income flows meant that we were able to maintain this high level of dividends despite Trust, or REIT, since 2007.
The REIT sector is the 40% fall in UK commercial property values during 2007 08. well established in a number of countries around the world, notably in the US and Australia.
But Where we have made changes to our business to adapt to REIT status, it has been to intensify our focus on income generation in the UK, it is still relatively new, born into the and reduce the potential volatility in the value of our capital.
extraordinarily difficult and volatile property and The disposal of 50% of our holdings in Meadowhall and Broadgate credit markets of 2007.
In many ways it is only in 2009 reduced the risk in our portfolio both by cutting our exposure now really coming of age.
to single large assets and lowering the proportion of the business financed through debt.
Letting activity and acquisitions over the last 18 months have more than compensated for the net income The REIT structure aims to provide a balanced, tax efficient and low we gave up through these two strategic disposals.
You can read cost way for institutions and private individuals to invest in property more on our approach to asset allocation on pages 26 and 27 and access the rental income streams arising from owning and and financing on pages 59 to 61. managing property.
Compared to direct property ownership, REITs provide investors with access to a more diverse range of assets Our ambition is to be recognised as the best REIT in Europe which are actively managed by property experts who are able to through the strength of our leadership skills: the quality of our access a broad range of lower cost finance.
And because they are property and financing expertise: the quality and sustainability listed, the investments are able to be more readily bought and sold.
of the environments we create for our occupiers: our ability to attract high-quality partners: and the returns we deliver to If you look back over the last 20 years, rental income has accounted our shareholders.
for 80% of total direct property returns in the UK.
Our view is that the REIT structure with its requirement to distribute 90% of tax Our objective is to deliver superior total returns for our shareholders.
exempt profits from property rental income as dividends, means Over the following pages, we explain how we aim to achieve this we need to be more focused on ensuring that our investors can objective by: rely on a secure, and growing dividend underpinned by sustainable property rental income flows.
Capital growth remains critical not 1.
Creating sustainable and growing property rental income: only as the natural consequence of high-quality, growing rental 2.
Investing in assets which protect and grow the capital streams but also as a way of creating new capital to invest value over the medium to long term: in growth and generating outperformance.
But this increased focus on security of income distribution as dividends requires 3.
Creating incremental value through developing, repositioning a more balanced approach to risk and short-term capital value assets and exploiting market anomalies: movements than has generally been the case in the listed UK 4.
Controlling our costs to maximise profit generation: property sector in the recent past.
Exploiting our scale and financial strength.
British Lands business focused on rental income flows secured by high-quality occupiers with long leases on prime properties We also believe that leadership on issues such as sustainability was already well suited to REIT status.
On conversion we significantly help drive our performance and we aim to be the best at the increased our dividend payout, with dividends ahead by 106% sustainability issues that matter most to us and our stakeholders.
14 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
