Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 56 Annual Report 2011 Executive management Executive Committee Martin Ellis Susan Marsden Peter Weir Construction Director Group Company Secretary Group Financial Controller Appointed as a Director of Capital Shopping Joined the Group as Company Secretary Joined the Group in October 2008 as Group Centres PLC on 1 October 2005.
Fellow of the Institute of Financial Controller.
Previously worked in a the Group in 1990 and was appointed in 2008 CharteredSecretaries and Administrators.
number of finance roles in as Managing Director, Liberty International Commenced her career at the London Stock both listed and privately owned companies, Construction and Development Limited.
Exchange, and has been Company Secretary of lastly before joining the Group as Finance Following the demerger of the Capital & two FTSE real-estate sector companies prior to Director-Europe atFidelity International.
Counties business in May 2010, hereverted to joining the Group.
being CSCs Construction Director responsible Trevor Pereira fordevelopment and construction projects.
Mike Butterworth Commercial Director Chief Operating Offi cer Hugh Ford Joined the Group in 2007 as Commercial General Corporate Counsel Appointed as Chief Operating Offi cer on Director, Capital Shopping Centres PLC.
A Fellow of the Royal Appointed General Corporate Counsel tothe Hewas appointed Group Commerical Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Mike joined Group in 2003.
Previously he was General Director in October 2011, responsible the Manchester Ship Canal Company, now part Manager Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and for Operations, Commercialisation and of the Peel Group, in 1981, and became before that a commercial lawyer with British Marketing.
Previously worked for airport group Property Director of Peel Holdings in 2002.
He quali ed as a solicitor in 1992 BAA plc for 21 years, latterly as Retailand has extensive experience in the shopping with Fresh elds.
Commercial Director for Heathrow Airport.
centre industry having served as Managing Additional members of the Executive Director of The Traff ord Centre Limited from Committee are the Chief Executive 1996, responsible for the opening of the centre Chairman of the Committee and the in 1998, until 2011 when The Traff ord Centre Finance Director, whose biographies are set out on page 54. was acquired byCSC.
Executive management Jonathan Ainsley Claire Combes Gary Hoskins Julie Pears Asset Management Director Head of Risk and Internal Audit Head of Tax Director of Development Joined the Group in 2006 having previously Joined the Group as Head of Risk and Joined the Group in 2003.
Quali ed as a Joined the Groups Development team worked for Hammerson, LaSalle Investment Internal Audit in 2009.
Quali ed as an ACA Chartered Accountant with KPMG in 1997, in 2005, having quali ed as a Chartered Management and Jones Lang LaSalle.
with Coopers & Lybrand in 1993 and now working in their property taxation team.
Surveyor and spent 15 years specialising in Appointed Asset Management Director focuses on Risk and Audit.
Previously held A member of the British Property retail agency and development consultancy.
in 2009 with responsibility for Cardiff, Head of Risk and Audit positions in three Federations Taxation and VAT Committees.
Former clients include Church Watford, Uxbridge, Bromley and Lakeside.
FTSE 100 and large private companies.
Commissioners, Crown Estate, UBS, Bernie Kingsley He is a Member of the Royal Institution of and Mercury Asset Management.
Gerard Conway Head of Human Resources Chartered Surveyors.
Group Treasurer Joanne Skilton Joined the Group as Head of Human Kate Bowyer Director of Retail and Leasing Joined the Group in September 2011 as Resources in March 2009.
Previously he Investor Relations Manager Group Treasurer.
He has spent the majority was Head of Employee Relations at BAA Joined the Group in November 2008.
Joined the Group in 2000 as Group Financial of his career in private equity, initially for Airports Limited and has over 30 years Previous roles include Retail and Leasing Controller and was appointed Investor Morgan Grenfell Private Equity and more experience in HR, leading the function in Director at McArthur Glen for the UK and Relations Manager in 2008.
She quali ed as recently Candover Partners.
Before a range of companies in the manufacturing European portfolio and Head of Retail at a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & joining CSC, Gerard was a member of the and service sectors.
Prior to joining CSC, Lybrand now  Shareholder Executive, managing a number Joanne managed her own consultancy Gordon McKinnon in 1995, working in their Canadian and of HM Government assets.
business with several large clients including Director of Operations corporate finance practices.
Charles Forrester Appointed as Director of Operations for Martin Breeden Director of Project Management Julian Wilkinson the Group in October 2011.
He joined Asset Management Director Asset Management Director Joined the Group in 2006 as a project theGroup as Operations Director, CSC Joined the Group in 2002 and has worked manager, becoming a director of Liberty Traff ord in January 2011.
Spent 20 years in Appointed as Asset Management Director on almost all of CSCs assets at various times International Construction and various roles with Marks & Spencer before inOctober 2011, with responsibility for and in particular, was responsible for the Development in 2008.
Following the taking up an assignment with Manchester TheTraff ord Centre, Braehead, Arndale, delivery of the major development and demerger of the Capital & Counties Millennium Limited, the task force rebuilding Manchester and Cribbs Causeway, Bristol.
investment programme at Eldon Square, business in May 2010, Charles was appointed Manchester City Centre following the He joined the Group as Property Director, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Martin has over Director of Project Management.
Subsequently appointed CSC Traff ord in January 2011, responsible 20 years experience in the retail property quali ed Chartered Surveyor and previously Chief Executive of Manchester City Centre for investment and property management.
industry and has previously worked for was a Partner in a cost consultancy and Management Company Limited.
He was He has held similar positions at Director MEPC and Jones Lang LaSalle, the latter project management practice.
appointed Director of Operations at level over the last 15 years as a retailer and including four years in Spain.
He is a Fellow The Traff ord Centre in 2004. landlord.
He was appointed Director of Gian Fulgoni of the Royal Institution of Chartered Property at The Traff ord Centre in 2006.
Chief Information Systems Offi cer Alexander Nicoll Surveyors and a member of the advisory Director of Corporate Responsibility panel of the British Council of Shopping Joined the Group in October 2011 as Centres.
Chief Information Systems Offi cer.
Before Joined the Group as Director of Corporate joining CSC, Gian was Chief Information Responsibility in 2007.
Previously Head Amanda Campbell Offi cer for Lend Leases European and of Internal Communications for the Head of PR and Communications Middle Eastern businesses.
Served in London Joined the Group as Head of PR and he has held senior roles at fide Agostini, local government for 16 years and was Communications in February 2011.
Lord Mayor of the City of Westminster Previously held Head of Marketing and during 20062007.
Communications positions with international and UK based large private companies.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 57 and strategy review review responsibility information Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by andthe audited financial statements for the year ended which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights are held by 31December 2011. a person other than the shareholder, or any agreements between shareholders known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Principal activities Under a 375 million Revolving Facility agreement dated 25 February During the period the principal activity of Capital Shopping Centres 2009 as amended by amendment agreements dated 2 October 2009 Group PLC CSC was that of an investment holding company and 19 February 2010, and further amended and restated on incorporated in the United Kingdom whose business is the 18November 2011 between, amongst others, the Company management of a portfolio of investments in the property sector and HSBC Bank PLC as Agent, on a change of control, if directed predominantly, but not exclusively, in the United Kingdom.
CSC has by a lender, the Agent may by notice to the Company cancel the been a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT since 1 January 2007. commitment of that lender and declare the participation of that lender CSC is a specialist developer, owner and manager of pre-eminent in all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other UK regional shopping centres.
amounts accrued and owing to that lender under the finance documents, immediately due and payable.
Business review The Company is not party to any other signi cant agreements that would take eff ect, alter or terminate following a change of control The Chairmans statement on pages 14 to 17, the Business review of the Company.
onpages 28 to 40, the Financial review on pages 41 to 47, the Keyperformance indicators on pages 22 and 23, and Key risks and The Company does not have any agreements with any Executive uncertainties on pages 24 to 25 provide detailed information relating Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of tothe Group, the operation, development and future prospects offi ce or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions ofthebusiness, the results and financial position for the year ended of the Company share schemes may cause options and awards 31December 2011 and the principal risks and uncertainties facing outstanding under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
The Corporate responsibility review on pages 48 to 53 appointment of the Non-Executive Directors provide for a payment contains information about environmental matters, the Groups equal to their basic annual fee in the event of change of control in employees and social and community matters.
The Financial review, recognition of the additional work involved in such an event.
accounting policies on pages 93 to 96 and note 34 on pages 111 to 116contain information on the use of financial instruments.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation Dividends that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue The Directors declared an interim ordinary dividend of 5.0 pence in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason 2010 5.0 pence per share on 2 August 2011, which was paid on they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 22November 2011, and have recommended a final ordinary dividend financial statements.
Shareholders attention is drawn to the Going concern disclosure contained in the Notes to the accounts on page 93.
Share capital and control of the Company Details of the Companys share capital including changes during the Internal control year in the issued share capital and details of the rights attaching to The statement on corporate governance on pages 60 to 71 includes theCompanys ordinary shares are set out in note 37 on page 117. the Boards assessment following a review of internal controls and Details of shares repurchased by the Company, held as treasury consideration of the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils internal control sharesand subsequently transferred to the Companys Employee guidance for Directors.
ShareOwnership Plan during 2011, are set out in note 39 on page 118.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with regards tocontrol of the Company.
Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan rank pari passu with the shares in issue and haveno special rights, but voting rights and rights of acceptance of anyoff er relating to the shares rest with the Plans Trustee and are notexercisable by the employees.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 58 Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued Directors Articles of Association The Directors of CSC who held offi ce during the year were as follows: The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Chairman: D. P. H. Burgess Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time Deputy Chairman: to time.
J. Whittaker appointed 28 January 2011 Executive: Substantial shareholdings D. A. Fischel As at 21 February 2012 CSC had been noti ed of the following E. M. G. Roberts substantial holdings of voting rights over ordinary shares of CSC: Non-Executive: The Peel Group 172,416,817 20.04 per cent J. G. Abel R. M. Gordon Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 94,087,716 I. J. Henderson 10.94 per cent A. J. M. Huntley The family interests of Sir Donald Gordon 92,143,203 10.71 per cent Lady Patten appointed 22 September 2011 R. O. Rowley Public Investment Corporation 35,565,906 4.13 per cent N. Sachdev Simon Property Group, Inc. 35,355,794 4.11 per cent A. D. Strang BlackRock, Inc. 34,952,303 4.06 per cent Retired during the year: K. E. Chaldecott resigned 30 September 2011 Sanlam Investment Management Pty Limited 34,419,008 4.00 per cent Mr R. M. Gordon appointed Mr G. R. Fine as his alternate on 7May2010.
Employees Mr J. Whittaker appointed Mr S. Underwood as his alternate on 22February2011.
CSC actively encourages employee involvement and consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of the In line with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companys activities and financial performance by such means as Board has decided that all Directors shall be subject to re-election at employee brie ngs and publication to all staff of relevant information the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In 2011, CSC conducted an all Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company employee survey covering a range of topics to which 90 per cent has indemni ed the Directors to the full extent allowed by law.
TheCompany maintains Directors and Offi cers insurance which is The annual bonus arrangements help develop employees interest reviewed annually.
inthe Companys performance: full details of these arrangements Additional information relating to the Directors can be found in note aregiven in the Directors remuneration report on pages 72 to 83.
51 on pages 128 and 129 on Directors interests, in the Corporate Note 48 on pages 125 to 127 contains details of conditional awards governance report on pages 60 to 71, and in the Directors ofshares under the annual bonus scheme and bonus shares currently remuneration report on pages 72 to 83. outstanding, as well as outstanding options.
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and the CSC operates a non-discriminatory employment policy and full and fair Articles of Association of the Company, together with any speci c consideration is given to applications for employment from people with authorities that may be given to the Directors by shareholders from disabilities or other protected characteristics under the Equality Act time to time, such as the power to allot shares and the power to make where they have the appropriate skills and abilities and to the market purchases of the Companys shares which are described in continued employment of staff who become disabled.
CSC encourages the continuous development and training of its employees and the provision of equal opportunities for the training andcareer development of disabled employees and those with protected characteristics.
Information relating to employees is given in note 10 on page 98.
TheGroup provides retirement bene ts for the majority of its employees.
Details of the Group pension arrangements are set out innote 49 on page 127.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 59 and strategy review review responsibility information The environment Auditors The Group has adopted a Corporate Responsibility CR strategy The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their and details of the policy and the Groups aims and activities are given willingness to continue in offi ce and a resolution seeking to reappoint on the Companys website.
An overview of the Groups CR activity is them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
printed on pages 48 to 53, and a summary booklet is also available for download from the website or on request from the Company Annual General Meeting Secretarys offi ce.
The notice convening the 2012 Annual General Meeting of the The Company recognises the importance of minimising the adverse Company will be published separately and will be available on the impact on the environment of its operations particularly through Companys website and distributed to those shareholders who have its shopping centre business and the management of energy, water elected to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
By order of the Board The Company strives continuously to improve its environmental performance.
The environmental management system and associated Environmental Policy and Guide are regularly reviewed to ensure that the Company maintains its commitment to environmental matters.
Susan Marsden Charitable donations Secretary During the year, the Group made charitable donations amounting 23 February 2012 to332,000 2010 223,000.
In addition, the directly managed shopping centres provided the equivalent of 1,394,000 in support, including staff time working in the community and the provision of free mall space and services.
They facilitated a further 406,000 through collections by charities on the malls.
The total cash equivalent community support for the year was 2,132,000 2010 1,881,000.
No political donations were made in the year.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy and practice is to pay creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Company does not ordinarily pay its creditors directly as this is carried out by other companies in the Group.
As a result, the Company has a nil trade creditor balance and it is not practical to calculate creditor days for the Company as at 31 December 2011 2010 nil trade creditor balance.
Directors disclosure of information to the auditors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
