Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 1 and strategy review review responsibility information Passionate about providing people with the perfect shopping experience, we help retailers ourish.
And its this that powers our business, driving our long-term success Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 2 Annual Report 2011 We own and operate 14 of the very best shopping centres, in the strongest locations, right across the country This means were able to offer easy access to great spaces for shopping and socialising to more people than anyone else Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 3 and strategy review review responsibility information The Trafford Centre, Manchester The combination of stunning architecture, size and quality of the shopping and leisure offer, long opening hours, powerful advertising and marketing and the constant drive to improve the customer experience has built a commercial success that grows with every year.
A agship destination in every sense with over 200 shops on 3 miles of marble malls, 2011 has seen newly extended agship stores for Marks & Spencer and Debenhams, Ernest Jones and Dune.
The Circle Champagne Bar opened in July, successfully bringing one of Manchesters most popular venues into The Trafford Centre.
A phenomenal mix that keeps evolving The Trafford Centre is the only place in the UK outside Oxford Street where you can nd Selfridges, John Lewis, Debenhams and M&S trading together: 20 new stores and restaurants opened in 2011, including Boux Avenue, North Face, Bertie, Ted Baker and the first Banana Republic in the North, with retailers investing around20 million in new and replacement shop ts.
35m 8 5m Customer visits a year Annual property income Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 4 Annual Report 2011 Leisure Following the trend for catering being such a key element of the tenant mix, the importance of leisure is growing with shoppers looking for more family friendly activities as part of their visit.
With top performing IMAX cinemas at Metrocentre and TheChimes, Legoland Discovery Centre at The Trafford Centre, Namco Funscape at Metrocentre and ice skating at Braehead, a visit to a CSC centre gives a whole new meaning to retail therapy.
Catering 11% of our centre space is dedicated to providing the right blend of leisure and catering, a gure which continues to increase as we deliver on our aim to provide a compelling destination for visitors.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 5 and strategy review review responsibility information And by providing just the right blend of retail, leisure and catering, including access to the brands people love, we attract over 320 million customer visits a year Retail I am a shopaholic at heart and for me the collection of great retailers under one roof isone of the benefits that shopping centre retailing holds over other locations.
Where else can you spend a whole day in the middle of the dreaded winter with such pure escapism than a fabulous shopping centre?
Shopping is now all about the experience.
Theo Paphitis, chairman and founder Boux Avenue Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 6 Annual Report 2011 You can nd every one of the UKs top 20 retail brands in our shopping centres They sit alongside some of the worlds most iconic global brands and the best places to meet, eat, drink and be sociable I love the restaurants outside: Wagamama is my Saturday lunchtime treat!
It was a good place to shop before but now theyve got Apple and Hollister.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 7 and strategy review review responsibility information Global brands With two thirds of the UK population being able to drive to a CSC centre in 45 minutes or less its no wonder that almost 200 global brands choose to open stores with CSC.
So for a shopper looking for easy access to brands such as Hollister, Apple, Forever 21 or Superdry, the best place to visit is a CSC centre.
As we continue with our UK and European expansion our strategy means it is vital that we have the best stores in key shopping centres and we are grateful that CSC has helped us in our aims by investing in a redevelopment that helps us to achieve that goal.
Larry Meyer, executive vice president Forever 21 35,000 sq ft agship Forever 21 store opening at Lakeside The fashion show was very good.
The models looked real and I could visualise myself in it.
I went and bought one of the tops from Top Shop afterwards.
Its got Selfridges, Banana Republic and a Carluccios whats not to love?
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 8 Annual Report 2011 My favourite shops, lovely places to eat, the kids can go to the cinema too as a reward Theyve improved the centre no end with for being good.
the new restaurants and Shopper, Lakeside they are continually improving tenant mix.
Retailer, Braehead Anchors Leisure Food Retail I know its got everything I need, lots of nice shops and easy to get to.
Shopper, Metrocentre They want all of us to be successful and I think Its a nice environment and there is a kudos which comes that they do all they can from working in one of the best to make this happen.
shopping centres in the country Retailer, Victoria Centre not only sizewise but also for layout and retail mix.
Retailer, The Trafford Centre Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 9 and strategy review review responsibility information Were able to build such strong relationships because we focus on shopping centres and nothing else.
This means we fully understand what makes retailers and their customers tick Weve found its about getting things right and keeping them that way Weve been here, creating great retail experiences, for decades.
And were here to stay Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 10 Annual Report 2011 We create, acquire and transform shopping centres, and continue investing to make them even better We develop enduring, mutually rewarding relationships with retailers And by working with our communities, we build a shared sense of purpose wherever we operate Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 11 and strategy review review responsibility information Chapel eld, Norwich Since opening in 2005, Chapel eld has changed the retail pro le in Norwich and transformed it into a top 10 shopping destination.
As the prime pitch in East Anglia, this stylish and cutting-edge shopping mall has now fide ned an exciting retail quarter at the heart of the city.
When 18 of the 94 stores at Chapel eld went into administration during the 2008 9 recession, CSC took the opportunity to evolve the tenant mix.
We knew that Norwich had great potential and Apple, Hollister and Superdry agreed with us.
Back in 2008 Chapel eld had limited dining options so we also created a new restaurant quarter with 4 launches including Carluccios best 2011 opening and YO!
Sushis best opening outside London.
And theres more to come in 2012.
13% 10% Increase in footfall 2011 Net rental income in 2011
