Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 54 Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Executive Directors Patrick Burgess MBE John Whittaker David Fischel Matthew Roberts Chairman Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Age 67 Age 69 Age 53 Age 48 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Appointed to the Board: Appointed Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Non-Executive Director ofthe Group in Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive Finance Director in 1988, Managing Director Finance Director on 3 June 2010.
Director on 28 January 2011. in 1992 and Chief Executive in March 2001.
Career: Matthew Roberts was previously Career: Patrick Burgess quali ed as a Solicitor Career: John Whittaker is the Chairman of Career: David Fischel quali ed as a chartered the Finance Director of Debenhams plc from in 1972 and became a partner in Gouldens the Peel Group which he founded in 1971, and accountant in 1983 at Touche Ross & Co 1996 to 2003, andChief Financial Offi cer of in 1974, serving as head of the Corporate developed into a leading UK infrastructure, before joining Capital Shopping Centres Gala, subsequently Gala Coral Group Ltd, Department for 14 years and as Senior transport and real estate enterprise.
Partner for six, culminating with the merger Skills and experience: John is a highly Skills and experience: At Touche Ross, David Skills and experience: Matthew is a Fellow of Gouldens with Jones Day in 2003, from regarded real estate investor, and has worked in the corporate finance department of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in which he retired in 2007.
He has also been overseen the growth of the PeelGroup with experience in acquisitions, otations and England and Wales, and has gained signi cant active in a number of charitable and across many sectors such as land, real estate, capital raisings.
During his 27 year career with executive level finance experience in community organisations.
ports, airports, renewable energy and CSC, David has gained signi cant executive his previous positions at Debenhams plc, Skills and experience: At Jones Day, media.
John is an experienced property experience in numerous aspects of the where hemanaged its 1998 IPO and ran its Patrick specialised in mergers and acquisitions developer and business leader illustrated by shopping centre industry including shopping international business and property function, and corporate re-structuring.
He also has projects such as The Traff ord Centre and centre acquisitions and developments.
He has and at Gala where he led a number of considerable experience incompliance, MediacityUK.
His appointment to the also been closely involved with the Groups acquisitions and fundraisings including the regulatory and stock exchange matters.
Boardfollowed the acquisition by CSC corporate development including equity and creation of a 3 billion debt package following ofTheTraff ord Centre from the Peel Group.
debt nancings and a wide range of other the acquisition of Coral.
Other appointments: Non-Executive corporate transactions, including the 2010 Director of Standard Bank PLC Other appointments: Chairman of the demerger of Capital & Counties fromCSC.
Peel Group and Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Capital of Pinewood Shepperton plc.
Other appointments: Non-executive Projects Committee director of Equity One, Inc. Chairman of the Nomination and Chairman of the Executive Committee Review Committee Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Committees: Executive Committee Capital Projects Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 55 and strategy review review responsibility information  John Abel Richard Gordon Ian Henderson CBE Andrew Huntley Age 67 Age 53 Age 68 Age 73 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2010.
Career: John Abel commenced his career Career: Richard Gordon previously served Career: Ian Henderson was appointed Career: Andrew Huntleys career with CSC in 1972.
Until his retirement in as aNon-Executive Director of Capital to the main board of Land Securities PLC commenced some 40 years ago with Richard 2005, John was Managing Director of CSC, Shopping Centres PLC between 1996 and in 1987 and served as its Chief Executive Ellis where he served as Chairman from 1993 and served as a Non-Executive Director from 2006 and was appointed as an alternate from 1997 to 2004. until 2002.
He was a Non-Executive Director 2005 until 2008 before being re-appointed to Director in respect of Graeme Gordons of Pillar Property plc from 2000 to 2005.
Skills and experience: Ian is a Chartered the Board following CSCs demerger in 2010. directorship of the Group in 2001.
He also Surveyor and has extensive executive level Skills and experience: Andrew Huntley is a served on the boards of a number of Skills and experience: John is a Chartered experience in property industry matters Chartered Surveyor and is one of the UKs companies within the Liberty Life group and Surveyor and, through his career with the through his career at Land Securities and most experienced property advisers.
various companies within the commercial Group, has extensive and speci c experience Board appointments at a variety of other and residential real estate sector.
Other appointments: Non-Executive in the shopping centre industry, including property focused companies.
In addition, Chairman of Metric Property Investments in the acquisition and development of Skills and experience: In addition to Ian is a past President of the British PLC and a Non-Executive Director of shopping centres.
representing the Gordon Family Interests Property Federation.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC and on the Board, Richard also has signi cant real Other appointments: Member of the Miller Group Limited.
estate experience having been involved with Presidents Committee of London First, a several commercial and residential real estate trustee of The Natural History Museum, a companies, mainly in South Africa.
Council member of The Royal Albert Hall and Chairman of the Governors of the Dolphin Square Foundation.
He is also Chairman of Ishaan Real Estate PLC, and a Non-Executive Director of Capital & Counties Properties PLC and Evans Management Limited.
Louise Patten Rob Rowley Neil Sachdev Andrew Strang Age 58 Senior Independent Director Age 53 Age 59 Age 62 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 22 September Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in November 2006.
Career: Neil Sachdev joined Tesco PLC Career: Andrew Strang started his career Career: Louise Patten began her career at Career: Rob Rowley joined Reuters Group in 1978, rising to the position of Property with Richard Ellis 30 years ago.
He served Citibank, working mainly in retail financial plc in 1978, and served as Finance Director Director before joining J Sainsbury PLC as asManaging Director of Threadneedle services until she joined global strategy from 1990 to 2000.
He has previously been Commercial Director in March 2007.
He was Property Investments Limited for 17 years advisers Bain & Company Inc in 1993 where Executive Deputy Chairman of Cable & subsequently appointed Property Director until January 2008.
He was Chairman of since 1997 she has been a Senior Adviser.
Wireless plc, and a Non-Executive Director of J Sainsbury PLC in June 2010.
Hermes Real Estate Investment Management and Senior Independent Director of from 2009 to 2011.
He is a current member Skills and experience: Louise Patten has Skills and experience: Neil Sachdev has an Prudential plc and Taylor Nelson Sofres.
of the Norges Bank Investment Real Estate extensive board level experience at a number MBA from Stirling University and has gained Advisory Board and a member of the of retail and property companies including as Skills and experience: Rob Rowley is a quali ed signi cant experience in both retail and Investment and Governance Committees Chairman of Brixton plc and Interim accountant, has an MBA from Cran eld property matters throughout his career.
Chairman of Somer eld plc, and NonBusiness School, and has gained extensive Other appointments: Chairman of the Executive roles at Marks and Spencer plc, financial experience throughout his career.
Rob Skills and experience: Andrew is a Chartered Institute of Grocery Distribution.
where she chaired the Remuneration also has wide Audit Committee experience Surveyor and has substantially focused on Committee, GUS plc, Hilton Group plc having chaired the Audit Committee of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee property investment throughout his career.
Prudential plc, and currently chairing the Other appointments: Director of Audit Committees of Taylor Wimpey plc Other appointments: Non-Executive the British Property Federation and a and Moneysupermarket.
director of UK Asset Resolution and of Non-Executive Director of Capital & Control Risks Group.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Counties Properties PLC.
Director of Taylor Wimpey plc, and Moneysupermarket.
Chairman of the Audit Committee
