Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 There are a number of further metrics which, whilst they do not constitute key performance indicators, nevertheless we find useful in monitoring the performance of the business.
Key metrics Objective Measure Progress Future capital growth Development potential 51% of our portfolio has potential for We monitor the proportion of our portfolio refurbishment or redevelopment that has the potential for refurbishment or redevelopment million sq ft % 6 60 50 5 4 40 3 30 20 2 1 10 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Portfolio earmarked for development m sq ft Balance m sq ft Portfolio earmarked for development % Reversion Future rental growth Reversionary percentage % This is the percentage by which the rental 2011 42 income cashflow would increase, were 2010 27 the passing rent to be increased to the estimated rental value Environmental sustainability Energy Performance Certificates As mentioned earlier, no projects in excess EPC of 5,000m were completed in 2011.
The We design projects to achieve a B anticipated certificates for the refurbishments certificate for all new-build projects over currently on site are as follows: 5,000m and a minimum of C for all Anticipated refurbishments over 5,000m rating 4 & 10 Pentonville Road C Buckley Building C Morelands Buildings B 1 Page Street C Key metrics continued w 23 Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Key performance indicators and metrics Key metrics continued Objective Measure Progress fide-risking of income stream Diversity of tenants see principal tenants and profile of A diverse tenant base, both in number and tenants business sectors charts on across different industries, protects our page 13 income stream 2011 2010 Continuity of income Tenant retention Rental income exposure 16.2 11.5 It is important, where we wish to retain m pa income, we maximise tenant retention Retention % 72 72 following tenant lease breaks or expiries Re-let by year end % 21 17 and minimise any void period.
Total income retention % 93 89 Balance sheet Financial stability Gearing gearing Loan to value Consistent with others in its industry, the % % Group monitors capital on the basis of balance 2011 50.4 32.0 sheet gearing and the loan to value ratio 2010 59.4 35.7 Immediately Unsecured Financial flexibility Available resources Headroom available properties We ensure that we have sufficient flexibility m m m to take advantage of acquisition and 2011 476 469 589 development opportunities and we carefully 2010 261 245 484 monitor our headroom Performance Benchmark Capital return Maximise returns to the investment portfolio % % We compare our performance against the IPD 2011 7.6 7.3 Central London Offices Capital Growth Index 2010 15.7 16.6 Maximise returns to shareholders Performance Benchmark Total shareholder return % % We compare our performance against the 2011 2.9 7.9 FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment 2010 22.9 11.0 Trust Index 1 In accordance with industry best practice, the benchmarks have been calculated using a 30-day average of the returns 24 Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Risk management Risk management and internal control Risk is an inherent part of running a business and, whilst the Board A key element in the systems of control is the Groups risk register, aims to maximise returns, the associated risks must be understood which is reviewed formally once a year.
The register is initially and managed.
Overall responsibility for this process rests with the prepared by the executive Board which, having identified the risks, Board whilst executive management is responsible for designing, collectively assesses the severity of each risk, the likelihood of it implementing and maintaining the necessary systems of control.
occurring and the strength of the controls in place.
This approach allows the effect of any mitigating procedures to be considered and During 2011, the Board recognised the raised profile being given recognises that risk cannot be totally eliminated at an acceptable to risk management in the UK Corporate Governance Code and cost.
There are also some risks that, with its experience and after decided to establish a Risk Committee to increase the focus of the due consideration, the Board will choose to accept.
The committee first met in November 2011 and consists of June fide Moller, John Burns and Damian The register, its method of preparation and the operation of the Wisniewski under the chairmanship of Stephen Young.
key controls in the Groups system of internal control, is then reviewed and commented upon by the Risk Committee before The Group operates principally from one central London office with being considered and adopted by the full Board.
The register was a relatively flat management structure.
This enables the executive reviewed between December 2011 and February 2012 and the Directors to be closely involved in day-to-day matters and therefore principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces in 2012, able to quickly identify and respond to risks.
together with the controls and mitigating factors, are set out below: Strategic risks That the Groups strategy does not create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
Risk and effect Controls and mitigation Action The Groups strategy is inconsistent Each year the Group carries out a five-year The Board carried out its last annual with the state of the market in which strategic review, prepares a budget and strategic review in June 2011 and it operates.
also produces frequent rolling forecasts considered the sensitivity of six key covering the next two years.
In the course measures to changes in eight underlying The Groups development programme is of these exercises the Board considers assumptions including interest rates, not consistent with the economic cycle.
the effect on key ratios of changing the property yields, rental growth and levels The Group benefits from a strong main underlying assumptions.
central London market and this could The Groups plans can then be set so The three rolling forecasts prepared be adversely affected by, amongst other as to best realise its long-term strategic during the year focused on the same key factors, ongoing crisis in the Eurozone, goals given the likely prevailing economic measures but considered the effect of the introduction of a Tobin tax or the and market conditions.
This flexibility varying different assumptions to reflect loss of Londons current investment arises from the policy of maintaining changing economic and market conditions.
income from properties as far as possible The timing of the Groups development until development starts.
programme and the strategies for Over 50% of the Groups portfolio has individual properties reflect the outcome been identified for future redevelopment.
This enables the Board to delay marginal projects until market conditions are favourable.
The risk remains significant and therefore in setting its plans the Board pays particular attention to maintaining sufficient headroom in all the Groups key ratios and covenants and interest cover.
