Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Business strategy Investing in our portfolio Managing our assets We plan to retain a portfolio focused on central London for the Where appropriate, we work with landlords at our leasehold properties foreseeable future, as it represents our area of expertise and we are to regear headleases and thus improve the flexibility and financial well placed to understand its set of unique characteristics.
Our recent acquisitions continue our strategy of buying assets of In 2011, we purchased and regeared headleases at the Network strategic importance, usually close to existing holdings.
Our purchase Building and Morelands Buildings.
At 40 Chancery Lane we have of 1 Page Street SW1 was somewhat unusual for us in that it was an regeared our ownership with the leaseholders, the Colville Estate.
empty building, but we wished to increase our development exposure.
Previously we held 76% leasehold with 17 years unexpired, 10% The building, which has been pre-let to Burberry, is close to our freehold and 14% with no ownership, and now we have a 128-year 2 Horseferry House holding, which is also occupied by Burberry.
headlease across the entire site, unlocking a 100,000 sq ft 9,300m development which is due to start on site later in 2012.
We have also purchased or regeared headleases at the Network Building W1 and Morelands Buildings EC1 to expand Understanding the day-to-day needs of tenants is also important.
our redevelopment opportunities at these sites.
This strategy We have developed tenant websites for each multi-let building we has continued into 2012 with the regearing of the headleases at own and manage and run forums to discuss issues such as waste 1-5 Grosvenor Place SW1 and our interests at 40 Chancery Lane WC2.
management, recycling and energy and water efficiency, as well as meeting tenants to discuss service charge budgets in advance.
We Creating exciting new spaces also use standardised green leases in plain English and clauses to Good design has always been at the heart of our business.
We work encourage improved sustainability.
harder than most, with all our architects, engineers and designers, to get the details right, creating spaces with the light and volume that Retaining financial strength and flexibility provide our tenants with attractive environments in which to work.
Many We keep all forms of debt finance under review and move to refinance of our developments adapt existing structures, saving embedded facilities well in advance of their expiry dates.
We also aim to provide carbon and reducing the use of new materials, and we also build in adequate protection against unpredictable changes in short-term features to minimise future energy and water consumption.
interest rates through hedges and swaps.
We maintain excellent longterm relationships with our core lenders, a tactic that has served us well Our design-led ethos has been recognised with a number of awards in the uncertain financing environment in which we currently operate.
The Angel Building was shortlisted for the RIBA Stirling Prize following its RIBA London 2011 award and also won numerous In 2011 we set ourselves the task of refinancing in good time the accolades from organisations such as the British Council for Offices, majority of the bank facilities expiring before the end of 2013, and the British Construction Industry, the Chartered Institution of Building diversifying our sources of debt finance.
It was apparent that bank Services Engineers, and New London Architecture.
The Maple & facility pricing was under pressure and there was a wall of refinancing Fitzroy development in Fitzrovia W1 also won 2011 RIBA London and and deleveraging pressure facing lenders.
We subsequently New London Architecture awards.
successfully arranged 600m of new or extended facilities.
As part of this refinancing we also diversified our sources of finance, with In 2011 we set ourselves the goal of gaining a number of significant the issue of the 175m convertible bond, and we anticipate that a planning permissions.
We obtained six major planning consents, proportion of our future debt requirements will continue to come from several of which will be near Crossrail stations when open.
80 Charlotte Street W1 and Central Cross W1 are both near the Tottenham Court Road interchange, and Turnmill and Buckley Our policy of balancing refurbishment and development activity with Building EC1 are both near Farringdon station.
In addition our income generation has greatly aided our cashflow management and City Road Estate Scheme EC1, adjacent to Old Street roundabout, we have continued to manage Group gearing by recycling capital, and 4 & 10 Pentonville Road N1, near our Angel Building, gained disposing of properties where we can realise an attractive price.
These developments are well placed to attract Disposing of Riverwalk House for residential development will realise companies such as those in the TMT sector that have been proceeds markedly above the valuation as an office building.
particularly active in London of late, an area where we have had considerable success attracting and retaining tenants.
As at the end of 2011 we had five major projects on site and are due to commence work on 40 Chancery Lane WC2 and Turnmill EC1 later in 2012, giving a total pipeline under development of over 2 500,000 sq ft 46,500m.
We also expect planning decisions on Riverwalk House SW1, 1 Oxford Street W1, and 1 Page Street W1 as well as phase 3 of Central Cross.
