Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets of the Company, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union IFRSs and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
Group financial statements International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups and Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements which give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the adoption of a going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continues to be appropriate based on the foregoing and having reviewed the forecast financial position of the Group: and the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
On behalf of the Board John D. Burns, Chief Executive Officer Damian M. A. Wisniewski, Finance Director 1 March 2012 74 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Directors report The Directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Corporate governance Chairmans letter on governance matters On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to report on the Groups corporate governance performance in 2011.
At Derwent London, we are committed to running a business that is responsible, honest, transparent and accountable in the belief that good governance is not simply an exercise in compliance but underpins the success of the Company.
This year the Company is formally subject to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for the first time.
Last year we complied with a number of the new provisions that this introduced in addition to the requirements of the Combined Code, the prevailing authority at that time.
For 2011, the Board believes that the Company has complied with the main and supporting principles of the Code except for provision A.
3.1 regarding my independence on appointment and B.
1.1 which addresses the independence of non-executive Directors.
These matters are discussed more fully in the following section.
During the year there have been a number of consultations and initiatives aimed at improving corporate governance.
We have monitored these and adopted those which we considered would further improve the governance of our business.
I would highlight the following three developments.
Diversity We noted the publication of the Davies review Women on Boards and the ongoing debate that it engendered.
As a Board, we have always believed that the only qualification needed to be a Director of the Company is the appropriate talent irrespective of background or gender.
We will continue to appoint and promote on this basis with due regard to the benefits of diversity identified in Lord Davies report.
I am aware of the suggestion that we publish an aspirational target in respect of gender diversity but am reluctant to do so as we are in the process of recruiting two additional non-executive Directors over the next eighteen months and I would not want to suggest that positive discrimination might influence our selection.
Board appraisals In accordance with the new requirement under the Code, we have used an independent third party to facilitate the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Risk management In response to the renewed emphasis given to risk management in the Code, we reviewed our approach to this matter and concluded that a Risk Committee should be established as a new sub-committee of the Board.
Whilst overall responsibility for risk management remains with the Board, we consider that a separate committee focused on this one area can only further improve the relevant controls and systems.
The Committee was established in November under the chairmanship of Stephen Young and is served by June fide Moller, John Burns and Damian Wisniewski.
We noted the recent Government proposals on executive pay and remuneration reporting and will monitor the progress of the various requirements over the next year before assessing what impact, if any, they have on the Companys remuneration policy and or reporting.
We are, however, introducing clawback provisions that will apply in certain circumstances to the Groups bonus scheme and long-term incentive plan, in anticipation of it becoming a requirement in the updated Code later in the year.
The Annual General Meeting AGM is an important opportunity for members to meet and speak with the Directors of the Company and I encourage shareholders to attend the meeting on 16 May 2012.
Robert A. Rayne Chairman 75 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Directors report Business review A review of the development of the Groups business during the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and its future prospects is included in the Chairmans statement and the business review.
The information required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and by rules 4.1.
11 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is given on pages 10 to 69.
These sections should be read in conjunction with this report and are incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
The disclosures in respect of the use of financial instruments are given in notes 27 and 28 of the financial statements.
The Board At the start of the year, the Board consisted of: A non-executive Chairman: Robert Rayne Seven non-executive Directors: John Ivey Robert Farnes Stuart Corbyn Stephen Young June fide Moller Simon Neathercoat Donald Newell Six executive Directors: John Burns Simon Silver Damian Wisniewski Nigel George Paul Williams David Silverman Donald Newell retired at the AGM held in May 2011.
As noted above, Robert Rayne, John Ivey and Simon Neathercoat do not qualify to be deemed independent using the criteria set out in provision B.
1.1. of the Code and the Company does not comply with Code provision A.
3.1 which requires a new Chairman to be independent on appointment.
The Board has therefore specifically considered the independence of these three non-executive Directors.
Robert Rayne served in an executive capacity at London Merchant Securities plc prior to the merger in 2007 and consequently is not deemed independent.
However, he continues to make an important contribution as Chairman of the Board and the Directors therefore consider that his position remains entirely justified.
Both John Ivey and Simon Neathercoat have served on the Board for more than nine years and are therefore not deemed independent.
The Board has considered their expertise and commitment and reviewed the performance of their duties during the year and remains satisfied that their independence is unimpaired and effectively exercised.
On 31 March 2012 Robert Farnes period of service as a non-executive Director will reach nine years.
The Board does not believe that an independent state of mind ceases on a particular date and has no current concerns about Roberts independence.
However, in accordance with best practice, on 1 April 2012 he will hand over the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee to June fide Moller and be replaced by Stuart Corbyn as the Groups Senior Independent Director.
In addition, at the year end, he will step down from both the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
None of these Directors has any association with management that might compromise their independence and all four are standing for re-election at the Companys AGM on 16 May 2012.
76 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 During the year, the Nominations Committee continued with the process of refreshment which was introduced in 2010 to address the independence issues that had been identified, through an orderly process of change.
An independent executive search agency has been appointed to assist with the recruitment of two new independent non-executive Directors over the next 18 months.
It is anticipated that both John Ivey and Simon Neathercoat will retire from the Board during the same period.
In addition, the Directors considered the composition of the Board having particular regard to the recommendation made in Lord Davies Women on Boards report.
The Board currently consists of 13 directors, one 8% of whom is female.
The Board also took note of the gender diversity throughout the Company which showed that overall 45% of staff are female whilst at the executive level 37% of employees are female.
Taking all factors into account, the Directors continue to believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to satisfy the requirements of good corporate governance.
A formal schedule, which has been approved by the Board, sets out the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims, ensuring that adequate resources are available to meet its objectives and reviewing management performance.
The formal list of matters reserved for the full Boards approval is maintained and reviewed periodically.
The full Board met six times during the year and six meetings are scheduled for 2012.
Extra meetings will be arranged if necessary.
Additionally, the executive Board, which consists of the executive Directors, met ten times in 2011.
Both bodies are provided with comprehensive papers in a timely manner to ensure that the Directors are fully briefed on matters to be discussed at these meetings.
The Board maintains a number of Board Committees.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Groups website.
Set out below are details of the membership and duties of the three principal Committees that operated throughout 2011.
A Risk Committee, which is chaired by Stephen Young and served by June fide Moller, John Burns and Damian Wisniewski, was established in November 2011.
Remuneration Committee At the start of the year the Committee comprised June fide Moller, Simon Neathercoat, Stuart Corbyn, Donald Newell and Stephen Young under the chairmanship of Robert Farnes.
Donald Newell left the Committee in May 2011 and Simon Neathercoat on 31 December 2011.
It is responsible for establishing the Companys remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for the executive Directors and selected other senior executives.
There were six meetings of the Committee in 2011.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 86 to 95.
Audit Committee This Committee is currently chaired by Stephen Young, who took over the role from Simon Neathercoat on 1 April 2011 and was served throughout the year by Stuart Corbyn, Robert Farnes and June fide Moller.
Donald Newell served on the Committee until his retirement in May 2011.
Simon Neathercoat stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2011.
The Committee is responsible for considering the application of financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The Committee met four times during 2011.
The report of the Audit Committee is on page 97.
Nominations Committee At any point in time, this Committee consists of all of the non-executive Directors except the Chairman, under the chairmanship of Stuart Corbyn.
Its responsibilities include identifying external candidates for appointment as Directors and, subsequently, recommending their appointment to the Board.
If requested, the Committee will make a recommendation concerning an appointment to the Board from within the Company.
The Committee met three times during 2011.
The report of the Nominations Committee is on page 96.
77 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Directors report Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations Risk Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 10 6 4 3 1 Executive J. D. Burns 6 10 1 S. P. Silver 6 9 D. M. A. Wisniewski 6 10 1 P. M. Williams 6 9 N. Q. George 6 10 D. G. Silverman 6 10 Non-executive R. A. Rayne 6 J. C. Ivey 6 1 S. J. Neathercoat 6 6 4 2 R. A. Farnes 6 6 4 3 S. A. Corbyn 6 6 4 3 D. Newell to May 2011 2 2 2 J. fide Moller 5 6 4 2 1 S. G. Young 6 6 4 3 1 Performance evaluation Having regard to the requirement of provision B.
6.2 of the Code, the Board, for the first time, appointed an independent third party to facilitate the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
The review was initiated by all Directors completing an online questionnaire prepared by the third party which covered the processes and performance of the Board and its Committees together with a self-assessment questionnaire addressing the Directors own performance and contribution.
The responses were externally summarised and reviewed by the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the Committee chairmen as appropriate.
Any significant matters were discussed with the individual Directors by the Chairman.
As a result of the evaluation, the Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continues to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Company.
In addition, the Chairman is satisfied that the non-executive Directors standing for re-election at the AGM continue to be effective and show commitment to their roles.
The performance of the Chairman was separately assessed by the non-executive Directors under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
78 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Appointment and replacement of Directors Appointment of a Director from outside the Company is on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the Board unless it is considered appropriate for a recommendation to be requested from the Nominations Committee.
The Directors shall be not less than two and not more than 15 in number.
The shareholders may vary the minimum and or maximum number of Directors by passing an ordinary resolution.
Other than as required by the Remuneration Committee, a Director shall not be required to hold any shares in the Company.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next AGM of the Company and is then eligible for re-appointment.
The Board or any Committee authorised by the Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
The articles provide that at every AGM of the Company any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for reappointment by the members.
However, in accordance with Provision B.
7.1 of the Code all Directors are subject to annual re-election and therefore at the next AGM all the Directors will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of all the Directors are given on pages 72 and 73.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer: his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: he becomes bankrupt or enters into an agreement with his creditors generally: he is prohibited by law from being a Director: he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts: or he is removed from office pursuant to the Companys articles.
If considered appropriate, new Directors are sent on an external training course addressing their role and duties as a director of a quoted public company.
Existing Directors monitor their own continued professional development and are encouraged to attend those courses that keep their market and regulatory knowledge current.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and any Director may instigate an agreed procedure whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the Companys expense.
Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained by the Company.
79 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Directors report Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets present and future and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the year and their interests in the share capital of the Company, including shares over which options have been granted, either under the Executive Share Option Scheme or the Performance Share Plan, are shown below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
The Directors did not exercise any options during the year and no new options were granted to Directors under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
A conditional grant of 231,050 shares was made to Directors under the Performance Share Plan whilst 144,460 shares vested to the Directors from an earlier conditional award at a zero exercise price.
The remaining 158,065 shares of this award lapsed.
Other than as disclosed in note 40, the Directors have no interest in any material contracts of the Company.
Conflicts of interest The Companys articles permit the Directors to regulate conflicts of interest.
The Board operates a policy for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest whereby Directors are required to notify the Company as soon as they become aware of a situation that could give rise to a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
The Board is satisfied that this policy has operated effectively throughout the period.
Communication with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of clear communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, principally by the executive Directors, through the giving of presentations and organising visits to the Groups property assets.
The Board receives regular reports of these meetings which include a summary of any significant issues raised by the shareholders.
The annual report, which is available to all shareholders, reinforces this communication.
The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the Directors and, in particular, the chairman of each of the Board committees.
An alternative channel of communication to the Board is available through Stuart Corbyn, the Senior Independent Director, who takes over the role from Robert Farnes on 1 April 2012.
80 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Risk management and internal control The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2012 together with the controls and mitigating factors are set out on pages 25 to 27.
The systems that control the risks form the Groups system of internal control.
The key elements of the Groups internal control framework are: an approved schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board supported by defined responsibilities and levels of authority: the day-to-day involvement of the executive Directors in all aspects of the Groups business: a comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting including both sensitivity and variance analysis: maintenance and regular review and updating of the Groups risk register: and a formal whistleblowing policy.
The effectiveness of this system and the operation of the key components thereof have been reviewed for the accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary given the size and complexity of the Group.
Share capital As at 1 March 2012, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of 5p ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share capital and shares issued during the year can be found in note 30 to the financial statements.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares The Company can issue shares with any rights or restrictions attached to them as long as this is not restricted by any rights attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions can be decided either by an ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders or by the Directors as long as there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
These rights and restrictions will apply to the relevant shares as if they were set out in the articles.
Subject to the articles, the Companies Act and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting Shareholders will be entitled to vote at a general meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll, as provided in the Companies Act.
Where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant shareholder to vote in the way in which the proxy decides to exercise that discretion.
This is subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting which are given to any shares or upon which any shares may be held at the relevant time and to the articles.
If more than one joint holder votes including voting by proxy, the only vote which will count is the vote of the person whose name is listed first on the register for the share.
Restrictions on voting Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot attend or vote shares at any general meeting of the Company or upon a poll or exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings or polls if he has not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, or if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
81 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Directors report Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, except: that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Variation of rights If the Companies Act allows this, the rights attached to any class of shares can be changed if it is approved either in writing by shareholders holding at least three quarters of the issued shares of that class by amount excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares or by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the relevant class of shares.
This is called a class meeting.
All the articles relating to general meetings will apply to any such class meeting, with any necessary changes.
The following changes will also apply: a quorum will be present if at least two shareholders who are entitled to vote are present in person or by proxy who own at least one third in amount of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares : any shareholder who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote can demand a poll: and at an adjourned meeting, one person entitled to vote and who holds shares of the class, or his proxy, will be a quorum.
The provisions of this article will apply to any change of rights of shares forming part of a class.
Each part of the class which is being treated differently is treated as a separate class in applying this article.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its own shares The Directors were granted authority at the last AGM held in 2011 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 1,686,672.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount of 1,694,567 and ii comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of 3,389,134 after deducting from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, the section 551 authority, such section 551 authority to apply until the end of next years AGM.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors power to make non-preemptive issues for cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 254,185.
A further special resolution will be proposed to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 10,167,401 ordinary shares and the resolution sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
82 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Substantial shareholders In addition to those of the Directors disclosed on page 80, the Company has been notified of the following interests in the issued ordinary share capital as at 1 March 2012.
Percentage of issued Number of shares share capital Withers Trust Corporation 6,217,444 6.12 Withers Trust Corporation Ltd, and James McCarthy 5,548,731 5.46 Cohen & Steers Capital Management Inc 5,231,757 5.15 Ameriprise Financial Inc. 5,132,584 5.05 BlackRock Investment Management UK Ltd 5,035,211 4.95 Standard Life Investments 4,284,390 4.22 Third Avenue Management LLC 3,944,764 3.88 Lady Jane Rayne 3,593,838 3.54 Legal & General Investment Management 3,482,391 3.43 Significant agreements There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that, under the rules of the Groups share-based remuneration schemes, some awards may vest following a change of control.
Some of the Groups banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the Company if it makes a distribution to another company which is beneficially entitled to 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the Company or controls 10% or more of the voting rights in the Company, a substantial shareholder, unless the Company has taken reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being made.
The Companys articles give the Directors power to take such steps, including the power: to identify a substantial shareholder: to withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial shareholder: and to require the disposal of shares forming part of a substantial shareholding.
There is no person with whom the Group has a contractual or other arrangement which is essential to the business of the Company.
Amendment of articles of association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles of the Company, the Companys articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Other matters Creditor payment policy The Groups policy is to agree terms of business with suppliers prior to the supply of goods or services.
In the absence of any dispute, invoices are paid in accordance with these terms.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the average payment period was 24 days 2010: 23 days.
Charitable donations The Group made charitable donations of 0.1m during the year 2010: 0.1m.
Fixed assets The Groups freehold and leasehold investment properties were professionally revalued at 31 December 2011, resulting in a surplus of 181.7m, before deducting the lease incentive adjustment of 9.6m.
The freehold and leasehold investment properties are included in the Group balance sheet at a carrying value of 2,599.5m.
Further details are given in note 17 of the financial statements.
83 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Directors report Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 38 of the financial statements.
Going concern Having considered the Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years including in particular the cash flow, borrowings and undrawn facilities and made due enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditors BDO LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office and accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint it and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
These are resolutions 17 and 18 set out in the notice of meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information.
Annual General Meeting The notice of meeting contained in the circular to shareholders that accompanies the report and accounts includes four resolutions to be considered as special business.
Resolution 19 is an ordinary resolution which will renew the authority of the Directors under Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares.
Paragraph A of the resolution gives the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,694,567, which represents about one third of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph B of the resolution gives the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,389,134, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of the resolution.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares except on the exercise of options under the Companys share option scheme, on the vesting of shares under the Companys performance share plan or in connection with the scrip dividend scheme.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close of business on 16 August 2013.
Resolution 20 is a special resolution, proposed annually, and will renew the Directors power under Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution empowers the Directors to allot or, now that the Company may hold shares as treasury shares as further described below, sell shares for cash in connection with pre-emptive offers and the scrip dividend scheme where the scrip election is made after the declaration but before payment of a final dividend as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale.
The resolution further empowers the Directors to allot or, in the case of treasury shares, sell shares for cash, otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis, up to an aggregate nominal value of 254,185, which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document.
