Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Property lifecycle Our business model has been developed to combine flair, innovation and management focus to add value to our extensive portfolio of properties and maintain a stable long-term financial position.
Success is not the result of short-term reactions: rather it is the fruit of our long-term vision to create inspirational buildings.
Acquire the right Devise the Successful properties in the right strategy and timely right area for the for each property planning right price 1.
Our real estate purchases are not While our essential approach to exciting spaces, focused on strong The planning process has become limited to any one specific type of every property is consistent, we design and high quality construction increasingly time-consuming and property, but they typically share create a unique solution for each.
but, most importantly, offering good expensive in recent years and it is the common characteristics of Our business model has been value for tenants.
We draw on our therefore more important to ensure being income-producing in their proven and refined over time: it extensive experience and expertise all issues are considered before an present state and with the potential concentrates on refurbishment and to select the right team for each application is lodged.
regeneration of existing buildings job whether they are contractors, and, only when necessary, outright architects or designers.
We work closely with planning We do not just know London, redevelopment.
officers and engage with the we have a detailed knowledge of We work closely with each local community and relevant each of our 17 different villages Through innovative planning design team to reach the optimal stakeholders.
within the capital, their characters solutions we look to add floorspace solution which is reviewed by The design quality and regenerative and culture and understand the and, therefore, value to our each department and the relevant aspects of our projects are subject sorts of people who work and live buildings.
We dont build runDirectors before appointing to a detailed environmental impact in them.
We can map a distinctive of-the-mill properties, we create a contractor.
This deals in detail with future for each of them, and it is this the effect of our projects on their local knowledge which allows us to judge environment, assisting our ability to where to buy and for how much: we progress our planning applications to acquire where we perceive value a successful conclusion.
Recent project strategies We have developed a reputation see page 40 for anticipating the locations Angel Building The regeneration strategy focused on re-using the existing building structure of tomorrow.
Examples of this to fulfil its potential, with the existing tired skin being removed and the floorplates include our long-standing presence increased through the infilling of the open internal courtyard and the extension of in Clerkenwell as well as the the frontage towards the street.
In addition, a new floor was added incorporating a spectacular roof terrace.
concentration of properties close to Crossrail stations.
4 & 10 Pentonville Road Two neighbouring buildings linked through a unified frontage with flexible floorplates and two reception areas to widen the appeal to a greater range of occupiers and increase the floor area by over 20%.
1-2 Stephen Street formerly Central Cross Long-term strategy for enhancing the image and product together with the feel and surroundings New identity and ground floor remodelling Additional office and studio space Conversion of car park to basement retail Expansion of retail frontage 20
