Overview Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Our market London was one of the strongest performing UK regions in 2011, and continues to attract national and international occupiers and inward investment.
The central London office market saw take-up approximately 10% below the ten-year average but, with the lowest level of completed developments since the early 1990s, vacancy rates remained stable.
Investment volumes remained subdued with overseas investors responsible for over half the transactions in the West End.
Overview West End ofce development pipeline The UK economy grew by an estimated 0.9% in 2011, a weaker level Floor area million sq ft Vacancy rate % than anticipated a year ago, with growth of 0.6% in the third quarter and contraction of 0.2% in the final quarter.
UK base rates stayed 2.5 12.5 at their historic low of 0.5% during the year whilst unemployment continued to rise and RPI inflation stayed at 5% or above for every month of 2011 with the exception of December.
2.0 10.0 Against this backdrop, and with the Governments austerity measures starting to impact the economy, the outlook for 2012 remains fragile.
In 1.5 7.5 addition, the sovereign debt issues in many parts of the Eurozone add to the economic and political uncertainty further subduing business sentiment and putting additional pressure on the cost of borrowing.
1.0 5.0 The Bank of England is predicting that inflation will fall in 2012 and is hopeful that the further quantitative easing will help to stimulate 0.5 2.5 the economy.
Most commentators expect interest rates to remain unchanged throughout 2012 whilst the International Monetary Fund in January 2012 predicted that UK GDP growth for the year will be 0 0 constrained at around 0.6% before rising to 2% in 2013.
With this background, financial and business services employment in central London is expected to rise by 1.2% in 2012 before accelerating to Completed 3.7% in 2013 according to Oxford Economics.
Under construction or proposed Vacancy rate London, where 96% of Derwent Londons portfolio is located, Source: CBRE is a major centre for international business and commerce and generates approximately 20% of UK economic output.
Its economy is predominantly service-based and was one of the strongest performing UK regions in the year.
Despite Londons significant exposure to the financial services sector and to Europe, the capital has remained resilient and continues to attract national and international occupiers The West End was the strongest performing and inward investment.
central London sub-area with occupier take-up at 6% above the 10-year average.
The year ahead will be a memorable one for London as it hosts the Olympic and Paralympic Games in the summer and will play a major role in the celebrations surrounding the Queens Diamond Jubilee.
These events are expected to boost sentiment and economic activity and further enhance Londons international profile.
