1 Page Street is a vacant building that floor area to 127,000 sq ft.
The building Type Offices 1 Page Street 2 Derwent London purchased in 2011. is adjacent to Derwent Londons Size 127,000 sq ft 11,800m The building has been pre-let to Horseferry House, which is also let Completion date 2013 Victoria Burberry on a 20-year lease and is to Burberry.
Architect PLP Architecture SW1 undergoing an extensive refurbishment to replace the faade and increase the Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Board of Directors John D. Burns, 67 Damian M. A. Wisniewski, 50 Chief Executive Officer Finance Director John has been a Director of the Company since Damian is a chartered accountant and has overall 1984 and has overall responsibility for Group responsibility for financial strategy, treasury, strategy, business development and day-to-day taxation and financial reporting.
He is a member of the strategic board Board on 1 February 2010, prior to which he held of the New West End Company Limited.
He is also senior finance roles at Treveria Asset Management, a member of the Risk Committee.
Wood Wharf Limited Partnership and Chelsfield plc.
He is a member of the Risk Committee.
Robert A. Rayne, 63 Simon P. Silver, 61 Paul M. Williams, 51 Non-executive Chairman Executive Director Executive Director The Hon R. A. Rayne joined the Board in February Simon has overall responsibility for the Paul is a chartered surveyor and was appointed to 2007.
He has been on the boards of a number of development and regeneration programme.
His responsibilities include public companies, including First Leisure became a Director in 1986 and is an honorary portfolio asset management, supervision of Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc, and is a fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects.
refurbishment and development projects and Director of LMS Capital plc.
He is a Director of The Paddington executive Director of Weatherford International Waterside Partnership.
Inc. and was Chief Executive Officer of London Merchant Securities plc.
Nigel Q. George, 48 David G. Silverman, 42 Executive Director Executive Director A chartered surveyor, Nigel was appointed to David joined the Board in January 2008.
He has responsibility for a chartered surveyor and is responsible for acquisitions and investment analysis.
He is a investment acquisitions and disposals.
He is Director of the Chancery Lane Association.
Chairman of the Westminster Property Association.
