Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Business model There are four key strands to Derwent Londons business model which help to create long-term value for our shareholders, tenants and the communities in which we operate.
Within each strand there are certain metrics and key performance indicators that are monitored to ensure we are on track.
We also measure our performance against appropriate benchmarks.
John Burns Chief Executive Officer Our business model creates long-term value for our shareholders, Creating exciting new spaces tenants and the communities in which we operate.
We achieve We transform commercial properties through good design, creating this by acquiring, developing and extracting value from a portfolio attractive, contemporary spaces for our tenants, our prospective of central London properties.
Within the portfolio we aim to keep a tenants and the local community.
We work with a range of established balance between income producing properties and development and up-and-coming architectural, design and engineering practices to projects, phasing our pipeline to maintain a strong financial position.
combine exciting and innovative architecture with environmentally friendly, high quality construction.
Our business model supports our strategy because we are: Managing our assets Investing in our portfolio We seek a balance, maximising income where possible whilst at the We actively seek opportunities to acquire central London same time freeing up space for development.
We aim to generate commercial properties with income-generating characteristics and sufficient ongoing income from the portfolio to exceed comfortably regeneration potential.
our administrative and financial costs.
From this base, the volume of properties in the development pipeline can be adjusted depending Our portfolio contains a variety of types, sizes and locations of on market conditions, tenant demand and the balance of the rest of properties, primarily in the West End and the borders of the City, the portfolio.
which provides well-designed space at mid-market rents which appeals to a wide range of tenants.
We typically seek properties On a building-by-building basis, the asset management team seeks with low capital values in areas we believe are or will be up-andto minimise voids, capture the portfolios reversion and work closely coming.
Our portfolio has retained reversionary characteristics and with tenants and other stakeholders to understand their needs, more than 50% has been identified as suitable for refurbishment or provide the best space to meet their budgets, and accommodate any redevelopment.
We are always looking for interesting acquisition expansion, contraction or relocation requirements.
opportunities and regularly assess the needs of the business, adjusting requirements in the light of this.
Retaining financial strength and flexibility We believe in flexible and uncomplicated financing.
We maintain a sustainable level of gearing, based on a minimum level of interest We are confident that the Group is well cover and a maximum level for the overall Group loan to value ratio.
positioned to deliver good returns both At the same time we retain sufficient headroom so that we can take advantage of market opportunities.
We vary our sources of funding in the environment we currently face, in accordance with the lending environment.
The strength of our and when more sustained economic balance sheet and the flexibility of our financing allow us to act quickly growth appears.
according to the different phases of the property cycle.
Robert Rayne Our REIT status also allows us to operate in a tax-efficient manner.
Chairman Previous spread: Angel Building EC1 18
