36 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Directors Martin Scicluna Toby Courtauld Timon Drakesmith Neil Thompson BCom, FCA MA, MRICS BSc, FCA BSc Hons, MRICS Chairman, Non-Executive Chief Executive Finance Director Portfolio Director Appointed to the Board on With MEPC from 1991 to Formerly Group Director of With Derwent Valley from 1 October 2008 and became 2002, joined the Group and Financial Operations at Novar 1996 to 2002 and previously Chairman on 16 March 2009. appointed to the Board in plc, previously with Credit with Legal & General.
Joined Joined the Group in 2002 Chairman of the Audit Director of Liv-ex Limited and the Group and appointed to and appointed to the Board Committee of Lloyds Banking of the London Board of Royal the Board in 2005.
Member of the Group and previously & Sun Alliance and a member of the Finance Committee of Management Board and Chairman of Deloitte from of the Management Board the British Property Federation.
Management Executive of the 1995 to 2007.
Age 60. of the Investment Property He will leave the Company British Council of Offices and Forum.
Member of the Policy on 27 May 2011.
Council Member and Member Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Committee and Vice President of the Operations Committee of the British Property of the Westminster Property Federation and a director of Association.
To see how our Directors are remunerated see pages 102 to 112 k 37 Annual review Financials Governance Charles Irby Jonathan Nicholls Phillip Rose Jonathan Short FCA BA Hons, ACA, FCT MA, FFin, FSI BSc, ACIB Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer of Founding Partner and of North Atlantic Smaller and Chairman of the Audit Alpha Real Capital and a Executive Chairman of Companies Investment Trust Committee of SIG plc and Non-Executive Director of Internos Real Investors LLP, and QBE Insurance Group DS Smith Plc.
Formerly Group Hermes Property Unit Trust.
a pan-European real estate Limited and formerly Finance Director of Old Mutual Head of Real Estate for ABN investment management Chairman of Aberdeen Asset plc from 2006 to 2008 and Amro from 2002 to 2005 business.
Appointed to previously Group Finance and formerly Chief Operating Director of Big Yellow Group the Board in 2004.
Officer of TrizecHahn Europe plc, Independent Director Appointed to the Board and Managing Director of Lend to the Grosvenor Shopping Senior Independent Director.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member in 2009.
Centre Fund and Trustee of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Appointed to the Board of the Urban Land Institute.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member of the Remuneration in 2005.
Appointed to the Board and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
