20 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Our market Summary of the market environment Central Londons commercial property markets continued on their recovery path during the year.
Occupational demand increased markedly compared tolast year, illustrated by an improvement in leasing activity and, in the investment markets, a diverse group of investors maintained strong demand for well let, centrally located properties.
Supportive investment and occupational markets have The supply of high quality, well located office and retail sustained capital value growth and pushed rents higher.
space is subdued by historic standards as a consequence Looking forward we expect this positive environment to of reduced numbers of refurbishment projects.
Property endure throughout 2011 and we have positioned the developers have been constrained due to the uncertain business to take advantage of these trends.
economic environment and scarcity of bank financing.
Due to the lengthy gestation period of new schemes, we expect low availability of good quality commercial space Main drivers of our markets in the year to continue for at least the next two years assisting the The main influences on rental values for our properties growth trends in market rental values.
are the depth of tenant demand arising from economic conditions and the availability of competing space which Commercial property values in central London have enjoyed provides alternatives for business occupiers.
Consistent UK an upward movement during the year as a result of inward GDP growth has proven elusive as positive figures for the capital flows, in part due to the significant appeal of well first three quarters of 2010 were followed by a contraction located buildings as a tangible store of value in a volatile in the period to December.
GDP growth moved back into world.
The investor demand for high specification, well positive territory for the quarter to 31 March 2011 at 0.5% located properties comfortably outstrips the amount of and employment and investment surveys are anticipating assets available for sale.
Although not perfectly correlated, growth for the calendar year as a whole.
Londons recovery property values are commonly benchmarked against other from the lows of 2008 has been sharper than the rest of investable assets and trends over the last 12 months have the UK and the Capitals employment levels have risen been supportive.
The main equity and bond markets indices steadily over the last 12 months this is positive for are up since the start of the financial year although the occupational demand.
Eurozone Sovereign debt crisis has been a continuous source of downward pressure.
Commercial property prices Change in London business activity and employment have also been sustained by low benchmark fixed income 50% growth point rates.
If this favourable yield spread over bond and swap 65 rates continues, it is likely to underpin property values although we believe consistent rental value growth is 60 essential for capital value enhancement.
55 50 45 40 35 Sept Sept Sept Sept Sept Sept Sept Mar 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 Source: PMI London Report Business activity Employment 21 Annual review Financials Governance Summary of the market environment 4.5m sq ft takeup intheWest End, 11.0%uponlast year Active tenant demand central London offices Trends in the occupational markets sq ft net 000 The revival of Londons occupational markets has gathered 7,000 momentum over the course of the year with reducing 6,000 vacancy rates and, since the spring, rental growth across all sub-markets.
5,000 West End leasing markets have improved during the year 4,000 with the take-up of new office space totalling 4.5 million 3,000 sq ft, 11.0% up on the same period last year.
The volume of 2,000 available to let office space fell throughout 2010, pushing West End office vacancy rates down from 6.4% at March 1,000 2010 to 4.1% at March 2011.
Across the West End 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 CB Richard Ellis has reported that prime headline rental Source: Knight Frank values grew by 9.0% during the financial year and net effective rental values adjusted for rent free periods West End and other incentives rose by 11.0%.
City The West End retail market comprising 29.1% of our West End portfolio by value has been resilient as retail sales in central London have continued to grow in 2011.
Londons retailers and restaurateurs continue to be popular with foreign visitors and tourists with footfall up nearly 5% in the West End for the year to 31 March 2011.
Firm tenant demand for prime City offices continued throughout the financial year with take up of 5.2 million sq ft down 14.0% from the highs of the comparable period last year.
With restricted new and refurbished office space becoming available, vacancy rates, at 6.8% at March 2011, have fallen helping to generate rental growth across well located, quality buildings.
CB Richard Ellis City Prime Rent Index showed rents rising with an increase of 17% for the year to 31 March 2011.
22 Great Portland Estates | Annual Report 2011 Our market Our large development and refurbishment programme represents a material component of all major schemes to be delivered into the improving London leasing market over the next three years.
Key changes in the investment markets GPEs competitive positioning Londons commercial property investment markets have The ownership of central London commercial property seen gains in capital values, rising investment volumes is highly fragmented.
Out of around 185 million sq ft and high levels of liquidity assisted by improved availability of property in the West End, City and Midtown, Great of debt finance.
Central London real estate continued Portlands market share is less than 2%.
In core West End to attract a diverse group of investors ranging from UK locations our proportion is higher and we have a greater institutions, private investors, international organisations, influence on investment and rental pricing, although these property companies, private equity funds and Sovereign markets are always highly competitive.
Investment market turnover, at 10.3 billion, Since the beginning of the financial year we have expanded was up on the previous year partly due to several high the portfolio through acquisitions.
We believe that since the profile transactions being instigated by debt restructuring.
worst of the financial crisis in early 2009, the Group has The rate of monthly capital value growth, as measured acquired more properties as a percentage of its portfolio by monthly IPD and CBRE indices has steadied since than almost any other listed UK real estate company, the last quarter of 2010 and low real interest rates almost a quarter of the Groups assets, during this period continue to provide an impetus to investor confidence.
This approach has also allowed us to increase our representation in key West End sub-markets such as Oxford Street, St Jamess and Marylebone.
Our large development and refurbishment programme represents a material component of all major schemes to be delivered into the improving London leasing market over the next three years.
In particular, we estimate that the near-term projects at Marcol House, Wigmore Street and 160 Great Portland Street make up around 30% of the office development supply in the North of Oxford Street market.
We have continued to be at the forefront of central London leasing transactions, driving rents higher by attracting tenants to good quality buildings in excellent locations.
In the case of lettings at Oxford Street, Great Titchfield Street, Britton Street and Great Portland Street we have set new rent levels for those specific micro locations.
23 Annual review Financials Governance Since the spring of 2010, property capital value lead indicators have turned up.
Emerging factors influencing our markets Outlook for our end markets Improving the sustainability attributes of buildings We use a variety of lead indicators to assess the direction has become more important over the last year.
of our main markets which are described in the table below: Tenant requirements combined with legislation Selected lead indicators Trends in year covering reporting and disclosure has required us to allocate increasing management time to these areas.
Property capital values Often there is a balance to be struck between tenants power, data and temperature control requirements and Equity and bond prices our responsibility to long-term resource consumption.
Changes in new lending by major UK We have found that tenants are under relentless cost and European banks reduction pressure and we have responded by providing Transaction volumes in central London occupational premises in attractive locations for the direct real estate investment markets best value for money.
We do this by listening carefully Direction of pricing on IPD based to their requirements and engineering cost-effective derivative contracts solutions for their needs.
Rental values UK GDP growth London retail sales Business confidence levels in the central London economy UK output from the financial and business services sector UK finance and business services employment statistics Since the spring of 2010, property capital value lead indicators have turned up and occupational markets are firmer with rental values increasing and increased optimism within our tenant base.
