Directors report | Business & financial review | Responding to market dynamics Responding to market dynamics We aim to provide the most dynamic and exciting environments for our retailers to thrive and their customers to shop, be entertained and socialise.
Structural changes are playing out across Multi-channel is dominating retailer decisions The greatest shift in retail is towards multi-channel where a consumer the retail sector may use multiple channels to inform, inspire, research and buy.
By 2020, Urbanisation throughout Europe is leading to population migration, it is anticipated that 75% of non-food sales will be influenced in some economic polarisation and wealth concentration.
This accumulation of capacity by the internet and 50% will be fulfilled online.
With a greater people, combined with the growth of internet technologies, is fuelling number of channels available, consumers are selecting physical retail rapid growth in e-commerce, changing consumer behaviours and only in locations that satisfy their needs for convenience or experience.
driving structural changes across the retail sector in response to these challenges.
Store numbers are falling Consumer preferences are increasingly driven by a combination of As the economics of retail change, retailers will require fewer stores as convenience or the wish for a special experience.
Consumers are they increasingly look to migrate away from physical space to more cost choosing the experience of dominant shopping centres, the effective formats.
Whilst most retailers require fewer stores to access convenience of retail parks and the perceived value of designer their markets, physical retail will continue to play a vital role as retailers outlet villages over other retail formats.
need to support their brands and consumers continue to review and purchase items in-store.
Retailers are increasingly focusing their portfolios and reshaping their estates on winning locations where physical space still adds value.
The total number of UK shop units occupied by chain stores in 2010 was 36,000, this number is forecast to fall by 31% in town centre locations, 2% in out of town locations and by 25% in aggregate, by 2020.
Similar Below: Italie 2, Paris trends are evident in continental Europe.
Opposite left: Forever 21, Bullring, Birmingham Opposite right: SQY Ouest, Paris However, the impact for retail sectors and venues will be far from uniform, with the changes anticipated to be felt most acutely in secondary locations.
Venues offering genuine convenience or an exciting consumer experience will continue to perform strongly.
but average store sizes are rising As the polarisation between shopping destinations grows, retailers will concentrate investment in physical retail solely in successful shopping venues capable of sustaining larger stores and suiting the needs of the consumer and retailer.
The overall trend is towards a fewer number of larger stores: the average store size across the UKs top 30 retailers has increased by 22% since 1999.
As retailers focus on top locations As consumer preferences evolve and customers migrate to retail locations that offer a combination of convenience or the wish for a special experience, retailers are increasingly focusing their portfolios on destinations where physical retail still adds value.
Stores in large population concentrations deliver above average and growing contributions to group profitability.
Consequently, retailers are becoming more international in their outlook, prioritising cross-border opportunities to access top retail venues.
Our portfolio of dominant regional shopping centres succeeds in providing experience based on range and depth of offering, customer services, catering, leisure and promotional activity.
18 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Business & financial review | Responding to market dynamics The watchword for many retailers is fewer but bigger stores better ranged, better supported by multi-channel capabilities and situated only in the best locations.
Fewer Bigger Best Challenging consumer and Multi-channel investment Focus on retail economic outlook accelerates Concentration of market power Increase scale trends seen to date Orientation towards top venues Dominant or convenient locations Large formats Our portfolio of convenient retail parks in the UK and local shopping centres in Europe, often anchored by food stores, satisfies the need for convenience for increasingly time-poor consumers.
We recognise that the success of our retail properties relies on our ability to engage with retailers and provide exciting and stimulating environments.
We treat our tenants as customers and understand that the fundamental value of our properties lies in the success of their businesses.
Our marketing programmes focus on creating customer loyalty and encouraging repeat visits.
