Directors report | Business & financial review | Market background Market background Shopping centre development pipeline 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 completed under construction Source: DTZ Left: Cabot Circus, Bristol Right: Italie 2, Paris UK retail Opposite: 60 Threadneedle Street, London The polarisation of the retail market continued in 2011 with retailers focused on protecting sales and margins.
Many retailers have expanded their presence in winning locations, creating demand for modern, large, flexible accommodation such as Hammersons.
The growth in multiFrance retail channel retailing is having a significant influence on the property In France, retailer demand is increasingly focused on the most strategies of retailers, further supporting this demand.
By contrast, strategically located shopping centres in lle fide France and the main many retailers have exited underperforming stores, predominantly in cities outside Paris.
International retailers continue to seek space, and smaller towns or weaker locations.
Well located modern shopping this will help to maintain rental levels in the medium-term at high quality centres and retail parks have benefited greatly from this polarisation.
centres, however retailers have hardened their positions in lease negotiations in underperforming centres, and this trend is expected to Looking forward this trend is set to continue, with flexible, modern continue in 2012. space in highest demand.
Given the UKs limited supply of new retail developments in the pipeline, there is the potential to maintain and In the investment market the limited availability of large retail assets, grow rents for the best quality space.
the appeal of indexed rents and strong ongoing demand from investors, have all helped to support yields.
Capital market appetite for secondary centres is now limited due to the lack of debt finance, and the weakening occupational market.
There continues to be significant appetite from sovereign wealth funds for super-prime UK retail centres and this has led to a strengthening of yields in this sector.
This should continue in 2012, as the limited supply of assets coupled with the continuing demand from occupiers for the best space will help drive performance, and we anticipate the valuation gap between prime and secondary properties to widen further.
16 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Million square feet Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Business & financial review | Market background In England and Wales, contracts to lease property are governed London offices principally by the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954.
The duration of a London continues to attract major national and international businesses, typical lease is 10-15 years, with rent payable quarterly in advance and and has become a focus for international investment as global buyers with rent reviews at the end of each five-year period.
Rent reviews are seek a combination of growth and security.
These factors should generally upward only whereby the rent will be increased to the market support capital values for the highest quality assets.
rent, unless the market rent is lower than the passing rent, in which case Nevertheless, the current economic uncertainty has created a it will remain unchanged.
Occupiers bear the responsibility for repairing slowdown in demand for office space, and rents have remained and insuring the property and have a right to renew their leases for a static over the year.
A significant number of large occupiers face further term at the end of the lease.
upcoming lease expiries in old, inefficient buildings, which in conjunction Scotland has its own legal system and there is no equivalent of the with the relatively limited development pipeline of high quality offices, Landlord and Tenant Act.
There is little legislation or case law relating may support rental levels over the medium term.
to leases and a Scottish lease will usually contain all relevant terms.
However, common law provisions may apply if the lease is silent on Legal and regulatory framework a particular issue.
Despite the legal differences, the commercial terms Hammerson operates in the UK and France where planning regimes of Scottish leases are similar to those elsewhere in the UK as impose restrictions on new property developments.
are particularly onerous in the case of large retail schemes, limiting the The trend in the UK is for a more flexible approach by property owners, supply of new space and thereby benefiting owners of existing retail which may include shorter leases, rent which is related to an occupiers properties.
By contrast, it is generally more straightforward to gain turnover and rents being paid monthly.
permission to create new office buildings, which can lead to more marked imbalances between supply and demand, resulting in greater In France, leases are governed by the Code du Commerce and a typical fluctuations in rents and values.
From a developers perspective, the lease is of around ten years duration, with the occupier often having the planning process can sometimes be uncertain and protracted.
right to break the lease every three years.
Rent for the majority of leases is revised annually according to one of two official indices which are related to retail prices, retail sales and construction costs.
Rents may go City office new development completions up or down depending on the index.
Occupiers have the right to renew 4.0 their leases for a further term at the end of the lease.
3.5 Hammerson is subject to various environmental regulations in the UK 3.0 and France.
In particular, our office and retail portfolio investment 2.5 activities are subject to: 2.0 1.5 Climate Change Act 1.0 Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency 0.5 Scheme CRC EES Energy Performance Certificates EPC 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 European Energy Performance of Buildings Directive Pre-let Speculative committed Landfill regulations Completed speculative Speculative forecast Source: DTZ Grenelle fide lEnvironment Acts one and two Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 17 Million square feet
