Directors report | Governance | Board of Directors Board of Directors John Nelson Chairman Age 64 Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2004.
Committee Membership: David Atkins Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Chief Executive Age 45 Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board: John Nelson is a Chartered Accountant with a 1 January 2007 and appointed Chief Executive strong banking background, which is a key element on 1 October 2009. for a commercial property company.
He was Skills and experience: appointed as chairman of Lloyds of London on David Atkins is a Chartered Surveyor who joined 17 October 2011.
He is also a senior advisor to the Company in 1998.
His career at Hammerson Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP and a member began as Group Property Executive, responsible for of the chairmans advisory group of KPMG.
strategy and investment performance, where he Other appointments: worked on a number of overseas transactions, Trustee of the National Gallery and chairman of its particularly in France.
In 2002 he took responsibility development board.
for the UK retail parks portfolio and in 2006 he Past appointments: became responsible for the wider UK retail portfolio.
Deputy chairman and senior independent He was also responsible for insurance and health and director of Kingfisher plc.
Non-executive director safety throughout the Group.
of BT Group plc, Cazenove Group Limited, Other appointments: JP Morgan Cazenove Holdings, Woolwich plc and Chairman of the European Public Real Estate English National Opera.
Member of the policy committee of the British Property Federation and the advisory committee of the British Council of Shopping Centres.
Peter Cole Chief Investment Officer Age 53 Timon Drakesmith Appointed to the Board: Chief Financial Officer Age 46 1 October 1999.
Skills and experience: Peter Cole is a Chartered Surveyor who joined the Appointed to the Board: Company in 1989 as a Senior Development Surveyor 30 June 2011. and was appointed to the Board of the Companys UK Skills and experience: business in 1992.
He is one of the most experienced Timon Drakesmith is a Chartered Accountant.
directors and has had responsibility for Hammersons He was previously finance director of development, acquisition and disposal programme Great Portland Estates plc from 2005, until he since being appointed to the Board.
Other appointments: Past appointments: General council member of the City Property He worked for Novar plc as finance director of MK Association.
Electric and group director of financial operations.
Past appointments: His other financial roles have been at Credit Suisse, President of the City Property Association.
Barclays and Deloitte Haskins and Sells.
44 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Governance | Board of Directors Terry Duddy Non-Executive Director Age 55 Jacques Espinasse Non-Executive Director Age 68 Appointed to the Board: 3 December 2009.
Committee Membership: Appointed to the Board: Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Skills and experience: Committee Membership: Terry Duddy is chief executive of Home Retail Audit Committee.
In addition to the capabilities and Skills and experience: experience related to managing a large public Jacques Espinasse has a BBA and MBA, which company, he brings specific insight into customer underpin his long business career in many behaviour and retail markets, which is a major different sectors, based in Brussels, London and focus for Hammersons strategy.
He has an extensive knowledge of and Other appointments: insight into a key part of Hammersons Trustee of Education and Employers Taskforce.
Past appointments: Other appointments: Director of DSG Retail Limited.
Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of AXA Bank Europe and AXA Belgium.
Non-executive director and member of the audit and remuneration committees of LBPAM and SES.
Past appointments: Chief financial officer of Vivendi.
Non-executive director of Canal France, Maroc Telecom, SFR and Universal Music Group.
Anthony Watson CBE Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Age 66 Appointed to the Board: 1 February 2006.
Committee Membership: Audit and Nomination Committees and Chairman of Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: Anthony Watson has a strong financial and legal background.
He is a frequent speaker and Judy Gibbons contributor to corporate governance debate and Non-Executive Director Age 55 is well placed to understand shareholders requirements, which is essential for his role as Senior Independent Director.
He is a non-executive Appointed to the Board: John Hirst director of Lloyds Banking Group plc, Witan 1 May 2011.
Non-Executive Director Age 59 Investment Trust plc and Vodafone Group Plc.
Committee Membership: Other appointments: Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Appointed to the Board: Member of the Association of Corporate Skills and experience: 1 March 2004.
Treasurers advisory board and Shareholder Judy Gibbons is a non-executive director of Committee Membership: Executive Board.
Chairman of Lincolns Inn Guardian Media Group plc.
Her background in Chairman of Audit Committee.
Director of The Queens software, internet technologies, digital media, Skills and experience: University of Belfast foundation board.
mobile applications and e-commerce is a key John Hirst is a Chartered Accountant.
He has Past appointments: focus for Hammersons development.
She also a strong financial and audit background, which Chairman of Marks & Spencer Pension Trust has extensive experience in marketing and enables him to fulfil his role as Chairman of the Limited, Asian Infrastructure Fund Limited and international business.
He is chief executive of the of the Strategic Investment Board Northern Other appointments: Met Office and chairman of the audit committee Ireland.
Member of Norges Bank Investment Non-executive director of Virgin Money Giving of the World Meteorological Organization.
and chairman of Refresh Mobile Limited.
Other appointments: Past appointments: Director of Epilepsy Research UK and a trustee Non-executive director of O2 plc.
Member of Exeter vice president of Microsoft Corporation.
Venture University Business Schools advisory board.
Marketing and product Past appointments: development at Apple Inc. and Hewlett-Packard.
Group chief executive of Premier Farnell plc and director of ASBISC Enterprises plc.
