Directors report | Business & financial review | Financial and property returns Financial and property returns Our objective is to achieve a return on equity which is greater than our cost of equity.
To achieve this, we set hurdle rates for investment, based on a minimum five-year internal rate of return and adjusted according to the risk associated with each project.
When appropriate, the returns that would be generated by buying in the Hammersons return on shareholders equity for the year ended Companys own shares are evaluated against the potential returns from 31 December 2011 was 11.2%.
The income element of the return property investment and development.
on shareholders equity will tend to be relatively low given the high quality of the property portfolio, as described above.
In 2011 the The table below provides information on the financial returns achieved capital element of the return on equity reflected the increase in the in 2011 and compares them with appropriate benchmark indices.
value of the portfolio during the year, which principally resulted from The IPD annual return was not available at the time of publication, the improvements in the real estate investment market.
so the IPD benchmarks shown for the UK portfolio are based on the Total shareholder return for 2011 underperformed the FTSE EPRA quarterly index.
There is no benchmark for total portfolio returns which NAREIT UK index.
Over the last five years, Hammersons average annual is comparable with Hammersons geographical portfolio allocation.
total shareholder return has been -16.5% compared with -17.5% for the IPD data relating to the returns of the French property sector in 2011 EPRA NAREIT UK index.
will be available only after this Annual Report has been published.
An analysis of capital and total returns by business segment is provided in the Business review on pages 38 and 43.
The IPD Universe includes retail, office and industrial returns for all grades of property in the UK, although Hammerson does not invest in the industrial sector.
The outperformance of the IPD Universe capital return index arose principally because of the prime nature of Hammersons shopping centre portfolio.
Prime shopping centres and offices provide low initial yields reflecting the high quality of these assets.
Consequently, the income returns for our portfolio are lower than the index.
Returns data for 2011 Return % Benchmark % UK portfolio capital return 2.7 UK IPD Universe capital 2.0 UK portfolio income return 5.2 UK IPD Universe income 5.8 UK portfolio total return 8.0 UK IPD Universe total 7.9 Total portfolio capital return 3.6 n a Total portfolio income return 5.1 n a Total portfolio total return 8.9 n a Return on shareholders equity 11.2 Estimated cost of equity 8.2 Total shareholder return over one year -10.5 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over one year -7.9 Total shareholder return over three years p. a.
4.4 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over three years p. a.
3.6 Total shareholder return over five years p. a.
-16.5 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over five years p. a.
-17.5 22 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Business & financial review | Financial and property returns EPRA performance measures Performance measure Definition Page Purpose EPRA Earnings Recurring earnings from core operational 91 A key measure of a companys underlying operating activities results from its property rental business and an indication of the extent to which current dividend payments are supported by earnings EPRA NAV Net Asset Value adjusted to include properties 91 Adjusts IFRS NAV to provide stakeholders with and other investment interests at fair value and relevant information on the fair value of the assets to exclude certain items not expected to and liabilities of a real estate investment company crystallise in a long-term investment property with a long-term investment strategy business model EPRA NNNAV EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of 91 Adjusts EPRA NAV to provide stakeholders with triple net financial instruments, debt and deferred taxes relevant information on the current fair value of the assets and liabilities of a real estate company EPRA Net Initial Yield NIY Annualised rental income based on cash rents 38 Comparable measure for portfolio valuations passing at the balance sheet date, less nonrecoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the property, including estimated purchasers costs EPRA topped-up NIY EPRA NIY adjusted for the expiry of rent-free 38 Comparable measure for portfolio valuations periods Vacancy Estimated market rental value ERV of vacant 32 A measure of investment property space that is space divided by the ERV of the whole portfolio vacant, based on ERV EPRA best practice recommendations BPR on sustainability reporting Absolute measures for energy and water usage, greenhouse gas emissions and waste, together with intensity measures for energy and water usage and greenhouse gas emissions, as defined by EPRA, are set out in the connected reporting framework on pages 28 and 29.
A full Global Reporting Initiative GRI and EPRA BPR compliance pack can be found online at www.
com Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 23 Directors report | Business & financial review | Risk management Risk management and principal uncertainties Risk management is integral to the achievement of our financial and The five principal risk areas in that framework, together with the operating objectives.
Risk management policies are designed to reduce related principal uncertainties currently facing the Group are shown the chances of financial loss, protect our reputation and optimise in the table below.
Also noted are more specific risks featured in performance when opportunities arise.
Our risk management the framework and the steps we take to mitigate them.
Finally, framework, which is regularly reviewed by our senior team, helps us we have included references to the pages in this Annual Report to identify and control risk and communicate risk management where the risks, or the elements of the business affected by them, throughout the organisation.
Risk area and executive responsibility Principal uncertainties Risk impact Mitigation Further commentary Chief executives report page 2 Business Property and financial markets Implementation of a strategy inconsistent with the We commission and evaluate research into the economy and investment and occupational The uncertainty surrounding the eurozone and the austerity measures adopted by western governments continues to unsettle the financial markets, making market environment, risking poor investment markets and use this to prepare an annual Business Plan and regular financial forecasts strategy Chairmans statement page 4 lenders cautious, and is likely to hold back economic growth for some time.
In the worst case, a full or partial break-up of the euro-community may contribute decisions and inadequate returns Our commercial teams are aligned to reflect the profile of our customers GEC Market background page 16 to a prolonged global recession.
We are of course exposed to the specifics of the French economy through our shopping centre investments in France.
Specific sectors or markets underperform We monitor closely developments in multi-channel retailing and introduce innovative new relative to other sectors or markets, eroding concepts to our portfolio when appropriate Responding to market During our Business Planning process in the latter stages of 2011, we stress-tested our business model against a severe downside economic scenario.
Hammersons portfolio is diversified geographically and by sector and its allocation is dynamics page 18 We confirmed that our business is robust, reflecting low gearing, long-term secure income streams from our leases, the currency hedging of the value of our regularly reviewed.
French portfolio, a good spread of debt maturity and the flexibility to phase or halt our development programme.
Business review pages 32 to 38 Market background page 16 Property valuations Investment decisions result in inadequate returns Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated, including due diligence reviews Property Conditions prevailing in the property investment market and the general economic environment affect the value of Hammersons property portfolio.
Accordingly, or the adoption of unforeseen liabilities The performance of individual properties is benchmarked against target returns investment Business review page 36 the Groups net asset value may rise or fall due to external factors beyond managements control.
Global financial markets have stabilised since the peak of the Opportunities to divest of properties are missed, Properties are held in a ready for sale state.
GEC Security and quality of income financial crisis, and investors have become more active in the real estate investment market, resulting in a rise in property values.
However, the eurozone crisis or limited by market constraints, reducing page 41 continues to cause uncertainty and may generate significant instability and volatility in financial markets in the shortto medium-terms.
potential returns Tenant covenant strength and Our property portfolio is of high quality, geographically diversified and let to a large number of tenants.
These factors should help mitigate negative impacts which collection rates page 42 may arise from changes in the financial and property markets.
Tenant default Financial loss arises through tenant default.
We regularly monitor the credit status of tenants and adopt a flexible approach to tenant Some tenants continue to face challenging operating conditions, increasing the risk that they may be unable to pay their rents.
The Groups geographical diversity requests for changes to payment terms and its large number of tenants mean the impact of individual tenant default for Hammerson is low.
Furthermore, our occupational leases are generally long-term Arrears are reported monthly and we report six monthly on Group-wide tenant exposures.
contracts, making the income relatively secure.
Investing for income and capital Development and letting Over-exposure to developments within a short The Groups exposure to developments and the phasing of projects is considered as part of Property growth through developments The current economic environment means that development is inherently more risky.
Although we have a substantial development pipeline, we will progress timeframe increases exposure to market risk and our annual Business Plan and reviewed throughout the year development pages 34 to 36 developments only when the relevant markets are sufficiently robust, when we have the right level of interest from occupiers and on the basis that sound financial puts pressure on financing and cashflow We monitor and report on development projects monthly GEC analysis demonstrates good returns.
Poor control of the development programme and Detailed analysis, including market research, is undertaken prior to the approval of each failure to address investment and occupational development project The uncertainty faced by potential occupiers means that they remain cautious about entering into commitments to lease space.
We currently have only one major market risks could result in inadequate returns Project teams are assembled for each development project under a project owner development underway, Les Terrasses du Port in Marseille, for which around 64% of the income has been contracted or is in solicitors hands.
We will continue to Poor management and inadequate resourcing A programme of post completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes seek substantial pre-lets before progressing significant developments.
Financial review page 40 Property valuations Breach of borrowing covenants, triggering default We set guidelines for financial ratios and these are monitored regularly by the Board Treasury The most significant element of the value of the Hammerson Group is the property portfolio.
As noted above, the current economic situation may put and or repayment of facilities or bonds Our Business Plan includes stress tests considering the impact of a significant deterioration Notes 20 and 21 to the CFO downward pressure on property values which would increase gearing and could ultimately breach borrowing covenants.
in the markets in which we operate accounts pages 98 to 105 The high quality and diversification of our portfolio should help to protect values from the negative impacts which may arise from changes in the financial and property markets.
At 31 December 2011, gearing stood at 52%, significantly lower than the Groups most stringent borrowing covenant that gearing should not exceed 150%.
We estimate that values could fall by 43% from their December 2011 levels before covenants would be endangered.
Liquidity risk Poor planning and or external factors, including The Board approves future investment requirements and sufficient facilities are put in place In the current environment, companies with short-term financing requirements may find it difficult to secure sufficient funding, in particular from banks, at costs failures in the banking system, lead to a liquidity with an appropriate maturity profile comparable with their existing facilities.
Our funding strategy in 2011 has therefore been to address near-term maturities early.
In 2012 we will also consider squeeze preventing the refinancing of maturing We monitor the maturity profile of debt and take an opportunistic approach to refinancing accessing the sterling, euro and private placement bond markets.
In April we replaced 670 million of undrawn facilities, which were due to expire over the next debt or leading to insufficient liquidity to progress Credit ratings are set for lending counterparties and monitored.
We use diverse sources of two years, with a new 505 million five-year syndicated revolving credit facility.
In November we agreed a 125 million syndicated five-year revolving credit the development programme funding facility which will be available to draw down from April 2012 when it will be used to refinance in part maturing bank debt.
Interest rate and exchange risk Fixed rate borrowings are used where appropriate and foreign currency denominated assets Although the medium-term outlook for interest rates is that they will remain low, the interest charged on borrowings is a significant cost for Hammerson.
Adverse currency or interest rate movements are financed by borrowings in the same currency.
To manage the risk of changes in interest rates, we set guidelines for our exposure to fixed and floating interest rates, using interest rate and currency swaps result in financial losses.
At 31 December 2011, 88% of the Groups gross debt was at fixed rates of interest.
The Group is exposed to movements in the sterling euro exchange rate through its investment in France.
Exchange risk is managed principally by matching foreign currency assets with foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
At the end of 2011, 76% of the value of the Groups French portfolio was hedged in this way.
Human resources page 30 For Hammerson, there are currently no significant uncertainties related to this risk.
Inappropriate management structure or resourcing A Human Resources plan features as part of the annual Business Plan Business levels for achieving business objectives The Nomination Committee approves succession plans for senior roles organisation Governance pages 44 to 53 Failure to recruit and retain key executives and staff Significant changes to the management structure are approved by the Board and human Remuneration report page 54 with appropriate skills and calibre.
We periodically review the remuneration structure, including an annual review by the resources Remuneration Committee and benchmarking against industry, or other relevant comparatives.
GEC The Group Executive Committee GEC comprises the Executive Directors, the Managing Directors of the UK and France retail divisions and the General Counsel.
24 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Business & financial review | Risk management Risk area and executive responsibility Principal uncertainties Risk impact Mitigation Further commentary Chief executives report page 2 Business Property and financial markets Implementation of a strategy inconsistent with the We commission and evaluate research into the economy and investment and occupational The uncertainty surrounding the eurozone and the austerity measures adopted by western governments continues to unsettle the financial markets, making market environment, risking poor investment markets and use this to prepare an annual Business Plan and regular financial forecasts strategy Chairmans statement page 4 lenders cautious, and is likely to hold back economic growth for some time.
GEC Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 25
