Directors report | Business & financial review | Human resources Human resources Our people are more than just the face of Group Executive Committee Hammerson.
They deliver our products and services Hammersons day-to-day operations are headed by the Group to customers and other key partners.
Our people Executive Committee the GEC, comprising the Executive Directors, the Managing Directors of the UK and French retail bring our values to life.
divisions and the General Counsel.
It has particular responsibility for preparing the Groups business plan and operating budget, for Our goal is to create a high performing organisation, made up of people assessing and controlling risk in accordance with the approved Risk who are inspired and enabled to give their very best.
Management Framework and for ensuring the appropriate allocation With this in mind we have defined five key areas which determine the and development of resources to meet Hammersons objectives.
It business focus and drive our human resources related activities.
also approves appropriate corporate responsibility, ethics and health and safety policies, reviews a range of strategies and plans for 1.
Recruit, develop and retain talent submission to the Board and ensures effective communication with 2.
Optimise results through leadership internal and external stakeholders.
Operate with an efficient and effective organisational structure Each year we set objectives for each of these areas and track our progress against them.
Talent Partnership working At all levels of recruitment we seek individuals who will contribute fresh The Companys values are founded on partnership working with ideas to the business.
During 2011 Timon Drakesmith was appointed as stakeholders and we are therefore focusing on promoting understanding Chief Financial Officer bringing both sector expertise and significant and collaboration at every level of the business.
On the leadership wider industry and corporate finance experience to the role.
During the programme, managers from different functional areas have been year we strengthened our senior management team both in the UK and brought together in small groups to help resolve their respective France with the engagement of Martin Plocica as Retail Portfolio business issues.
At the national level, teams from our London and Paris Director in the UK and Vincent Ravat as Operations Director for our offices work closely together on the major Les Terrasses du Port French business, both of whom have extensive international retail development project to share knowledge and provide support.
At entry level we introduced a graduate programme into our Company encourages and facilitates staff moves between departments London office with a planned annual intake.
We now conduct twiceseven employees in our London office around 5% of the permanent yearly reviews of all our employees to consider not just their workforce undertook roles in new teams in 2011.
We have piloted the performance but also their potential to progress and how management use of short placements for employees to gain appreciation and can best support this.
We run development centres to assess skills and experience of work in different parts of the organisation and have plans help create tailored development plans for some of our most promising to extend this further in 2012. people.
The Company enjoys high levels of staff retention.
Overall staff satisfaction which we monitor through an annual confidential survey Performance culture has increased by 8 percentage points year-on-year.
Our approach to performance is to provide clarity of incentives and ensure accountability.
Following a review of reward conducted at the Leadership end of 2010 with the extensive involvement of employees, we have In 2011 we launched the first phase of a major leadership development published and implemented clear definitions for performance which are programme involving members of the Group Executive Committee and common to all areas of the Group.
Formal performance reviews a further 23 senior managers from our Paris and London offices.
conducted twice yearly are a balanced assessment to ensure Specific objectives have been set for the programme and include the Company values are respected.
Recent changes to our employee bonus development of managers as proactive agents of change, inspiring structure mean that the Company can clearly differentiate rewards leaders and coaches, and enablers of collaborative working.
The initial according to individual achievement, whilst employees can show results are positive with employee satisfaction in leadership and appreciation for their colleagues through recognition scheme awards.
management showing year-on-year improvements in both our London and Paris offices.
30 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Business & financial review | Human resources The relatively compact size of the Company combined with The graduate development programme, comprised of my rotations over several teams enables me to get a thorough six-monthly rotations, enables me to gain portfolio-wide understanding of the business and the property sectors experience within a breadth of market sectors and locations.
This way I can prepare myself to make a solid I expect the experience to provide me with a strong foundation decision in which specific team I hope to develop my career for the APC Assessment of Professional Competence further once qualified.
Robert van Vliet Shelley Taylor Graduate Surveyor Graduate Surveyor Organisation Share ownership During 2011 the senior management structure in our London office was Employees of Hammerson are encouraged to become investors slimmed down by around 15% in headcount terms, as part of an ongoing in the Company through a range of share ownership schemes.
drive to improve the speed of decision making, eliminate unnecessary At 31 December 2011, 279 employees owned shares or participated cost from the business and ensure all roles retain challenge and in the Groups share plans.
The Company secretarial and legal functions were also The remuneration of Directors is set out on pages 54 to 64. combined under the direction of General Counsel Sarah Booth, in line with a broader organisational aim of deepening knowledge and Notes supporting succession planning.
In our shopping centre portfolio, we Hammerson now employs around 270 people in the UK and transferred the on-site management teams at Union Square, Silverburn 110 in France.
and Brent Cross to Hammersons employment as part of our continuing strategy to manage our assets and ensure a customer focused approach Hammerson is formally accredited as an Investor in People.
at every level in our business.
Hammerson reports on a number of performance indicators relating to employees as part of the Global Reporting Initiative.
These are available Diversity and equality online at www.
com We have an equal opportunities policy which has at its core the practice of objectively assessing, recruiting and rewarding based on merit.
Additionally, we monitor our performance in this area through our annual staff survey which contains specific questions on equal treatment on grounds of age, race ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation and disability and which segments all responses by various demographics including gender, age, full and part-time status and those with caring responsibilities.
We seek to recruit individuals from diverse backgrounds and, wherever possible, with experience outside the property sector, to bring new perspectives to the way we manage and develop our business.
% female participation Gender diversity 2009 2010 2011 Board 11 Group Executive Committee 17 All employees 53 52 56 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 31
