Directors report | Governance | UK Code The Board, which has ultimate responsibility for Hammersons business Compliance with the UK and financial strategy and for its overall management, operates within Corporate Governance Code the terms of its written authorities, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, including: During 2011 the Board considered the main principles and provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code and has sought strategy to put in place practices to enable full compliance with these.
Except acquisition and divestment policy where otherwise stated, the Company has complied with the UK Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2011. approval of major capital expenditure projects risk management Leadership monitoring performance The Board internal control The Board currently consists of the Chairman, three Executive Directors treasury and the raising of finance and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets routinely not less than nine times during the year and additionally as may be required.
It human resources met on ten occasions in 2011.
The Chairman sets the Board agenda and corporate governance.
ensures that important matters and, in particular, strategic issues, receive adequate time and attention at meetings.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees of the Board, each of which has written terms Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate directly with of reference which are modelled closely on those recommended by the Executive Directors and senior management between formal Board Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
In addition to regular Board meetings, the Board takes part in with the authorities and duties of each Committee.
Copies of all the an annual strategy day at which it considers the future direction of the main Committee terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, are Company at the start of the business planning process and in the second available on the Companys website.
Each of these Committees is half of 2011 there has been considerable discussion as a result of the comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company review of strategy.
All Directors are expected to attend all meetings of who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the the Board, and of those Committees on which they serve, and to devote Nomination Committee.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of duties as Directors.
When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, meetings to the Board.
their comments on papers to be considered at the meeting may be provided in advance to the Chairman.
The following table shows current A schedule of regular matters to be addressed by the Board and its Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings they were Committees is agreed on an annual basis and information is supplied to eligible to attend in 2011: them in a manner that enables them to fulfil their responsibilities.
This includes the circulation of comprehensive briefing papers one week prior Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination to Board and Committee meetings.
Presentations on business, financial John Nelson 10 10 9 9 3 3 and operational issues are made regularly to the Board by senior David Atkins 10 10 management and the annual programme of Board meetings is tailored Peter Cole 10 10 to enable some meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
During 1 Timon Drakesmith 5 5 2011, the Board visited the Companys shopping centres in Reading, 2 Terry Duddy 9 10 2 2 6 7 2 3 Southampton and Paris.
In addition to the encouragement of strategic debate at all Board meetings, the annual strategy day provides a forum Jacques Espinasse 10 10 4 4 3 at which all Directors are invited to challenge strategic direction and help Judy Gibbons 6 6 2 2 develop strategic options for the future.
John Hirst 10 10 4 4 4 Anthony Watson 10 10 4 4 8 9 3 3 1 Timon Drakesmith joined the Board on 30 June 2011 2 Terry Duddy was unable to attend one Board meeting, and certain Committee meetings, Effectiveness because of prior commitments associated with Quarter 3 trading results and the Annual General Meeting for Home Retail Group plc.
However, he discussed the business of these Board balance and appointments process meetings in advance with the Chairman 3 The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the Judy Gibbons joined the Board on 1 May 2011 4 Anthony Watson was unable to attend one meeting of the Remuneration Committee success of the Company.
Therefore care is taken, through the convened to consider one item of business.
His confirmation of approval of this business Nomination Committee, to recruit and appoint Directors who can matter was subsequently obtained.
provide and maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company.
During 2011, The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, appropriate succession to both Executive and Non-Executive positions Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are clearly defined was achieved and the balance of the Board is reviewed annually.
The Chairman, John Nelson, was independent on his original appointment to the Board.
Anthony Watson continued to serve as Senior Independent Director during 2011.
Biographical details and the dates of appointment of all current Directors are provided on pages 44 and 45.
48 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Governance | UK Code confirm that they can make the required commitment.
Anthony Nomination committee report Watson, as the Senior Independent Director, would deputise for the Committee membership Chairman in his absence, act as a sounding board for the Chairman and be available to advise and counsel all Board colleagues.
Executive Date of appointment Member to Committee Directors are encouraged to take non-executive positions in other companies and organisations, to broaden their experience.
The John Nelson Chairman 7 April 2005 appointment to such positions is subject to the approval of the Board Terry Duddy 18 February 2010 which considers, in particular, the time commitment required.
Anthony Watson 3 May 2007 Development Meetings There is an induction programme for Non-Executive Directors in place The Committee met three times in 2011.
The Committee undertakes an which is based on the guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered annual review of succession planning and ensures that the membership Secretaries and Administrators, tailored to the specific requirements of and composition of the Board, including the balance of Executive newly appointed external Directors.
On their appointment, NonDirectors and Non-Executive Directors, continues to be appropriate.
Executive Directors meet with the Chairman and the Chief Executive As part of these reviews, the Committee considers the independence and are provided with briefings on their responsibilities as Directors and of Non-Executive Directors and the balance of skills and knowledge on the Companys business, finances, risks, strategy, procedures and the required of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
markets in which the Company operates.
Non-Executive Directors also In addition to identifying potential successors for executive board meet with members of senior management who provide further level positions, senior functional positions within the Company are information on the Companys operations, including visits to the also considered.
Companys properties, and with representatives from the Companys David Edmonds retired from the Board on 28 April 2011.
Any new Executive Director receives a tailored Committee, advised by Russell Reynolds, considered candidates for the programme appropriate to his or her needs.
Such programmes were role of an additional Non-Executive Director and recommended the implemented for Judy Gibbons and Timon Drakesmith on their appointment of Judy Gibbons.
Her commercial experience, particularly appointments in 2011. in internet technologies, digital media and e-commerce, were All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and instrumental in her being recommended for appointment to the regulations and changing financial and commercial risks, with the Board with effect from 1 May 2011. assistance of the Companys legal advisers and auditor where Simon Melliss retired as Chief Financial Officer on 30 June 2011.
Executive Directors are subject to the Companys anticipation of his retirement the Committee, advised by Spencer performance development review process through which their Stuart, had, during 2010, considered successors for this position.
performance against predetermined objectives is reviewed and their Timon Drakesmith, with his background in banking and finance, most personal and professional development needs considered.
recently as the finance director of a major listed property company, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to improve their knowledge of had the necessary skills and experience and was recommended for the Company and visits to Hammersons shopping centre construction appointment.
He became Chief Financial Officer with effect from site in Marseille were organised in 2011 for such purposes.
The 30 June 2011. performance of Non-Executive Directors is appraised annually by the Chairman.
The training and personal development requirements of The Nomination Committee has considered Hammersons approach Non-Executive Directors are reviewed and agreed as part of this towards diversity, including gender diversity, arising from the 2011 appraisal process and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to Davies Report on Women on Boards.
The Chairmans statement on attend seminars and undertake external training at the Companys diversity is set out on page 47 and further information on the Groups expense in areas considered to be appropriate for their own professional overall approach is set out on page 31 of the Human resources report.
development including on issues relevant to the Board Committees to The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom which they belong.
A record of such training is maintained by the is independent from management and has no material commercial or Company Secretary.
other connection with the Company, are able to exercise independent judgement.
Their experience, gained from varied commercial Information and support backgrounds, enables them to bring specific insights and make valuable All Directors have access to independent professional advice at the contributions to the Company.
They challenge assumptions Companys expense and to the advice and services of the Company constructively and effectively and help the executive management to Secretary who is responsible to the Board for advice on corporate develop their thinking.
governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company and the Board operate within applicable Commitment legislation, rules and regulations.
The Company Secretary is also The Chairman, John Nelson, holds other positions which are set out on responsible for facilitating the programme of Directors induction, page 44.
During 2011 he became chairman of Lloyds of London, but for enabling appropriate training and development needs to be identified relinquished his role as deputy chairman and senior independent and addressed, and for Board performance evaluation.
The appointment director at Kingfisher plc.
The Board is satisfied that his external and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter requiring approval appointments do not adversely affect his commitment as the of the Board.
Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 45 and the Board is also satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Non-Executive Directors are advised on appointment of the time required to fulfil the role and are asked to Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 49 Directors report | Governance | UK Code Management has established a risk management framework and Performance evaluation procedures necessary to enable the Directors to report on internal In accordance with the UK Code, an external evaluation of the Boards controls in compliance with the UK Code.
The risk management performance, and those of its Committees and individual Directors, was procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the key undertaken in December 2010 by ICSA Board Evaluation.
A number of risks to the Group and include plans for the continuity of the Companys recommendations for adjustments to practices arising from this review business in the event of unforeseen interruption.
The Board, which have already been implemented and further adjustments are also being reviews the framework and procedures regularly, has allocated made.
It is intended that the next external Board evaluation will be responsibility for the management of each key risk to Executive undertaken in 2013 and that, in the intervening years, evaluations be Directors and senior executives within the Group.
Reports on these undertaken internally by the Company Secretary.
Such an internal key risks are made regularly to the Board.
evaluation of Board and Committee performance was conducted for 2011.
A UK Code questionnaire-based approach was adopted for this The Company conducts internal audit activities through a programme evaluation.
This has concluded that the Board and its Committees are of reviews.
These reviews, which are principally undertaken by operating effectively and that improvements and an increasingly BDO LLP, but also on occasion by Company employees, and the positive view of performance are being seen.
However, some further implementation of recommendations arising from them, are overseen potential improvements have been highlighted and will be addressed and coordinated by an Internal Controls and Risk Management under the guidance of the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
This Committee comprises executives from the finance and operational parts of the business, is chaired by the Chief Financial The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors as necessary, Officer, and is intended to ensure that internal control is integrated into but at least twice each year, without Executive Directors present.
The Audit Committee considers these Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting of Executive and arrangements annually and is satisfied that they provide an appropriate Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman in order to appraise his overview of the Companys internal control procedures.
performance and to provide an opportunity to address any other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The outcome of these Other key elements of the Groups systems of risk management and discussions is conveyed to the Chairman by the Senior Independent internal control include: Director.
regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee whose overall responsibilities are set out in this report Re-election of Directors a management structure that is designed to enable effective decision In accordance with the UK Code, all Directors are submitting themselves making with clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
for re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and will be subject Monthly meetings of the Group Executive Committee and of the to annual re-election.
management committees in the UK and France are an important part of this structure Accountability the maintenance of operational control manuals setting out a control framework for management to operate within and containing Financial and business reporting guidance and procedures for the Groups operations This Annual Report aims to tell a cohesive story, with the narrative the measurement of the Groups financial performance on a regular section giving a consistent presentation and a balanced and basis against budgets and long-term financial plans.
understandable assessment of the Companys financial position, results and prospects.
A description of our business model and strategy are set out in the Chief Executives Report on pages 2 and 3.
The Going The Company has a Code of Conduct which explains how employees are Concern Statement is presented on page 65 and the Directors and expected to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the best interests of Auditors responsibility statements on pages 67 to 69. the Company and in line with its corporate and financial objectives.
This includes compliance with laws and regulations, acting fairly in dealing with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, maintaining integrity Risk management and internal control in financial reporting, treating people with respect and operating within The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature and a controlled framework which includes environmental and health and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic safety policies.
A summary of the Code of Conduct is available on the objectives, for maintaining sound risk management and internal control Companys website.
systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Appetite towards risk is discussed at Board meetings whenever significant strategic, financial or The Company has whistleblowing procedures under which staff may operational proposals are discussed, and is also high on the Boards report any suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
agenda at its annual strategy day.
The Groups risk management and No reports of any such matters have been received.
The Company internal control systems are designed to safeguard assets against subscribes to the independent charity, Public Concern at Work, so that unauthorised use or disposition, ensure the maintenance of proper staff may have free access to its helpline.
accounting records, provide reliable financial information and ensure The systems of risk management and internal control and their compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations.
effectiveness have been reviewed by the Board for the year under There is a regular review process throughout the year of the review and during the period up to the date of this report and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal process accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board will continue to control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk develop its awareness and monitoring of emerging risks and its management.
These systems are designed to manage the achievement approach to the reporting of risk throughout 2012. of business objectives.
However, it must be recognised that any such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
50 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Governance | UK Code Audit Committee Meetings The Committee meets at least four times each year with agendas organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
During 2011 it met on four occasions.
The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of the senior finance management teams together with senior representatives of the external auditor are invited to attend all or part of meetings as appropriate.
In order to fulfil its duties as defined in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives presentations and reviews reports from the Groups senior management, consulting as necessary with the external auditor.
The Committee meets with Deloitte LLP, the Companys external auditor, and with BDO LLP, which undertakes the majority of the John Hirst Companys internal audit reviews, in the absence of management at Audit Committee chairman least once each year.
Review of the year The Board has established an Audit Committee of four independent During the year, the Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Non-Executive Directors, the membership of which complies with the full and half-year results announcements prior to their approval by the UK Code recommendations, including that at least one member the Board.
These reviews considered the application of the Companys of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
accounting policies and practices and any changes to them, major Its responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference.
judgemental areas, adjustments resulting from the audit and going John Hirst, the Chairman of the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant concern assumptions.
The reviews also included consideration of the and a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He has been Groups compliance with statutory tax obligations, compliance with closely involved in financial issues as chief executive of the Met Office accounting standards and with regulatory requirements, the statement since 2007 and as chief executive of Premier Farnell plc between 1998 on risk management and internal control, property valuations and clarity and 2005: prior to that he was group treasurer of ICI plc.
The Board is of disclosure.
satisfied that John Hirst has the necessary recent and relevant The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its responsibilities experience to meet the UK Codes requirements.
In addition, Jacques relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment Espinasse served as chief financial officer of Vivendi and currently and the Groups compliance with the UK Code.
To fulfil these duties, the chairs or serves as a member of the audit committee of a number of Committee reviewed: European companies.
the external auditors management letters The Committees report for 2011 is set out below.
internal audit reports, including recommendations arising from them The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that management has and the review of progress in implementing previous systems and procedures in place to ensure the integrity of financial recommendations information.
The Committee maintains an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditor and reviews the effectiveness, objectivity reports on the systems of internal controls and the risk management and independence of the external auditor and considers both the scope framework of their work and the fees paid to them for audit and non-audit services.
the Companys approach to compliance with legislation and The Committee reviews the Companys internal audit arrangements, regulations and to the prevention of fraud, including arrangements for internal financial controls and the audit process and has access to staff to raise concerns in confidence employees and all documentation and information it may require.
the recommendations of the 2010 Board and Committee Committee membership performance evaluations Date of appointment Member to Committee the Companys plans to revise and implement policies and procedures John Hirst Chairman 19 August 2004 designed to prevent bribery and corruption Jacques Espinasse 1 May 2007 the Audit Planning Reports Judy Gibbons 1 May 2011 gifts and entertainments and expenses registers.
Anthony Watson 1 January 2010 Terry Duddy served as a member of the Audit Committee until 22 July 2011.
Notwithstanding that John Hirst has been a member of the Audit Committee for over six years, the Board considers that, given his experience and the need to provide continuity on the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer during 2011, it is appropriate that he should continue to chair the Committee.
Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 51 Directors report | Governance | UK Code Auditors Remuneration The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, The Board has established a Remuneration Committee which implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors and the in which is set out the categories of non-audit services that the Company Chairman.
The Committees composition was not fully external auditor is, and is not, allowed to provide to the Group.
compliant with provision D. 2.1 of the UK Code for the whole of 2011, Details are given below.
following the retirement of David Edmonds at the end of April 2011.
The Companys external auditor is Deloitte LLP.
The audit partner However, it was considered that the high level of experience offered by responsible for the Companys audit matters is changed every five years Anthony Watson and John Nelson would ensure proper governance in accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the Auditing Practices pending the appointment to the Committee of new independent Board.
In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of Non-Executive Directors, Terry Duddy during the year, and Judy the external auditor, the Audit Committee takes into account the Gibbons in February 2012. safeguards operating within Deloitte LLP.
Under the Companys policy Committee membership governing the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, they may not provide a service which places them in a position where Date of appointment to Member Committee they may be required to audit their own work.
Anthony Watson Chairman 1 February 2006 Specifically, they are precluded from providing services relating to Terry Duddy 18 February 2011 bookkeeping or other services relating to accounting records or financial Judy Gibbons 3 February 2012 statements of the Company, financial information system design and John Nelson 21 July 2006 implementation, appraisal or valuation services, actuarial services, any management functions, investment banking services, legal services David Edmonds served as a member of the Committee from 1 January 2010 until his retirement from the Board on 28 April 2011. unrelated to the audit, internal audit outsourcing services, remuneration related services or advocacy services.
Meetings Services that, exceptionally, might be provided by the external auditor, The Committee met nine times during 2011.
Details of the at the discretion of management, include tax compliance work, due responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and a review of its diligence and property-related consultancy.
During 2011, services activities during the year are included in the Remuneration Report on provided by Deloitte LLP to the Company, in addition to acting as pages 54 to 64.
The Chief Executive other than in respect of his own external auditor, included acting as reporting accountants for intraremuneration is invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
group distributions, assistance with the electronic filing of accounts for tax returns and bond compliance work.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the external auditor, the Audit Relations with shareholders Committee reviewed: The Company has an active dialogue with its shareholders through a the scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement programme of investor meetings which include formal presentations of letter for the forthcoming year the full and half-year results.
All Non-Executive Directors are available to attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders and may attend the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year meetings between shareholders and management if desired.
The Board the external auditors fee proposal receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders together with regular market reports and brokers circulars.
This enables the a report from the external auditor describing its arrangements to Directors to obtain the required understanding of the views of ensure objectivity and to identify, report and manage any conflicts shareholders.
The Board always takes account of the corporate of interest governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their the extent of non-audit services provided by the external representative bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the auditor to ensure that it is not placed in a position to National Association of Pension Funds.
Hammerson complies with all audit its own work.
best practice recommendations on the preparation and despatch of documents to shareholders in advance of the Annual General Meeting Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are based on the AGM.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the AGM and to work undertaken and are not success related.
Consideration is given meet the Directors, including the Chairman of the main Board to the nature of and remuneration received for other services provided Committees, informally after the meeting.
The number of proxy votes by Deloitte LLP to the Company and confirmation is sought that the fee cast on resolutions is announced at the AGM and published on the payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable the auditor to perform Companys website.
its obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
The auditors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, comprised approximately 527,000 for year end audit and half year review work 2010: 608,000 and 59,000 for other work 2010: 49,000.
The Audit Committee has regard to the recommendations of the Auditing Practices Board on effective communication between audit committees and external auditors and has concluded that the relationship with Deloitte LLP meets these recommendations.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditor should be reappointed.
52 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Governance | UK Code Other governance issues Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate.
For the 2011 year end, each of the Directors was asked to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts by returning a schedule to the Company Secretary.
The Board considered all the responses and approved potential conflicts as it deemed appropriate.
Pension scheme The Companys defined benefit pension scheme was closed to new entrants on 31 December 2002 following which a Group Personal Pension Plan was established for new employees.
The defined benefit pension scheme, The Hammerson Group Management Limited Pension & Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme, is administered by two corporate trustees, one of which is an independent trustee.
The other is a subsidiary of the Company which has four directors.
The Chairman of this subsidiary is David Edmonds, one of the Companys former Non-Executive Directors.
David Edmonds continued as the Chairman of this subsidiary and has chaired meetings of the Trustees following his retirement as a Director of the Company in April 2011.
One of the remaining directors is an employee, but not a Director of the Company and the other two directors are former employees.
The Schemes funds are invested and managed independently of the Company.
By Order of the Board Sarah Booth General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 February 2012 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 53
