DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 88 to 92 forms part of this report.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company is the parent Company of a Group whose principal activities comprise property investment, development, management and associated business, focussing on industrial property investments in Continental Europe and the UK, although it will also seek to profit from opportunistic acquisitions in other property sectors both in the UK and abroad.
The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 19 to the financial statements.
BUSINESS REVIEW Hansteens focus is on UK and Continental European industrial investments which in the opinion of the Board have high yields along with cheap financing costs.
To date these investments have been in the UK, Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands.
A smaller part of the Groups activity is dedicated to opportunistic property investment opportunities which to date have included land and residential investments.
More detailed information about the Groups business, activities and financial performance is incorporated into this report by reference and can be found in the Chairmans Statement, the Joint Chief Executives Review and the Finance Review on pages 5 to 16.
There are no further matters to report under Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
RESULTS The results for the year ended 31 December 2011 are shown in the income statement on page 21 of the financial statements.
As shown on page 21 the pre-tax profit for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 8.9 million 2010: 33.2 million and the net assets are shown in the balance sheet as 509.4 million 2010: 380.2 million.
The diluted EPRA NAV per share was 82p 2010: 84p.
In the Directors view the Normalised Income Profit, Normalised Total Profit and diluted EPRA NAV growth are the most appropriate performance measures for the Group.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Directors consider the following to be key performance indicators KPIs, as disclosed in the Chairmans Statement and Joint Chief Executives Review: Key performance indicator 2011 2010 Normalised Income Profit 25.7m 20.2m Normalised Total Profit 34.2m 26.5m Net asset value NAV per share 80p 83p EPRA NAV per share 82p 84p Annualised rental income 66.1m 59.6m Net debt to value 38.7% 52.9% Dividend per share 4.0p 3.5p Yield 8.4% 8.0% Occupancy 81% 78% restated see note 15 HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 78 DIRECTORS REPORT DIVIDEND On 6 July 2010, the Company declared it would pay two dividends a year.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, an interim dividend of 1.6p per share was paid on 24 November 2011, of which 0.56p was a PID.
The second dividend of 2.4p per share will be payable on 23 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 27 April 2012.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The UK Government has announced that UK corporation tax rates will fall over the period to 1 April 2014 from the current rate of 26.0% to 22.0%.
The impact of the proposed rate change is not material to the Group.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board agrees and reviews policies and financial instruments for risk management.
Further information on financial instruments is contained in note 37 to the financial statements.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk management is an important part of the Groups system of internal controls.
Senior management staff and the Board regularly consider the significant risks, which it believes are facing the Group, identify appropriate controls and if necessary instigate action to improve those controls.
There will always be some risk when undertaking property investments but the control process is aimed at mitigating and minimising these risks where possible.
The key risks identified by the Board, the steps taken to mitigate them and additional commentary is as follows: Changes in the general economic environment exposes the Group to a number of risks including falls in the value of its property investments, loss of rental income and increased vacant property costs due to the failure of tenants to renew or extend leases as well as the increased potential for tenants to become bankrupt.
The Board believes these risks are reduced due to its policy of assembling a portfolio with a wide spread of different tenancies in terms of actual tenants, industry type and geographical location as well as undertaking thorough due diligence on acquisitions.
The level of exposure to individual tenants is regularly monitored to ensure they are within manageable limits.
Rent deposits or bank guarantees are requested where appropriate to mitigate against the effect of tenant defaults.
Where possible, purchases are achieved at low capital values and with due investigation of tenant finances.
A further significant risk relates to the Groups treasury operations.
Over-borrowing by the Group, insufficient credit facilities, significant interest rate increases or facility covenant breaches could represent a significant risk to the Group.
In response to these risks Hansteen maintains a prudent approach to its borrowing levels by seeking to maintain headroom within its debt facilities.
The Board actively monitors current debt and equity levels as well as considering the future levels of debt and equity required to sustain the business.
Loan covenants are monitored and compliance certificates are prepared on a regular basis.
For all money borrowed consideration is given to procuring the appropriate hedging instruments to protect against increases in interest rates.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 79 DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED By investing in property in mainland Europe the Group is exposed to a foreign currency exchange rate risk.
In response to this risk the Groups borrowings are in Euro denominated loan facilities and therefore, to the extent that investments are financed by debt, a self hedging mechanism is in place.
In relation to the equity element of the Groups Euro investments the Board monitors the level of exposure on a regular basis and considers the level and timing of when to take out the appropriate hedging instruments to cover this exposure.
There is a risk that one or more of the countries that the Group operates in leaves the Euro which may affect the nature of the Groups loans and derivatives or introduce new volatility and currency exposures for the Group to manage.
A further risk identified by the Board encompasses environmental risks.
In addition to the need to act as a responsible landlord there may, in some circumstances, be occasions when pollution on a site owned by a property investment company becomes its responsibility.
Each acquisition undertaken by the Group includes an environmental report from a specialist consultancy.
These reports may highlight the need for further investigation and in some cases remediation.
The Groups policy is then to either undertake such investigations or remediation or potentially reject the purchase as no longer viable.
The Board considers the loss of REIT status and payment of additional corporation tax as a risk to the Group.
Loss of REIT status and payment of additional corporation tax would arise from a breach of REIT compliance requirements.
Breach of certain limits imposed by REIT legislation may be mitigated through regular review of the Groups actual and forecast performance against REIT regime requirements.
Management have sufficient discretion to manage and meet the REIT requirements and apply mitigating actions where required.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position as well as the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and the borrowing facilities are described in the Joint Chief Executives Review and the Finance Review on pages 10 to 19.
In addition note 37 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has a good debt maturity profile with long-term funding in place.
The current economic conditions have created uncertainty as to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group as noted above.
In light of these risks the Group has considered its forecast cash flows and forecast covenant compliance taking into account: the impact on the various loan covenants of further reductions in the property valuations, decline in rental income and increase in interest rates: and the potential impacts of the current economic uncertainty over the Groups operating cash flow generation, including tenancy failures and increased vacancies.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 80 DIRECTORS REPORT These forecasts show that the Group has sufficient headroom and available finance to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 30.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 34.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The Directors who served throughout the year and to the date of this report, except where specified, were as follows: J D Hambro Non-Executive Chairman M L Jones Joint Chief Executive I R Watson Joint Chief Executive R P Lowes Finance Director S T Gee Non-Executive Director R S Mully Non-Executive Director R R Cotton Non-Executive Director H J M Price Non-Executive Director With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Their biographies can be found in the Notice of Meeting for the Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 81 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS CONTINUED The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are as follows: Ordinary shares Ordinary shares of 10p each at of 10p each at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 M L Jones 4,500,000 4,200,000 I R Watson 4,500,000 4,200,000 R P Lowes 704,107 500,000 J D Hambro 375,000 275,000 S T Gee 300,000 200,000 R S Mully 475,000 375,000 R R Cotton 300,000 100,000 H J M Price 200,000 100,000 11,354,107 9,950,000 None of the Directors had any interests in any material contract during the year relating to the business of the Group.
There have been no changes to the Directors interests subsequent to the year end.
Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, any legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS IN THE SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY At 27 March 2012, the following substantial interests in the voting rights of the Companys ordinary share capital had been notified to the Company: No.
of ordinary shares held Percentage BlackRock Inc. 63,759,246 9.98% Ruffer LLP 42,411,312 6.64% Jupiter Asset Management Limited 38,777,173 6.07% Cazenove Capital Management Limited 35,381,755 5.54% M&G Investment Management 27,373,635 4.28% Baillie Gifford 26,850,539 4.20% Threadneedle Investments 25,760,662 4.03% Legal & General Group plc 25,365,949 3.97% 285,680,271 44.72% HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 82 DIRECTORS REPORT PAYMENT POLICY FOR CREDITORS The Groups policy is to settle all agreed liabilities within the terms established with suppliers.
At 31 December 2011 there was one days purchases outstanding 2010: five days in respect of the Companys trade creditors.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year, the Group made charitable donations of nil 2010: nil to charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
There were no political donations in the year 2010: nil.
AUDITORS So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board S M Hornbuckle Company Secretary 27 March 2012 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 83
