OUR MARKETS BUILDING LEADING MARKET POSITIONS IN SELECTED FASTER GROWTH MARKETS WITH A HIGH TECHNOLOGY FOCUS Cobham operates in three key markets: fastergrowing geographies such US defence security, accounting for asIndia, Brazil, the Gulf Cooperation 44%of core revenue, non US defence Council countries in the Middle East Revenue analysis for security and commercial, each andparts of South East Asia, where core businesses accounting for 28% of core revenue.
sustained growth in defence security budgets is expected.
The Group By geography In the US defence security market hasstrong, established positions on whilesignificant uncertainty remains, nonUS platforms with good export the USGovernment is making some potential such as the A330MRTT progress towards developing a aircraft, the Eurofighter Typhoon sustainable 10 year plan.
At the end fighteraircraft and the NH90 utility of2011, the President signed the 2012 helicopter.
This export driven strategy defence budget, containing flat year on delivered progress in the year with year base budget investment accounts, important awards on the Brazilian without the prolonged delay in agreeing KC-390 aerial refuelling tanker aircraft the prior year budget.
The 2013 and on the Eurocopter EC175 and Presidential base budget request is NH90utility helicopters.
broadly consistent with 2012, although with investment accounts 4% lower.
In Cobhams commercial markets have addressing the significant budgetary good growth prospects, being driven demands, the Secretary of Defense has bylarge jet, helicopter and general 2010 2011 put forward plans for a modest increase aviation production and the marine in the basebudget up to 2017.
Strategic SATCOM market, which has exposure European Union defence priorities have also been primarily to the oil and gas market and excluding UK 14% 15% formally reiterated with continued focus commercial shipping.
Cobham also has UK 10% 10% on a number of key areas, including specialist aviation markets in Australia, Australia 12% 13% investment in special operations forces, with a number of significant customers RoW 9% 10% unmanned systems and electronics.
Rising USA 55% 52% These priorities overlap significantly passenger numbers, demand for more withCobhams capabilities and should fuel efficient aircraft and for improved I enable the Group to outperform the aviation and marine communication By market defence market over the medium term.
products is expected to drive growth in In addition to strong positions on legacy Cobhams markets.
Production at Airbus platforms, which also have significant and Boeing is expected to grow strongly export and upgrade potential, such as in 2012 and Cobham has good positions the F-16 and the F-18 fighter aircraft, the onrecently launched platforms with V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the Predator increasing production rates, such as Reaper unmanned aerial system, the theBoeing 787, for which deliveries Group has successfully positioned itself areexpected to increase from three on important future growth platforms aircraft in 2011 to around 40 aircraft including substantial content on the in2012, andthe Airbus A380 for which KC-46A aerial refuelling tanker aircraft deliveries are expected to increase from and the CH-53K heavy lift helicopter.
Cobham has TheGroup also hasa strong position on also continued to achieve new awards the F-35 multi-role fighter aircraft and inits commercial aviation markets in while expected production increases theyear, including on the new French 2010 2011 have been slowed, this aircraft retains Skylander commuter aircraft and the  for growth over Chinese COMAC C919 passenger aircraft.
In the marine market, Cobham was Non US defense security 25% 28% chosen byInmarsat as launch partner on Commercial 27% 28% The Groups non US defence security its  service.
markets have good potential due toCobhams breadth of geographic reachand presence on a wide range ofplatforms and programmes.
This enables it to balance continued budgetary pressures, particularly in Europe, with a focus on exports to Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9
