DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report Dividends At the AGM held on 6 May 2011, the andthe audited Group and parent An interim dividend of 1.80 pence per Company was authorised to purchase company financial statements of ordinary share of 2.50p each in the upto 115,408,167 Ordinary Shares.
This Cobham plc for the year ended capital of the Company Ordinary authority will expire at the conclusion 31December 2011.
The Company is Shares 2010: 1.628 pence was paid ofthe 2012 AGM.
75,951,724 Ordinary registered in England and Wales under in November 2011.
The Directors are Shares have been purchased by the company number 30470. recommending a final dividend of 6.20 Company during the period from pence per Ordinary Share 2010: 4.372 7March 2011 to 4 November 2011 as Business review pence payable on 1 June 2012 to part of a share buy-back programme at The Chairmans statement on page 6 ordinary shareholders on the register as acost of 150m plus transaction costs ofthe Annual Report together with the at 4 May 2012, making a total ordinary of 1m.
A special resolution will be put Chief Executive Officers review on dividend for the year of 8.00 pence to shareholders at the AGM to renew pages 7 and 8, the Business overview 2010: 6.00 pence.
theauthority to make market purchases onpages 14to 21, the Financial review of the Companys shares up to a on pages 22 to 27, the Principal risks Directors indemnity arrangements maximum of 10% of the share capital section onpages 28 and 29, the The Directors have the benefit of a oftheCompany.
Corporate responsibility and Directors and officers liability insurance sustainability section on pages 30 to 33 policy and the Company has entered The rights and obligations attaching and the Corporate governance section into qualifying third party indemnity totheOrdinary Shares and 6% second on pages 36 to 43 contain information arrangements with them, as permitted cumulative preference shares of 1 each that fulfils the requirements of the by the Companies Act 2006.
The policy in the capital of the Company are set statutory business review and are was in force at the year end and out in the Articles and note 26. incorporated in this Directors report by continues in force at the date of this reference.
The statutory business review report.
The Directors are permitted to Subject to applicable statutes, and to is addressed only to shareholders and take independent legal advice at the the rights conferred on the holders of itspurpose is toprovide a review of the Companys expense within set limits any other shares, shares may be issued business and to explain the principal risks infurtherance of their duties.
with such rights and restrictions as the and uncertainties facing the Group.
Company may by ordinary resolution Directors interests decide or if there is no such resolution Principal activities None of the Directors is or was or so far as the resolution does not Providing end-to-end avionics and materially interested in any significant make specific provision as the Board communication equipment, law contract during or at the end of the may decide.
Holders of Ordinary enforcement and national security financial year, particulars of which are Shares are entitled to attend and solutions, and satellite communication required to be disclosed by the Listing speak at general meetings of the equipment for land, sea and Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Company, to appoint one or more airapplications.
proxies and, if they are corporations, Critical technology for network centric Details of Directors share interests and corporate representatives and to and intelligence operations, moving of their rights to subscribe for shares are exercise voting rights.
Holders of information around the digital shown in the Directors remuneration Ordinary Shares may receive a battlefield, with customised and report on pages 44 to 53. dividend and, on a liquidation, may off-the-shelf solutions for people share in the assets of the Company.
andsystems to communicate on Corporate governance Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled land, sea and air.
The Companys statement on corporate to receive the Companys Annual Providing safety and survival systems governance is set out on pages 36to43.
Subject to meeting certain for extreme environments, nose-to-tail thresholds, holders ofOrdinary Shares refuelling systems and wing-tip to Share capital may requisition a general meeting of wing-tip weapons carriage and release Details of movements in the share the Company or the proposal of a equipment for fast jets, transport capital of the Company during the resolution at an AGM.
aircraft and rotor craft, and remote yearare given in note 26 to the Group controlled robots and fully equipped financial statements and note 12 Voting rights and restrictions bomb disposal vehicles for homeland totheparent company financial ontransfer of shares security and military applications.
On a show of hands at a general Delivering outsourced aviation services meetingof the Company, every holder for military and civil customers The Directors have been authorised of shares present in person or by proxy worldwide through military training, toallot and issue Ordinary Shares.
and entitled to vote has one vote and on special mission flight operations, Thesepowers are exercised under a poll every member present in person outsourced commercial aviation authority of resolutions passed at the or by proxy and entitled to vote has one andaircraft engineering.
vote for every 1 in nominal value of Corporate governance 54 54 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 theshares of which he is the holder.
Under the FSTA shareholders on non-customer funded research Noneofthe Ordinary Shares carry any agreement entered into in June 2008, anddevelopment.
The management special rights with regard to control of achange of control of the Company ofeach Group business is responsible theCompany.
may result in a required sale of the foridentifying and carrying out suitable Companys shares in FSTA to the research and development programmes There are no restrictions on transfers othershareholders.
having regard to particular market and ofshares other than: product needs.
Further information relating to change Certain restrictions which may from of control appears in the Directors Further information on research time to time be imposed by laws remuneration report on pages 47 anddevelopment appears on pages orregulations.
and 48 under the headings Bonus 4,7and22.
Pursuant to the Companys code Co-investment Plan, Performance forsecurities transactions including SharePlan and Executive Share Financial instruments therequirement on the Directors OptionScheme.
Notes 15, 23 and 25 to the Group anddesignated employees to financial statements and note 11 obtainapproval to deal in the Employee share schemes totheparent company financial Companys shares.
rightsof control statements contain disclosures relating Where a person with an interest in the If required to do so by the Company, to the use of financial instruments.
Companys shares has been served with thetrustee of the Cobham Share a disclosure notice and has failed to Incentive Plan the Plan will, on receipt People provide the Company with information of notice from the Company of any The talent pool within the concerning interests in those shares.
offer, compromise, arrangement or Groupcomprisesall full and part scheme which affects shares held in the timeemployees located across The Company is not aware of any Plan, invite participants to direct the fivecontinents, with major population arrangements between shareholders trustee on the exercise of any voting centres in the UK, France, North that may result in restrictions on the rights attaching to the shares held by Americaand Australia.
transfer of securities or voting rights.
thetrustee on their behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to Developing this pool, making sure Significant arrangements thoseshares.
theGroup has the skills, functional changeofcontrol capabilities and future leaders required The Company is party to the following The trustee will not vote in respect of to excel in our chosen markets is a significant agreements which contain any shares held in the Plan in respect declared strategy that is being activity provisions which take effect, alter or ofwhich it has received no directions pursued throughout the Group.
terminate upon a change of control nor will the trustee vote in respect of StrategicWorkforce Planning, the oftheCompany: any shares which are unallocated under identification of the Groups current and The Company has entered into a thePlan.
future talent requirements, is a clear part number of credit agreements with of the strategy development process banks, and has issued senior notes The trustees of the Employee Benefit and plans are in place for both attracting under private placements.
The total Trust waive all rights to vote in respect the very best talent to the Group and amount owing under such agreements ofany shares they hold within the Trust.
retaining and developing our own at the year-end date is shown in note team.
Benchmarked against others 19 to the Group financial statements.
Research and development inour sector itis clear our offer is All agreements contain clauses such The Group continues to invest in the competitive and our bespoke internal that, in the event of a change of important area of research and talent development programmes show control, the Company can offer to or development.
During the year the individuals there is real potential must repay all such borrowings Groupexpended 75.3m 2010: 73.8m for excellent career development.
together with accrued interest, fees and other sums owing as required by the individual agreements.
Under the FB Heliservices FBH Major interests in shares shareholders agreement entered into in As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Ordinary Shares: November 2004, change of control of either the Company or its subsidiary holding shares in FBH, without the prior Number of shares Percentage at the date of notification at date of notification written consent of that other FBH Massachusetts Financial Services Company 62,767,783 5.48 shareholder, entitles the other FBH Sprucegrove Investment Management 54,355,449 5.03 shareholder to purchase all of the Cobham Groups shareholding in FBH.
Blackrock, Inc. 53,589,089 4.96 Under the Sentinel contract, entered into Newton Investment Management Limited 57,154,460 4.95 in March 2006, the Company must seek Legal & General Group plc 56,779,341 4.91 approval for any material change in the shareholding of the Company.
There is Since the year end and up to 6 March 2012, being a date not more than a month prior to the date of the AGM an ancillary Lease Agreement under Notice, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Ordinary Shares in accordance with DTR 5: which a change of control may result in the termination of the lease if such event Number of shares Percentage is likely to have a material adverse effect atthedate of notification atdateofnotification Date of notification on the Companys ability to perform its Legal & General Group plc 46,241,405 4.28% 30 January 2012 obligations under the lease.
Sprucegrove Investment Management 53,754,182 5% 22 February 2012 Corporate governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55 55 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED COBHAMS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES Develops the existing executive leadership tier and verifies the potential of individuals currently Executive Development outside the tier.
Programme EDP Produces the leaders of tomorrow, capable of leading a Strategic Business Unit and supporting Senior Development theDivisional President in complex decision making.
Programme SDP Ensures the leadership pipeline in the divisions is full and provides a means of assessing talent that Divisional High Potential isconsistent with those of the SDP and EDP and so enables a smooth transition to the higher Programme DHP talentpools.
A two to three year rotational programme that develops Cobhams next generation of innovators, Graduate Development pioneers and entrepreneurs.
Programme GDP Primarily engineering, covering UK locations, the award winning programme ensures we have the Apprenticeship Programme technical skills we need.
AP Designed to understand and grow the Groups functional capability it comprises competency Mission Critical Workforce frameworks built on the Groups strategic direction.
MCW Each of the six talent development andimprove its policies and practices programmes, described above, is toreflect the requirements of age tailored to our particular needs and discrimination legislation.
With regard every business within the Group is toemployees who become disabled, required to encourage employees to thepolicy is to take all reasonable step forward and participate via our steps, including retraining, to ensure performance and development review thatthey can remain in employment process, at the heart of which is the wherever practicable.
Performance and Development Review Process ePDR, an electronic review that On the topical issue of gender diversity, is owned by the individual employee.
the Group gathers figures as part of the year end process.
Further information on talent Total Employees 9,757 programmes is contained in Total Female 2,773 theCorporate responsibility Total Male 6,984 andsustainability section set % Female 28.4% outonpages30 to 33.
Including full and part time employees but excluding temporary staff and contractors.
The Group is committed to equal opportunities for all its employees.
TheGroup aims to ensure the workplace Work is required for the Company to is free from discrimination.
Recruitment, attain a gender balance competitive selection and career development with general commercial practice, arebased on competence and job however, the balance is broadly requirements, irrespective of race, sex, comparable to the aerospace and sexual preference, religion or disability.
The Group continues to monitor Corporate governance 56 56 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group encourages employee Creditors payment policy Annual General Meeting participation and consultation at all It is the policy of the Company that The Companys AGM will be held at levels and shares relevant business allinvoices are paid within 30 days 12noon on Thursday, 26 April 2012 information.
This approach facilitates following the end of the month in FOR MORE INFORMATION attheoffices of UBS Investment Bank, ONOURSTRATEGY PLEASE the evolution of new ideas and practices whichthe invoices are approved.
REFER TO PAGES 12 AND 13 that add value to the business, promotes total amount of the Companys trade team member commitment and helps creditors falling due within one year at The Company arranges for the Notice focus Company and employee 31 December 2011 represents 16 days ofAGM and related papers to be sent expectations.
The tools used include 2010: 45 days worth as a proportion toshareholders at least 20 working days in-house newsletters, intranet, extranet ofthetotal amount invoiced by before the meeting.
and regular employee opinion surveys.
suppliers during the year ended on that Company announcements, team date.
The creditor days have reduced meetings and suggestion schemes all significantly during the year due to a By order of the Board play a part in this process.
UK employees reduced purchase ledger balance at L Colloff are given the opportunity to become yearendcompared to 2010.
Company Secretary shareholders in the Company through 6 March 2012 the Cobham Savings Related Share Events after the balance Option Scheme and the Cobham Share sheetdate Incentive Plan.
Under the former, There are no significant post balance employees can acquire shares through sheet events to report.
the exercise of options granted at a 20% discount to market value with savings Political and charitable gifts made over three, five or seven years.
Donations by Group companies during Under the latter, shares may be the year for charitable purposes were purchased out of pre-tax income.
asfollows: 2011 2010 The Group sets high standards UK charities: ofperformance for employees, Armed services 30,000 6,000 andinreturn, employees expect to be Business enterprise 8,000 18,000 appropriately recognised and rewarded Local interest 3,000 6,000 for their contribution.
This mutual gain Other 6,000 8,000 makes the Excellence in Performance Total UK charities 47,000 38,000 programme a process that is Non UK charities 126,000 105,000 fundamental to our continued growth Total 173,000 143,000 and success.
A major component of this system is the ePDR, described above.
Anoutcome of this integrated process isto create an atmosphere where No contributions were made to political employees understand that there organisations.
isadirect link between performance andcompensation.
Land and buildings Details of the carrying amount and Corporate responsibility market values of the Groups investment andsustainability properties are as disclosed in note 12 Information in relation to the Groups tothe Group financial statements.
commitment to Corporate responsibility and sustainability including additional Independent auditors information in relation to employment The independent auditors, matters is set out on pages 30 to 33.
 LLP, haveindicated their willingness tocontinue in office and a  them willbeproposed at theAGM.
Corporate governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57 57
