OUR CAPABILITIES TECHNOLOGY IN ACTION Many of Cobhams capabilities improve Airborne SATCOM Ceramic Oxygen Generating communication and keep people safe, Cobhams top of the range SATCOM System COGS which is a common requirement across antenna provides broadband Shown below is Cobhams patented, the Groups defence security and connectivity into aircraft via satellite.
unique ceramic membrane oxygen FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR STRATEGY PLEASE commercial markets.
This is why Itenables both cabin and cockpit generating technology that produces REFER TO PAGES 12 AND 13 Cobhams technology can often be connectivity, allowing passengers to stay high purity oxygen suitable for military, adapted from one market to the next, connected to the internet during flight, medical and aviation applications.
It is e. g. commercial to defence security as well as providing enhanced cockpit unique because the oxygen generation andfrom one domain to another, communications and data services.
The process is solid state with no moving e. g. aerospace to land.
system is up to half the weight of and a parts.
Instead of filling and shipping third smaller than competitor antennas, multiple cylinders of oxygen, the Commercial aircraft, fighters, satellites which is why 40 airlines and other Cobham system generates oxygen at and unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs are customers have already selected the the point where it is used, eliminating some of the most expensive real estate system, which according to one aircraft the need for delivery and storage.
The in the world, so the ability to provide manufacturer, will save it some technology has been demonstrated greater functionality with a smaller US$24,000 per aircraft per year.
inAfghanistan, where aircrews normally footprint or size, lower weight and better get 100% pure liquid oxygen by air or power characteristics will remain key The Groups latest generation SATCOM road transport, which is dangerous discriminators.
This is often referred to system, the SB200 shown below, andcostly.
combines two antennas into one, simplifying installation, weighing less As energy costs increase, customers are than 1 pounds 0.68 Kgs.
It provides constantly looking for superior technical a20 fold increase in speed over performance coupled with lower weight comparable competitive systems, and drag.
They are also interested in the bringing email and internet functionality total cost of ownership, so factors such at an affordable price to operators as the ease of installation and the of smaller jets and turboprops.
degree of maintenance and support required are also major considerations, especially as many platforms are in service for decades.
The following examples illustrate just a few of the innovative products that Cobham has developed that meet these demands.
COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT, FIGHTERS, SATELLITES AND UAVs ARE SOME OF THE MOST EXPENSIVE REAL ESTATE IN THEWORLD Business overview 10 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Radio and Audio Integration Management System RAIMS Radio and Audio Integration Management System RAIMS For more than a decade, Cobham has been investing in the development of ahighly integrated, space saving Radio and Audio Integration Management System RAIMS.
The system enables aircrew to control many of an aircrafts communications, navigation and data-link systems through a single integrated interface, lowering pilot workload and saving weight and space inthe cockpit.
As the image opposite illustrates, the size, weight and power ofthe system have been considerably reduced as well as the cabling andinstallation costs associated withthenumber of boxes or units ineach system.
IP Mesh Radios Since their launch in 2009, Internet Protocol IP Mesh radios or nodes havebeen widely used in both law US$14M INVESTMENT IN RAIMS ESTIMATED enforcement and commercial applications including large sporting TOGENERATE SOME US$250M OF REVENUE events, where the flexibility of a fluid self-healing mesh communications network, combined with non-line of sight characteristics, have made them market leaders.
The latest generation of wireless IP Mesh Radios videolinks, incorporates dual channel technology and high definition pictures, enabling video, audio and Global Positioning System GPS information to be transmitted over a much greater range which can be in excess of 30kms.
This technology will be used by anumber of TV broadcast channels and other customers at the 2012 Olympics.
The image opposite shows that in the space of three years the weight of each unit has been reduced by 85%, power usage by 50% and the physical space each unit takes up is down by 90%.
This product family has potential airborne, fixed and ground mobile security applications, as well as commercial marine applications for early threat detection on gas and oil wells.
OVER THREE YEARS WEIGHT REDUCED BY 85%, POWER USAGE BY 50%, VOLUME BY 90% Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
