CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 Independent Directors Board Meeting Attendance for2011 Board Number held 11 Number attended J Devaney 11 A Stevens 11 4 5 6 W Tucker 11 M Beresford 11 J Patterson 11 M Wareing 11 M Ronald 11 M Hagee 11 1 A Wood 6 2 P Hooley 4 1 A Wood elected on 1 July 2011 and joined the Nomination 7 89 Committee on 1 December 2011.
Corporate governance 34 34 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 J DEVANEY A STEVENS W TUCKER Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 1 2Executive Director 3Executive Director BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE BSc, CEng, FIET, FRAeS BSc, ACA, MBA Age: 64 Age: 55 Age: 49 Appointed: Director February 2010, Chairman Appointed: November 2003, appointed Appointed: May 2003 May2010 and Executive Chairman November 2011 ChiefExecutive Officer January 2010 Skills and Experience: Warren joined the Group Skills and Experience: Johns executive career Skills and Experience: Andy has resigned as Chief Financial Officer in 2003, is a chartered wasbuilt in engineering companies within the Varity fromhisrole as Chief Executive Officer due to accountant and has an MBA from INSEAD.
John has previously served as Non-executive arecurringlong-term serious back injury.
He will tojoining, he worked at Arthur Andersen, Lazard, Director of Northern Rock and Chairman of Marconi continue to carry out some duties until a new heldsenior finance positions at British Airways, plc, later renamed Telent.
He was President of Perkins ChiefExecutive Officer is appointed.
Andy joined EuroDisney and was Deputy Group Financial Director Engines in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be theGroup as Managing Director of the Aerospace of Cable and Wireless.
President of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive Systems Group.
He was appointed Chief Operating External Appointments: Non-executive Director components manufacturer.
He was subsequently Officer of the Technology Divisions in September and member of the Audit Committee of Reckitt Chief Executive of Eastern Electricity, the largest 2005 and in March 2007 assumed responsibility for Benckiser Group regional electricity company in the UK at the time.
operational management, performance and profit Committee Membership: Executive Following its acquisition by Hanson he was and loss accountability for the Group.
Prior to DirectorsCommittee appointed Executive Chairman of the Group.
joininghe qualified as a chartered engineer at External Appointments: Non-executive DowtyGroup and subsequently became Chief Chairman of National Express plc, the passenger Operating Officer ofMessier Dowty International transport Group, and Non-executive Chairman before joiningRolls-Royce as Managing Director, ofNATS, the National Air Traffic Services DefenceAerospace.
Committee Membership: Chairman of the External Appointments: None Nomination Committee and member of the Committee Membership: Executive Remuneration Committee DirectorsCommittee M BERESFORD J PATTERSON M WAREING Senior Independent Independent Independent 4Non-executive Director 5Non-executive Director 6Non-executive Director CBE, MAMechSc, FIET CBE, MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci CCMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI Age: 69 Age: 64 Age: 57 Appointed: 2004 Appointed: 2005 Appointed: 2010 Skills and Experience: Marcus was Chairman Skills and Experience: John qualified in Skills and Experience: Michael worked for ofRicardo plc from 2003 to 2009 and was a medicinein 1971 and obtained a Membership now KPMGfrom 1973 until 2009 when he retired.
Non-executive Director of Spirent plc from 1999 Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians in 1974.
Between 2005and 2009, he was International untillate 2006.
He was an Executive Director He joined ICI now AstraZeneca in 1975 and in ChiefExecutive Officer, KPMG, Chairman, KPMG ofGKNplc from 1992 to 2002 and Chief Executive December 2004 was appointed to the main Board International Executive Team and Chairman, KPMG from2001 to 2002. asExecutive Director responsible for development.
He was formerly the Prime External Appointments: Non-executive He retired as a Director of that firm in March 2009.
Ministers Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq.
Directorof Melplash Agricultural SocietyLimited He is a former President of the Association of the External Appointments: Non-executive Director Committee Membership: Member of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, a former Nonand Chairman of the Audit Committee of Wolseley Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees executive Director of Amersham plc and a former plc and Senior Independent Non-executive Director member of the supervisory Board of the UK and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Intertek Medicines Control Agency.
Group plc, Chairman of the Iraq Advisory Board for External Appointments: Non-executive Director G4S plc and Economic Development Adviser to the of Ferring Holding SA and Non-executive Governor Government of Afghanistan of Manchester Academic Health Science Centre Committee Membership: Chairman of the Committee Membership: Chairman of the AuditCommittee and member of the Nomination Remuneration Committee and a member of Committee theNomination and Audit Committees M RONALD M HAGEE A WOOD Independent Non-executive Director Independent Independent Non-executive Director 7 CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE 8Non-executive Director 9 MA, MBA Age: 70 Age: 67 Age: 48 Appointed: 2007 Appointed: 2008 Appointed: 2011 Skills and Experience: Mark was, until his Skills and Experience: Mike served in the US Skills and Experience: Alison is currently retirement at the end of 2006, Chief Operating Marine Corps for almost 39 years ending his career GlobalDirector Corporate Development & Strategy Officer of BAE Systems plc and Chief Executive in2007 as Commandant of the Marine Corps and for National Grid plc.
She was formerly Group Officer of BAE Systems Inc, its wholly-owned US amember of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
His numerous Strategic Development Director for BAE Systems plc subsidiary.
Previously he was Vice-President, military assignments included Commanding General, responsible for corporate strategy, mergers and programme management with Litton Industries 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, Deputy Director acquisitions and strategic business development andChief Operating Officer of AEL Industries.
ofOperations at the US European Command and across the UK and US.
She has held two NonMarkwas a Non-executive Director of DynCorp Executive Assistant to the Director of Central executive Directorships: BTG plc from 2004 to 2008 International Inc. Intelligence.
He also served in a number of and THUS plc from 2007 to 2008.
External Appointments: Non-executive Director diplomatic missions including the presidential External Appointments: Chairman of Aerospace, of ATK Inc. and Aeroflex Holdings, Inc. senior adviser diplomatic mission to Somalia.
Aviation and Defence Knowledge Transfer Network ofVeritas Capital LLC and a management consultant External Appointments: President and CEO of Committee Membership: Member of the Committee Membership: Member ofthe the Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, Nomination Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committees Texas, USA, Co-Chairman of the National Security Advisory Council for the Center of US Global Engagement and US Global Leadership Campaign, Non-executive Director of sgi Corp. Kaseman, LLC DynCorp International Inc. and Freedom Group Inc. Committee Membership: Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Corporate governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 35
