WHAT WE DO: OUR BUSINESS MODEL WE OFFER A TECHNICALLY DIVERSE AND INNOVATIVE RANGE OF TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES THAT HELP TO PROTECT LIVES AND LIVELIHOODS, RESPONDING TO CUSTOMER NEEDS WITH AGILITY THAT DIFFERENTIATES US Our role within the industry Our primary focus is on Tier 3 products We focus our development To develop products that and components with selective on increasing functionality enhance capability in line operations at Tier 2. and consider: withcustomer needs and are: Tier 1 System of Systems Size Smaller Platforms Weight Lighter Tier 2 Platform Systems & Signal Processing Power More power efficient Subsystems Tier 3 Circuits Commercial aircraft, fighters, satellites and unmanned vehicles are some of the most expensive real estate in the world, so our ability to provide greater Components functionality at a lower weight, with a smaller footprint and better power characteristics will remain a key discriminator.
Increasing fuel costs mean that our customers are constantly looking forsuperior technical performance coupled with lower weight and drag.
Where we fit into the supply chain Our supply chain Research and Manufacturing Development COST OF SALES FOR MATERIALS CORE R&D INVESTMENT Excellence in Delivery is an ambitious and far reaching programme which, in a period 608m 129m of over three years, will completely 2010: 606m 2010: 125m transform Cobham by putting excellence representing 33% 2010: 32% of revenue at the very heart of everything we do.
Cobham spent 608m in 2011 Cobham funded Research and Development There are three components to this with suppliers on five continents.
orPrivate Venture PV was 70m 2010:69m programme, which focus on a number Aspart of the Excellence in representing 5.2% 2010: 5.0% of revenue, ofprincipal manufacturing locations.
Deliveryprogramme, non-core witha strategic objective ofincreasing manufacturing activities are investment to 6%.
STANDARD OPERATING FRAMEWORK beingfurther outsourced to Establishing a Cobham way of doing thesupply chain as businesses The majority of Cobhams customer funded business in the form of a standard set areintegrated into principal Research and Development R&D and Private of good practice tools, processes and manufacturing locations.
Venture PV isspent when the Group is down techniques that will allow us to deliver selected fora project or programme, so operational excellence consistently There is a major investment in investment is linked to market opportunities.
training to improve supply chain management across the Group, Customer funding is used to develop products, asthe performance of suppliers particularly in the USA.
iscritical to the timely delivery, costand quality of the goods Regardless of the funding source, the focus manufactured by Cobham.
ison development rather than research.
Business overview 4 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Many of Cobhams capabilities We specialise in meeting the almost insatiable demand improve communication and fordata, connectivity and bandwidth in defence, security keeppeople safe, which is a and commercial environments.
common requirement across theGroups defence, security andcommercial markets.
This Supply products that operate Space iswhy Cobhams technology everywhere including extreme canoften beadapted from environments, from onemarket tothenext, deepspaceto the e. g. commercial to defence depthsoftheocean Aerospace security andfromone domain toanother, e. g. aerospace to land.
Land See page 10 for Maritime more information Customers NEW ERP SYSTEM Cobhams customers range Lock down the standard operating from Original Equipment NUMBER OF COUNTRIES framework processes with a Cobham Manufacturers OEMs and WE DO BUSINESS WITH Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system, prime contractors, who capture scale economies and reduce incorporate the Groups over 100 complexity further through technology into their implementation of shared services.
products or platforms, to other customers, such as INTEGRATION airlines and government Integrate some smaller production agencies who buy Cobham AFTERMARKET SALES facilities into the principal locations equipment directly.
to increase the coverage of our 17% Standard Operating Framework.
OEMs PRIMES GOVERNMENT AGENCIES COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
