OUR STRATEGY THE GROUPS STRATEGY IS TO BUILD AND MAINTAIN LEADING MARKET POSITIONS IN SELECTED HIGHER GROWTH TECHNOLOGY MARKETS Focus on defence, security Sell technically differentiated OBJECTIVE 1 2 and commercial markets products and services Focus on markets and customers the Stand out from the competition Groupunderstands Compete on technology and reputation Pursue growth opportunities in large markets Solve difficult problems Win larger positions through collaboration Cobham continues to focus on its defence Cobhams technology helps it stand out DESCRIPTION security and commercial markets.
The term fromitscompetitors with products based on commercial includes civil and general aviation, differentiated technology.
This means having aswell as marine markets.
The Group understands thebest product solutions in the market and these markets and knows how to be successful investing in people to stay at the forefront inthem.
With collaboration across the Group, oftechnology.
Cobham is able to win larger programme positions, which its individual companies would be unable towin individually.
For more information See page 9 See page 10, 11 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS THE FOLLOWING KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ARE USED TO MONITOR PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING THE GROUPS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES The Board closely monitors progress made against further specified pagewhere performance in the TheDirectors remuneration report on pages 44 the Groups five strategic objectives with the aid of year isdescribed in more detail.
to53 sets out Cobhams remuneration policy a scorecard of financial and non-financial metrics, andits application in more detail.
and this scorecard is regularly updated and The Remuneration Committee has alsolinked total reviewed.
Cobham considers the most important compensation with theachievement of specific of these scorecard metrics to be its Key and measurable progress against Key Performance Performance Indicators KPIs.
Indicators, both as individually specified financial targets and within personal objectives.
This The Groups KPIs have been set out onpage 13 and ensures that employee performance isaligned each one has been cross-referenced to the relevant with the achievement of theGroups strategic strategic objectives on pages 12 and 13 and to a objectives and with shareholder expectations.
Business overview 12 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Build sustainable Deliver operational Actively manage 3 45 scalepositions excellence theportfolio Develop and hold top three market positions Delight customers Focus on businesses with growth potential Have the scale to re-invest Help employees do what they do best Growing the Groups capabilities Build credibility and staying power Excellence across the Group Acquire businesses that will accelerate growth Cobham wants to develop and hold a top This is what Excellence in Delivery, combined with The strategy is to acquire businesses thatdeliver threemarket position by building and maintaining our talent development programmes are all about.
technologies or capabilities that will help the scale to support future investment in people Its about enabling all our employees to do what Group build scale in its chosenmarkets, accelerate andtechnology.
Cobham needs to have enough they do best, delighting customers by improving growth and increase shareholder value.
Cobham scale in its markets to have the financial muscle quality and on time delivery and shortening hassuccessfully acquired some 50companies in orcredibility that customers look for in what product lead times.
the past decade investing around 1.5 billion, so isavery long term industry.
this is very much part of the strategy.
The Group hasalso sold businesses to keep focused on markets where we have scale and differentiation.
See page 7 See page 4 See page 8 2011 2010 For more Key performance indicators Strategic objectives actual actual information Core businesses organic revenue growth 0.3% 0.7% Faster than 12345 See pages 22 and 23 ourmarkets Underlying EPS growth at constant translation 12.6% 3.8% High single 12345 See page 23 exchange rates digit Operating cash conversion 94.8% 79.3% 80% 4 See page 25 Core businesses PV investment 5.2% 5.0% 6% 123 See page 22 Staff safety major accident incident rate 465 565 zero 234 See page 33 Voluntary staff turnover 8.4% 8.0% 10% 234 See page 33 Business overview Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13
