Top 20 properties enhanced LED screens and 1 Cardinal Place, a agship branch of Barclays.
SW1 Principal occupiers TDK Europe, McDonalds, Stunning trio of buildings Barclays, Boots completed in 2006, encompassing of ce space 10 St Davids Dewi Sant, Cardiff and retail accommodation.
This mixed-use scheme opened This landmark site is home in 2009 and has transformed to blue-chip businesses and Cardiff city centre.
It showcases retailers including a Marks the best of the UK high street in & Spencer anchor store.
Principal occupiers Microsoft, Wellington Principal occupiers Management John Lewis, New Look, H&M 1 11 Times Square, EC4 This of ce building, based in an 2 New Street Square, EC4 6 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth improving City area, was built in Innovative of ces with retail and Offering a unique blend of outlet 2003 and gradually acquired by restaurants.
Recreating traditional shopping, leisure and entertainment Land Securities since 2005. ground-level routes, including a on a stunning waterfront location, Principal occupiers delightful public square, the this landmark scheme is a bustling Bank of New York Mellon, property offers of ce space with centre of mixed-use space.
Dechert, Wall Street System attractive retail and leisure Principal occupiers Services facilities.
Developed by Land Vue Cinema, M&S, Nike, Gap Securities and completed in 2008.
12 The Centre, Livingston Principal occupiers 7 Cabot Circus, Bristol At the heart of Livingston town Deloitte, Taylor Wessing, See opposite page.
centre, this recently extended Speechly Bircham centre, divided into five distinct 8 Bankside 2 & 3, SE1 zones, is home to over 155 shops 3 One New Change, EC4 A contemporary of ce, retail and and five new restaurants.
A unique of ce and leisure leisure space.
The two buildings Principal occupiers destination in an iconic building occupy a prime site on the South Debenhams, M&S, H&M, in the City of London, with a roof Bank, opposite the City and close 4 Next, Boots terrace offering stunning views to the West End, served by four of St Pauls Cathedral.
The retail major railway termini and and leisure space opened on several Underground lines.
Principal occupier Principal occupiers The Royal Bank of Scotland K&L Gates, CME, H&M, M&S, Topshop 9 Piccadilly Circus, W1 Of ces, retail, leisure and a world 4 Queen Annes Gate, SW1 famous advertising landmark.
5 8 Built by Land Securities in 1977, 2009 saw the introduction of comprehensively refurbished in 2008: it is the headquarters of the Ministry of Justice.
Principal occupier Central Government 5 White Rose, Leeds 9 10 Award-winning shopping centre 2 with more than 100 stores and a 13 Eland House, SW1 range of cafs and food outlets.
The building that launched our Located on the outskirts of Leeds, ongoing regeneration of Victoria, it serves a large and loyal Eland House was completed in catchment ensuring a consistently 1995 and is occupied by the strong performance from retailers.
Department for Communities Principal occupiers and Local Government.
Sainsburys, Debenhams, Principal occupier 3 6 Primark, M&S Central Government 24 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 The essential read 14 R etail World Team Valley, Gateshead Situated three miles south of Newcastle upon Tyne this regional retail park comprises 27 units.
Principal occupiers 11 16 TK Maxx, Next, Boots, Mothercare, Arcadia 15 Arundel Great Court, WC2 This future development opportunity will create two new buildings: an of ce building located at the north of the site, on Aldwych: and a residential 12 13 and hotel building to the south, which will exploit the unrivalled views along the river Thames.
Principal occupiers Detica, British American Tobacco, Swisstel 16 The Bridges, Sunderland One of the North of Englands 14 15 17 largest shopping centres repre senting the prime shopping destinat ion for Sunderland.
7 Cabot Circus, Bristol The centre is anchored by Opened in September 2008, this exceptional retail, leisure Debenhams and has over and residential space integrates seamlessly with the city centre.
It provides Bristol with the quality and choice of amenities Principal occupiers it deserves.
Debenhams, Tesco, Next, 18 Principal occupiers H&M, New Look House of Fraser, Harvey Nichols, H&M 17 Portland House, SW1 18 Westwood Cross, Thanet This 29-storey 1960s Westwood Cross shopping and development is a lynchpin in our leisure centre in the Thanet regeneration of the area.
Each of region, provides a wide variety the 26 of ce oors offers around of retail and leisure units.
Principal occupiers Principal occupiers M&S, Debenhams, H&M, Next Tradedoubler, Regus 19 La keside Retail Park, West Thurrock This retail park is adjacent to Lakeside Shopping Centre and comprises 21 units.
Principal occupiers Currys, Next, Toys R Us, Argos, Mothercare 19 20 Overgate, Dundee Overgate is the dominant retail offer in Dundee with more than 60 units.
It attracts over 14 million visitors a year.
Principal occupiers Debenhams, Next, Arcadia, Gap, Primark 7 20 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 25
