The essential read Who we are Land Securities is a FTSE 100 company and the largest Real Estate Investment Trust REIT in the UK on the basis of market capitalisation.
The property crisis Downturn turns The Company We enter the We now own and Founded by Harold The Company buys In one of Britains Samuel when he key London assets biggest property of 1974 requires the to growth.
Land capitalises on Property Outsourcmanage more than 2 sale of assets valued Securities moves the downturn to ing market with the 2.8 million m acquired Land Securiand acquires developdeals at the time, of ties Investment Trust ment company Land Securities at 200m.
into the retail buy a number of purchase of Trillium commercial property.
took over The City of London Real to REIT status in 2007, Property Company.
Our strategy Our market Combined portfolio value Our strategy is simple: to be at the forefront 10.56bn Retail of meeting the space requirements of our customers and to provide an attractive total return for our shareholders.
We focus on the two largest segments of the UK London commercial property market retail and London of ces which gives us a broad range of opportunities and a high-quality Overview We are focused on the two largest segments of the UK commercial tenant base.
property market retail and London of ces.
These markets are In these market segments, we have strong relationships with occupiers cyclical and respond to macro-economic trends.
They are also and specialist expertise.
We allocate capital to exploit our skills and affected by speci c national and local in uences such as planning, appropriate risk-return opportunities through the cycle.
employment and general business activity.
In property investment, we add value through active management of assets and the timing of acquisitions and disposals.
Retail In development, we create value by delivering the right product at the We own, manage and develop shopping centres and retail parks right point in the cycle while keeping a tight focus on cost and timing.
Our assets are in key locations that have either a The Groups Board directs strategy.
It also monitors the proven record of trading success or excellent potential for future balance sheet and financial performance to ensure capital is allocated success.
For more information on the retail market please see p44.
appropriately both across the two business areas and between investment and development activity.
Each business area bene ts London from the Groups highly rated debt structure and its access to We own, manage and develop a portfolio of of ce properties in the attractively priced debt finance.
capital complemented by retail and residential accommodation.
Our assets are concentrated in central London, from Victoria in the west to the City in the east.
For more information on the London market please see p52.
