Board of Directors 2 10 3 7 5 4 6 9 12 1 11 8 60 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Board of Directors 1 Alison Carnwath 58 7 Kevin OByrne 46 Chairman and Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Member of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Nominations Committee Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in April 2008.
Kevin is a chartered accountant who trained September 2004, becoming Chairman in November 2008. with Arthur Andersen and has been the Group Finance A chartered accountant, with a background in investment Director of Kingsher plc since 2008.
He was previously banking, Alison holds Non-executive Directorships at Group Finance Director of DSG International PLC now Barclays PLC and Man Group plc and is an independent Dixons Retail Plc, Chief Financial officer for Hemscott Director of PACCAR Inc. a Fortune 500 Company Publishing Group and European Finance Director for Listed on the NASDAQ.
She is also a Non-executive The Quaker Oats Company.
Director of CforC Ltd and Chairman of the Investment 8 David Rough 60 Committee and Management Board of ISIS Equity Independent Non-executive Director Partners.
Member of the Audit and Nominations Committees, 2 Francis Salway 53 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Executive Director Joined the Board as a Non-executive Director in April Joined the Group in October 2000.
A chartered surveyor, 2002 and appointed Senior Independent Director in Francis was previously an Investment Director at November 2003.
As Group Director Investments of Standard Life Investments where he was responsible for Legal and General Group PLC until December 2001, the management of a number of property funds.
He was David was responsible for their investment fund appointed to the Board in April 2001, becoming Chief management and also served as Chairman of the Operating officer in January 2003 and Group Chief Association of British Insurers Investment Committee.
Francis is also a Non-executive David is a Non-executive Director of Xstrata Group Director of Next plc and a past President of the British PLC and the London Metal Exchange.
9 Sir Stuart Rose 62 3 Martin Greenslade 46 Independent Non-executive Director Executive Director Member of the Remuneration and Joined the Board as Group Finance Director in Nominations Committees September 2005.
A chartered accountant, having trained Joined the Board as a Non-executive Director in May with Coopers & Lybrand, Martin was previously Group 2003.
Sir Stuart was Chairman of Business in the Finance Director of Alvis plc.
He has also worked in Community from 2008-2010.
His extensive retail corporate finance, having served as a member of the experience includes the positions of Chief Executive and executive committee of Nordeas investment banking then Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group plc from division and Managing Director of its UK business.
2004 until 2010, Chief Executive of Arcadia Group from Martin is a Director of International Justice Mission UK.
2000 until December 2002 and Chief Executive of Booker PLC from 1998 until 2000.
He is Non-executive 4 Robert Noel 47 Director of Woolworths Holdings South Africa and is Executive Director on the advisory board of Bridgepoint Capital.
Appointed to the Board in January 2010 as Managing Director, London Portfolio.
A chartered surveyor, Robert 10 Bo Lerenius CBE 64 was previously Property Director at Great Portland Independent Non-executive Director Estates plc between August 2002 and September 2009.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Prior to that, he was a Director at property services group Nominations Committees Nelson Bakewell.
Robert is a Director of The New West Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in End Company, the Central London Business June 2004.
Bo is currently Chairman of both Mouchel plc Improvement District and a Trustee of the property and Koole Tanktransport The Netherlands, holds industry charity, Landaid and was formerly Chairman Non-executive Directorships of G4S plc and Thomas of the Westminster Property Association.
Cook Group PLC, is a Senior Advisor to EQT, the Swedish Risk Capital Group, and is Honorary Vice 5 Richard Akers 49 President of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce for Executive Director the UK.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of Joined the Board in May 2005, following his appointment Associated British Ports Holdings PLC and Chief as Managing Director, Retail Portfolio in July 2004.
Executive officer and Vice Chairman of Stena Line AB.
A chartered surveyor, Richard joined the Group in 1995 and previously held the position of Head of Retail 11 Chris Bartram 62 Portfolio Management.
Richard is President of the Independent Non-executive Director British Council of Shopping Centres BCSC, the main Member of the Audit and Nominations Committees industry body for retail property owners.
Appointed to the Board in August 2009, Chris is Chairman of Orchard Street Investment Management 6 Sir Christopher Bland 73 LLP.
A chartered surveyor, he is also a Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director of the Crown Estate and Wilkins Fellow of Member of the Nominations Committee Downing College, Cambridge.
Past appointments Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in include serving as Managing Director of Haslemere NV, April 2008, Sir Christopher served as Chairman of Land President of the British Property Federation and Securities Trillium Limited until its sale in January 2009.
Chairman of the Bank of England Property Forum.
His extensive business experience includes serving as Chairman of BT Group plc and Chairman of the Board 12 Simon Palley 53 of Governors of the BBC.
He is Chairman of the Royal Independent Non-executive Director Shakespeare Company, Canongate Books and Leiths Member of the Remuneration Committee School of Food and Wine.
Appointed to the Board in August 2010, Simon currently holds non-executive roles in two private businesses, Haymarket Financial a specialist UK Corporate lending institution and Regency Entertainment a Greek casino operator.
An investment banker, he is a Trustee of the University of Pennsylvania and was previously Managing Partner at BC Partners and Vice President of Bankers Trust Company.
