The essential read Our management Our vision Executive team Our vision, Shaping the future of property, Francis Salway Richard Akers Chief Executive Managing highlights our ambition to set the standards Director, Retail Portfolio for tomorrow in our industry.
It also covers everything we do today, from designing a new building to managing our carbon footprint, Robert Noel Martin Greenslade from setting the service charge to looking at Managing Group Finance Director, Director new business opportunities.
Whatever we do, London Portfolio we aim to lead our sector, not follow.
Governance and risk The Board is responsible for providing leadership for the Group.
It ensures that the right strategy is set, acceptable risks are taken and appropriate financial and human resources are in place in order to deliver value to shareholders and bene ts to the wider community.
The Board also sets standards for ethical behaviour and for monitoring environmental and health and safety performance.
You can read more about governance on p68, and more on risk on p41.
Remuneration We strongly believe that the Companys remuneration policy should be aligned with, and sensitive to, shareholders interests.
Pay and rewards should attract the best people to the business and incentivise them to produce superior returns for shareholders.
This is why a substantial part of our Executive Directors reward is performancerelated pay, with incentives to exceed industry benchmarks and outperform our peer group in terms of Total Shareholder Return.
You can read more about remuneration on p76.
Our values Corporate Responsibility For us, good Corporate Responsibility is about striking the right balance between the economic, environmental and social aspects of our activities.
We believe our assets should be part of, not apart from, the communities they serve.
Our aim is to be the property company people choose to do business with.
You can read more about our approach to Corporate Responsibility on p62.
Our values embody the way in which we work together to ful l our objectives.
By transforming our values into action, we strengthen our ability to deliver high levels of customer service and business New Street Square reducing energy consumption performance over the long term.
Everyone who works for and with through behaviour change us is expected to uphold our values.
