44 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 BOARD OF DIRECTORS John Napier Chairman Nomination Committee Chairman, member of Remuneration Committee John Napier joined the Board in June 2008 and became Chairman in July 2008.
From December 2008 to May 2010 he also served as Chief Executive on an interim basis.
John is also Chairman of RSA Insurance Group plc, a position he has held since 2003.
John was Chief Executive of Hays plc from 1990 to 1998.
From 1998 he was Chairman of Booker until its sale to Iceland in 2000, and Chairman of Kelda from 1999 to 2008.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive of AGB, the market research and information company and worked 10 years overseas in Australia as an Executive Director of James John Napier Chairman Hardie Industries.
Jerry Buhlmann CEO, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media Member of Nomination Committee Jerry Buhlmann was appointed Group CEO in May 2010, having joined the Board in June 2008 as CEO of Aegis Media.
Jerry has over 25 years experience in the media and advertising industries.
From 2003 to May 2008 he was CEO of Aegis Media EMEA.
Between 2000 and 2003, Jerry was CEO of Carat International.
In 1989 he founded media agency BBJ, which was sold to Aegis in 1999.
Jerry Buhlmann CEO, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media Nick Priday Chief Financial Officer, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media Nick Priday was appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2009.
Nick has held a variety of finance roles at Aegis since joining in 2003, and was previously director of financial reporting, analysis and control.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young.
Nick Priday Chief Financial Officer, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media Harold Mitchell, AC Executive Chairman, Aegis Media Pacific Australia and New Zealand Harold Mitchell, AC was appointed to the Board in December 2010 following the Groups acquisition of Mitchell Communication Group Limited, of which he was founder and executive Chairman.
Harold is based in Australia, where he is a non-executive director of Crown Limited and Chairman of ThoroughVision Pty Ltd.
He holds a large number of community and arts roles, being the founder of the Harold Mitchell Foundation and serving as Chairman of CARE Australia, Melbourne Rebels Rugby Union, the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, Melbourne Recital Centre, Art Exhibitions Australia, Television Sydney TVS and The Melbourne City School.
He is also Harold Mitchell, AC Vice-Chairman of Tennis Australia and a non-executive director of Deakin Executive Chairman, Aegis Media Pacific Australia and New Zealand Foundation.
45 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 John Brady Non-executive director Member of Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee John Brady joined the Board in August 2009.
He also serves on the Boards of Greene King plc, Osborne Clarke LLP, Triumph Motorcycles Ltd and John Brady Non-executive director Invest Northern Ireland as a non-executive director, and was previously a non-executive director of Hanson plc.
Between 1980 and 2004 he worked for McKinsey & Company, the international management consultancy.
He was made a director in 1994 and had a range of senior roles including responsibility for McKinseys European Retail and Marketing practices.
Simon Laffin Non-executive director Audit Committee Chairman, member of Nomination Committee Simon Laffin joined the Board in August 2009.
He is Chairman of Hozelock Group and Assura Group Limited, a non-executive director of Quintain Estates & Development PLC and an advisor to CVC Capital Partners.
From 2007 to 2008 he served as a non-executive director of Northern Rock, as part Simon Laffin Non-executive director of the rescue team, and from 2009 to 2010 served on the Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Between 1995 and 2004 he was Group CFO of UK grocery retailer Safeway, which he joined in 1990.
Martin Read, CBE Non-executive director Member of Audit Committee and Nomination Committee Dr Martin Read joined the Board in August 2009.
He is Chair of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a non-executive director of Invensys plc, Lloyds of London and the Cabinet Office Efficiency and Reform Board.
He was Chief Executive of Logica plc, the international IT services company, from 1993 to 2007 and has served as a non-executive director on the boards Martin Read, CBE of British Airways, Siemens Holdings, Boots and ASDA.
Non-executive director Charles Strauss Non-executive director, Senior independent director Member of Audit Committee and Nomination Committee Charles Strauss joined the Board in September 2003.
He is a non-executive director of The Hartford Financial Services Group, St. Vincent's Medical Center and St. Vincent's Health Services in the US.
He is a US national with 35 years international experience in consumer products businesses, including 18 with Unilever.
From 2000 to 2004 Charles served on the Unilever Board as Group President, Unilever Home & Personal Care, Chairman of Unilevers North American Committee, and its US President and CEO.
He was formerly a director of The Hershey Company.
Charles Strauss Non-executive director, Senior independent director Lorraine Trainer Non-executive director Remuneration Committee Chairman, member of Nomination Committee Lorraine Trainer joined the Board in August 2005.
She is also a nonexecutive director of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
She has held a number of human resource leadership roles in international organisations, focusing on performance and development.
These include Citibank, the London Stock Exchange and Coutts, then part of the NatWest Group.
She now runs a business in board advisory work and development.
She also has significant experience of working with arts organisations and the not-forprofit sector.
Lorraine Trainer Non-executive director GOVERNANCE
