46 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their report and the audited financial Donations statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December The Groups approach with respect to charitable donations and 2011.
The Business and Financial Reviews set out on pages 6 to the amounts donated are detailed on pages 39 to 40.
No political 43 and the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 51 donations were made by the Company during the year.
to 55 form part of this report.
Supplier payment policy Results and dividends The Company does not impose a formal code of payment The consolidated income statement is set out on page 65 and practice on its subsidiaries.
However, the Groups policy is to try shows a profit for the financial year of 165.3m 2010: 43.0m.
to create relationships with its suppliers such that they trust us An interim dividend of 1.08p per ordinary share was paid on and want to do business with us.
In selecting external suppliers 23 September 2011 to ordinary shareholders, shortly before a we use competitive processes that are fair and transparent, and 10 for 11 share consolidation, described further on page 47, was designed to maximise value and quality of service for our clients undertaken on 24 October 2011.
This payment is equivalent to and ourselves.
a dividend of 1.19p per share on a post-consolidation basis.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had 42 days purchases The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 2.01p per outstanding 2010: 50 days.
The creditor day analysis is not ordinary share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, applicable to the holding company.
will be payable on 4 July 2012 to ordinary shareholders registered at 15 June 2012.
If approved, this will make a total dividend for the Directors year of 3.20p per share on a post-consolidation basis, excluding The names of the directors at the date of this report and their the special dividend announced on 14 October 2011.
This special biographical details are given on pages 44 and 45. dividend of 15.53p per share equivalent to 17.08p per share on a The only change to the Board during the year was the retirement post-consolidation basis was paid on 2 November 2011, following of Robert Philpott on 31 December 2011. the sale of Synovate, and increases the total dividend for the year to 20.28p per share on a post-consolidation basis.
The total The interests of the directors in the shares and share incentives dividend for 2010 was 2.75p per share.
of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 60 to 62.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding Re-election of directors company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related The Board notes that the UK Corporate Governance Code companies within the Aegis Media division provide a broad range issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Corporate of services in the areas of media and digital communications, Governance Code provides for the annual re-election of all while Aztec operates a scan data services provision business.
As explained in the Directors report last year this is not without risk, and the Company chose not to implement The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting this provision at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Board the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in continues to have this view and believes it is in the interests Note 16 to the parent company financial statements.
The of the Companys shareholders as a whole not to put up all Company has a branch in Luxembourg.
John Napier, Chairman, Jerry Buhlmann, CEO and Nick Priday, CFO will all offer Review of business and future developments themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
A review of the business and likely future developments of the Group is given in the Chief Executives report on pages 8 to 11, Details of all the directors service agreements, including notice the Business Reviews on pages 12 to 23 and the Financial periods, are given in the Remuneration report on page 58. Review on pages 24 to 29.
Those sections form part of, and are incorporated by reference within, this Directors report.
Directors indemnities A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by Financial instruments the Articles of Association and sections 232 and 234 of the Information about the use of financial instruments by the Companies Act 2006, has been granted by the Company to Company and its subsidiaries is given in Note 20 to the financial each of its directors.
Under the QTPIs the Company undertakes statements and in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section to indemnify each director against liability to third parties on pages 30 to 33. excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed Post-balance sheet events to the Company if the director is convicted or, in an action that The directors are not aware of any significant post-balance sheet is brought by the Company, judgement is given against the events that require disclosure in the financial statements other director.
Directors resigning from the Board continue to have than those disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements on the benefit of the QTPI for potential liability to third parties that page 117. occurred prior to their resignation.
47 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Substantial shareholdings Notifications received between 1 January 2012 As at 31 December 2011 and 13 March 2012 Shareholder Number of shares % Number of shares % Bollor Group 309,919,927 26.46 Fidelity FMR LLC 58,831,354 5.01 BlackRock 59,446,307 5.08 58,357,136 4.98 BlackRock 58,724,187 5.01 Mitchell family 48,965,019 4.18 Norges Bank 46,436,386 3.96 Legal & General Group 42,363,387 3.62 Standard Life 39,495,036 3.37 notification received on 7 March 2012 notification received on 9 January 2012 based on notifications made prior to, and then adjusted for, the 10 for 11 share consolidation effected in October 2011 referred to below At the dates indicated above the Company had been notified Details of the shares held by the Trust are set out in Note 24 to of interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares as indicated the financial statements.
The trustees of the Trust may vote or above, in accordance with chapter five of the Disclosure and abstain from voting on shares held in the Trust in any way they Transparency Rules, or understood such interests to exist as think fit and in doing so may take into account both financial and a result of enquiries made on its behalf.
non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the Trust.
Except as set out in the table above, no interests have been No person has any special rights of control over the Companys disclosed to the Company in accordance with chapter five of the share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules between 1 January 2012 and The directors are authorised to allot unissued shares in the 13 March 2012.
Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 21,435,020.
No shares have been issued or allotted during the year under the Share capital authority held by the directors, nor is there any current intention Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with to do so, save for shares issued to satisfy existing obligations, details of movements in the Companys issued share capital including the exercise of share options.
This authority is valid during the year, are shown in Note 23 to the financial statements until the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at on page 109. which time a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority On 24 October 2011 the Company undertook a 10 for 11 share as detailed in the accompanying circular.
consolidation, as a result of which the number of shares in The Company has not purchased, or created any charges over, its issue was reduced by 117,087,928 and the nominal value of the own shares in the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Company Companys ordinary shares was increased from 5p per share has not had the authority to allot shares without regard to the to 5.5p per share.
This share consolidation took effect following pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts, or to purchase the declaration of a special dividend of 15.53p per share to its own shares, since the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
shareholders on the register at close of business on 21 October 2011.
The dividend was paid on 2 November 2011 and was funded Appointment and replacement of directors out of the proceeds from the sale of Synovate.
The special dividend With regard to the appointment of directors the Company is equivalent to 17.08p per share on a post-consolidation basis.
is governed by its Articles of Association, the Corporate The Company has one class of share capital that is divided into Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
ordinary shares of 5.5p each and that carry no right to fixed The Company is required to have no fewer than two and no more income.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at than 16 directors.
Directors may be appointed by the Company general meetings of the Company.
by ordinary resolution or by a resolution of the Board.
A director There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding or appointed by the Board holds office until the following annual the transfer of shares or voting rights, which are governed by the general meeting but is then eligible for re-appointment.
general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing The Articles of Association provide that, at every annual general legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements meeting, any director who held office at the time of the two between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at transfer of shares or on voting rights, although the Company either of them must retire and may offer himself for re-election.
has entered into an agreement with Harold Mitchell, one of the In addition, any director who has been in office, other than as a executive directors, restricting his ability to sell shares in the director holding an executive position, for a continuous period of Company prior to November 2012, as described more fully in nine years or more at the date of the meeting must also retire Note 33 on page 117. and may offer himself for re-election.
At the annual general The trustees of the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust the meeting at which a director retires, shareholders can pass an Trust have agreed to waive any right to dividend payments on ordinary resolution to re-elect the director or to elect some other shares held within the Trust.
This waiver was applied in respect of eligible person in his place.
all dividends paid during the year, including the special dividend paid on 2 November 2011 following the disposal of Synovate.
GOVERNANCE 48 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The only people who can be elected as directors at an annual Each holder of Notes has an option, on a change of control general meeting are: i directors retiring at the meeting: ii of the Company, to require the Company to prepay the entire anyone recommended by the directors: and iii anyone nominated principal amount of the Notes held by that holder together by a shareholder.
The nominating shareholder must be entitled with interest accrued thereon and the Make-Whole Amount to vote at the meeting.
He must deliver to the Company a letter as defined in each of the Note Purchase Agreements stating that he intends to nominate another person for election Pursuant to a subscription agreement dated 18 March 2010 and the written consent of that person to be elected.
These between, amongst others, Aegis Group Capital Jersey documents must be delivered to the Company not less than Limited as issuer the Issuer, the Company as guarantor seven and not more than 42 days before the day of the meeting.
and the financial institutions named therein as managers The Company may by special resolution remove any director before and pursuant to a trust deed dated 20 April 2010 between the expiration of his term of office.
A director automatically stops the Issuer as issuer, the Company as guarantor and Citicorp being a director if: i he resigns: ii he offers to resign and the Trustee Company Limited as trustee, the Issuer issued Company accepts his offer: iii all of the other directors being at 190,600,000 2.50% guaranteed convertible bonds due 2015 least three in number pass a resolution or sign a written notice the Convertible Bonds requiring his resignation: iv he is or has been suffering from On a change of control of the Company the holder of each mental or physical ill health and the directors pass a resolution Convertible Bond will have the right to require the Issuer to removing him from office: v he is absent without the permission redeem the Convertible Bond at its principal amount together of the Board for a continuous period of six months and the with accrued unpaid interest.
directors pass a resolution removing him from office: vi he becomes bankrupt or makes a composition with his creditors Employment policies generally: vii he is prohibited by law from being a director: The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has or viii he ceases to be a director under legislation or is developed employment policies that meet local conditions and removed pursuant to the Articles.
These policies are based on the best traditions and practices in any given country in which it operates.
Significant agreements See further pages 31 and 35 to 36.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to, or the holders of notes or bonds issued Human rights, diversity and disability pursuant to, those agreements to exercise termination or other The Group has a series of human resources policies that require rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: its employees to act respectfully and responsibly at all times.
450,000,000 multicurrency credit facility agreement dated These policies include policies on human rights, diversity 26 July 2010 between, amongst others, the Company, and disability.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as agent and the financial We are committed to treating each employee and applicant institutions named therein as banks the Facility fairly and equitably.
Employment decisions are based on merit, On a change of control of the Company, unless the Majority experience and potential, without regard to race, nationality, Banks as defined therein otherwise agree, all loans, letters sex, marital status, age, religion or sexual orientation.
We are of credit and guarantees, together with all accrued interest committed to following the applicable labour and employment and other sums payable under the agreement, must be laws in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
prepaid and, upon such prepayment being made, the total We believe that disabled people have the same rights as anyone commitments of the banks under the Facility will be else to become, and continue to be, employees of the Group.
cancelled and reduced to zero Wherever possible, we provide the same opportunities for 60,000,000 facility agreement dated 20 June 2011 between disabled people as for others.
If any of our employees become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and The Royal disabled we make every effort to keep them in the Groups Bank of Scotland group, guaranteed by the Company the employment, with appropriate training where necessary.
RBS Facility Employee involvement On a change of control of the Company the lender has the We have employee consultation processes throughout our ability to require prepayment of any amount outstanding under business in accordance with local laws.
In addition, we update the RBS Facility, whereupon the Facility will be cancelled all of our employees on a regular basis with Group developments Note purchase agreements dated 28 July 2005, 17 September and progress through newsletters, internal publications, senior 2007 as amended and 17 December 2009 the Note Purchase management notes and face-to-face meetings.
Agreements pursuant to which notes amounting in aggregate to US$342,000,000 the 2005 Notes, US$125,000,000 the 2007 Notes and US$183,000,000 and 25,000,000 the 2009 Notes, together with the 2005 Notes and the 2007 Notes, the Notes respectively were issued by the Company 49 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Annual General Meeting During 2011 the Group has continued to generate positive The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Wren Room operating cash inflows from operations before tax, acquisitions at the Royal Institute of British Architects, 66 Portland Place, and capital expenditure.
London W1B 1AD on Thursday 10 May 2012 at 11.00am.
The main factors contributing to these cash inflows are the Enclosed with this report is a circular containing a letter from retention and growth of the customer base, terms of trade with the Chairman to shareholders and the formal notice convening customers and suppliers and the continuing management of the Annual General Meeting.
working capital within the Group.
The Board has concluded that the Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of Auditors reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate In June 2011 the Company announced that, following a that the Group has sufficient funding to operate within the terms competitive tender for the selection of an audit firm, Ernst & of its available facilities.
Young LLP had been appointed as the Companys auditor and The Board has considered various alternative operating and Deloitte LLP had resigned.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed funding strategies should these be necessary and is satisfied their willingness to continue in office as auditors and resolutions that a range of actions including cost reduction activities could to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company and to be adopted if and when necessary.
authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
After making these enquiries, the Board is satisfied that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational Directors confirmation existence for the foreseeable future and for this reason the Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing confirms that: the financial statements for 2011.
Furthermore, no material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit a significant doubt about the ability of the Group to continue information of which the Companys auditors are unaware as a going concern have been identified by the directors.
the director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to By order of the Board have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Andrew Moberly This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Company Secretary accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
14 March 2012 Going concern The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position and commentary on the Groups financial results, its cash flows, liquidity requirements and borrowing facilities are set out in the Business and Financial Reviews on pages 6 to 43.
The Board is satisfied that the Group balance sheet remains strong.
Following the financing activities in 2010, which extended the Groups maturity profile, and retention of a substantial part of the net sale proceeds from the Synovate disposal, the Group is well-financed with considerable cash and covenant headroom.
A tranche of the 2005 Notes amounting to US$159,000,000 matures in July 2012.
The Group has sufficient liquidity to meet the maturity from its own financial resources.
