Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 26 Board of Directors Strong leadership drives corporate governance 2 2 2 3 1.
Greg Lock Title: Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee membership: N, R Greg is the Non-Executive Chairman of Kofax plc and also chairs the Nomination Committee of Kofax plc.
Greg is a Non-Executive Director of UBM plc.
He has extensive experience in the software and computer services industry, including four years as Non-Executive Chairman of SurfControl plc and 30 years at IBM in a variety of senior roles, including as General Manager of IBMs Global Industrial sector from 1998 to 2000, a member of IBMs Worldwide Management Council and a governor of the IBM Academy of Technology.
Mike Norris Title: Chief Executive Mike Norris graduated with a degree in Computer Science and Mathematics from East Anglia University in 1983.
He joined Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the City offi ce.
In 1986 he was Computacenters top account manager.
Following appointments as Regional Manager for London Operations in 1988 and General Manager of the Systems Division in 1992 with 1 full sales and marketing responsibilities, he became Chief Executive in December 1994 with responsibility for all day-to-day activities and reporting channels across Computacenter.
Mike also led the Company through fl otation on the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
Mike is also Non-Executive Chairman of Triage Holdings Limited.
Mike was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Science from Hertfordshire University in 2010.
Tony Conophy Title: Finance Director Tony has been a member of the Institute of Chartered Management Accountants since 1982.
He qualifi ed with Semperit Ireland Ltd. and then worked for fi five years at Cape Industries plc.
He joined Computacenter in 1987 as Financial Controller, rising in 1991 to General Manager of Finance.
In 1996 he was appointed Finance and Commercial Director of Computacenter UK Limited with responsibility for all fi financial, purchasing and vendor relations activities.
In March 1998 he was appointed Finance Director to the Group.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 45 6 7 8 4.
Ian Lewis Title: Non-Executive Director Title: Non-Executive Director Committee membership: A, N, R Sir Peter founded Computacenter with Philip Hulme in 1981 and was Chairman of the Company until 1998, when he became a Ian is Director of the University Computing Service at the University Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of Dealogic Holdings plc, of Cambridge.
During his career he has held a number of senior a Director of Biomni Limited and prior to founding Computacenter, positions, including First Vice President and Global Chief he was a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley and Co. Sir Peter Technology Offi cer of Merrill Lynchs Investment Banking and is Founder, Chairman and Trustee of the Ogden Trust, a member Sales division and Global CTO at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein of the Development Councils of both Durham University and Investment Banking.
Westminster School, a member of the Royal Society 350th 8.
Brian McBride Anniversary Campaign Board and a Patron of Support and Title: Non-Executive Director, Help in Education.
John Ormerod Chairman of the Remuneration Title: Non-Executive Director and Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee membership: A, N, R Committee Brian is the former Managing Director of Amazon.
He began Committee membership: A, N, R his career at Xerox and has worked at IBM, in the UK, Europe and John is the Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee the USA.
Brian has also worked at Crosfi eld Electronics, Madge Chairman of Misys plc, a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Networks, Lucent and Dell Computers and was managing director of the Audit Committees of both Gemalto NV and ITV Plc and of T-Mobile UK.
Brian has had broad non-executive experience, Non-Executive Chairman of Tribal Group plc.
John has extensive having served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and experience of being a Non-Executive Director for several Senior Independent Director of SThree plc, a Non-Executive companies and public bodies.
Director of Celtic Football Club plc and the British Retail He has held senior positions with Arthur Andersen and with Consortium and Chairman of Virgin Mobile.
Age 63. a member of the Advisory Boards of Numis Securities and Huawei UK and a Non-Executive Director of Monitise plc, 6.
Philip Hulme MX Data Limited and the BBC Executive Board.
Brian is a Title: Non-Executive Director Venture Partner part-time with Scottish Equity Partners and is a Trustee of In Kind Direct, a charity which redirects surplus Philip founded Computacenter with Peter Ogden in 1981 and products to the needy.
Age 56. worked for the Company on a full-time basis until stepping down as Executive Chairman in 2001.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Dealogic Holdings plc and was previously a Vice President and Director of the Boston Consulting Group.
Philip is a Director of Board member attendance Biomni Limited and is the Founder and a Trustee of the Hadley Trust.
Brian McBride 15 17 Key: A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
