Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited fi financial Directors and Directors authority statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary companies The Directors who served throughout the year ended the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
31 December 2011 were Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Ian Lewis, Greg Lock, Mike Norris, John Ormerod and Principal activities Peter Ogden.
Brian McBride was appointed to the Board The Company is a holding company.
The principal activities as Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration of the Group, of which it is the parent, are the supply, Committee and Senior Independent Director on 10 January implementation, support and management of information 2011.
The Directors biographical details at the date of this technology systems.
report are given on pages 26 and 27. Business review The Companys Articles of Association require at each AGM for The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a those Directors who were appointed since the last AGM to business review, which commences at the start of the Report retire as well as one third of the Directors who have been the and Accounts up to page 25, excluding the market overview longest serving.
The Board has decided, in accordance with on pages 14 and 15, as this overview has been externally the UK Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors will retire compiled.
The review includes information about the Groups at the forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
operations and the business model, fi financial performance The Nomination Committee has considered the re-election of throughout the year and likely developments, key performance each Director and recommends their re-election.
Further details indicators, principal risks and information regarding the Groups on the Committees recommendations for the re-election of the sustainable development plan.
Directors are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, Corporate governance as are the brief Curriculum Vitae of each Director, which show Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is their experience and skills that they bring to the Board.
required to include a Corporate Governance Statement within The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board the Directors Report.
Information on the corporate governance of Directors consisting of not fewer than three, but not more practices can be found in the Corporate Governance than 20 Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the Statement on pages 28 to 31 and the reports of the Audit, Company.
The Directors may appoint additional or replacement Remuneration and Nomination Committees on pages 32 to 42, directors, who shall serve until the next AGM of the Company which are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
at which point they will be required to stand for election by the Management Report members.
A Director may be removed from offi ce at a general This Directors report together with the other reports forms meeting by the passing of an Ordinary Resolution provided the Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and special notice has been given.
Members have previously approved a Resolution to give the Results and dividends Directors authority to allot shares and a renewal of this authority The Groups activities resulted in a profi t before tax of is proposed at the 2012 AGM.
This authority allows the 72.1 million 2010: 65.4 million.
The Group profi t for the Directors to allot shares up to the maximum amount stated in year, attributable to shareholders, amounted to 61.0 million the Notice of Annual General Meeting approximately one-third 2010: 50.3 million.
of the issued share capital and this authority would generally expire at the following AGM.
In addition, the Company may not The Directors recommend a fi final dividend of 10.5 pence per allot shares for cash unless pursuant to an employee share share totalling 16.2 million 2010: 14.9 million.
Dividends are scheme without fi first making an offer to existing shareholders in recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are paid, proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as rights of or in the case of a fi final dividend, when approved by the pre-emption.
A Resolution to allow a limited waiver of these shareholders.
As such, the amount recognised in the 2011 rights was passed by the members at last years AGM.
It is accounts, as described in note 11, is made up of last years proposed at the forthcoming AGM that a similar waiver should fi final dividend 9.7 pence per share and the interim dividend be granted, which will represent approximately fi five per cent of 4.5 pence per share.
Full details of the proposed waiver are The fi final ordinary dividend for 2011, if approved at the given in the Notice of the AGM.
The current waiver expires at forthcoming AGM, will be paid on 15 June 2012 to those the conclusion of the following AGM.
shareholders on the register as at 18 May 2012.
The Company Directors indemnities paid an interim dividend of 6.9 million on 14 October 2011.
During the year, the Company executed deeds of indemnity Articles of Association with each of the Directors.
These deeds contain qualifying third The Companys Articles of Association sets out the procedures party indemnity provisions and indemnify the Directors to the for governing the Company.
A copy of the Articles of extent permitted by law and remain in force at the date of this Association is available on the Companys website www.
The indemnities are uncapped and cover all costs, computacenter.
The Articles of Association charges, losses and liabilities the Directors may incur to third were last amended at the 2010 AGM.
A special resolution i. e. parties, in the course of acting as Directors of the Company 75% majority of the shareholders who vote is required to be or its subsidiaries.
passed in general meeting to amend the Articles of Association.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 44 Directors report continued Directors confl icts of interests The Board has put in place a process for the Directors to notify the Company Secretary of any situations appointments, holdings or otherwise, or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential confl ict of interest with the Company.
These notifi cations are then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the Directors who are not confl icted in the matter, to authorise the situation.
The register of notifi cations and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
Where the Board has approved an actual or potential confl ict, it has imposed the condition that the confl icted Director abstains from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the confl icted matter.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below: At 1 January 2011 At 31December 2011 or as at date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Benefi cial Non-Benefi cial Benefi cial Non-Benefi cial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,385,658 1,385,658 Tony Conophy 2,175,905 2,175,905 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 410,983 350,000 Philip Hulme 18,051,770 8,073,921 18,291,770 10,143,921 Ian Lewis 45,000 45,000 Brian McBride Peter Ogden 35,335,636 979,166 35,335,636 979,166 John Ormerod 25,000 25,000 Between 31December 2011 and 12 March 2012 there have been no changes to the interests detailed above.
Major interests in shares In addition to the Directors interests set out above, as at 29 February 2012, the Company had been notifi ed, in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial interests in the Companys issued ordinary share capital: Number % of of ordinary issued shares held share capital Standard Life Investments Ltd 14,327,285 9.31 Investec Asset Management Ltd 8,910,137 5.79 LSV Asset Management 4,405,385 2.86 Capital structure As at 12 March 2012, there were 153,887,822 fully paid ordinary shares in issue, all of which have full voting rights and there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, there are two employee trusts which, as at the year-end, held a total of 4,781,906 ordinary shares of 6 pence each, representing 3.1 per cent of the issued share capital.
During the year the Trusts purchased a total of 1,047,409 shares.
The voting rights attached to these shares are not exercisable directly by the employees, but are exercisable by the Trustees.
However, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise these voting rights.
In the event of another company taking control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company have set change of control provisions.
Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed to exchange their options for options of an equivalent value over shares in the acquiring company.
Alternatively, the options may vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive schemes will be pro-rated accordingly and under the Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise the option, to the extent of their accumulated saving.
The Company was granted authority at the 2011 AGM, to make market purchases of up to 15,388,782 ordinary shares of 6 pence each.
This authority will expire at the 2012 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority.
During the period no shares were purchased for cancellation.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Signifi cant agreements and relationships Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities used by the Group are provided in the Finance Directors Review on pages 16 to 19.
These agreements include a change of control provision, which may result in the facility being withdrawn or amended upon a change of control of the Group.
It is also not extraordinary within our business sector for our longer term Services contracts to contain change of control clauses.
In addition to fi nancing arrangements and our larger contracts with our customers, the Board considers that there are a number of major product suppliers who are material to the business, including HP, IBM, Cisco, Microsoft, Oracle and Lenovo.
Creditors payment policy The Company does not hold any trade creditor balances.
However, it is the policy of the Group that each of the businesses should agree appropriate terms and conditions with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and that payment should be in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
Group creditor days amounted to 50 2010: 50.
Financial instruments The Groups fi financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in the Finance Directors Review on pages 16 to 19.
Employee share schemes The Company operates executive share option schemes and a performance-related option scheme for the benefi t of employees.
During the year no options were granted under the executive share option schemes.
At the year-end, the options remaining outstanding under these schemes were in respect of a total of 1,964,756 ordinary shares of 6 pence each 2010: 2,162,756 shares.
During the year options over 189,000 shares were exercised and options over 9,000 shares lapsed.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP to incentivise employees.
During the year, 1,086,024 ordinary shares of 6 pence each were conditionally awarded 2010: 1,195,677 shares.
At the year-end, awards over 4,599,072 shares remained outstanding under this scheme 2010: 5,249,112 shares.
During the year, awards over 1,273,722 shares were transferred to participants and awards over 462,342 shares lapsed.
In addition, the Company operates a Sharesave scheme for the benefi t of employees.
At the year-end 2,905,644 options granted under the Sharesave scheme remained outstanding 2010: 2,758,808.
Corporate sustainable development The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible way benefi ts the community, our customers, shareholders, the environment and employees alike.
Further information can be found in the Corporate Sustainable Development report on pages 22 to 25 and covers matters regarding Health and Safety, the environment, equal opportunities, employee involvement, employment of disabled people, employee development and charitable donations.
During the year, the Group did not make any political donations to any political party or organisation and it did not incur any political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
Equal opportunities The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and diversity and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the workplace.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development and promotion of employees are based purely on the suitability of the employee and give those who may be disabled, equal treatment to their able bodied colleagues.
Where an employee becomes disabled, subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts are made to enable that employee to continue in their current job.
However, if due to the specifi c circumstances, it is not possible for an employee to continue in their current job, they will be given suitable training for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies and practices to ensure that it meets current legislative requirements, as well as its own internal standards.
The Group is committed to making full use of the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy environment that encourages productive and mutually respectful working relationships within the organisation.
Policies dealing with equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take account of the Groups overall commitment and also address local regulatory requirements.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 46 Directors report continued Employee involvement and development The Group is committed to involving all employees in signifi cant business issues, especially matters which affect their work and working environment.
A variety of methods are used to engage with employees, including team briefi ngs, intranet, electronic mail and in-house publications.
The Group will use one or more of these channels to brief the employees on the Groups performance and the fi financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
In particular, the Group operates a Save As You Earn share scheme, which is open to eligible employees, where employees are encouraged to save a fi xed monthly sum for a period of either three or fi five years, upon maturity of the saving period they can purchase shares in the Company at a price set at the commencement of the saving period.
The primary method used to engage and consult with employees is through team briefi ngs, where managers are tasked with ensuring that information sharing, discussion and feedback happen on a regular basis.
Employee consultative forums exist in each country to consult staff on major issues affecting employment and matters of policy and to enable management to seek the views and opinions of employees on a wide range of business matters.
Should there be transnational issues to discuss a facility exists to engage a European forum made up of representatives from country forums.
The Group regularly reviews the performance of its employees through a formal review process, in order to identify areas for development.
Managers are responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives, aligned to corporate and functional goals.
The Board closely oversees and monitors management skills and the development of talent to meet the current and future needs of the Group.
The Board directly monitors and reviews closely, succession and plans for developing the identifi ed key senior managers.
In 2011, Computacenter was assessed by Investors in People and commended for demonstrating commitment to its people, at a level over and above the Investors in People standards, resulting in successful recertifi cation.
Key performance indicators KPIs Performance and operational KPIs can be found within the strategy spread on pages 2 and 3 at the front of the Report and Accounts.
The Board considers employee-driven attrition rates as a KPI in relation to employee issues.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, this fi gure was 9.56 per cent 2010: 7.78 per cent.
Further KPIs on employee and environmental matters can be found within the Corporate Sustainable Development report on pages 22 to 25. Business ethics An ethics policy is operated by the Group, which commits Computacenter employees to the highest standards of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders in the business.
The policy includes a requirement for all employees to report abuses or non-conformance with the policy whistleblowing and sets out the procedures to be followed.
The Group has additionally adopted a Code of Ethics specifi cally aimed at the prevention of bribery.
Going concern Computacenters business activities, the business model and strategic goals are set out in the overview section and the performance is set out within the Operating Review on pages 2 to 13.
The fi financial position of the Company, its cash fl ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set-out within the Finance Directors Review on pages 16 to 19.
In addition, notes 25 and 26 to the fi financial statements include Computacenters objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its fi financial risk management objectives: details of its fi financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Computacenters balance sheet strength, long-term contracts with customers and suppliers, as well as the different geographies within which the Company operates, provide the Directors with the confi dence that Computacenter is well placed to manage its business risks even during a prolonged period of economic uncertainty.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual fi financial statements.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in offi ce as auditor and a resolution approving the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the fi financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the fi financial statements in accordance with applicable company law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare fi financial statements for each fi financial year which present fairly the fi financial position of the Company and of the Group and the results and cash fl ows of the Group for that period.
In preparing the fi financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will continue in its business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Disclosure of information to auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confi rms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken, to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Directors responsibility statement The fi financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, fi financial position and profi t for the Company and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Companys annual report and accounts include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board Mike Norris Tony Conophy Chief Executive Finance Director 12 March 2012 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
