Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 External view of the market by IDC 2011 a year of retrenchment The economic recovery that followed the credit crunch and the downturn of 2009 stimulated IT spend during 2010, but this recovery slowed during 2011 with a consequent lessening of business and consumer confi dence, which resulted in corporate IT budgets being reined back as 2011 progressed.
Although 2011 began as a year in which enterprises had bullish plans for maintaining and increasing IT spend, the year ended with economic and political uncertainty in the UK and in some key European geographies, causing enterprises to control their IT spend more tightly than they had expected, or even to reduce that spend.
Anticipated levels of GDP growth failed to materialise as business and consumer confi dence was hit by the growing sovereign debt crisis and by lowered demand caused by cutbacks in spending in the public and private sectors alike.
Filtering down from macro-economic level to overall IT spending, the result of these shifts was a lower than anticipated IT spending growth in 2011 which stood at 1.8 per cent for Western Europe, and 2.6 per cent for EMEA overall.
Such low growth posed problems to many players within the market especially on the back of several tough years.
IDC estimates that the overall UK IT services market growth was 1.1 per cent in 2010 and only 0.3 per cent in 2011 0.9 per cent and 1.2 per cent for Western Europe.
This uncertainty and lowered levels of confi dence remain in place in early 2012, prompting many organisations to set cautious IT budgets for 2012.
Tough times ahead present opportunities Although 2011 was a tough year for IT suppliers, and although The cloud is now real in the sense that most CIOs fi nally 2012 will be somewhat tougher, IDC does not believe that 2012 understand what it can do for them in a practical way.
It is also will witness a fall in demand of the scale we saw during the 2009 here to stay and wont disappear as a fad created by and to the downturn.
For example, 2009 saw a 2.8 per cent decline in IT benefi t of the IT industry.
In fact, IDC believes that business will services demand in the UK, whereas IDC expects the equivalent increasingly incorporate cloud computing as a core delivery model decline to be 1.9 per cent in 2012.
It is worth noting that for their IT and this will be refl ected in their IT services spending.
Computacenter has little exposure to customer application Within Europe, most companies now incorporate cloud into their development, the IT services market segment expected to see services investment, which represents a tremendous opportunity the worst declines in demand during 2012.
Moreover, there remain for services providers.
Indeed, more than two-thirds of Western pockets of market growth to be exploited by vendors in 2012.
European companies already have a corporate cloud strategy in place today.
In addition, cloud is one of the few areas of spending that enterprises dont expect to cut in the event of the economic outlook deteriorating during 2012.
Not only that, but the transition UK IT services market growth to cloud-based IT infrastructures and the subsequent management was 1.1 per cent in 2010 and of these infrastructures requires a signifi cant initial investment in IT services by organisations, followed by continuous levels of service only 0.3 per cent in 2011 spend to manage and improve the cloud-based infrastructure of 0.9 per cent and 1.2 per cent the future.
IT services companies such as Computacenter should for Western Europe benefi t both from the demand for cloud related professional services, but also from subsequent demand for cloud-related managed services.
Most enterprises reined in their IT spending during 2011 as the Beyond cloud other opportunities remain for good year progressed, so although demand levels that vendors such growth in 2012 as Computacenter will experience during 2012 will be somewhat Whilst IDC believes that cloud is now a mainstream technology, lower than the demand in 2011, it should not come as a shock: accepted and indeed welcomed by both IT management and 2012 budgets should mostly be confi rmation of the existing corporate management, it is not the only revolution happening lockdown, rather than a bolt from the blue.
As such, we should in IT today.
One of the main trends we see and one that has look at 2012 as a continuation of the tough times we have become increasingly important over the past two years is the lived through in recent years only a little more pronounced.
We defi ne consumerisation Moreover, diffi cult times bring opportunities as well as threats to as employees bringing personal devices into the workplace and the IT and IT services industry.
Many organisations will need to using Web 2.0 social applications such as Facebook, LinkedIn, invest in 2012 to make their IT infrastructures more agile and etc in the workplace.
This is without doubt happening now, at all fl exible, in order to support business expansion or to allow levels of the organisation, whether the IT department likes it or not.
mergers, acquisitions or indeed divestments.
New technologies If left unmanaged, IDC believes consumerisation will overwhelm are also arriving which are stimulating demand for both products the CIOs agenda, causing signifi cant operational problems to and associated services both in implementing the new the corporate IT infrastructure and reducing the effi ciency of the technologies and in subsequently managing them and integrating organisations day-to-day operations.
Consumerisation seems them with the business.
attractive, but it can create as many problems as it solves, These new technology waves include virtualisation, consumerisation, making this a top priority for IT services buyers in 2012 and thus business analytics, and social media to name but a handful.
But a major opportunity for IT services vendors.
Not least, security the most signifi cant by far is the arrival of cloud computing.
and complexity issues caused by consumerisation will need to be Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Related subjects: Our business model - Inside front cover addressed urgently if CIOs are to retain control of their workloads.
will put extra pressure on the network and related services Consumerisation will shift the services focus to data privacy, which will become vital for all businesses.
Without a robust network compliance, and data loss prevention as opposed to managing the delivering quality services, businesses lose opportunities.
Finally, interoperability issues getting corporate All of these trends represent major opportunities for service applications to work with multiple devices will remain as long providers despite the tough market conditions we anticipate.
as new devices are being launched.
To ride the storm in 2012, IDC believes the key is for vendors to As such, consumerisation will create signifi cant offer a breadth of services for enterprises to choose from different opportunities for vendors because enterprises will need help models from traditional to cloud and even blended.
Another key in understanding the potential impact on their organisation is for vendors to avoid focusing solely on price important as it creating professional services opportunities and managing might be and keep focusing on demonstrating the value and those consequences creating opportunities to sell follow-on quality of their offering.
They must become the trusted adviser that managed services outsourcing.
Both professional services client can rely on to help them navigate through the tough times.
and managed services outsourcing are key elements of As we have seen, this means being able to incorporate cloud Computacenters portfolio.
within the solutions offered in order to lower the price point, The consumerisation challenge will drive investment in, for increase fl exibility and reach new markets.
instance, virtual desktop solutions that enable data security by taking it away from the physical device.
We view virtualisation in all parts of the infrastructure from the datacenter to the desktop, the opportunity at this stage will be as being a stepping stone towards cloud.
This will represent signifi cant growth opportunities for vendors to allow their client to help organisations understand base to achieve the cost cutting required whilst providing them how they can use big data with a robust, fl exible infrastructure able to not only support their business, but enable it to grow.
What shape will this take?
Beyond consumerisation we see 2012 as being the year IDC believes this will translate into a different services offering from of Big Data vendors.
On the professional services side, successful vendors will It is a well-known fact that the amount of data held by be those who can not only offer but demonstrate a quick return organisations is expanding dramatically IDC expects the volume on investment.
The days of strategic consulting engagements are of digital content will grow to 2.7ZB worldwide, up 48 per cent not gone: but buyers will want to attach practical business value to from 2011, creating vast data sets or big data which in turn their consulting spending.
creates need for additional storage, data warehouses, analytics On the managed services and support side contracts are likely to and other technology investments in European organisations.
be more focused and therefore smaller in length as well as scope.
However, one issue is that the data comes from an increasingly It is worth noting that those vendors focused on managed services diverse variety of sources IDC expects that more than 90 per such as Computacenter were already offering shorter contracts cent of data will be unstructured and based on social media and between three and fi five years more closely mapped to market Web-enabled workloads.
The other issue is the velocity, or speed requirement for some time.
The trend towards multi-sourcing will and frequency, with which the data is delivered and bombards continue as buyers see the value in best of breed vendors for organisations that are trying to assess the importance of the data, logical ICT silos that are applications, network & communications analyse it and act upon it.
and IT desktop to datacenter.
Helping organisations understand what value they can get out There is no getting away from the fact that IT is central to not of data and how they can bring it into decision processes, help only our corporate life but increasingly our personal life too.
The drive effi ciencies and reduce cost, or help create new business consequence of that increased maturity is that end-users are propositions and drive top line growth, will be a major service much more demanding than ever.
The impact opportunity in 2012. of cloud and increased competitive pressure will make things much more diffi cult for vendors.
Only the best vendors willing Translating big data into actionable business information can to change and able to offer innovative solutions will fare well help organisations address both the cost-cutting agenda and the in 2012, which is set to be a diffi cult year, and yet one with growth agenda in which IT investment aims to grow corporate some signifi cant areas for opportunity for IT services suppliers.
revenues or to drive greater client loyalty satisfaction.
However, the opportunity at this stage will be to help organisations understand how they can use big data, how they integrate it with other BI BA efforts in the organisation, and for the more advanced provide the skills for the new analytics technologies that are in very short supply.
More tactical opportunities will also appear in 2012 around Lionel Lamy Unifi ed Communications & Collaboration solutions UCC as IDC Research Director, a way to enable fl exibility within the enterprise whilst cutting down European Software & Services on the time and money spent on travel.
This, just as with cloud, Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
