PERFORMANCE REVIEW DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION WE ARE RESHAPING OUR PORTFOLIO BY FOCUSING ON HAVING THE RIGHT PROPERTIES IN THE RIGHT MARKETS, AND MAKING THE MOST PRODUCTIVE USE OF OUR CAPITAL PHIL REDDING CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28 www.
com Performance Review OVERVIEW RIGHT PORTFOLIO Taking a disciplined approach to capital SHAPE RECYCLING CAPITAL allocation is a key part of our strategy.
We have Every asset in our portfolio was reviewed during a high-quality team of investment professionals 2011 to determine the t with our sector focus, with extensive sector and local knowledge who selected core markets and required portfolio are based in our key UK and Continental returns.
From this review, a group of non-core European markets.
As Chief Investment officer, strategic assets and other non-core smaller estates my primary objective is to integrate and lead this were identied for disposal over the mediumresource to ensure that our investment approach term.
Non-core strategic assets comprise large across the Group is consistent and remains individual holdings which are either suburban focused on maximising total property returns.
ofce parks or bespoke industrial and ofce complexes.
A number of these have been The key priority of the investment team is to successfully developed by SEGRO and comprise implement our strategy to reshape the portfolio modern property, let on long leases to strong by focusing on the right properties in the right tenants.
There exists now, however, an markets.
This means being robust in our opportunity to crystallise the value created from appraisals when deploying capital into new these developments, and to reinvest the proceeds acquisitions and developments and rigorously to commence the cycle again.
reviewing our existing asset base, to enable gains to be crystallised and the risk of future The remaining non-core assets are underperformance to be mitigated.
geographically dispersed, smaller lot sizes mainly comprising industrial property and land The medium-term goal is to create a portfolio which adversely affect portfolio efficiency and focused on the light industrial and logistics drag total returns.
The combined value of these sectors, located within our dened core markets non-core assets represents almost 30 per cent across Europe, and which displays the right of our portfolio.
A key priority of the investment balance between stabilised and opportunity team is to recycle these assets to generate assets.
Our acquisition, since the year end, of proceeds for reinvestment in our core portfolio UK Logistics Funds 14 distribution units are an and to reduce gearing levels.
excellent example of how we intend to deploy our capital.
We believe that a portfolio with such During the year we completed a number of characteristics will produce strong incomedisposals across our portfolio with proceeds orientated total property returns capable of of 110.9 million at a profit of 10.4 million.
being delivered on a sustainable basis.
The largest disposals are shown below.
Since the year end we have sold a portfolio of five SEGROs disciplined approach to capital non-core industrial estates in the UK, the allocation is illustrated by the three case proceeds of which are 80.2 million.
Asset Country Month of disposal Proceeds m GL6 portfolio, various locations UK September 38.2 DHL portfolio, France wide France July to November 17.9 Geopost developments, Great Western Estate, Southall UK June 10.3 IQ Cambridge, Cambridge UK February 10.2 Trafford Trio, Manchester UK September 8.2 Cressex Estate, High Wycombe UK June 8.0 Braunschweig, Dsseldorf Germany January 3.0 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 www.
com PERFORMANCE REVIEW DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION CONTINUED value-add proposition, we intend to carry a and secondary properties have been under Right portfolio shape 2011 reduced amount of land on our balance sheet, pressure in Continental Europe, in particular, mainly comprising smaller sites with shorter as a result of relatively weak occupier demand 42% Industrial development cycles.
Our appetite for exposure which has allowed customers undergoing 15% Logistics to speculative development risk remains low, lease renewals or entering into new leases 13% Higher value uses with the majority of capital expenditure being to negotiate more competitive terms.
5% Development and land allocated to projects fide-risked with a pre-letting 9% Large non-strategic assets in place.
However, we will continue to assess The UK completed portfolio declined by 16% Smaller industrial local market conditions and to seek 3.2 per cent, with the balance of losses holdings and land for recycling opportunities to draw down our existing weighted towards our non-core assets located land bank, as appropriate.
outside of London and the South East.
Within our Greater London business unit, positive valuation gains were recorded in Park Royal WORKING WITH Right portfolio shape and in our joint venture portfolios, APP and THIRD-PARTY CAPITAL potential future shape Big Box, reecting good letting progress We are continuing to explore options, particularly and the limited availability and high investor in the logistics sector, to partner with institutional demand for prime investment property.
This 44% Industrial providers of capital in situations where we 39% Logistics was offset by value declines for the balance believe this will allow us to achieve competitive 13% Higher value uses of our wholly-owned Heathrow assets, due to scale more quickly, reduce the risk on our 4% Development and land their comparatively higher level of vacancy, balance sheet and allow us to leverage our asset leading to the overall decline in value for the management platform over a larger property business unit of 1.1 per cent.
Management of third-party capital also provides a potential source of additional income which helps cover our xed cost base.
We have seen excellent returns from our joint ventures at Heathrow Airport with APP and Big Box, THE RIGHT and look forward to similar success through PORTFOLIO SHAPE our joint venture ownership and management RIGHT PORTFOLIO SHAPE of the assets of UKLF.
REBALANCING ASSETS A key element to creating the right A fundamental part of our portfolio strategy portfolio shape is to have an appropriate VALUATION DECLINE is to create an appropriate balance between balance between stabilised and IN NON-CORE ASSETS: stabilised and opportunity assets, ensuring opportunity assets CORE PORTFOLIO that SEGRO remains an active owner-manager MORE RESILIENT and developer of property but preventing STABILISED ASSETS The total value of the Groups property such value-added opportunities from t Modern, well-located assets portfolio, comprising completed properties disproportionately diluting income returns from t Structural vacancy rate of 10% including joint ventures at share, land and our stabilised assets.
Good examples of our development, decreased from 5.3 billion stabilised assets include Premier Park at Park t Solid income returns, minimal to 5.1 billion over the 12 months to Royal in London and Le Blanc Mesnil in Paris, leakage 31 December 2011.
This movement includes both of which are modern, well-specified and t Low capital expenditure requirements a 255.0 million valuation decline, of which well-located assets, benefitting from a low 242.0 million relates to the second half, t Above average long-term total return structural void rate, good income returns, including 187.0 million for the Groups minimal cost leakage and low capital non-core assets.
Over the full year, the OPPORTUNITY ASSETS expenditure requirements.
Our target is for movement also reects disposals of t Well-located assets in key markets such stabilised assets to represent around 103.0 million and a 38.0 million adverse three-quarters of our portfolio, with the t Potential for significant future income impact from the weakening euro, offset by remainder being opportunity assets focused and capital upside acquisitions and additions of 194.0 million.
on high-quality locations which allow our Examples: asset management and development skills to t Developments under construction enhance income and capital returns, but which Within the total portfolio, completed properties are capable of being delivered into a stabilised recorded a valuation decline of 4.2 per cent t Land holdings or options condition within a relatively short period of time.
on a like for like basis, including a 0.4 per cent t Good secondary assets with in the core portfolio and a 13.0 per cent fall in deliverable asset management DEVELOPMENT non-core assets.
opportunities As we recycle capital from our non-core holdings our aim is to reinvest in the industrial Valuation movements during the year reect Not: heart of our portfolio, building on our existing the north-south divide within the UK, the t Large, long-term development sites position in attractive markets where we have importance of proximity to prime areas t Secondary assets in secondary critical mass.
SEGRO has a successful such as Paris within the Continental European locations development track record, producing portfolio, together with the quality of assets.
turnaround assets 1.1 million sq m of new space over the last Prime, well-let properties in the strongest t Large bespoke manufacturing and five years, most of it pre-let, and delivering locations have generally held their values, ofce complexes good returns at a project level.
Although whereas further declines have been observed development remains a key element of our in the secondary market.
Valuations of older Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 www.
com Performance Review PROGRESS IN A PRIME INDUSTRIAL AREA ILE fide FRANCE, PARIS 17 ESTATES IN ILE fide FRANCE Good progress has been made over the last few years in focusing our portfolio on the right products and best markets and in expertly managing our assets and customer relationships in France.
SEGRO in Ile fide France manages 530,000 sq m of high-quality multi-let light industrial, ofce and logistics assets, focused on 17 well-located estates in the prime industrial area north from Paris city centre to Charles fide Gaulle Airport.
At Le Blanc Mesnil, close to Le Bourget Airport to the North East of Paris, SEGRO acquired the 37,800 sq m Le Carr des Aviateurs industrial park in 2003.
Over the subsequent five-year period, the estate was redeveloped to comprise 12 units which are today fully let to high-quality customers.
The estate has consistently delivered strong returns from both an income and capital perspective, and is one of the top performing estates in the French portfolio.
The first phase of the 62,000 sq m Parc des Damiers estate at La Courneuve, located alongside the A86 and with close proximity of the A1 and A3 motorways, was completed by SEGRO in 2008.
The first phase is fully let, with a second speculative phase of development totalling 8,200 sq m due to be completed in May 2012.
Centralspace Parc at Marly-la-Ville, adjacent to the A1 motorway and close to Charles fide Gaulle Airport, is the major logistics location for SEGRO in Ile fide France, comprising 120,000 sq m of prime warehouse space across five, fully-let units.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 www.
com LOGISTICS IN POLAND 500,000 sq m OF LOGISTICS SPACE DEVELOPED SINCE 2006 SEGROs business in Poland is an Over the past five years we have which we have recently developed an Overall in 2011, we completed 20 excellent example of how, through a developed over 500,000 sq m of additional 6,500 sq m as part of a lettings across 80,700 sq m through a strategic acquisition, we entered a logistics space at six different prime larger, mostly pre-let 25,900 sq m combination of lease renewals, lettings, growth market at an advantageous time locations across Poland, with a further logistics development.
We are also renegotiations and pre-let agreements.
and have subsequently leveraged our two sites under development today.
developing 31,300 sq m of logistics Our property team has built up development skills to build a strong space for a French sports retailer and, at substantial sector and local expertise Silesia, encompassing Wroclaw, Gliwice market position.
Tychy, a 18,900 sq m facility for Zabka, and an on the ground approach to and Tychy, has the most developed a major Polish convenience store chain.
managing our assets that has enabled Grontmij Real Estate was acquired by transport infrastructure in Poland, us to achieve a vacancy rate of 4.0 per SEGRO for 19.1 million in 2006, making it highly attractive for logistics At Strykow in central Poland, we cent, signicantly below the Polish giving us immediate access to companies seeking access to the rest of have developed space for a range market average of 11.5 per cent.
71 hectares of development land in Poland, Germany and other Central of customers, including Hellmann Central and Western Poland.
Worldwide Logistics, Stanley Black acquisition also included a 16,000 sq m & Decker and Schenker, one of the At Gliwice, we have developed prime ofce development in Warsaw, largest logistics operators in Poland.
logistics space for customers including which we developed, let and sold, Brenntag, S&T Deawoo and Kauand, realising a profit on the sale that paid the German hypermarket chain for for the entire purchase of Grontmij.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 www.
com Performance Review BUILDING CRITICAL MASS IN THE UK LOGISTICS MARKET 404,100 sq m OF MODERN UK LOGISTICS SPACE One of the key planks of our new England.
The high-quality customer base should be attractive to occupiers on strategy is to expand our existing includes national retail chains, postal either a leasehold or freehold basis, expertise and management of logistics carriers and an aerospace manufacturer, or to owner-occupiers with an interest assets and, where possible, to do so and income generated in 2011 was in buying the site.
The UKLF acquisition has helped us to In early 2012, we took a significant The portfolio has a current weighted achieve multiple goals: rebalancing the step towards these aims by acquiring average lease length to expiry of 13.3 portfolio towards stablised assets, UK Logistics Funds UKLF portfolio years and a vacancy rate of 16 per cent extending the average portfolio lease of 14 prime logistics warehouse by rental value, which arises from two length, improving tenant quality, units plus one development site for speculative, well-located grade A units.
minimising cost leakage and improving 314.7 million in a joint venture with We are confident that overall returns will overall operational efficiency.
The portfolio Mooreld Real Estate Fund.
be enhanced by bringing SEGROs also allows SEGRO to leverage its asset excellent customer relationships, market management platform over a wider base The UKLF portfolio is focused on knowledge and exible leasing approach of properties and to produce additional 12 locations on or near main arterial to bear on the two void units.
roads in established distribution areas across the UK, has a total lettable space The development site at Avonmouth of 404,100 sq m, 64 per cent of which has planning consent for a 23,226 sq m by value is located in the South of warehouse unit which, we believe, In Thames Valley and the Regions, capital Capital values for our assets in France were Overall in Continental Europe, the capital values declined by 5.1 per cent.
This business marginally positive, reecting valuation gains for appreciation made by our core assets was offset unit includes Slough Trading Estate and our prime assets in the Ile fide France region by the valuation declines of our non-strategic IQ Winnersh as well as the large non-strategic around Paris, offset by weaker performing assets, to provide an aggregated completed assets in Crawley and Farnborough and non-core assets elsewhere in the country.
portfolio decline of 6.6 per cent.
To the extent non-core assets in the Midlands and North of that the current economic outlook for countries England.
The division was, therefore, impacted In Germany, a capital value decline of 10.9 per in Continental Europe changes as a result of the by both the larger valuation declines attributed cent largely reected the impact of negative Eurozone crisis, valuations could fall further, to assets identied for disposal and the focus of movements for the two large non-strategic particularly in relation to the Groups noninvestor interest on London and the South East assets of Neckermann in Frankfurt and MPM strategic or secondary assets.
relative to the UK regions.
PHIL REDDING CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER Within our completed Continental Europe A valuation decline of 15.4 per cent in Benelux portfolio, the strongest capital appreciations and Other markets was primarily impacted by were in Poland and the Czech Republic, where the valuation falls at the two large non-strategic values increased by 2.7 per cent, driven by assets at Pegasus Park, Brussels and Energy robust demand for our prime logistics assets Park, Milan.
in the key transportation corridors of Gliwice and Poznan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 www.
