SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 valuers summary report wholly owned portfolio To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly owned subsidiary of DTZ Holdings plc the Group.
In the Groups financial year to 30 In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a April 2011, the proportion of total fees payable by the Company valuation of the various commercial and residential freehold and the Subsidiary Companies to the total fee income of the and long leasehold property interests as at 30 September 2011 Group was less than 5%.
the date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Note 3 of the Red Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited and Shaftesbury Book, in undertaking our valuations, we have lotted together Soho Limited, which are subsidiary companies collectively certain individual properties to form a separate property a referred to as the Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury PLC Property or Properties in the manner we consider to be most the Company, as referred to in our Valuation Reports dated likely to be adopted in the case of an actual sale.
We consider 23 November 2011 our Reports.
Our Reports were prepared that lotting the properties together on the basis reflected in our for accounts purposes.
valuations would allow a purchaser to capitalise on the estate management advantages and opportunities available from All properties have been subject to external inspections such comprehensive ownership.
between August and November 2011 and a number were subject to internal inspections.
A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies properties and Properties is accounted for by The valuations have been made in accordance with the properties and Properties situated in adjacent and or adjoining appropriate sections of the current Valuation Standards VS, locations in four specific areas of the West End of London: and United Kingdom Valuation Standards UKVS contained Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and the adjoining within the RICS Valuation Standards Global and UK, 7th area immediately west of Wardour Street south of its junction Edition the Red Book.
We confirm that we have sufficient with Shaftesbury Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in current knowledge of the relevant markets, and the skills and the western part of Covent Garden and a block of properties to understanding to undertake these valuations competently.
We the east of the Central Covent Garden Piazza with its main also confirm that where more than one valuer has contributed to frontage to Wellington Street.
These areas are all dominated by the valuations the requirements of VS 1.6.
4 of the Red Book have retail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the date of been satisfied.
Finally, we confirm that we have undertaken the valuation, this particular unusual confluence of ownership and valuations acting as External Valuers, qualified for the purpose use characteristics may cause some prospective purchasers to of the valuation.
regard parts of the portfolio when combined as having a greater In accordance with VS 1.9 and UKVS 4.3, we are required to value than the aggregate of the individual values of the make certain disclosures in connection with this valuation combined properties and Properties which make up those parts.
instruction and our relationship with the Company and the As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in undertaking Subsidiary Companies.
John Bareham is the signatory of our our valuations, we have valued each property or Property Reports and he has been the signatory of Reports addressed to separately, rather than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in the Subsidiary Companies since September 2006.
The total valuation figure below is the Debenham Tie Leung has been carrying out this valuation aggregated value of the separate properties or Properties within instruction for the Company, and now the Subsidiary the various categories of tenure referred to below.
Companies, for a continuous period since 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, we also undertake valuations of certain All valuations were on the basis of Market Value.
We have of the properties referred to in our Reports for other purposes, assessed Market Value in accordance with VS 3.2 of the Red such as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders Book.
Our opinion of the Market Value of each of the properties circulars.
There are no current fee-earning instructions between or Properties has been primarily derived using comparable DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and the Company or the Subsidiary recent market transactions on arms length terms.
Companies other than valuation instructions.
However, in We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for addition to valuation instructions, there are other previous any tax liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of fee-earning relationships between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung the properties or Properties.
We have made deductions to reflect and certain of the Subsidiary Companies or the Company itself.
These relate to our previous appointment as property and asset A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations managers in respect of the properties known as Wellington and details of the sources of information are contained within House 6-9 Upper St Martins Lane, 6-8 Shelton Street & 7-13 our Reports.
Mercer Street, 10 11, 12, 13 14, 16-19 & 20 Upper St Martins Lane, 124, 125 126, 127 130 inc 1-3 Slingsby Place, 132 135, 136 137, 138 We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of Beckett House, 140-142 & 143 Long Acre, 1, 3-5 &15 17 Mercer properties, either on site or by scaling from floor plans.
The Street, London WC2 all of which are owned by Longmartin Company, its managing agents or professional advisers have Properties Limited, a joint venture company owned in equal provided us with the floor areas of the remaining properties or shares by the Company and the Mercers Company : to our parts of properties.
previous involvement in advising the Company and Longmartin We have read the majority of the leases and related documents Properties Limited in respect of landlord and tenant and other provided to us in respect of the commercial properties.
Where matters: to our previous involvement in advising the Company we have not read leases, we have relied on tenancy information or some of the Subsidiary Companies in connection with the provided by the Company.
acquisition or disposal of certain properties and to our previous involvement on behalf of the Company, or certain of the Subsidiary Companies, in acting as letting agents in respect of certain of the office accommodation.
60 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 valuers summary report Certain properties were subject to works of repair or The contents of our Reports are confidential to Shaftesbury PLC, refurbishment at 30 September 2011, or were subject to Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby outstanding retentions and fees in respect of projects already Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte completed at that date.
In these instances, the Company advised Street Limited and Shaftesbury Soho Limited, for the specific us of the amount of the outstanding costs.
The costs will be borne purpose to which they refer and are for their use only.
by the Company as they are not recoverable from tenants.
We Consequently, and in accordance with current practice, no have reflected these costs in our valuations.
The total amount of responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the such costs is 5,031,000 and details of the individual sums are whole or any part of the contents of our Reports or this summary included in our Reports.
Before our Reports or this summary report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any document, circular As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual or statement, and before its contents, or any part thereof, are properties to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case disclosed orally or otherwise to a third party, the valuers written of three Properties which comprise a number of individual approval as to the form and context of such publication or properties, the majority of such properties are held freehold but disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt certain of them are held on long leases.
In order to divide our such approval is required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie valuation of these Properties between the categories of freehold Leung are referred to by name and whether or not the contents and long leasehold, we have undertaken notional of our Reports or this summary report are combined with others.
apportionments of value between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements which together comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from these notional John Bareham BSc Hons MRICS apportionments of value have been included in the figures Senior Director representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
RICS Registered Valuer The amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited themselves represent the Market Value of the two elements.
48 Warwick Street The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a London W1B 5NL freehold basis where they also hold long leasehold interests within the freehold and have not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of the Market Values, as at 30 September 2011, of the freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by the Company and the Subsidiary Companies, subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Reports dated 23 November 2011, were as follows:- Freehold properties 1,455,805,000 One billion, four hundred and fifty-five million, eight hundred and five thousand pounds Long leasehold 102,235,000 properties One hundred and two million, two hundred and thirty-five thousand pounds Total 1,558,040,000 One billion, five hundred and fifty-eight million, and forty thousand pounds A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
