Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 5 6 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc review of activities Bernard Hoggarth - Chief Executive It is pleasing to report underlying sales growth of 4 per cent, given the slowdown in consumer food expenditure experienced by the majority of our multiple retailer customers, particularly in the post-Christmas trading period.
Total external sales which were ahead 2 per cent at 758 million reflected the transfer of the Deeside cooked meats business to Farmers Boy Deeside Limited in July 2010.
Internal sales, which include the supply of fresh pork to the further processing sites, for production of bacon, ham and sausages, increased strongly by 10 per cent.
There have been several major developments during the year.
One of the the business to take advantage of substantial price differentials compared most interesting is the Groups move into pastry and in particular sausage to those available in Europe.
These gourmet style, hand crafted sausage rolls will be marketed as both private label products and under the Yorkshire Baker brand.
With It is pleasing to report that a growing proportion of our livestock producers the product already launched with one customer and a listing agreed with are now supplying Cranswick under the terms of Freedom Food Farm a second, Cranswick has again raised the bar in a new category into which Accreditation.
This premier welfare standard which is operated and it has entered.
This initiative will inevitably lead to the development of a managed by the RSPCA is increasingly recognised by the consumer and range of pastry based products.
now accounts for approximately 40 per cent of the Groups livestock purchases.
An ever increasing volume of British pork produced to this Cranswick is well known as a major private label supplier to the multiple standard is required by the UK food retailers to satisfy growing consumer food retailers but during the year a brand marketing manager was appointed demand.
There has been financial pressure on the British pig farming to drive the sales of branded products.
This new role embraces all brands, sector, following a significant and sustained rise in the price of feed on the whether produced under license, or Cranswicks own.
The impact of taking back of higher ingredient prices.
Pig prices are currently rising and further Jamie Oliver products to market, alongside those of Weight Watchers, increases cannot be ruled out.
That said, pork still remains extremely price Black Farmer, Red Lion and now Yorkshire Baker gives a real focus to competitive and much more versatile when compared to other major this development.
The Red Lion brand, launched in October, generated proteins including beef and lamb.
sales of almost 12 million during the year.
These sales generated a significant contribution to Red Lion Foods which donates 100 per cent of Bacon sales grew by 17 per cent, maintaining the impressive growth record its post-tax profits to Forces charities and causes.
Consumer interest in the seen in recent years.
The gourmet bacon facility near Leeds completed Red Lion brand, coupled with the high level of media attention, should phase two of its development during the last quarter of the financial year.
The site now boasts a totally unique factory for the production of dry-cured, air-dried bacon.
The freehold facility now extends to almost 10,000 square Fresh pork sales from the Groups two primary processing facilities based metres.
Even though the extension and development work continued over in East Yorkshire and Norfolk grew strongly with the combined revenues the peak Christmas trading period 99 per cent service levels were achieved.
The major capital project at the Preston site near Further expenditure is planned in the coming financial year, including Hull was completed during the year and capacity has been increased by investment in additional packing equipment and a new fully automated over 50 per cent.
In addition, the introduction of robotics, technology lardon line.
A new retail customer will be added to utilise some of the used for the first time in a UK fresh pork facility, has delivered significant additional capacity and there are also real opportunities to develop existing efficiency benefits.
As part of the plants on-going development United customer ranges even further over the coming year.
States Department of Agriculture USDA accreditation has been achieved and will allow the export of specific product groups to the USA and enable Sausage sales increased by 7 per cent.
The extension to the Lazenbys Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 7 production facility was completed in the autumn increasing capacity by 50 The airline business continued to grow with both sandwiches and snack per cent and enabling the business to better manage the peak Christmas foods performing strongly and there was also further growth in the trading period.
Weekly production during the barbecue season and at consolidation and picking of products for several airlines, not only for Christmas can now approach 700 tonnes.
During the year investment of European destinations, but long haul to South America too.
Supply to 2 million was made in a second sausage production facility at the Groups the convenience sector grew as did sandwich supply to the majority of pork plant in Norfolk providing additional weekly capacity of 200 tonnes.
train operators, with the emphasis being on the first class offering.
Lower This second facility allows the business to offer a wider range of premium margin business, where price increases could not be achieved, has been products, target new customers and at the same time be extremely exited and at the same time longer term supply agreements have been competitive, offering excellent value to the price conscious consumer.
The new product development teams are working hard creating specific products for the launch of a new range There were several developments in the cooked meat business during the of Red Lion sandwiches in the summer.
The sandwich sector is a very year, not least the transfer of assets of the Deeside facility in North Wales competitive one, but the sandwich business focus on food service will be to Farmers Boy Deeside Limited, part of the manufacturing division of the platform for the launch of several new products from other parts of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC.
Allowing for this, underlying sales of Group and is an ideal route to market.
cooked meats increased by 8 per cent.
The business recently entered into a licensing agreement with Weight Watchers to produce cooked meats and In summary, the Group has had several issues to manage during the year: other products and has already achieved four separate retail listings in what some specific to individual business units, and some of a more general is an important growth category.
There have also been other major business nature.
There is no sign that, in the short term, the general economic wins across the Groups product categories during the second half of the climate will change for the better, so the business remains focused on year, leading to some exceptional growth in the Standard Plus category.
meeting the consumers needs with best value offerings.
Whether it is premium quality for dining at home, value meal solutions, or even ham for Sales of Continental products were 14 per cent lower following one the sandwich box, Cranswick must remain competitive.
There is no doubt customers move to a direct sourcing policy.
That said, the customer base that in the categories in which the business operates, it has industry leading for core continental products has been significantly widened during the facilities following a 100 million capital investment programme over the year and it looks like the record of underlying organic growth is back on past 5 years.
The Groups product development teams are best in class as track with new customers for cooking ingredients and snacking foods the Groups product portfolio clearly demonstrates.
With the track record and several new listings with the UKs largest retailer.
The majority of the of its teams, the on-going development of and entry into new categories categories under the continental umbrella are in significant growth giving and continued organic growth, Cranswick is in a strong position to meet rise to some exciting opportunities as the business moves into the new the challenges which lie ahead.
A less glamorous, but still important, part of the continental portfolio is corned beef which is sliced and packed at Continental Fine Foods in Manchester.
This category has performed extremely well despite being Bernard Hoggarth faced with severe raw material shortages during the year.
These shortages Chief Executive led to substantial input cost inflation for this product which Cranswick successfully passed on in full to its retail customers.
Following investment 16 May 2011 in olive packing equipment and the on-going development of this category, olive sales increased by a very healthy 28 per cent.
Moving forward, the olive category continues to be an area of focus for the business, both into the retail and food service sectors.
Sandwich sales increased by 13 per cent in a competitive sector, where certain manufacturers were not chasing recovery of raw material price inflation.
The sandwich business was also more affected by the fuel price increase during the year than other parts of the Group being focused on the food service sector, with direct daily deliveries to many customers.
