directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Martin Davey, Chairman John Worby Martin qualified as a chartered accountant with Pannell Kerr Forster.
He John is a chartered accountant with many years experience in the food joined Cranswick and became Finance Director in 1985.
John is currently Group Finance Director of Genus plc having Chief Executive in 1988 and became Chairman on 26 July 2004. previously worked for Uniq plc formerly Unigate PLC from 1978 until 2002, in various roles including Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman.
He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Cranswick plc Bernard Hoggarth, Chief Executive on 1 August 2005 and is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
John is also a Non-Executive Director of Smiths News Bernard holds a National Diploma in Agriculture from the Norfolk College plc.
He joined Cranswick in 1978, focusing on the agribusiness activity before becoming involved in the development of the food manufacturing business during the 1990s.
He was appointed a Director in Patrick Farnsworth 1988 and Chief Executive in 2004.
Patrick has many years experience in the food industry, having worked for William Jackson & Son Limited, a Hull based private company, since 1965, Adam Couch, Chief Operating Officer where he was Joint Group Managing Director from 1995 until his retirement in 2005.
He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Cranswick plc on Adam joined the operational side of the fresh pork business of Cranswick 1 August 2004 and was the Senior Independent Director until 1 August in 1991 after graduating from university in Hull with a finance and 2005.
He is currently Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was appointed a Director in 2003 and Chief Operating Officer on 16 May 2011.
He remains Managing Director of the Fresh Pork operations.
Adam is also a committee member of the British Pig Steven Esom Executive, a position he has held since 2005.
Steven joined Cranswick as a Non-Executive Director on 12 November 2009 and is currently Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He Mark Bottomley, Finance Director has held a number of senior positions within the food sector including Executive Director of Food at Marks & Spencer plc which followed 12 years Mark is a chartered accountant, qualifying with Binder Hamlyn.
He joined at Waitrose, the last 5 years of which he was Managing Director.
Until Cranswick as Group Financial Controller in January 2008 and was appointed June 2009 he was a NonExecutive Director of Carphone Warehouse plc.
He has several years experience in the food He is currently an Operating Partner of Langholm Capital, Non-Executive production sector where he has held a variety of senior finance roles.
Chairman of Bart Spices and a Non-Executive Director of Tyrrells Investments Limited and of the British Retail Consortium.
Jim Brisby, Sales and Marketing Director Jim joined Cranswick 15 years ago from UMIST in Manchester, where he graduated with a degree in business management.
In 2004 he was Member of Remuneration Committee appointed Sales and Marketing Director of Cranswick Country Foods plc, a Member of Audit Committee major subsidiary of Cranswick, and he has been an integral member of the team that has grown the business over the years.
He was appointed Sales Member of Nomination Committee and Marketing Director on 26 July 2010.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 19 20 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc directors report The Directors submit their report and the audited accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2011. retire by rotation each year and with the proviso that each Director shall Principal activities, business review and future seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
All new developments Directors are subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
The Directors of the Company currently in The Groups activities during the year were focused on the food sector.
office are as stated on page 19.
Martin Davey, Bernard Hoggarth, Adam A review of the business and future development of the Group and a Couch, Mark Bottomley, John Worby, Patrick Farnsworth and Steven Esom discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is served for the whole of the year under review.
Jim Brisby was appointed presented in the Chairmans Statement, Review of Activities and the Group Sales and Marketing Director on 26 July 2010.
Patrick Farnsworth and Operating and Financial Review on pages 3 to 16.
Adam Couch retire in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, each offers himself for re-election.
Jim Brisby, who was Results and dividends appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will stand for election.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 47.1 million 2010: Details of the Directors beneficial interests in the ordinary share capital of the 43.8 million.
After a taxation charge of 11.8 million 2010: 11.3 Company are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 40. million, the profit for the year is 35.3 million 2010: 32.6 million.
An interim dividend of 8.8 pence per ordinary share was paid on 21 January Major Shareholders 2011.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year, which is not reflected in these accounts, of 18.7 pence per ordinary The Company has been informed of the following significant holdings of share which, together with the interim dividend, represents 27.5 pence per voting rights in the 47,636,891 ordinary shares of the Company at 4 May ordinary share, totalling 13.1 million 2010: 25.0 pence per ordinary share, 2011: totalling 11.8 million.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid in cash or scrip form on 2 September 2011 to Number of % of issued members on the register at the close of business on 1 July 2011.
The shares Shares share capital will go ex-dividend on 29 June 2011.
AMVESCAP PLC 14,209,192 29.83 Legal & General Investment Financial instruments Management 2,611,443 5.48 The Groups risk management objectives and policy are discussed in the Standard Life Investments 2,535,512 5.32 Treasury Policies section of the Group Operating and Financial Review on Jupiter Asset Management 2,351,309 4.94 page 16.
JPMorgan Asset Management 1,937,148 4.07 Aviva Investors 1,476,271 3.10 Directors and their interests Share capital structure The appointment and removal of a Director is governed by the Articles of Association and within the Terms of the Nomination Committee.
The The Company has one class of shares, being ordinary shares of 10 pence Companys Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors each.
The authorised, allotted and fully paid up share capital is shown in Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 21 note 24.
There are no special rights pertaining to any of the shares in treasury shares for cash in connection with a rights issue.
addition to the authority to allot shares and the disapplication of pre-emption rights contained in the authorities mentioned above.
The Directors of Cranswick plc have received limited authority to disapply The nominal value of ordinary shares which the Directors may allot Shareholders pre-emption rights in certain circumstances, to authorise the in the period up to the next Annual General Meeting, to be held Company to buy back a proportion of the Companys share capital and to on 1 August 2011, is limited to 1,579,457 which represented allow the Directors to allot shares.
Further resolutions will be placed before approximately 33 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 August 2011 to renew these capital excluding treasury shares as at 28 May 2010.
do not have any present intention of exercising this authority and power.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors received authority from Meeting to be held on 1 August 2011. the Shareholders to: To buy own shares this authority allows the Company to buy its own Allot Shares this gives Directors the authority to allot authorised shares in the market, as permitted under the Articles of Association but unissued shares and maintains the flexibility in respect of the of the Company, up to a limit of 10 per cent of the Companys issued Companys financing arrangements.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital.
The price to be paid for any share must not be less than shares which the Directors may allot in the period up to the next 10p, being the nominal value of a share, and must not exceed 105 Annual General Meeting, to be held on 1 August 2011, is limited per cent of the average middle market quotations for the ordinary to 1,579,457 which represented approximately 33 per cent of the shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 28 May 2010.
Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The Directors authority other than in connection with the issue of ordinary shares have no immediate plans to exercise the powers of the Company to in respect of the scrip dividend offer and the Companys share option purchase its own shares and undertake that the authority would only plans.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General be exercised if the Directors were satisfied that a purchase would Meeting to be held on 1 August 2011. result in an increase in expected earnings per share and was in the best interests of the Company at the time.
This authority will expire Disapplication of rights of pre-emption this disapplies rights of at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 August pre-emption on the allotment of shares by the Company and the 2011.
The Directors would consider holding any of its own shares sale by the Company of treasury shares.
The authority will allow the that it purchases pursuant to this authority as treasury shares.
Directors to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority to allot shares mentioned above, and to sell treasury shares for The Company is not aware of any agreements between Shareholders that cash, on a pro rata basis to existing Shareholders but subject to any may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for voting rights.
exclusion or arrangements as the Directors consider necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, any legal, regulatory There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company or practical problems or costs under the laws or regulations of any other than where certain restrictions may apply from time to time, on the overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock Board of Directors and other senior executive staff, which is imposed by laws exchange and otherwise on a pro rata basis up to an aggregate and regulations relating to insider trading laws and market requirements nominal amount of 236,918, representing 5 per cent of the relating to close periods.
Companys issued share capital as at 28 May 2010.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Employment policies 1 August 2011.
The Groups policy on employee involvement is to adopt an open Allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights in connection with a management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels rights issue this authorises the Directors to allot relevant securities about aspects of the Groups operations.
Employees participate directly in the and empowers the Directors to allot equity securities and to sell success of the business by participation in the SAYE share option schemes.
22 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective contracts in place for these supplies.
While these contracts are collectively of colour, ethnic or natural origin, nationality, sex, religion, marital or essential to the business, no single contract or supplier is critical to the disabled status.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment Companys business.
by and the continuing employment, training and career development of disabled people.
The Company also has strong relationships with certain major retailers to supply them with product.
Payment policy Charitable Donations The Group and the Company do not have a formal policy that they follow with regard to payment to suppliers.
Payment terms are agreed As part of the Groups commitment to the communities in which it with each supplier and every endeavour is made to adhere to the operates, contributions totalling 37,000 were made during the year to agreed terms.
The average credit terms for the Group, based on the local charities and community projects.
year-end trade creditors figure and a 365 day year, are 41 days.
The average credit taken by our customers on a similar basis is 28 days.
Auditors Essential Contracts Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the It is imperative that Cranswick is able to source its high quality raw materials Annual General Meeting.
at the most competitive prices and to this end the Company has numerous Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 23 2 at any time within six months following the Take-over Date, in Directors statement as to disclosure of information to any other case.
auditors In the event that the Court sanctions a scheme of arrangement under The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 in connection with a scheme for the Directors Report are listed on page 19.
Having made enquiries of fellow Companys reconstruction or amalgamation with another company, award Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirm holders under the LTIP may exercise their awards during the six month that: period commencing on the date upon which the scheme of arrangement is sanctioned by the Court.
The LTIP also contains provisions enabling to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no award holders to exercise their awards if a person becomes entitled to information relevant to the preparation of their report of which issue a compulsory acquisition notice under the provisions relating to the the Companys auditors are unaware: and compulsory acquisition of a company set out in the Companies Act 2006. each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be The period allowed for exercise in these circumstances is any time up to the expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information seventh day before the final day upon which that person remains entitled and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that to serve such a notice.
In each case, the extent to which awards are capable of exercise depends Change of control on the scope to which the performance targets as adjusted or amended have been satisfied.
There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and to which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon Articles of Association change of control of the Company following a takeover bid other than the following: The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Shareholders.
The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which upon a change of control of the Company are terminable by the bank upon the Annual General Meeting and Special Business to be provision of 10 working days notice, and there are no agreements between transacted at the Annual General Meeting the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported The notice convening the Annual General Meeting can be found in the redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid other than separate Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Report and as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report relating to Martin Davey Accounts.
Details of the Special Business to be transacted at the Annual General Long Term Incentive Plan Meeting are contained in the separate letter from the Chairman which also accompanies this Report and Accounts, and covers the Directors authority In the event of a general offer being made to acquire part or all of the to allot shares, the partial disapplication of pre-emption rights and the issued share capital of the Company as a result of which the offeror may authority for the Company to buy its own shares.
acquire control of the Company, award holders under the Cranswick plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP will have an opportunity to exercise their By order of the Board awards either: 1 immediately before the time at which the change of control of Malcolm Windeatt the Company occurs or any condition subject to which the offer Company Secretary is made has been satisfied Take-over Date but conditional on the Take-over Date occurring, if the Remuneration Committee 16 May 2011 issues a written notice in advance of the Take-over Date to award Company number: 1074383 holders: or 24 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc
