proves impossible, arrangements are put in place, where practical, Treasury policies to guarantee the repayment of the monies in the event of default.
Functional currency Liquidity risk The functional currency of all Group undertakings is sterling.
The Group has historically been very cash generative.
The bank position for each operation is monitored on a daily basis and capital expenditure Foreign currency risk is approved at the monthly Board meeting of each operation at which at least two members of the main Board are present and reported at the The major foreign exchange risk facing the Group is in the purchasing subsequent monthly main Board meeting.
Major projects are approved of charcuterie products.
The major currency involved is the euro.
Each operation has access to the Groups overdraft policy of the Group is to seek to mitigate the impact of this risk by taking facility and all term debt is arranged centrally.
The Group replaced its out forward contracts for up to 12 months ahead and for amounts that existing bank credit facilities during the year.
The new facility is made commence at approximately 25 per cent of the requirement and move up of a revolving credit facility of 100.0 million including a committed progressively towards full cover.
At least 2 members of the main Board overdraft facility of 20.0 million.
The Group manages the utilisation of the attend the monthly meetings of the subsidiary Board at which the key revolving credit facility through the monitoring of monthly consolidated decisions on currency cover are taken.
cash flow projections and the daily borrowings position.
The new facility extends the maturity of the Groups available financing to more than four Interest rate risk years providing it with reduced liquidity risk and long term funding to meet its objectives.
Unutilised facilities at 31 March 2011 were 47.4 The Groups current policy is to manage its cost of borrowing using a mix million 2010: 54.0 million.
of fixed and variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Going concern Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowing The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be future development, performance and position are set out in the Review restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity In contrast, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in position and borrowing facilities are described above, as are the Groups fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow risk as costs increase if market objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk rates rise.
The Group has reduced its borrowings significantly in recent management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging years and at 31 March 2011 gearing had fallen to 22 per cent 2010: 28 activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Given this conservative debt structure the Group has not fixed the interest rate on its new facility.
The Board will keep this situation The Group has considerable financial resources together with strong under constant review and will fix the interest rate on a proportion of the trading relationships with its key customers and suppliers.
As a Groups borrowing at such time as it becomes appropriate to do so.
The consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to Group has an existing interest rate swap with three UK banks relating to manage its business risk successfully.
its previous facilities until December 2011.
Whilst this swap is deemed to be an ineffective hedge, it still provides fixed interest cover against a After reviewing the available information, including business plans and proportion of the Groups current debt.
The monitoring of interest rate making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the risk is handled entirely at head office, based on the monthly consolidation Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for of cash flow projections and the daily borrowings position.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Credit risk Practically all sales are made on credit terms, the majority of which Mark Bottomley are to the major UK food retailers.
Overdue accounts are reviewed Finance Director at the monthly Board meetings of the operations.
The incidence of bad debts is low.
For all major customers, credit terms are agreed by negotiation and for all other customers, credit terms are set by reference to external credit agencies.
Every attempt is made to resist 16 May 2011 advance payments to suppliers for goods and services: where this 16 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc
