Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information Other disclosures Principal activities and Business review Croda International Plc is a marketing and technology company that produces and sells speciality chemicals.
It is the parent company of a Group with operations across the globe and its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire.
The Group carries out research and development activities in the main markets it serves, further details of which can be found in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 7.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2011 including an analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year and the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business review.
The information which makes up the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the annual report: l Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3 l Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 7 l Financial review on pages 8 to 11 l Sustainability review on pages 12 to 21 l Principal risks and uncertainties as discussed in the Financial review section on pages 10 and 11.
Further information on Sustainability can be found in our full Sustainability report on our website at www.
Pages 1 to 46 inclusive together with the sections of the annual report incorporated by reference constitute a directors report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
Research and development Research and development activities are undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding.
Profit and dividends The results for the year are set out on page 48.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 30.25p per share 2010: 25.25p.
If approved by shareholders, total dividends for the year will amount to 55.0p per share 2010: 35.0p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 65 and details of the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 100.
Disposals During the year Crodas 60% shareholding in its Korean joint venture was sold to the non-controlling shareholders.
Further details appear in note 7 on page 63.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board of directors.
The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 22 and 23.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code each director will be standing for election at the AGM.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 42.
Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including share options, is shown in the directors remuneration report on page 38.
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles and any directions given by special resolution.
Corporate governance The directors corporate governance statement is set out on pages 24 to 29.
Directors indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary which represent qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the directors or secretary may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
In addition such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company who are directors of subsidiary companies within the Group.
The Company has also granted an indemnity representing qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 to a paid director of the corporate trustee of the Groups UK pension scheme.
43 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Other disclosures Share capital At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report: l details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 79 and 84 l details of employee share schemes are set out on pages 80 to 83.
Power to issue or buy back shares At the 2011 AGM, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to approximately one third of the issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury for general purposes, plus up to a further one third of the Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury, but only in the case of a rights issue.
No such shares have been issued.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985.
Both these authorities expire on the date of the 2012 AGM to be held on 26 April 2012 and so the directors propose to renew them for a further year.
In February 2011 the Company announced that it intended to launch a share buyback programme later that year.
At last years AGM the members renewed the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
Subsequently, during the year the Company purchased an aggregate of 2,805,225 ordinary shares of 10p each having a nominal value of 280,522.50 representing 2.07% of the Companys issued share capital as at 1 January 2011 for an aggregate consideration of 50.1m at an average cost of 1782p per share.
As a result of these purchases the number of shares in respect of which the Company is now authorised to make market purchases has been reduced to 8,853,802 ordinary shares of 10p each representing approximately 6.54% of the present issued share capital of the Company.
The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2012 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
It is the Companys intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Substantial shareholders As at 17 February 2012, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Ordinary shares % of share capital Nature of holding AEGON Asset Management UK 4,074,691 2.99% Direct 2.9%, Indirect 0.09% Legal & General Group Plc 6,745,315 4.98% Direct Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Significant contracts and change of control The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in the event of a change of control.
The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in control of the Company on participants rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
None of the executive directors service contracts contain provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company which are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
44 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information Employees Diversity Croda is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, or age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
Group HR Policies are clearly communicated to all employees and are available through the Company intranet.
Recruitment & progression It is established policy throughout Croda that decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion and other employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment with Croda, they are fully supported by its occupational health provision.
Efforts are made to continue their employment with reasonable adjustments being made to the workplace and role where feasible.
Retraining is provided if necessary.
Development & learning Croda recognises that the key to future success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce.
It is only through the continuous development of our employees that we will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to enhanced creativity, innovation and customer service.
During 2011 our employees each had an average of 24 hours of training.
Involvement Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success of the Group.
Owning shares in the Company is an important way of strengthening involvement in the development of the business and bringing together employee and shareholder interests.
In 2011 45% of our employees applied for options under one of our SAYE schemes.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety of ways, including the Crodaway the Company magazine, quarterly updates, Croda Connect the Company intranet, team briefings, webinars and E-Lists email messages.
These communications help achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of Croda and of changes happening within the business.
Croda is also committed to providing employees with opportunities to share their views and provide feedback on issues that are important to them.
All regions have undertaken an employee survey since 2010.
The largest of these targeting our European employees was completed during 2011.
Corporate Social Responsibility Croda continues to believe that good corporate responsibility is essential to the long term success of the business.
Details of our corporate responsibility initiatives and activities are set out on pages 12 to 21 of this report.
Our separate Sustainability Report, available in print and online at www.
com csr, expands on the core themes of Sustainability within Croda as well as providing more quantitative information on our performance against our CSR targets.
Under the supervision of the CSR Steering Committee, responsibility is now completely embedded within the regional business units, which are fully accountable for delivering business objectives.
Crodas CSR Steering Committee is comprised of representatives from all regional business units and is responsible for the strategic management of CSR within the Group, as well as ensuring all reporting obligations can be satisfied through the effective collation of robust data.
Community engagement Community engagement is of great value within Croda and enables us to meet our business aims as well as satisfying our moral obligations to our employees and the local communities in which we live and operate.
Community engagement extends across the three key areas of communication, involvement and education.
The effects of our activities in these three areas combine to create beneficial outputs such as increased morale, better skills development training, easier employee recruitment, enhanced public relations and a positive reputation with our stakeholders.
In 2011 we embarked on an ambitious programme of improving our educational offering in the area of science by developing a programme aligned to the needs of pupils following the UK National Curriculum.
This will be further developed in 2012 and we have an aim to see this extended into other geographies in the coming years.
Supplier payment policy Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had an average of 31.2 days 2010: 35.8 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
Market value of properties The Groups property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at depreciated historic cost where the assets were acquired in the normal course of business or depreciated fair value if the assets were acquired as part of a business combination.
The properties are in continuing use and many of them were acquired when market values were substantially lower than at present.
The directors consider that a surplus over book value exists, but have not quantified the excess.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 11,000 2010: 13,000.
No donations were made for political purposes 2010: Nil.
45 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Other disclosures Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire, DN14 9LZ on Thursday, 26 April 2012 at 12 noon.
The notice of meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to shareholders with this annual report.
Independent auditors Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: l select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: l make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: l state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and l prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose details are set out on pages 22 and 23 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: l the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and l the Business review contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Audit information The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Approved by the Board Louise Scott Secretary 29 February 2012 46
