Directors report BoardofDirectors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Directors Biographies WillGardiner Mr Gardiner age 47, Chief Financial Officer, joined CSR as Chief Financial Officer in June 2008.
Prior to joining CSR, Mr Gardiner was Finance Director for Technology and Enterprise at BSkyB plc.
Before its acquisition by BSkyB in 2006, Mr Gardiner had since 2001 been CFO of Easynet Group plc, a pan-European broadband telecoms company.
Between 1991 and 2001, Mr Gardiner held a number of senior roles within JPMorgans investment banking division, specialising in the telecoms and technology sectors.
Mr Gardiner has a BA from Harvard College and MA from Johns Hopkins University.
Anthony Carlisle Mr Carlisle age 65, a non-executive director and CSRs Senior Independent Director, was appointed a non-executive director of CSR in July 2005 and was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 27 May 2009.
He is also a member of our Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Mr Carlisle is the Chief Executive of Citigate Dewe Rogerson Consultancy.
He has over 30 years experience in marketing and communications, advising major companies in the UK and internationally.
He holds a BA in Economics.
Joep van Beurden Mr van Beurden age 51, Chief Executive Officer, was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 November 2007.
Prior to joining CSR, Mr van Beurden was Chief Executive of NexWave Inc. a provider of embedded software solutions for the consumer electronics market based in France.
Before joining NexWave, Mr van Beurden held senior positions at Canesta Inc. a fabless semiconductor company in San Jose, California and Philips Components also in San Jose.
Prior to that, Mr van Beurden had worked for five years for management and strategy consultants McKinsey & Company in Amsterdam.
Mr van Beurden has also worked as a crude oil trader for Royal Dutch Shell in Rotterdam and lectured in Physics and Electronics at the University of Zambia.
In January 2009, Mr van Beurden was appointed a director of the Global Semiconductor Alliance GSA, a not-for-profit organisation supporting collaboration, supply chain integration and innovation in the global semiconductor industry.
He was appointed Chairman of the GSA in December 2011 after serving as a Vice Chairman since December 2009.
Mr van Beurden holds a Masters degree in Applied Physics from Twente University of Technology in Enschede, The Netherlands.
Kanwar Chadha Mr Chadha age 52, Chief Marketing Officer, joined CSR on 26 June 2009, following the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings Inc. where he was a founder, head of marketing and a member of the Board of Directors.
Mr Chadha has over 25 years of experience in various marketing and management positions.
Prior to founding SiRF, Mr Chadha served as general manager of the multimedia group and director of strategic marketing at S3 Inc. where he led the development of innovative audio and video processing technologies.
Before joining S3 Inc. Mr Chadha co-founded AQuesT Inc. a developer of multimedia and 3D graphics acceleration products and served as its chairman.
Prior to his entrepreneurial ventures, he served at Intel in various product marketing positions, including product line manager for the i860 RISC processor and floating point co-processors 8087 287 387.
Mr Chadha received his BTech in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi and later his MS in CIS from the University of Pennsylvania simultaneously with an MBA from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania.
Ron Mackintosh Mr Mackintosh age 63, Chairman, has served as a non-executive director since May 2004 and was appointed Chairman with effect from 2 May 2007.
Mr Mackintosh is a non-executive director of software company Fidessa Group plc and non-executive chairman of AlertMe.
com Ltd. Mr Mackintosh has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000, Mr Mackintosh was Chief Executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business, which had revenues of $2.5 billion.
He is also a former director of Gemplus SA, and the former chairman of each of Smartstream Technologies Ltd, Northgate Information Solutions plc and also of Differentis, a privately owned IT consultancy which he co-founded in July 2000.
Mr Mackintosh is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 46 Full version AR 290898. pdf 50 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Andrew Allner Mr Allner age 58, a non-executive director, joined CSR as a non-executive director on 1 October 2008.
Mr Allner was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 27 May 2009 and is also a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Mr Allner is currently Chairman of Marshalls plc, a non-executive director, senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at AZ Electronic Materials SA and The Go-Ahead Group plc, and also serves as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Northgate plc.
Mr Allner was Group Finance Director of RHM plc, taking a lead role in its flotation in July 2005 on the London Stock Exchange.
Prior to joining RHM plc, Mr Allner was CEO of Enodis PLC.
Mr Allner has also served in senior executive positions with Dalgety PLC, Amersham International PLC and Guinness PLC.
He is a former partner of Price Waterhouse and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He is a graduate of the University of Oxford.
Christopher Ladas Mr Ladas age 66, Operations Director, was appointed a director of CSR on 1 January 2008.
He joined the Company in May 2000 and currently serves as Executive Vice President Operations.
Between January 1996 and May 2000, Mr Ladas served as the vice president of operations at Micro Linear Corporation.
Prior to 1996, Mr Ladas held several managerial and technical positions at National Semiconductor, Fairchild, Harris, Sperry, Motorola and Signetics.
Mr Ladas holds a BS in Chemistry from Arizona State University, USA.
He is also a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and a member of the Europe, Middle East and Africa Leadership Council of the Global Semiconductor Alliance.
Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Mr Giacoletto-Roggio age 62, a non-executive director, joined CSR as a non-executive director on 4 January 2007.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
In December 2008, Mr Giacoletto-Roggio retired from Oracle Corporation, where he had been executive vice president, Europe, Middle East and Africa and a member of Oracles executive committee.
Prior to joining Oracle in 1997, Mr Giacoletto-Roggio was President, value added services at AT&T, before which he spent 20 years with Digital Equipment Corporation in various senior management and executive roles.
Mr Giacoletto-Roggio has served on multiple company boards and IT industry associations.
He is currently a non-executive director of Colt SA, chairman of Telepo AB, non-executive director and the senior independent director of Logica plc, non-executive director of Oberthur Technologies and Operating Partner with Advent International.
Mr Giacoletto-Roggio holds a Masters degree in Computer Science from the University of Turin.
Teresa Vega Ms Vega age 57, a non-executive director, joined CSR as a non-executive director on 27 October 2010.
Ms Vega has over 30 years experience gained working in the technology and telecommunications industries for leading global companies, including Motorola Inc. where she served as senior vice president between June 2005 and July 2007, leading their global CDMA handset business, and Lucent Technologies Inc. where she served as Chief Operating Officer of the wireless infrastructure unit.
In each of these organisations, Ms Vega led and built multi-billion dollar divisions and spearheaded major product launches.
Between 2002 and 2005, Ms Vega also served as Group President, Wireless Cable and Emerging Markets at Telecordia Technologies Inc. a leading global provider of telecommunications software and services for network operators.
Ms Vega is currently non-executive chairman of Cambridge Broadband Networks Limited and ip.
access Limited, both Cambridge, UK based, and non-executive chairman of Arieso Ltd, based in Newbury, UK.
Levy Gerzberg Dr Levy Gerzberg age 66, a non-executive director, joined the Board of CSR as a non-executive director on 31 August 2011.
He was co-founder, President, CEO and Director of Zoran Corporation.
Dr Gerzberg has over 30 years experience in the high technology industry in areas related to integrated circuits, software and systems utilising digital signal processing in consumer electronics, communications, PCs and military medical electronics markets.
Prior to co-founding Zoran, Dr. Gerzberg was Associate Director of Stanford Universitys Electronics Laboratory, where he managed, conducted research and taught.
He was named Northern Californias 2003 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year in the Semiconductor category, and in 2004, he was honoured as the recipient of the California Israel Chamber of Commerce International Partnership award.
Dr Gerzberg holds a PhD in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University and an MS in Medical Electronics and a B. S. in Electrical Engineering from the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, Israel.
He is currently serving his second term on the Consumer Electronics Associations Board of Industry Leaders.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 47 Full version AR 290898. pdf 51 14 03 2012 17:20:32
