10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Executive Directors Mark Allen Alastair Murray Martyn Wilks Chief Executive Finance Director Executive Managing Director 51 50 53 Appointed a Director in Appointed in September Appointed in January 2002 and became Chief 2003.
He was President Executive in January Director of The Body of the Snackfood Division 2007.
He joined Dairy Shop International plc of Masterfoods USA, Crest in August 1991.
He from January 1999 and and has held senior was formally with Shell was previously Finance management positions UK Ltd.
He is Chairman Director of Dalgety Food within the Mars and of The Princes Rural Ingredients Limited.
Masterfoods Groups Action Programme and a including Managing Trustee for The Princes Director of Mars, France.
He is Vice Chairman of Dairy UK and a Non-executive Director of Howden Joinery Group Plc.
It is well documented that the Dairy Crest has been seen We have made real progress year ended 31 March 2011 as one of the most proactive this year in improving our was challenging for everyone businesses in dealing with ability to innovate.
The culture in the dairy sector in the UK.
its pension liabilities and I of our business is changing to My job is to ensure that our am proud of the role I have make it easier to develop new business responds to the played in this.
By understanding that challenges in the right way and that our current employees no-one has a monopoly on to balance the demands of all and members of our pension innovation, being prepared to our stakeholders.
I believe we schemes can be confident that fail but learning from failure and have the right people in place they will benefit from a secure betting the cow and not the to continue to make Dairy Crest pension on their retirement whole farm, we are creating a stronger and I am determined and that the business can business where new thinking to make sure that we build on afford the contributions it thrives.
I am excited by the the solid foundations we have needs to make to fund this.
new products we have in the laid for the future Helping strike this balance and pipeline and expect them to reducing the risks associated contribute to Dairy Crests with the pension schemes has ongoing success been and will continue to be an important part of my role Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 11 Non-Executive Directors and Advisers Anthony Stephen Andrew Fry Alexander Carr-Locke Chairman 55 Non-Executive Non-Executive Director 55 Director 57 Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July Appointed as a Non-executive Director in Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 2007 and as Chairman on 1 January 2010.
He is Chairman of Look Ahead August 2009.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, he has previously March 2011 he was Senior Adviser of Evercore Housing and Care, a charitable housing Partners in the firms London office.
He has association and until February 2011, was held senior finance positions at Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Kodak and previously held senior appointments at Lehman Chairman of Maltby Capital Ltd parent Brothers, Credit Suisse and the Rothschild company of EMI Group.
He has served as was Group Finance Director at George Wimpey plc until 2007.
He has previously held nonGroup in a career in merchant banking Chief Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd which has spanned more than 30 years.
In then parent company of Premier Foods and executive directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, Venture Production and AWG.
In April 2010 November 2010 he was appointed Chairman held senior positions with Allied Domecq of Cala Group Limited and in March 2011 he PLC and Imperial Group.
He was also Senior he was appointed Executive Chairman of Countryside Properties PLC.
was appointed Chairman of Espirito Santo Independent Director at Devro plc.
He is a Non-executive Director of Control Risks and the BBC Trust and has served on the boards of Mowlem, The British Standards Institution and Southern Water as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
Richard Howard Robin Macdonald Mann O.
B. E Miller Non-Executive Non-Executive Company Director 56 Director 64 Secretary and General Counsel 40 # Appointed as a Non-executive Director in Appointed as a Non-executive Director in May Appointed in April 2008.
He is a solicitor having November 2010.
He had a 30 year career with 2003 and was President and Chief Executive worked in private practice and in-house in both the National Farmers Union, serving as Director of McCain Foods Limited, Toronto, Canada retail and international manufacturing, latterly General for 13 years.
He is a Non-executive from May 1995 to May 2004.
He previously with Gallaher Group Plc.
Director of Moy Park Limited, Chairman of held a number of senior positions with Rank Safe and Local Supplier Approval and Hovis McDougall and has held non-executive Chairman of DEFRAs Better Regulation Task directorships with The Body Shop International Force.
He is also a governor of The Royal plc, Endurance Speciality Insurance USA, Agricultural College Cirencester and is a Wild Group gmbh Germany and Reconomy member of the board of the National Institute Holdings Limited.
Board and main Committee meetings Auditors Ernst & Young LLP The following Directors held office during the year.
The number of Board and main Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
The Solicitors numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings members could have attended in the period.
Eversheds LLP Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Mr A Fry 12 12 2 3 Principal Bankers Mr M Allen 12 12 2 3 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Mr A S N Murray 12 12 Mr M Wilks 11 12 Rabobank International, London Branch 1 Mr S Alexander 4 5 1 1 1 1 Mr A Carr-Locke 10 12 4 4 3 3 3 3 Lloyds TSB plc 2 Mr R Macdonald 6 7 1 1 BNP Paribas Mr H Mann 8 12 3 4 1 3 3 3 3 Ms C Piwnica 6 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 4 Corporate Brokers Mr N Monnery 3 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 J. P. Morgan Cazenove Audit Committee Member 1 Mr Alexander was appointed to the Board 1 January 2011.
RBS Hoare Govett Ltd 2 Mr Macdonald was appointed to the Board 3 November Remuneration Committee Member 2010.
Nomination Committee Member 3 Ms Piwnica resigned from the Board 9 December 2010.
Registered Office 4 Mr Monnery resigned from the Board on 20 July 2010.
Claygate House, Corporate Responsibility Littleworth Road, Committee Member Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN Member of the Management Board Registered in England No.
