12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Experienced and motivated management Toby Brinsmead Mike Sheldon Managing Director, Managing Director, Liquid Products Customer Direct Appointed to current role in Worked for Dairy Crest for December 2008.
He joined 18 years in senior roles in Dairy Crest in 1998 and held a Purchasing and Liquids Products number of finance roles before before being appointed to current becoming Finance Director position in 2006.
Previously worked for Pepsico Foods worked in retail and healthcare International.
sectors, most recently with PPP healthcare.
The year ended 31 March 2011 was the During 2010 11 we have continued to first of a three year investment programme transform and simplify our Customer Direct in our liquid milk dairies.
We are focussed on recruiting is on track to deliver improved efficiency, new milk&more customers and providing greater capacity and an improved excellent service to all our customers.
I am infrastructure and to facilitate innovation.
I confident that the plans we have in place am happy with the progress we have made will make milk&more a success in the year and the plans we have for the rest of the programme Rob Tansey Mark Taylor Group HR Director Group Milk Procurement Director Appointed in October 2006, having previously been HR Has spent career in food Director of Travis Perkins plc industry, covering roles from field and Director of Personnel for to fork.
After spells with Diageo Celesio AG.
and Northern Foods, joined Dairy Crest in 2000 and held a number of senior roles before being appointed to current role in February 2009.
With our colleagues in Business Systems By working across the supply chain Dairy we have made a significant step Crest can give consumers what they forward in the way we use technology want, improve efficiencies and improve to streamline our processes in Human returns to its dairy farmers.
Our close Resources and bring Learning and working relationship with our farmers and Development opportunities to all of our their representatives can help generate a employees.
We now have an online sustainable dairy sector for the benefit of service for employees that allows them everyone.
Clearly farm gate milk prices to access their employment and training remain important but I believe there are records which removes paper and opportunities to add value to the supply speeds things up chain by being open to new ideas
