54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued executive Directors and the chairmen of Board Committees to attend for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information and the AGM and to be available to answer shareholders questions.
Annual Reviews, Annual Reports and Financial Statements and Directors attended the AGM in July 2010.
Notice of the AGM is, in other relevant reports and statements are published on the Companys accordance with the applicable company law and the Companys website.
In accordance with applicable company law, the Company articles, either posted in hard copy to shareholders or posted on the has received shareholder approval, subject to certain requirements, Companys website at least 21 days before the date of the AGM.
to communicate electronically with its shareholders.
Other information Resolutions are proposed for each substantial separate issue and which shareholders and third parties are entitled to access is made details of the proxy voting on each resolution are announced at the available in accordance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
AGM after the results of the show of hands is known and are posted on the Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
Compliance with the provisions contained in Code Throughout the year the Group was in compliance with the The Company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of proxies provisions of the Code except for: provision C. 3.1, where as a result lodged on each resolution.
It also publishes the level of votes for and of the timing of changes to the Boards membership there was an against resolutions and the number of abstentions.
The Company interlude where the Audit Committee comprised two independent ensures that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
6.1 where for the reasons stated at page 50, the Board has not undertaken a formal evaluation.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially discrete subject and the Company proposes a resolution at the AGM relating to Approval the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Corporate Governance Statement and the Audit Committee report contained in it have been approved by the Board.
Access to information Electronic communication continues to become the principal medium 18 May 2011 Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Group and Company financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
and of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
Under company law Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity financial position of the Group and Company, financial performance of the corporate and financial information included on the of the Group and cash flows of the Group for that period.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparing the Financial Statements the Directors are required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: DTR 4.1 Statement Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable on page 10 to 11 confirms that to the best of his knowledge, they information: have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Financial Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to that the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the assets, understand the impact of particular transactions, other events liabilities and financial position of the Group and the Company and conditions on the financial position of the Group and and of the Groups income statement and the Companys profit Company and performance of the Group: for that period.
In addition, each of the Directors confirms that the State that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, management report represented by the Directors Report includes a subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Financial Statements: and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description Make judgements and estimates that are responsible and of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Mark Allen Chief Executive any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company Alastair Murray Finance Director
