24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Business review continued Dairies The Dairies division processes and delivers fresh conventional, million 2010 11 2009 10 organic and flavoured milk to major retailers, middle ground Revenue 1,089.8 1,081.2 Profit 27.1 34.9 customers including, smaller retailers, coffee shops and hospitals Margin 2.5% 3.2% and residential customers.
We also manufacture and sell FRijj, the leading fresh flavoured milk brand, cream and milk powders.
Reported revenue increased by 1% to 1,089.8 million.
However, in an increasingly tough trading environment, segment profit fell to 27.1 million 2010: 34.9 million, resulting in a segment margin of 2.5%.
9% increase in milk sales to major retailers Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 25 An increasingly efficient supply chain Sales to major retailers Our focus is on cost, quality and service We have significantly increased our sales and we are one year into a three year, 75 of milk to our major retail customers in the million, capital expenditure programme year and milk sales to these customers are for our liquid dairies.
We have made now greater than to the middle ground.
significant improvements this year at all This reflects the improvements we have four of our dairies where we pack milk made over recent years to cost, quality into polybottles with particular emphasis and service and we expect to continue on Severnside.
Here we have increased this trend.
As well as obtaining new capacity for both conventional polybottles business from Tesco we have established and for FRijj and have installed and long-term agreements with Sainsburys commissioned a new line which produces and Morrisons and have confirmed milk in bags.
long-standing supply arrangements with We have improved operating efficiencies Waitrose and M&S.
by around 5% this year, have reduced However we have not renewed our wastage and are getting close to operating contract to supply the Cooperative Group all our dairies with zero waste to landfill.
and our fresh milk supply to them will end Service and quality have remained high.
Looking forward, we expect to We continue to innovate and have make further capacity and efficiency seen significant uplifts in our sales of 1% improvements by installing a new milk fat milk and milk in bags.
packing line at Severnside and extending We have also grown sales of our 3% the cold stores at Foston and Severnside.
branded milkshake, FRijj, by 3% compared Further work will be done to allow us to last year.
The market for flavoured milk increase in FRijj sales to expand the FRijj range and increase remains buoyant but our growth was compared to last year milk bag capacity.
We will also increase constrained by capacity.
We have now our focus on reducing distribution costs addressed this and expect FRijj, supported including through the implementation of by innovative marketing campaigns, to grow some new planning tools.
strongly in the year ending 31 March 2012. Business review 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Business review | Dairies continued Residential deliveries traditional customers.
We are pleased Middle ground Delivering milk to customers doorsteps that three of our depots have increased This sector of our business has been remains a key part of our business.
We turnover compared to the previous year challenging during the year.
Although have 1.2 million residential customers and and a further nine had sales within 2% some parts of the middle ground have a network of over 2,200 milkmen of last year.
We have resumed television remain attractive, others have become including around 1,700 franchisees.
advertising in the first quarter of the increasingly commoditised and prices and Our internet doorstep delivery current financial year and we are also margins have been adversely affected.
We proposition, milk&more, continues to make carrying out a number of different trials have reduced middle ground sales in the progress.
Having launched milk&more to further improve milk&more.
year and have significantly cut back on the nationally in September 2009 we started Away from milk&more we have recently number of depots from which we operate 2010 11 with over 250,000 registered started to sell milk bags to our residential our middle ground business.
We spent the first half of customers and these are proving be increasingly selective in this sector.
the year improving systems so that we extremely popular.
Cost control remains could provide an even better service to important and we are progressing well Ingredients our customers.
The enhancements also with projects that will significantly reduce Our ingredients operation provides us with increased capacity and allowed us to our supply chain costs.
a flexible balancing solution for seasonal understand how our customers were However higher commodity input raw milk supplies and cream.
Weekly turnover reached costs have led us to implement two selling dairy commodity markets remaining strong 800k by September 2010. price increases during the year and this for most of the year, we have reduced the The growth encouraged us to has resulted in total residential milk sales amount of milk processed into commodity advertise on national television in February falling 5% by value and 8% by volume ingredients.
We carry only minimum and March 2011 which led to more compared to a year ago.
stocks and negotiate longer term selling new customers signing up and using Looking forward, our current contracts wherever possible in order milk&more.
In March 2011 we moved projections show that growth in milk&more to reduce our exposure to commodity through the 1 million weekly sales barrier.
sales has the potential to stabilise margins markets.
However we have benefited from Completely new customers spend more in our residential delivery business and stronger markets for by-products such as with us, in particular on products other that milk&more margins will account for buttermilk powder.
In the last four weeks these around 40% of total residential margins by customers weekly spend has averaged the end of 2012 13. over 10, compared to around 5 for our 1.2 million 1 million residential doorstep weekly milk&more sales delivery customers milk&more was advertised on television in February 2011 to recruit new customers.
It was the first national television advert for doorstep milk in twenty years.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 27 Business review
