6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Market analysis WE LISTEN Consumers are at the heart of our business We listen to our consumers and go where this takes us Dairy Crest is committed to developing innovative new products to meet consumers needs.
We have set ourselves the challenging objective that sales from products and services developed in the previous three years will reach 10% of our annual turnover.
In the year ended 31 March 2011 we achieved 9%, up from 7% in the year before.
Creating a culture for innovation to flourish Why innovation is so important to Dairy Crest We are constantly looking for ways to reinforce a culture of We aim to grow our profits every year.
But dairy products have innovation.
We aim to be consumer oriented, to come up with been around for centuries and as the table below shows, the genuinely new ideas, to be fast to implement and to support markets we operate in, although large, are generally mature winning ideas financially.
Champions from across the business meet regularly to generate ideas based on our understanding of consumer UK and French selected retail markets - size and growth trends.
We use technology to interact with consumers as part Market Market volume of the assessment process and have adapted speed dating size growth techniques to get immediate feedback.
Category million 2010 11 To widen the innovation base we ran a Dragons Den UK dairy 9,837 2.5% competition where all Group employees and their families were UK fresh milk 2,928 0.4% invited to submit their ideas for new products and services.
UK cheese 2,450 -0.3% The best ideas have been included in the innovation pipeline UK butter 600 0.6% so that they can be taken forward.
UK dairy spreads 232 -0.1% In France, our St Hubert business includes a creative UK fresh flavoured milk 94 5.7% period in its business cycle to generate new ideas.
St Hubert France non-dairy spreads 375 -1.7% has also recently conducted concepts screening using secured Source: Kantar, Nielsen, IRI internet access to receive immediate consumer feedback.
We must increase market share to grow and innovation is one way to do this.
By listening to consumers and developing relevant new products and services we improve our profits.
Understanding consumers We carry out both qualitative and quantitative research to help us better understand our consumers needs and how their attitudes are changing over time.
A comprehensive macro-trends monitoring programme gives us key insights into the latest trends and we use a wide variety of continuous data to track and analyse relevant 75% markets.
In addition we talk directly to consumers in their homes reduction in and on accompanied shopping trips.
This gives us valuable packaging insights into how they are thinking and behaving at the point of consumption and purchase.
Recently we have also JUGIT milk bag compared incorporated new listening techniques using social media to help us gain a different consumer perspective.
to conventional polybottle Case study healthier variants of traditional brands Case study milk&more Our successful French spread, St Hubert Omga 3, has After extensive trials, we launched our internet-based home become the market leader as consumers look for better heart delivery service nationwide in Autumn 2009.
Sales in the year ended 31 March 2011 increased by are now in excess of 1 million.
We knew that consumers valued their milk being In the UK the emphasis is on lower fat products.
Our delivered to their home, but some found elements of the research shows that many consumers want to reduce their service quite frustrating.
They didnt like communicating intake of saturated fat without compromising on taste.
with their milkmen using notes left in empty bottles and they Government guidelines confirm that there is a need to do this.
didnt like having to leave the exact change out each week to Over the past 5 years we have launched lighter variants pay their bill.
milk&more was developed from understanding of our key UK Foods brands.
They now account for a what our residential customers did want.
Customers now significant proportion of total sales and are growing strongly.
place their orders using the internet and pay electronically.
There is more about the progress of milk&more in the % of total Growth Core brand brand 2010 11 Operating Review on page 26.
Cathedral City Lighter 13% 27% Clover Lighter 15% 26% Country Life Lighter 11% 7% Source: DC data Also in the UK, our Dairies business has seen success with 1% fat milk.
Sales have grown by 35% over the past year.
A strong track record In the past 3 years we have successfully brought new products and services to the market which together accounted for sales totalling 140 million in the year ended 31 March 2011.
These included: milk&more and Clover Lighter see below : Cathedral City range extensions such as vintage: JUGIT: limited edition FRijj and, in France, St Hubert bio organic.
We have a strong pipeline and more new products are scheduled for launch in 2011 12.
35% Sales growth in 1% fat milk over the past year New products and services introduced over the past 3 years accounted for 140 million of sales in 2011 O Ov five er rv viie ew w
