Business review continued Dairy Crest supply base Milk Procurement Liquid contracts Using innovative ideas Liquid contracts to provide a sustainable 1.6 Dairy Crest branded supply of milk.
Liquid contracts billion The Milk Procurement team litres of raw milk sourced major retailers within Dairy Crest is responsible direct from dairy farmers Cheese contracts for sourcing over 2.1 billion litres 75% of total of milk required by the business Dairy Crest branded on an annual basis.
Around 75% of this milk comes from dairy On-farm costs increase and milk spotlight on dairy farming.
farms contracted to supply their milk production grows At Dairy Crest we are proud of our direct to Dairy Crest.
Our 1,300 supplying During 2010 11 our farmers have faced diverse range of farms and the standards dairy farms are located throughout severe farm cost inflation as animal feed they have achieved.
We buy milk from a central and southern England and South costs have risen to record levels and other broad range of farm types small and Wales and encompass a diverse range of on-farm costs have risen.
We have reacted large, tenants and owners, family and farm farm sizes and farming systems.
All our by increasing the price we pay them for their manager operators.
Our farmers are treated supplying farms adhere to Red Tractor milk.
We are committed to supporting our as individuals and given the freedom to farm assurance and Dairy Crest quality suppliers and to sharing returns from the farm in the way that is most suitable to their standards.
market as and when they are achieved.
geographic area, type of land, business We work in partnership with our Nationally milk production increased by aspirations and infrastructure.
Our focus is farmers to achieve a sustainable milk around 4%, a welcoming reversal of recent on the level of stockmanship and expertise supply for our business.
years when milk production has fallen.
to deliver high standards of animal health In addition to our core activity of Another welcome trend has been and welfare and therefore milk quality.
buying milk, we have identified a number consumers growing interest in how their Our milk contracts are designed to of opportunities to add value and deliver food is produced which has led to an ensure that every individual dairy farmer mutual benefit.
increasing media focus on agriculture, with a who supplies his milk to us knows in Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 29 advance what adds value for us and what Direct Supply Manager evaluating their the need to be the best at what we do by he will get in return.
achievement of the available milk price from delivering greater efficiency and finding new their contract and exploring their business opportunities for future benefit.
Innovation in 2010 11 opportunities with Dairy Crest.
We will further develop the Country A number of improvements to our core Agri Assist, the joint venture between Life farm package and particularly the contracts were introduced in July 2010.
This Dairy Crest and DCD, our supplier new information system for our suppliers, was part of an on-going process to develop organisation, celebrated its first anniversary Farm Connect, so we have a greater our portfolio of contracts to deliver greater in January and continues to focus on understanding of how our farmers farm.
flexibility and choice to our farmers.
delivering efficiencies and revenue It will also help us respond quickly to In line with our strategy to align all of our generating opportunities on farm.
farmers to a Dairy Crest customer or brand Milk collection is a key element of the We continue to work with DCD to we have increased the proportion of our Milk Procurement function and we have review and improve our portfolio of supplier suppliers on an aligned contract, and around taken a lead role in the development of contracts to ensure they deliver a fair, 80 of our supplying farms are now part of the Dairy Transport Assurance Scheme.
competitive and innovative offer for both the Tesco Sustainable Dairy Group.
This new audit scheme is managed by current and prospective farmers.
To provide a further opportunity for our Dairy UK and ensures the safety of food Finally, whilst working closely with suppliers to differentiate their contract we products during transport from farm to the our farm suppliers it is very evident that have developed a new Country Life farm processing site.
succession within the farming industry is a package.
This includes a new set of farm We continue to work to improve concern.
For a sustainable and vibrant future standards, which are in addition to the the efficiency of our core operation and we need to encourage the next generation so Red Tractor farm assurance scheme.
We have introduced a we can develop and retain talented, forwardfocus is on efficiency, sustainability and key new vehicle fleet into our ex-farm operation thinking people to work in the dairy industry.
consumer issues including animal welfare with all tankers achieving environmental This is something Dairy Crest is actively and the environment.
Our aim is to continue excellence through clean burn engines involved in doing through our continued to develop these standards so they reflect which has reduced emissions.
The fleet support of initiatives including the Royal improved knowledge and innovation in dairy is also equipped with additional safety Association of British Dairy Farmers Dairy farming and the delivery of best practice.
Additionally we purchased Crest Student Award, the Dairy Crest NFU A further part of our new farm package contingency equipment for adverse weather.
South West Scholarship fund and the MBA has been our investment in an innovative Agri Business scholarship.
This enables greater Looking forward Dairy Crest greatly values the skill and information sharing and improves the A sustainable milk supply is crucial to expertise of our supplying farmers and the efficiency of our communication process.
Dairy Crest and we are actively seeking to quality milk they produce.
We are committed The system will also offer all farmers a increase the proportion of milk we buy from to developing successful, long-term detailed business review with their local direct supply.
To achieve this we recognise relationships for a sustainable future for us all.
