Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 45 Directors report The Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company present Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and their fifteenth Annual Report to shareholders together with the Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The purpose of the Annual the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have Report is to provide information to members of the Company.
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to basis in preparing the financial statements.
whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
It Business review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the S417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that the Company sets operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future the 2010 11 financial year, including balanced and comprehensive events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those analysis of the development and performance of the Group anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge during the financial year and the position of the Group at the end and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual of the year: together with information relating to environmental, Report and except to the extent required by applicable regulations employee, social and community matters.
In addition, the Company or by law, the Group undertakes no obligation to update these is required to provide a description of the principal risks and forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should uncertainties facing the Group and, to the extent necessary for an be construed as a profit forecast.
understanding of the business, the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of As the 2010 11 financial year commenced after 28 June 2008 but the Companys business.
The information satisfying the business before 29 June 2010, references to the Combined Code in this review requirements is set out in this report: the Chairmans report are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June statement on page 13: the Chief Executives Review on pages 2008 Code.
The relevant parts of this report have been reviewed 14 to 15: the Business Review on pages 18 to 36: the review of by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 110. the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17: and the Group Key Performance Indicators KPIs on page 5: all of which Principal activities are incorporated into this report by reference.
The Corporate The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, Governance Report forms part of this Directors Report and is processing and distribution of milk and dairy products.
Further incorporated into it by reference.
information can be found within the Business Review section at pages 18 to 36.
Group results The Groups consolidated income statement set out on page 55 Going concern shows a profit for the financial year of 57.5 million compared with The Group and Companys business activities, together with 52.5 million in 2009 10. factors likely to affect future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives Review on pages 14 Post balance sheet events to 15, the business reviews on pages 18 to 36 and the review of Following a Board decision in April 2011, the Group announced on principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17.
The financial 17 May 2011, that, subject to a consultation process, production position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are of its leading dairy spread brand, Clover, would be consolidated described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 36.
In addition, into its site in Kirkby, Liverpool.
The manufacturing process is notes 31 and 32 to the Financial Statements include the Group currently split between Kirkby and Crudgington, Shropshire.
and Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing This consolidation will result in approximately 90 redundancies its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its at Crudgington and the creation of approximately 45 jobs at financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to Kirkby.
The consolidation is not expected to be completed until credit risk and liquidity risk.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment at Crudgington affected by this change continues to be supported by As highlighted in note 31, the Company and Group meet day-tothe underlying value in use and therefore no impairment has been day working capital requirements through syndicated revolving recognised at that date.
credit facilities and ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom are covered by committed facilities Dividends which mature at least 12 months after the year end.
At 31 March The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 14.2 pence 2011, effective headroom was 324 million and the earliest facility 2009 10: 13.6 pence per ordinary share, which if approved, will to expire was a 100 million revolving credit facility in November be paid to members on the register at the close of business on 24 2011.
Should this 100 million facility not be replaced, forecasts June 2011.
Together, the final dividend and interim dividend 5.5 show that facility headroom would remain adequate.
pence per ordinary share paid on 27 January 2011 make total dividends for the year of 19.7 pence per ordinary share 2009 10: There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 18.9 pence.
31 March 2011 and projections do not indicate any breaches in the foreseeable future.
Since the reduction of Euro denominated Share capital borrowings in the year ended March 2009, exchange rate The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together fluctuations no longer materially impact our bank covenant tests.
with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during 2010 11 are shown in note 25 to the financial statements.
As Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible at the date of this report, 133.3 million ordinary 25p shares were in changes in trading performance, show that the Company and issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 33.3 million.
Group will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
Governance 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys members, deferred members or pensioners at the time.
The reports and accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings pension funds assets are held separately from those of the Group of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the pension To be effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and fund.
Pension provision for employees is now made through a voting instructions must be received at the Companys registered defined contribution pension scheme.
office, or such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a general Significant agreements change of control meeting.
Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, there are no A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None its subsidiaries are party to take effect, alter or terminate.
The of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the agreements that are considered significant are as follows: Company.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and Borrowing facilities no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Groups rights.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special parties on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place rights.
The Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 replacement facilities.
which in certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the Groups employee share incentive plans.
As the registered holder the Essential contracts voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee.
However, It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights.
Changes to the most competitive prices.
To that end the Group has numerous the Articles of Association the Articles of the Company must be contracts for its supply.
While these contracts are collectively approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier force from time to time.
The Company does not have agreements of raw milk is critical to the Companys business.
with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that The Company also has strong relationships with certain major provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause retailers to supply them with liquid milk and other branded options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and products.
Individually these contracts are important to the business plans to vest on a takeover.
Issue of shares Substantial shareholdings At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 20 July 2010, During the period and up to 17 May 2011, the Company has been shareholders renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up issued by the Financial Services Authority of the following interests to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,210,606. of 3% or more in the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
Notified Purchase of own shares percentage At the AGM on 20 July 2010 shareholders granted the Company of issued No.
of shares share capital authority to make market purchases of up to 13,326,364 of its Delta Lloyd & its Group of Companies 6,690,877 5.02% issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the Theo Muller Group S. e. c. s 4,050,000 3.04% minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes : the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be Directors paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share in the Company and details of those who have served during the year Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official are given on pages 10 to 11.
The names of those persons who List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of were Directors during the year but have retired or resigned from purchase.
The Company did not exercise this authority during the Board are set out at page 11, together with the dates on which the year and made no market purchases.
Except in relation to a they left the Board.
purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and which will or may be executed The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement of wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted shall expire Directors are contained in the Articles.
A Director may be appointed at the conclusion of this years AGM.
by shareholders ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The Articles require that all Directors are subject to election annually.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the Accordingly, all Directors retire and offer themselves for election at above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable this years AGM.
alternatives, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from the shareholders at the AGM to renew the authorities for a further year.
Directors interests Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the Pensions Directors holding office as at the date of this report, along with On 31 March 2010 the Groups defined benefit pension fund was those of the Directors who held office during the year but retired closed to future accrual.
Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off.
or resigned from office, and their immediate families appear in the It remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Remuneration Report on page 43.
Pension Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four nominees from Dairy Crest Limited and two employee members Details of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment elected by all members irrespective of whether they were active appear in the Remuneration Report on page 42.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 47 No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with Charitable and political donations the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Procedures No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest are in place and are during the year.
Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million operating effectively.
The Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review at pages 31 to 33 provides additional detail on Directors and officers indemnities and insurance the charitable activities of the Group and its employees.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
At its AGM held on 20 July 2010 shareholder approval was Disclosure of information to the auditor given for the amendment of the Articles allowing the Company to So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this indemnify to the extent permitted by company law, amongst others, report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the every Director, Company Secretary or other officer of the Company.
Companys External Auditor Ernst & Young LLP is unaware.
That indemnity provision has been put in place during the year and remains in force.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they ought to have taken in performing their roles as directors to exercise due care, Employees skill and diligence in order to make themselves aware i of any The Group employs approximately 7,000 people throughout the relevant audit information and ii to establish that the Companys United Kingdom, France and Italy and depends on the skills and External Auditor is aware of such information.
commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
the External Auditor, relevant audit information is the information needed by the Companys External Auditor in connection with the Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them preparation of their report at page 110. and on issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety of communication tools, including the Group intranet and the Directors responsibility statements in-house magazine.
The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 54.
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating arrangements with established trade unions.
Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, 1 Wood Street Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 19 July 2011 at 12.00 pm.
The participation in the savings-related share option scheme Notice convening the meeting will be issued separately, together Sharesave Scheme.
Details of this scheme are set out in note with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes 27 to the Financial Statements and at page 40 of the Directors relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor The Board is committed to ensuring a culture free from discrimination Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as and harassment remains embedded within the Group.
Discrimination Auditor of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young of any sort is not tolerated.
Proper consideration is given to LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
applications for employment from disabled people who are employed whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Wherever practicable, staff who By order of the Board: become disabled during employment are retained.
The Group practices equality of opportunity for all employees, irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital status, Robin Miller Company Secretary disability, age or sexual orientation.
Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Research and development Littleworth Road The Group has adopted a target of delivering part of its annual turnover Esher through new product development.
Focus continues to be on offering Surrey consumers a wide product mix, and especially the development of KT10 9PN lower fat variants of existing products.
Dairy Crest remains at the Registered in England and Wales No.
3162897 forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce packaging waste 18 May 2011 through innovation such as our patented jug and milk bag.
Land and buildings Having obtained an informal valuation of the Groups land and buildings, the Directors are of the opinion that the current market value in existing use of the Groups land and buildings slightly exceeds their book value.
Supplier payment policy The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 March 2011 2009 10: nil.
The Groups creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2011 were 24.3 2009 10 22.5 days of purchases.
The Group has standard payment terms of 60 days of receipt of invoice.
Payment terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as part of the contract negotiations.
