AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A&N MEDIA NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION KEY FIGURES 236m Revenue 2010: 261m 17m Operating profit 2010: 27m Kevin Beatty Steve Auckland Chairman, Northcliffe Media Managing Director, Northcliffe Media 7% Operating margin 2010: 10% Northcliffes titles continued to For the January to June 2011 The increase in unemployment KEY DEVELOPMENTS be affected by weak ABC period, circulation of levels is showing no signs of Underlying decline advertising markets.
The the dailies was down 8.2% slowing.
Budget cut recruitment and notices compared with an average announcements have, as in UK revenues of categories were affected by decline of 7.2% experienced by expected, had a heavy impact 25m 7%.
low private sector demand the top four regional publishers.
on our private and public sector and Government budget cuts.
Three daily paid for titles, in recruitment spend.
Recruitment Continuing weak The company continued its Exeter, Torquay and Scunthorpe, revenues fell by 29%.
In response restructuring and process have converted to weeklies with to the challenge in the economic climate innovation and delivered sales significantly ahead of the recruitment category, and UK Government year-on-year underlying cost best performing day when in Northcliffe has restructured its savings of 15 million or 7%.
In October 2011, rate and advertising package austerity measures Restructuring costs of 11 the daily title In Lincoln also structure to help improve its affect key advertising million all cash are treated as converted to a weekly.
position in this very competitive exceptional items this year.
During the financial year, Total headcount reduced by a Northcliffe sold seven titles in In the property category, Restructuring activities further 19%, or 602 people.
Forest of Dean, Hereford, revenues fell by 5%, a reflection delivered underlying NEWSPAPER SALES Shrewsbury, Leek and Uttoxeter of the tough property market and closed a further 10 free where the level of mortgage Reported newspaper sales year-on-year cost titles.
approvals fell by 5% on the revenues fell by 8% or 4 million.
On a like-for-like basis ADVERTISING excluding a change in Motors advertising was down 8% After a more modest 6% Portfolio changes accounting treatment for in 2011 as the level of private year-on-year decline in the first distribution costs, revenues strengthen our market new car registrations was well quarter, reported advertising were down 2%.
Cover price down on last year.
trends have remained position four paid for increases were implemented consistent at -12% in quarter 2, Retail advertising, Northcliffes across the majority of titles daily titles converted to -10% in quarters 3 and 4, largest category in 2011, fell by where prices had historically resulting in a 10% full year weekly publication.
UK Retail sales been below the Industry decline year-on-year.
Excluding statistics continue to show little average.
Sale of titles in Leek, the title disposals noted above, or no year-on-year underlying Our weekly paid-for portfolio advertising revenues are down sales growth.
Forest of Dean, continues to perform ahead of 9% for the year.
All the other advertising Hereford, Uttoxeter and the industry average.
For the categories combined fell 7%.
January to June 2011 ABC Shrewsbury.
period, circulation was down 4.7%, outperforming the Investment continues average of the top four to improve the quality regional publishers which were down 6.3%.
36 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A&N MEDIA NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NORTHCLIFFE DIGITAL COSTS OUTLOOK NUMBER OF LOCAL PEOPLE SITES The Northcliffe Digital strategy is Northcliffe has continued For 2011 12, Northcliffe expects to diversify from a proposition to drive down operational a continuation of its current focused on local news to sites costs.
These have reduced by underlying revenue trends which have a wider range of 15 million or 7% compared to which track those experienced local content and greater the same period last year.
for 2010 11. commercial opportunities for Staff costs fell by 8 million or 9% our small and medium-sized as headcount was reduced by enterprise SME customers.
To 602 or 19% since September achieve this the Thisis network 2010.
Greater efficiency has has been relaunched on a new 160 been delivered across all platform which includes a far departments.
greater range of commercial Production and distribution opportunities for our advertisers costs have reduced by 9 and potential for user million or 17%.
Some savings generated content creation.
were as a consequence of The Northcliffe Digital audience lower activity levels.
However, has continued to grow.
Unique more significant reductions users across the Thisis and have been made through Localpeople networks reached further rationalisation of the 5.3m in September, a growth product portfolio, product of 13% versus last year.
Most format and distribution importantly both user changes.
contributions and commercial During the year, Northcliffe response increased sharply.
dismantled its regional Over 100,000 pieces of content operating structure, divided the were created by users in business between print and September 2011, an increase of digital activities and changed 46% year-on-year.
Page views of the senior management team the business directory product, structure.
Steve Auckland, the core of the suite of products formerly managing director of sold to SMEs by Northcliffe Metro, was appointed MD of Digital, increased 80% year-onNorthcliffes print publishing year with a growth of 92% in business and three new MDs number of tracked calls to were appointed to businesses in advertisers.
For the full year Hull, Leicester and Bristol.
There revenues generated from have also been a number of business directory listings editorial changes.
The portfolio of LocalPeople sites aimed at communities of up to 60,000 people reached Revenue analysis 160 by September.
The strength of our digital offering and continued audience growth has enabled revenue increases in all of our key categories, apart from recruitment down 17% and notices down 12%, where market pressures were universally felt revenues from other categories were up 6% in total.
Digital revenues not associated with a print sale grew to account for 36% of 2011 2010 business in September, up 105% m m % year-on-year.
Advertising in print 151 169 64% Circulation 60 65 25% Digital 18 19 8% Other 7 8 3% 236 261 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 37 37
