AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Directors present their ended 2nd October, 2011 and a review of the development Report and Accounts for the 3rd October, 2010 are included of the business of the Group year ended 2nd October, 2011. as Note 3 to the Consolidated during the year, of its position Income Statement.
at the end of the year and ACTIVITIES of likely future developments BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activities of the in its business.
Details of Group are set out on pages 6 The information that fulfils the the principal risks and and 7 of this Annual Report.
Companies Act requirements uncertainties facing the of the business review is The analysis of revenue and Group are set out below.
included in the Business Review operating profit for the years on pages 12 to 43.
This includes PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The principal risks and uncertainties the Group faces vary across the different businesses and are the focus of the Risk Committee.
These risks are identified in the DMGT Group Risk Register.
The materiality of each risk is assessed against a framework to determine its significance and likelihood of occurrence.
The Risk Register is used to determine the agenda and activity of the Risk Committee.
The most material risks identified in the Risk Register, together with the steps taken to mitigate them, are described below.
The geographic spread and diverse portfolio of businesses within the Group help to dilute the impact of some of the Groups key risks.
Certain of these risks are interdependent and should not be considered in isolation.
1 FAILURE TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO CHANGES IN OUR KEY MARKETS The way in which our businesses deliver information to customers and the types of information provided are subject to constant change.
This can result in structural market changes that have the potential to redefine or eliminate current markets served by our businesses.
Technological innovations such as tablet and other mobile devices, cloud computing and the proliferation of social media impact all of our businesses.
Our products and services, and their means of delivery, are also affected by competitor activity and changing customer behaviour.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The impact is both positive and negative.
Failure to identify and The Groups strategy of diversification and its willingness to take a respond to changes in the key markets in which the Group operates long-term view enables it to react to these challenges and opportunities increases the risk of being left behind by both competitors and our when they arise.
customers with a resultant direct impact on Group results.
The autonomous culture of the Group encourages an entrepreneurial The transition from traditional publishing and print advertising to online approach to the development of new opportunities in response to these and mobile products is an example of the challenges faced by the threats.
This is overseen by the DMGT senior management team.
This affects a number of businesses including Euromoney and In particular, internet strategies, including mobile solutions, have been Associated Newspapers, but can be seen most acutely in Northcliffe.
developed for each of the main segments of advertising revenue and Conversely, new technologies and cloud solutions present opportunities as such, the print and online businesses are working closely together to for the Group.
A good example of this is RMS which through its new maximise the synergies that exist between these two formats.
software solution project will offer clients improvements in data As far as possible, each division manages its costs in line with changes to management, automation and operating efficiencies.
An example of this is the significant reductions to the cost base within Northcliffe.
2 EXPOSURE TO CHANGES IN THE ECONOMY A significant although decreasing proportion of the Groups revenue especially in the UK newspaper divisions is derived from advertising which is impacted by fluctuations in the wider economy.
A similar, although reduced, effect has been seen in group businesses that rely on nonadvertising revenues, especially in the financial and property markets.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Advertising revenues have been heavily affected by the downturn in Experience has demonstrated that the long-term strategy of diversifying the global economy in the last three years.
the Groups portfolio into business information and subscription revenue streams, along with investment in strong brands, makes the Groups A continued recession, or a downturn in the economy or market results both more strategically and commercially robust.
sectors served by the Group, gives rise to a risk of not achieving forecast results.
As noted above, each division manages its cost base as far as possible in line with changes to revenue.
50 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS Group businesses are subject to legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The key laws and regulations that impact the Group cover areas such as bribery and corruption, competition, data protection, privacy including e-privacy, health and safety and employment law.
Additionally, specific regulations from the Press Complaints Commission and the Audit Bureau of Circulation apply to the newspaper divisions.
The Group generates a significant amount of its revenue from publishing, be it newspapers, magazines, trade journals or information and data published online.
As a result, there is an inherent risk of error which, in some instances, may give rise to claims for libel.
The recent high profile events in the UK newspaper industry and the accusations of illegal news gathering practices have raised questions over press regulation, media ownership and relationships between the press, police and politicians.
The Board has received assurances from the Editor-in-Chief that, so far as he is aware, such practices have not, and do not take place within Associated Newspapers.
However, the Leveson Inquiry, which began on 14th November and will conclude by September 2012, is considering as part of its remit, the regulation of the industry.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A breach of legislation or regulations could have a significant impact Compliance with laws and regulations is taken seriously throughout the on the Group both in terms additional costs, management time and Group.
The DMGT Code of Conduct and supporting policies sets out reputational damage.
Equally, the management time and cost of appropriate standards of business behaviour and highlights the key legal defending libel cases can be significant.
and regulatory issues affecting group businesses.
Divisional and local management are responsible for compliance with applicable local laws Increasing regulation of the newspaper industry could limit our and regulations, overseen by the Risk Committee.
editorial output and have a corresponding commercial impact on the business.
All of our publications have controls in place, including legal review, to approve content that that may carry a libel risk.
Journalists have received communications and training on the PCC Code, Data Protection and the Bribery Act.
Controls are also in place surrounding compliance with the Audit Bureau of Circulations regulations and other regulatory bodies to which we adhere.
4 PENSION SCHEME SHORTFALLS Although closed to new employees in 2009, we continue to operate defined benefit DB pension schemes for our newspaper divisions and certain senior executives.
The triennial valuation, agreed formally with the Trustees in June 2011, identified deficits in the schemes, a primary cause of which is the lower bond yields driven largely by Quantitative Easing measures.
A new funding arrangement has since been agreed with the trustees of the schemes under which the company will provide a series of funding payments aimed at reducing the deficit in the main DB scheme over the next thirteen years.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Reported earnings may be adversely affected by changes in our Measures to mitigate the risks that impact the companys balance sheet pension costs and funding requirements due to lower than expected are under continuous review by the Group and there is an ongoing investment returns or changes made to the risk profile of our dialogue with the trustees of the pension schemes.
A joint group, the investment portfolio.
Risk Management Committee, regularly reviews proposals that could achieve this aim.
Recent amendments to the scheme have reduced the longevity risk exposure by arranging for future accruals to be taken as cash or transferred at retirement to an insurance company to provide an annuity.
5 SUCCESSFULLY MANAGING CHANGE PROJECTS At any given time there is a number of active capital and IT projects underway around the Group.
The two most significant change projects currently are RMSs new software solution project and A&N Medias new print site at Thurrock.
Further details on both these projects are given in the business review section.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION If a project is successful, it delivers improvements in product offerings, Every active capital project around the Group is subject to a rigorous efficiency gains and cost savings.
There is, however, a risk of increased planning process involving all key stakeholders.
Significant capital costs or lost revenues as a result of delays, unforeseen problems, loss of projects are approved by the Investment and Finance Committee.
access to systems and data or production and delivery issues.
Ongoing project management is in place to ensure that plans are delivered to timetable and specification.
All key projects are monitored by the local board to ensure that risks and opportunities are managed throughout the process.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 51 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 6 DATA INTEGRITY, AVAILABILITY AND SECURITY The quality and availability of the information products that DMGT businesses provide their clients is key to their success.
This is true for many businesses in the Group, most notably within dmg::information and Euromoney.
Information security has always been a key focus across DMGT.
However, changing technology, mobile working, cloud based technologies, the consumerisation of IT and the growing use of social media create opportunities but is also a threat to information security and the protection of our data, and that of our customers.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Any challenge to the integrity of information within a DMGT product Every DMGT business understands that quality and availability of data is could damage the reputation of that business resulting in lost revenue key to the reputation and ongoing success of the Group.
Quality controls and potentially increased costs of remediation.
A similar impact would including rigorous checks, review and restricted access to amend and be felt if a product was unavailable for a period of time.
publish exist in every business with information products.
Availability is managed through detailed and tested business continuity plans.
An information security incident resulting in the loss, theft, corruption, inappropriate use or unavailability of sensitive information held by the Information security risks are managed locally by the individual Group could lead to operational and regulatory challenges, and businesses, with support from divisional management and DMGT Risk & could impact on financial results.
The Risk Committee monitors and oversees information security and data protection risks and controls around the Group.
Inadequate disclosure of information security breaches could have a significant reputational impact on the Group.
Businesses are expected to comply with the information security policy and minimum baseline standards.
7 IMPACT OF A MAJOR DISASTER OR OUTBREAK OF DISEASE There is a risk of disruption of Group operations as a result of a major disaster, outbreak of disease or other external threat.
The Groups operations are geographically diversified which limits the impact of any given incident.
The largest locations are Northcliffe House and Harmsworth Quays in London, Euromoneys offices in London and New York, and RMSs headquarters in California.
Northcliffe House is the Groups headquarters as well as housing Associated Newspapers and some businesses within dmg::events.
Harmsworth Quays is A&N Medias main printing centre and a contingency location for Northcliffe House.
The events and training businesses within dmg::events and Euromoney rely to some extent on the confidence in, and ability of, delegates and speakers to travel internationally.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A major incident particularly in a key location could affect the Business continuity plans, which are tested regularly, are in place operations of the business at that location and impact their ability to across all business.
produce or deliver its products, which could reduce the demand for Contingency planning is in place in the events businesses and virtual them or increase costs.
event alternatives are being developed.
Where appropriate, Any disaster which significantly affects the wider environment or the cancellation insurance is taken out.
infrastructure in an area in which the Group operates could adversely impact Group results.
Significant disruptions to, or reductions in, international travel for an extended period of time could lead to multiple events and training courses being postponed or cancelled which could have an impact on the Groups performance.
8 RELIANCE ON KEY MANAGEMENT AND STAFF RETENTION DMGT is reliant on the talented and successful management and staff across all of its businesses.
Many businesses and products are dependent upon specialist, technical expertise.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The inability to recruit and retain talented people could impact the The DMGT Human Resources Director works with divisional and Groups ability to maintain its performance and deliver growth.
executive management across the Group on a formal approach to talent management and succession planning.
This includes payment When key staff leave or retire, there is a risk that knowledge or of competitive rewards, employee performance and turnover competitive advantage is lost.
monitoring and a variety of approaches to staff communication.
Succession planning and long-term incentive plans are in place for senior management.
52 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 9 COMMERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS, INCLUDING VOLATILITY OF NEWSPRINT PRICES The Group is reliant on a number of commercial relationships with key customers, suppliers and third parties.
The most significant of these relationships is with the newsprint suppliers.
Other key examples include large advertising agencies and major retailers in A&N Media, key venues and agents in dmg::events and Euromoney, and data providers in dmg::information.
Newsprint continues to represent a significant proportion of our costs and prices are subject to volatility arising from variations in supply and demand.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The loss of, or damage to, any key commercial relationship could have Significant time and resources are dedicated to managing and a material impact on the Groups ability to produce and deliver its developing these relationships to ensure they continue to operate products.
An increase in newsprint prices would impact the cost base of A&N Media.
The Groups newsprint requirements are managed by a dedicated newsprint buying team and monitored by the board of Harmsworth Printing.
Where possible, long-term arrangements are agreed with suppliers to limit the potential for volatility.
10 ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL RISK As well as launching and building new businesses, an integral part of the Groups strategy has, and will continue to be, the acquisition and successful integration of businesses that expand expertise whilst supporting existing products.
The strategy also results in the disposal of businesses that no longer fit the Groups investment criteria.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Failure to identify acquisition targets could result in an opportunity cost The majority of acquisitions are in related markets and are smaller to the business.
businesses with a high potential for growth.
This reduces the risk from any one acquisition.
Equally, an unsuccessful integration of acquired subsidiaries, or an acquired business that fails to generate the expected returns, could Acquisitions are approved by the Investment and Finance Committee result in the underperformance of the Group or impairment losses.
This and managed by divisional and local management with oversight could also divert management time from other operational matters.
Detailed due diligence is performed by internal teams and external advisors on all potential acquisitions.
Our ability to achieve optimal value from disposals as well as the failure to realise other anticipated benefits of a disposal could also impact The retention of key employees in the acquired business is often financial results.
required as part of the purchase.
Board level monitoring is performed post-acquisition.
Disposals, including the decision to divest, are overseen by the Board and by the director of Strategy Development.
11 TREASURY OPERATIONS The Group Treasury function is responsible for executing treasury policy which seeks to manage the Groups funding, liquidity and treasury derivatives risks.
More specifically, these include currency exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate risks, counterparty risk and liquidity and debt levels.
These risks are described in more detail in Note 32 to the Financial Statements.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION If the treasury policy does not adequately mitigate the financial risks The Investment and Finance Committee is responsible for reviewing and summarised above or is not correctly executed, it could result in approving Group Treasury policies which are executed by the Group unforeseen derivative losses or higher than expected finance costs.
Treasury department, overseen by the Deputy Finance director.
The Treasury Function undertakes high value transactions hence there Segregation of duties and authorisation limits are in place for all is an inherent high risk of payment fraud or error having an adverse payments made.
The Treasury Function is subject to an annual internal impact on Group results.
12 UNFORESEEN TAX LIABILITIES The Groups operations are global and therefore earnings are subject to taxation at differing rates across a number of jurisdictions.
Whilst endeavouring to manage the Groups tax affairs in an efficient manner, there will always be a certain level of uncertainty when provisioning for tax liabilities due to an ever more complex international tax environment.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Changing tax laws could increase tax liabilities and have an adverse The team of in-house specialists, in conjunction with divisional impact on financial results.
management and external experts, review all tax arrangements within the Group and keep abreast of changing legislation.
Due to the diverse and global nature of the Group, internal or external factors could give rise to unplanned tax liabilities.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 53 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The number of shares of the Voting Shares for holding in are in place until 2015 and FORWARD-LOOKING Company and of securities of Treasury, having a nominal 2022 respectively to obtain STATEMENT other Group companies, in value of 292,527 in order to competitive prices and to This Annual Report contains which the Directors or their match obligations under secure supplies.
certain forward-looking families had an interest at the various incentive plans.
The statements with respect to As regards the Groups year end, are stated in the consideration paid for these the principal risks and principal commodity, Remuneration Report on shares was 11.7 million.
Shares uncertainties facing the newsprint, arrangements are page 77. purchased during the year Group.
By their nature, these made annually with a range of represented 0.63% of the statements involve risk and In accordance with the UK suppliers to ensure the security called up A Ordinary Non uncertainty because they Corporate Governance Code, of supply at the best available Voting Share capital relate to events and depend each Director offers himself for prices, having regard to the at 2nd October, 2011. on circumstances that may or re-election at the Annual need for the necessary quality.
may not occur in the future.
General Meeting on 8th The Company has two classes Particularly in the light of its There are a number of factors February, 2012, other than of share capital.
Its total share strategy to create a diversified that could cause actual results Mr Dunstone.
The Directors capital comprises 5% of international portfolio of or developments to differ would like to thank Mr Ordinary shares and 95% of A media businesses, the Group is materially from those Dunstone for his invaluable Ordinary Non-Voting Shares.
not dependent on any expressed or implied by these contribution to the Board.
Full details of the Companys suppliers of other commodities, forward-looking statements.
share capital are given in nor for its revenue on any TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND No assurances can be given Note 36. particular customer.
INVESTMENTS that the forwardlooking Distribution arrangements are EMPLOYEES The Companys principal statements are reasonable as in place to ensure the delivery Under the Groups general subsidiaries are set out on they can be affected by a of newspapers to retail outlets.
policy of decentralised pages 168 and 169. wide range of variables.
The POLICY ON PAYMENT OF management, it is the forward-looking statements Changes in the Groups SUPPLIERS responsibility of the reflect the knowledge and tangible fixed assets and management in each The Groups policy on supplier information available at the investments during the year subsidiary to encourage the payments varies across its date of preparation of this are set out in Notes 21, 22 and involvement and participation subsidiaries.
These companies Annual Report, and will not be 23.
There was no material of employees in their have no formal code or updated during the year.
difference between the book company.
The methods used standard which deals Nothing in this Annual Report value and market value of the vary company by company, specifically with the payment should be construed as a profit Groups land and buildings.
but the linking to performance of suppliers.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS targets of a significant portion policy is to ensure that the RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS of remuneration is one widely On 14th October, 2011, A&N terms of payment, as specified The profit after taxation of the used means.
Media announced that it had by, and agreed with the Group amounted to 128 agreed to merge the online supplier at the outset, are not The Group gives full and fair million.
After charging minority property business of its Digital exceeded.
consideration to suitable interests of 16 million, the Property Group with those of applications from disabled The Company had no trade Group profit for the year Zoopla Limited.
If creditors at the year end date.
November, 2011, the Group existing employees become The Groups average payment increased its equity interest in An interim dividend of 5.3 disabled they will continue to period, calculated on the basis Euromoney by 1% through pence per share was paid on be employed, wherever of year-end trade creditors, market purchases at a cost the Ordinary and A Ordinary practicable, in the same job is 70 days 2010 66 days, of 10 million.
Non-Voting Shares and the or, if this is not practicable, although this is dependent on Directors recommend that a every effort will be made to SHARE CAPITAL the year-end date and cannot final dividend of 11.7 pence find suitable alternative Details of allotments of share therefore be regarded as per share be paid on 10th employment and to provide capital during the year, which meaningful.
arose solely from the exercise pence per share for the year DONATIONS of options, are given in Note 36.
Charitable donations made by PERSONS WITH WHOM THE At the Annual General the Group in the year DIRECTORS COMPANY HAS Meeting on 9th February 2011, amounted to 1,392,000 2010 Biographical details of the CONTRACTUAL OR OTHER the Company was granted the 860,000.
This excludes the Directors of the Company at ARRANGEMENTS ESSENTIAL authority to purchase up to cost of publicity, often 2nd December, 2011 are set 10% of its own shares.
TO THE COMPANYS BUSINESS provided free of charge by the out on page 37.
Messrs Group companies undertake Groups titles, and funds raised During the year, the Company Trempont and Daintith were business with a range of by them, further details on transferred 2,114,900 shares out appointed to the Board on 9th customers and suppliers.
There which are given in the of Treasury, representing 0.57% February, 2011 and 28th is no dependence on any Corporate Responsibility of called up A Ordinary March, 2011 respectively.
Mr particular contractual Report on pages 44 to 47 of Non-Voting Shares, in order to Williams retired from the Board arrangement, other than those this Annual Report.
No political satisfy incentive schemes.
All other disclosed in Note 39 to the donations were made by the Directors remained The Company also purchased Accounts as regards ink and Group.
2,340,214 A Ordinary Nonprinting, where arrangements 54 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION select suitable accounting taking reasonable steps for the and should be interpreted SUBSTANTIAL policies and then apply prevention and detection of in accordance with the SHAREHOLDINGS them consistently: fraud and other irregularities.
provisions of section 418 On 2nd December, 2011 the make judgments and of the Companies Act 2006. following were interested in The Directors are responsible accounting estimates that more than 3% of the issued for the maintenance and The Companys auditors, are reasonable and Ordinary Shares: integrity of the corporate and Deloitte LLP, have indicated prudent: financial information included their willingness to continue in state whether applicable UK Rothermere on the Companys website.
office and, in accordance with Accounting Standards have Continuation Limited 59.9% Legislation in the United section 489 of the Companies been followed, subject to Codan Trust Company Kingdom governing the Act 2006, a resolution any material departures Ltd and Codan Trustees preparation and dissemination proposing their reappointment disclosed and explained in BVI Ltd trustees of the of financial statements may will be put to the Annual the financial statements: Esmond Harmsworth differ from legislation in other General Meeting.
prepare the financial ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING statements on the going The Board regards holdings in RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The AGM of the Company will concern basis unless it is the Companys securities of We confirm that to the best of be held on 8th February, 2012 inappropriate to presume greater than 15% as being our knowledge: at 9.00 a. m. at the Kensington that the Company will significant.
There are no Roof Gardens, 99 Kensington the financial statements, continue in business.
significant holdings in the High Street, London W8.
Details prepared in accordance Companys A Ordinary In preparing the Group of all resolutions, including with International Financial Non-Voting Shares, other financial statements, those to be put as special Reporting Standards, give than those shown in the International Accounting business, are set out in the a true and fair view of the Remuneration Report on Standard 1 requires that enclosed circular to assets, liabilities, financial page 77.
position and profit or loss of DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES the Company and the properly select and apply CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT undertakings included in accounting policies: The following pages 56 to 61 the consolidation taken as The Directors are responsible present information, on Corporate Governance a whole: and for preparing the Annual including accounting also form part of this Directors the Business Review, which policies, in a manner that Report and the financial Report.
is incorporated into the provides relevant, reliable, statements in accordance with Directors Report, includes By Order of the Board comparable and applicable law and a fair review of the understandable regulations.
development and information: N D Jennings, FCA Company law requires the performance of the business provide additional Secretary Directors to prepare financial and the position of the disclosures when 2nd December, 2011 statements for each financial Company and the compliance with the year.
Under that law the undertakings included in specific requirements in Directors are required to the consolidation taken as IFRSs are insufficient to prepare the Group financial a whole, together with a enable users to understand statements in accordance with description of the principal the impact of particular International Financial risks and uncertainties that transactions, other events Reporting Standards IFRSs as they face.
and conditions on the adopted by the European entitys financial position Union and Article 4 of the IAS AUDITORS and financial performance: Regulation and have elected and Each of the persons who is a to prepare the parent make an assessment of the Director at the date of Company financial statements Companys ability to approval of this Annual Report in accordance with United continue as a going confirms that: concern.
Kingdom Generally Accepted so far as the Director is Accounting Practice United The Directors are responsible aware, there is no relevant Kingdom Accounting for keeping adequate audit information of which Standards and applicable accounting records that are the Companys auditors are law.
Under Company law the sufficient to show and explain unaware: and Directors must not approve the the Companys transactions the Director has taken all accounts unless they are and disclose with reasonable the steps that he ought to satisfied that they give a true accuracy at any time the have taken as a director in and fair view of the state of financial position of the order to make himself aware affairs of the Company and of Company and enable them to of any relevant audit the profit or loss of the information and to establish ensure that the financial Company for that period.
that the Companys auditors statements comply with the are aware of that In preparing the parent Companies Act 2006.
Company financial are also responsible for statements, the Directors are safeguarding the assets of This confirmation is given required to: the Company and hence for DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 55
