AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION KEY FIGURES 363m Revenue 2010: 330m 93m Operating profit 2010: 96m Padraic Fallon Richard Ensor Chairman Managing Director 26% Operating margin 2010: 29% global sales resources.
The quality of Euromoneys SUMMARY KEY DEVELOPMENTS event portfolio was Euromoney achieved an In August it completed the Underlying revenue demonstrated by a 20% growth operating profit of 93 million acquisition of Ned Davis in sponsorship revenues.
The on revenues up 10% to 363 increased by 12%.
NDR produces event businesses have been a million.
This operating data, financial models, charts key driver of Euromoneys strong Acquisition of Ned performance is stated after and independent market recovery over the two years deducting a charge for its commentary to help clients Davis Research.
since the global credit crisis.
management incentive execute their asset allocation Revenues broadly comprise an scheme, the CAP, 12 million strategies.
All of its content is equal mix of both sponsorship higher than last year including published online and the and paying delegates, and the an additional accelerated acquisition is expected to growth in the year reflects the CAP expense of 7 million due increase the proportion of success of Euromoneys strategy to the earlier than expected Euromoneys revenues derived of building large, must-attend achievement of its profit from subscriptions to more annual events in niche markets, target.
Underlying revenue than 50% for the first time.
and continually investing to growth was 12% and Euromoney intends to apply grow these events while adding underlying profits were up 11%.
a similar investment strategy new, smaller events as markets This revenue growth, to NDR as it has done so improve.
The recent market combined with tight control of successfully with its other uncertainty has had limited headcount, helped independent research impact on Euromoneys event Euromoney maintain its margin business, BCA Research, and businesses, while delegate before the CAP in spite of build a range of new bookings for training courses significant investment in new international products and have held up well.
drive revenue growth through an expanded global sales STRATEGY team.
The early signs of trading Euromoney continued its at NDR are encouraging.
ambitious programme of investing in new technology TRADING REVIEW and content delivery Underlying subscription platforms, particularly for the revenues, which account for mobile user, and in new digital nearly half Euromoneys information products, as part revenue, increased at a rate of its migration to a global of 11%, an underlying increase online information business.
This double digit In addition, it undertook subscription growth continues a substantial investment to be generated by its premium programme at two of its online research and data REVENUES DERIVED FROM most important electronic services such as BCA Research EUROMONEY SUBSCRIPTIONS information businesses, BCA and CEIC Data, contrasting Research and CEIC Data, with with the lower growth rates of a view to building rapidly the the traditional print publishing 47% quality and coverage of their businesses.
products and expanding their DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 29 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL PUBLISHING TRAINING RESEARCH AND DATA Revenues, approximately This division predominantly Revenues are predominantly 50% of which are advertisingserves the global financial derived from subscriptions and related, increased by 5% to 84 sector with a strong focus on increased by 16% to 104 million.
After a slow Margin fell by one percentage came under pressure towards start to the calendar year, due point to 41% reflecting the the end of the year, but the partly to the political unrest investment programme at BCA increased investment in digital in the Middle East, delegate Research and CEIC Data.
publishing has contributed to bookings improved from June OUTLOOK an increasing proportion of and the division finished the 2012 promises to be more advertising revenues from year strongly.
Training revenues challenging and, as usual, online rather than print, and for the year increased by 9% forward revenue visibility a strong performance from to 33 million and adjusted beyond the first quarter is products less dependent on margin was maintained at 24%.
limited other than for advertising such as Euro Week subscriptions.
Euromoney plans and Institutional Investor CONFERENCES to continue its programme of Research.
AND SEMINARS investing in the digital BUSINESS PUBLISHING Revenues comprise both transformation of its publishing Euromoneys activities outside sponsorship and paying businesses, and in improving finance cover a number delegates and increased by the quality of the product and of sectors including metals, 12% to 86 million.
Margin was expanding the sales resources commodities, energy, unchanged at 31%.
Growth of its research and data telecoms and law, with only has come across all sectors but businesses including the 35% of revenues derived in particular from those outside recently acquired Ned Davis from advertising.
Revenues finance such as metals, coal Research.
increased by 7% to 60 million, and telecoms which have a It is well prepared for the but margin dropped by 2 higher emerging market challenging markets ahead percentage points due to the exposure.
and in a stronger position than impact of investment in digital it was at the start of the last publishing, particularly in financial crisis, and will businesses such as Metal continue to pursue its Bulletin and legal publishing.
successful strategy of investing in new products, digital publishing and selective acquisitions to drive further long-term growth.
Commentary Euromoney revenue m Euromoney grew its revenues by 10% in 2010 11.
11 10 09 08 07 0 40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320 360 400 Commentary Euromoney profit m Underlying revenue growth and tight control of headcount 11 drove a strong profits 10 performance despite an additional charge of 12 09 million for Euromoneys CAP.
