AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DMG EVENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION KEY FIGURES 132m Revenue 2010: 110m 39m Operating profit 2010: 30m Suresh Kavan Galen Poss Chairman and Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer 29% Operating margin 2010: 27% GLM reported operating profits Abu Dhabi, increased significantly SUMMARY OUTLOOK for the year of 16 million on in both revenue and Profit terms.
dmg::events had a good year For 2011 12, dmg::events expects revenues of 45 million.
with both underlying revenues to achieve high single digit New launches are playing an and underlying profits underlying revenue growth.
The increasing role in the dmg::events dmg::events is now organised increasing by 14%.
The strong reported results will be affected division and, during the year, the into four operating units, covering momentum that started in the by the disposal of GLM and by Big 5 franchise was successfully the sectors Energy, Leadership latter half of 2010 has continued the absence of Gastech and expanded with a launch in Conferences, Digital Marketing through the past year due to ADIPEC.
Only one of our three Saudi Arabia.
Further launches and a regional unit in the exhibitions and events being a major biennial shows will be are planned for next year in Middle East.
taking place, the Global both the Energy and Middle East In the Energy sector, the Gastech Petroleum Show in June 2012. operating units.
The reported revenues and profits event, held in Amsterdam, As a consequence, dmg::events benefited from two of our large generated revenues 31% higher Evanta, our leadership expects a low single digit decline biennial shows taking place in than the previous show and was conferences brand, also in reported revenues excluding the year and were up 20% to 132 a huge success.
The next event is expanded aggressively with GLM with operating margin of million and up 28% to 39 million scheduled to be held in London revenues growing by 42% with around 20%.
Both Gastech and in October 2012 after the London regional events throughout the ADIPEC were held during 2010 11, Olympics and will fall into our US targeted at Chief Information while only one large biennial 2012 13 financial year.
Officers and at finance and ATTENDEES AT ADIPEC 2010 event, the Global Petroleum human resource professionals.
Although the economic Show, occurred in 2009 10. uncertainties in the Middle East Finally, our digital marketing unit, The sale of George Little have presented challenges our where the main events are Management GLM, our Middle East operating unit was operated under the Ad:tech business serving the retail Gift, able to increase both revenues brand grew revenues by 19%, Surf & Jewellery markets, and profits.
The Big 5 show in fuelled by growth of the including the bi-annual New York Dubai, which is our largest established events in both International Gift Fair, was individual event, was similar in London and New York and a completed in September for total scale to prior years and ADIPEC, successful launch in Tokyo.
a large biennial show held in Commentary KEY DEVELOPMENTS dmg::events operating profit m dmg::events reported record Underlying revenue profits, driven by the strong 11 performance of its biennial increased by 14%.
08 07 0 10 20 30 40 28 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011
