AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DMG INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION KEY FIGURES 238m Revenue 2010: 231m 47m Operating profit 2010: 47m restated David Dutton Suresh Kavan Chairman Chief Executive Officer 20% Operating margin 2010: 20% Landmark Information Group SUMMARY OTHER MARKETS also increased both revenues dmg::informations Profits were 2011 2010 Movement and operating profits.
m m % unchanged at 47 million in a Landmark provides information year where we continued to Revenue and services to both the see only slight, and at times Continuing 132 126 5% residential and commercial fragile, recovery in the markets Discontinued 16 22 -28% property markets in the UK.
Total 148 148 This robust performance was Reported revenue increased Operating particularly pleasing as market by 3% to 238 million.
Underlying Profit 30 31 -3% activity levels in both remain revenues grew by 7%, a significantly below the historic The other markets served good performance given norm, with for example UK by dmg::informations nonthe economic backdrop.
residential housing transaction property companies are Underlying operating profits volumes in 2011 being financial, education and grew by 9% year-on-year.
approximately half of the energy which in aggregate historic norm.
Landmark has PROPERTY INFORMATION account for 60% of underlying successfully expanded its revenues.
2011 2010 Movement product range, increasingly m m % Sanborn, operating in the serving the lenders in addition Revenue 89 83 8% geospatial market, was sold in to solicitors and consultants.
Operating September to management In June we completed the Profit 21 20 6% with dmg::information acquisition of On-Geo in retaining a non-controlling Operating profit from the Germany and, through interest in the company.
property information combining the On-Geo companies increased by 6% and Inframation businesses, In total, underlying revenue with revenues up 8%.
Landmark now enjoys a market across the financial, education leading position in the German and energy markets was up 8%.
In the US our market-leading market.
provider of environmental information, Environmental dmg::informations investment Data Resources EDR, in BUILDERadius, an earlycontinues to operate in stage property information a fragile commercial real business, has progressed estate market.
challenging conditions both revenues and profits increased as the company continued to deepen its market penetration and enhance product offerings to embed them more into customers workflows.
26 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DMG INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In the financial information conditions remained OUTLOOK KEY DEVELOPMENTS market, Trepp is the market challenging for its products dmg::information expects to Underlying operating leader of information to the and services focused at the drive continued solid organic Commercial Mortgageissuer of securities and in growth, due to the strength profit increased by 9%.
Backed Securities CMBS particular revenues from one of its market positions and market.
The market place major client declining impacted Margins remained through new launch initiatives.
has been particularly overall performance.
volatile during the year: the Hobsons, our education fundamentals have improved information business, and as a consequence increased underlying revenues spreads on bonds have by 17% and margins improved narrowed leading to slightly as we benefit from speculative investors, seeking the operating leverage.
a high yield, exiting the Hobsons provides products market.
At the same time to education professionals new issuance remains muted to assist in the preparation, and longer-term investors are recruitment, management HOBSONS REVENUES holding off on rebuilding their GENERATED IN THE US and advancement of students activity.
Fortunately, the need and continues to increase its for Trepp analysis and insight market share.
Trepp has 75% of Hobsons revenue also expanded its product is generated in the US with offerings, largely offsetting the balance in the UK and the difficult near-term market Australia.
The US high school environment.
division, Naviance, again grew Lewtan, offering products to particularly strongly in the year.
both investors and issuers in The energy trading markets, the Asset-Backed securities served by Genscape, market, released a major remained turbulent.
Genscape upgrade of its core ABSNet grew modestly with an product in the year and saw expanding product range, in good growth following the particular from the new launch of its ABSNet Loan launches providing information 75% product line.
The market on the oil market.
Commentary dmg::information revenue m dmg::information continued its impressive growth record.
11 Reported revenues rose by 3%, 10 an underlying increase of 7%.
09 08 07 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 175 200 225 250 Commentary dmg::information operating profit m dmg::information maintained its operating profits, but with 11 an underlying increase of 9%.
