SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report together with the Directors audited financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2011.
The names and biographical details of the Directors holding ofce at the date of this report are shown on pages 24 and 25.
Particulars Principal activities of Directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the The Groups principal activities comprise the following operating Group and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors segments: Darty France, Comet UK, Other established businesses remuneration and related matters on pages 35 to 41.
There were which consists of New Vanden Borre Belgium, BCC Holland, and no changes in the Directors interests in shares between the end Datart Czech Republic and Slovakia, and Developing businesses of the financial year and 22 June 2011. which consists of Darty Italy, Darty Turkey and Darty Spain.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and in accordance Business and financial review with Principle B7.1 of the UK Governance Code, all of the Directors Further information regarding the Group, its progress during the will be retiring and the following, being eligible, are offering themselves financial year, events since the year end and likely future developments for re-election: is contained in the Chairmans statement and in the operating business and financial review.
The information that fulls the requirements of the David Newlands business review as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act Thierry Falque-Pierrotin 2006, is incorporated in this Directors report by reference, and can Bernard Dufau be found on the following pages: Alan Parker Dominic Platt Information Location Pages Michel Lonard Development and performance Chairmans statement 9 Andrew Robb during the financial year Operating business and financial review 1018 Details of the terms of the appointment of all the Directors can be found in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters Position at the year end Operating business on pages 35 to 41.
Their biographies are set out in the Directors including analysis and and financial review 1018 report on page 25.
The Board strongly supports their re-election key performance indicators and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions Other performance, Corporate responsibility 2023 proposing their re-election.
including environmental Operating business and employee matters and financial review 1018 Details of all the Executive Directors service contracts are set out in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages Principal risks and uncertainties Directors report 2629 35 to 41.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract.
facing the business Land and buildings value Note 14 of the accounts 73-74 Throughout the financial year, the Group has maintained liability insurance for its Directors and Ofcers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity profit and dividends and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence Kesa Group sales for the financial year to 30 April 2011 were of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Group has 5.9billion 2010: 5.8 billion with retail profit of 107.0 million also provided an indemnity for its Directors and Ofcers.
The retained profit for the year ended insurance nor the indemnity provides any cover where the Director has 30 April 2011 amounts to 30.7 million 2010: 43.0 million.
An interim dividend of 2.25 cents per share was paid to the ordinary Corporate governance shareholders of the Company on 1 April 2011, and on 22 June 2011 The Groups statement on corporate governance is set out on pages the Directors recommended the payment of a final dividend of 30 to 34.
4.75cents 2010: 4.65 cents, giving a total dividend for the year of 7.0 cents 2010: 6.6 cents.
The final dividend, once approved, Principal risks and uncertainties will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close The business, financial condition or results of operations of the of business on 16 September 2011, and the payment date will be Group could be adversely affected by any of the risks set out below.
The Groups systems of control and risk management are designed to help manage and control risks to an appropriate level rather than to eliminate them.
The corporate governance report on pages 30 to 34 sets out the operational procedures through which the Directors assess and manage risk.
26 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE The Directors consider that the principal risks to achieving the Groups The principal risk is the foreign exchange translation exposure arising objectives are those set out below.
from the varying exchange rates between the euro and pound sterling, which are the Groups two main trading currencies.
This risk was a Economic and market conditions partially mitigated by the move to Euro Reporting that took place in The economic environment inuences the level of consumer September 2010. expenditure on electrical goods in a number of ways.
The state of the housing market affects spending on white goods in particular, f Legislative and regulatory risks and the feel good factor has a significant influence on The Groups operations are subject to extensive regulatory discretionary spending on higher value electrical products.
Many requirements, particularly in relation to its products and after-sales other economic factors influence customers spending decisions, services, its advertising, marketing and sales practices, its employment including interest rates and levels of personal debt.
The Group and pensions policies and planning and environmental issues.
seeks to offset some of the adverse effects by trading in a number Changes in laws and regulations and their enforcement may adversely of different countries.
impact the Groups operations in terms of costs, changes to business Actions taken by the Groups competitors, the increasing practices, and restrictions on activities.
The Groups businesses may participation of sales via the internet, as well as actions taken to also be adversely affected by changes in tax laws.
maintain its own competitiveness and reputation for value, have placed, and may continue to place, pressure on the Groups Potential changes to legislation and regulatory requirements are pricing, margins and profitability.
The Group seeks to offset the monitored, so that the business model and processes can be adapted pressure on margin by consistently trying to improve its buying accordingly to minimise the impact of such a change.
terms and reducing its cost base and by expanding its own online offerings.
g Reputational risks The majority of the Groups business is seasonal, with a high The Groups success is dependent, in part, upon the strength of percentage of its annual sales and operating profit generated the Groups brands and their reputation.
The Group operates in an during the Christmas and New Year periods.
There are only limited industry where integrity, customer trust and confidence are important opportunities to compensate at other times of the year for any and any adverse publicity concerning corporate behaviour, policies material shortfalls in sales during this period.
and strategies could damage that customer trust and damage the The level of profit margin in electrical retailing is signicantly less Groups reputation and brands.
There are a number of internal controls than that of many other retailers and is largely determined by the and processes which have been put in place to try and limit the market, consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition and number and harmful effect of such incidents.
The Group protects its margins, as far as possible, through its buying arrangements and by maintaining an h Pension risks efficient sourcing operation.
Cost structures are actively managed The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK in order to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
dened benefit scheme for Comet employees and there is a smaller dened benefit scheme in France for senior Darty and Kesa b Product life cycles employees.
Both schemes are currently in deficit.
Electrical products such as brown and grey goods are subject to rapid change in design and functionality, which shortens their economic life.
The amount of the deficit is volatile as a result of changes in the As new technologies become commoditised and availability increases, assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount rates, ination they usually suffer a level of price deation and the increased sales and future salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments volumes at a lower sales value adversely affects profitability.
Careful and the returns derived from such investments.
Changes in pension management is needed in order to avoid loss of value and stock fund legislation have also caused increases in scheme deficits and obsolescence when products are superseded.
uncertainties, and a number of deficit mitigation measures have been undertaken to reduce both the size of the deficit and its volatility.
c Entry into new markets There are only limited opportunities available to expand the Group, i Employees as suitable target companies may not be available for purchase at a The Groups success depends on its ability to continue to attract, reasonable price, and there is a shortage of appropriate sites to enable motivate and retain highly qualied employees.
The highly qualied profitable rapid organic growth.
employees required by the Group in various capacities are sometimes in short supply in the labour market.
Measures including a new LTIP, d Systems failure employee satisfaction survey and performance management systems The Groups businesses are highly dependent on the suitability and have been introduced to address this risk.
reliability of their systems and procedures, especially information technology, warehousing and distribution systems.
The Group is j Leased properties implementing a number of common IT systems to both improve A significant portion of the Groups properties are leasehold, and the functionality and reduce complexity.
Group is therefore exposed to substantial increases in commercial property rents.
e Financial risk management Financial management risks are detailed in the operating business and financial review on page 17 and in note 2 to the accounts.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 27 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Share capital and control employment or executive ofce, for a continuous period of nine years At 30 April 2011 there were 529,553,216 ordinary shares of 30 cents or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from ofce and may each in issue together with rights under the Groups Long Term offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
From time to time Incentive Plans for 7,736,905 ordinary shares of 30 cents.
It is intended a Director may retire and offer himself for re-appointment by the to satisfy these rights through market purchase, rather than issuing shareholders to ensure orderly succession.
Notwithstanding the Articles, in accordance with Principle B7.1 Further details of the share capital are given in note 27 to the of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, all Directors will offer nancialstatements.
themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they business of the Group and may exercise all the powers of the Group are corporations, corporate representatives to attend general meetings subject to the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive Association and the Articles.
The Articles contain specic provisions a dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
and restrictions regarding the Groups power to borrow money.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also Annual Report and Accounts.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, included in the Articles and shareholders are asked to renew such holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles is available Company or the proposal of resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
on request from the Company Secretary.
Voting rights There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover, such as holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled commercial contracts, the Group bank agreements, property lease to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present in person arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are deemed or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
None of the ordinary shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Groups Registrars significant contracts not later than i 48 hours before a meeting or adjourned meeting, There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other or ii 24 hours before a poll is taken, if the poll is not taken on the arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Purchase of own shares Restrictions on transfer of shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 16 September There are some restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, 2010, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations up to 52,955,321 ordinary shares of 30 cents each.
The Company for example insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Groups code of did not use this authority to make any purchases of its own shares conduct, the Directors and senior executives of the Group require during the period.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 approval to deal in the Companys shares.
Furthermore, where a September 2011, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority.
person with at least a 0.25 per cent interest in a class of shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Substantial shareholding Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
As at 22 June 2011 the following interests of more than 3 per cent The Articles of Association provide that the Company may refuse in the issued share capital of the Company had been notied under to register a transfer of those shares.
Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authorities Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that Percentage may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Number of of issued Name ordinary shares share capital The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Board Knight Vinke 72,962,566 18.03% the power to appoint Directors, but also require Directors to retire Capital Research and Management Company 44,727,681 8.44% and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting UBS Global Asset Management 39,093,824 7.38% following their appointment.
A Director who retires in this way is eligible Schroders plc 27,015,076 5.10% for election but is not taken into account when deciding how many Blackrock, Inc 24,900,633 4.70% Directors should retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting Chase Nominees Limited A C TMBC 22,438,165 4.24% AGM.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution Standard Life Investments Limited 21,870,857 4.13% of the shareholders.
Crdit Agricole Group 16,537,891 3.12% 1 Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC for itself and on behalf of itself and on behalf of other Pursuant to the Articles, at every AGM any Director who i has been Knight Vinke companies and partnerships.
Includes 4.03% managed by KV Services II appointed by the Board since the last AGM, ii who held ofce at the Limited for Teacher Retirement System of Texas, over which KV Services II has no control of voting rights or proxies.
time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either 2 Tameside MBC re: Greater Manchester Pension Fund.
of them, or iii who has held ofce with the Company, other than 28 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Annual General Meeting Employee involvement The eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 15 September 2011 at The Novotel Hotel, them in the context of their employment.
In Europe, where the largest 100-110 Euston Road, London NW1 2AJ.
numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process through workers councils.
Consultation also takes place through joint Corporate responsibility consultation committees.
The Group has a code of conduct which sets out the standards of behaviour expected in the Group and of all who work for the Group, Information on matters of concern to employees including the financial in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group is also partners, the community including the environment, government and disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and all other stakeholders in the business.
More information on corporate responsibility is set out on pages An all-employee savings plan exists for employees in the UK.
Creditor payment Donations For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: The Groups support for charitable causes is principally through the work done by the Groups operating companies to the value Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement of 121,000.
Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out of business with that supplier.
in the corporate responsibility report on pages 20 to 23.
Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with The Group made no political donations and incurred no items suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining of political expenditure.
Employment policies Trade creditors of the Group at 30 April 2011 were 39.6 2010: 38.9 At 30 April 2011 the average number of employees working for days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the the Group throughout Europe was 26,238.
Kesa Electricals consists period to the amounts invoiced during the period by trade creditors.
of a number of businesses operating in different countries.
While The trade creditors for the Company were nil 2010: nil.
employment practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is, nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: Directors disclosure of information to auditors The Directors believe that there is no relevant audit information of All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any sexuality or disability.
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware The working environment is conducive to achievement and free of that information.
Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal Auditors opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly at the Annual General Meeting.
treated and that their training and career development needs are carefully managed.
 LLP have been the Companys auditors The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 2003.
The Audit training is delivered to its employees.
Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has Health and safety not considered it necessary to date to require the rm to tender for Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions partners responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five for employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for three compliance with statutory requirements and appropriate codes years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys ofpractice.
The Groups companies pursue the objective of minimising the By Order of the Board instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Examples of this are to be seen in the employment of health and safety advisers and Simon Enoch Secretary in the establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent and 22 June 2011 training programmes for employees.
The Company Secretary has the responsibility to ensure that the Board is presented with a review Registered Ofce: detailing how the Group overall complies with the statutory 22-24 Ely Place requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
London EC1N 6TE Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 29
