Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Group results Disposal of shareholding The 2010 11 financial year has undoubtedly been a difficult In July 2010 the Group completed the sale of its 20 per cent one for fide La Rue, our employees, customers and shareholders.
investment in Camelot, the UK national lottery operator, for a cash We have dealt with a number of challenges including paper consideration of 77.6m.
The Groups investment in Camelot production issues, lower than expected banknote print volumes, proved very successful but was no longer considered core changes in senior management and a takeover approach.
to fide La Rues ongoing strategic development.
Following the disposal, 35m of the proceeds were utilised to make a special With the appointment of Tim Cobbold as Chief Executive contribution to reduce the Groups pension fund deficit.
in January 2011 and a number of other changes in senior management, we now have in place the team that will lead Board changes our recovery.
An Improvement Plan, which is set out in the During the year there have been a number of changes to the Chief Executives review, has been formulated by this team and is Board which are more fully described in the corporate governance already being implemented.
The objective is to maintain our strong statement on page 37. market position, improve margins and cash flow and to deliver a James Hussey resigned from the Board as Chief Executive on recovery in operating performance whilst ensuring the business 12 August 2010.
On the same date I was appointed Executive is well positioned to maintain sustainable growth.
Chairman and Colin Child, Group Finance Director, took on Paper production issues the additional role of Chief Operating Officer, roles we held In July 2010 the Board commissioned an investigation by external until 1 January 2011 when Tim Cobbold was appointed Chief lawyers into issues that had been brought to its attention internally.
Tim brings a wealth of experience, including managing The investigation, which was completed in October 2010, found international businesses at the most senior level for more than nothing of substance to support the matters raised other than in 20 years.
His experience is proving invaluable as the Group respect of some paper production issues where it was found that pursues its Improvement Plan and adopts a more modern and a small number of the many detailed specification parameters of efficient approach which will not only help develop the fide La Rue some paper had fallen marginally short of specification.
It was also brand but ensure that we continue to meet the expectations of established that certain paper specification test certificates had our international customer base.
The Board reported the findings of the In a challenging year I should like to thank the Non-executive investigation to the appropriate authorities, who are considering Directors, the senior management team and our employees, the matter, and is implementing a number of measures arising throughout the Group, for their support and determination to from the findings of the investigation.
resolve the issues we faced.
They have all shown an exceptional Whilst the Board was satisfied that neither the physical security nor commitment to fide La Rue.
the security features in the paper were compromised, production Outlook and shipment of the affected banknote paper was immediately, fide La Rues strengthened senior management team and its and remains, suspended.
loyal, experienced and skilled employees will build on the Groups Discussions remain ongoing with the principal customer fundamental strengths to put the business back on track to deliver concerned and the authorities, and therefore there remains the value shareholders expect.
uncertainty as to the ultimate outcome of these issues, including Current trading is in line with the Boards expectations with an their financial impact.
encouraging order book profile and a good pipeline of opportunities.
Supply of all other banknote paper and all the other activities of The Improvement Plan has a target to achieve an operating profit the Group, including banknote printing, were and remain unaffected.
in excess of 100m within three years by both restoring revenue Every effort was made to keep customers well informed and the growth and delivering significant cost reduction.
The Board is Board values their continuing support.
confident that this plan can be delivered.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 28.2p per share 2009 10: 28.2p per share, subject to shareholders approval.
This will be paid on 4 August 2011 to shareholders on the register on 8 July 2011.
Together with the interim dividend paid in January 2011, this will give a total dividend for the year of 42.3p 2009 10: 42.3p per share.
The Boards decision to maintain the dividend reflects its confidence in both the strong fundamentals of the business, including a robust cash flow and a strong balance sheet, and in its ability to recover from the setbacks of 2010 11.
Earnings per share Total shareholder return Pence 76.2 188.4 185.7 182.8 Basic earnings per share fide La Rue plc 67.6 164.2 Headline earnings per share FTSE 250 index excluding 57.0 investment trusts 71.0 130.3 The graph shows the value, on 26 March 2011, of 100 invested 43.4 50.9 in fide La Rue plc on 25 March 2006 122.1 116.1 33.1 compared with the value of 100 116.8 41.7 105.0 invested in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts, assuming in each 33.1 case the reinvestment of dividends.
69.3 The other points plotted are the values 24.0 at intervening financial year ends.
