Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Other statutory information Introduction Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect fide La Rue plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements registered in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report with registered number 3834125 and has its registered office at and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in fide La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent The Directors present their Annual Report for the year ended Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that 26 March 2011, which includes the Business review, Corporate law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements governance report and audited Financial Statements for the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards year.
Pages 1 to 50 inclusive of this Annual Report comprise IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have a Directors Report which has been drawn up and presented elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with English law and the liabilities of the Directors in accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable in connection with that report are subject to the limitations and law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This Directors Report also represents Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial the management report for the purpose of compliance with Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Authority disclosure rules.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and The Business review contains certain forward looking statements of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group which are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties: actual and Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are future results may differ materially from those expressed in or required to: implied in such statements.
Many of these assumptions, risks and Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond fide La Rues ability consistently to control or estimate precisely.
The forward looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated during For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU a profit forecast.
For the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether Payments to suppliers applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject The Company and Groups policy is that suppliers be paid to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent on the basis of monthly summary invoicing plus 60 days subject Company Financial Statements to local laws or other exceptions.
The average number of days credit provided by suppliers to the Group has been calculated Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis at 39 days 2009 10: 38 days.
The Company does not have unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the any trade payables.
Parent Company will continue in business Change of control The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent a change of control of the Company such as employee share Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy plans as well as bank loan and certain commercial agreements.
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and None of these is deemed to be significant as a whole except enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with for the following: the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard The 175.0m credit facility dated 11 March 2010 between the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and the Company and four of its key relationship banks contains a other irregularities.
provision such that, in the event of a change of control, any lender may, if it so requires, notify the agent that it wishes to cancel its Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are commitment whereupon the commitment of that lender will be also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors cancelled and all its outstanding loans, together with accrued Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement interest, will become immediately due and payable.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity person or persons acting in concert as defined in the City of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups Code on Takeovers and Mergers at any time is are or become website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and interested in more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation capital of the Company.
Political donations The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none were made during the year.
The Company will propose to shareholders at this years AGM that the precautionary authority granted at the 2010 AGM, pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, be renewed and details are included in the Chairmans Letter and Notice of AGM.
Essential contracts or other arrangements fide La Rue confirms there are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which fide La Rue considers are essential to its business.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 35 Other statutory information continued Directors responsibility statement in respect of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: The Group Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole The management report represented by the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face Provision of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board Edward Peppiatt Company Secretary 24 May 2011 fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 36
