Shareholders and share capital New Articles of Association the Articles were adopted by the Dealings subject to the Model Code of the Listing Rules Company on 22 July 2010 with the effect of removing the concept Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services of authorised share capital in line with the Companies Act 2006.
Authority, Directors and other Persons Discharging Managerial As at 26 March 2011, there were 99,202,592 ordinary shares and Responsibilities and certain employees require the approval of 111,673,300 deferred shares in issue.
The ordinary shares are the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes Details of shares issued during the year are provided in note 20 The Trustee of the fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust to the Financial Statements on page 79. does not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trust.
No shares are currently held in trust.
Preemption rights and authority to allot The Companies Act 2006 requires that any shares issued wholly Substantial shareholdings for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion As at 24 May 2011, the following companies had notified to their existing holdings unless authorised to the contrary by a an interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company resolution of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving such authority in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure were passed in 2010.
Authorities to renew for one year the and Transparency Rules.
power of Directors to allot shares pursuant to Section 551 of % of issued the Companies Act 2006 will be sought from shareholders at ordinary share capital the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company was granted Total number at date of authority by its shareholders at the 2010 AGM to purchase a Persons notifying Date notified of shares notification maximum of 10 per cent of its own ordinary shares either for Prudential plc Group cancellation or to be held in treasury or a combination of these.
of companies 6 May 2011 13,030,235 13.13 No purchases have been made pursuant to this authority and Mondrian Investment a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew the authority Partners Limited 26 January 2011 5,740,542 5.80 for a further period of one year.
Franklin Templeton Takeover directive Institutional LLC 3 November 2010 5,033,170 5.08 Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which BlackRock Inc 28 March 2011 4,960,646 5.01 implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the Company is required Legal & General to disclose additional information as set out below.
Group Plc 24 May 2010 3,404,426 3.44 Rights and restrictions on shares and transfers of shares Massachusetts Mutual Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, Life Insurance Company 22 February 2011 3,010,670 3.03 apply to the rights and transfers of shares in the Company.
The including 663,384 in the form of contracts for differences rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary and deferred shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by Relationship with shareholders law, are set out in the Companys Articles, copies of which can be The Company places a high priority on communications with and obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the accountability to shareholders.
A fully audited Annual Report and Company Secretary.
The key points are summarised below.
Accounts is made available to shareholders either in hard copy by post or via the Groups website and the Interim Statement is Ordinary shares posted on the Groups website.
Announcements are also regularly Notices of meetings must be given to every shareholder and made by the Company through a Regulatory Information Service to any person entitled to a share unless the Articles or the rights to the London Stock Exchange.
The Chairman and the Senior of the shares say they are not entitled to receive them from the Independent Director are available to meet key shareholders Company.
The Board can decide that only people who are entered to discuss strategy, governance and other matters.
on the register of members at the close of business on a particular day are entitled to receive the notice.
On a show of hands, each All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend the AGM and holder of shares present in person and entitled to vote has one receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working vote and, upon a poll, each such holder who is present in person days before the AGM.
They are also entitled to speak at general or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every share held.
meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise Dividends and distributions on winding up to shareholders voting rights.
Shareholders may vote and appoint proxies Holders of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends approved electronically.
At this years AGM, voting on resolutions will be by Directors and dividends declared in general meetings.
Results of the poll will be made available liquidation and subject to a special resolution of the Company the to shareholders on the Groups website.
The Chairman will provide liquidator may divide among members in specie the whole or any a trading update.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees are also part of the assets of the Company and may, for such purpose, present.
Shareholders may question the Board on these and other value any assets and may determine how such division shall be matters relating to the Groups business.
Shareholders also have carried out.
an opportunity to meet Directors informally after the meeting.
Transfers of shares The share register is actively monitored.
During the year meetings The Companys Articles place no restrictions on the transfer of take place with individual institutional shareholders and analysts, ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to and presentations are made at the time of major events.
The views them except: i in very limited circumstances such as a transfer of shareholders and analysts and brokers reports are reported to more than four persons, ii where the Company has exercised to the Board and from time to time a survey of institutional its rights to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer shareholders views is carried out by the Companys broker.
following the omission by their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in Annual General Meeting accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, or iii where The AGM will be held at 10:30 on Thursday 21 July 2011 at their holder is precluded from exercising rights by the Financial fide La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, Services Authoritys Listing Rules, the City Code on Takeovers RG22 4BS.
and Mergers or any other regulations.
The deferred shares carry limited economic rights and no voting rights.
They are not transferable except in accordance with the Articles.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 34
