Focusing on UK retail Improving and widening the reach of the brand in the UK UK and Ireland stores 2009 154 2010 160 2011 163 Although Debenhams has been in existence for over 230 years, its UK store footprint is still relatively small compared with its largest competitors.
Debenhams operates 163 stores in the UK and Ireland of which 141 are full department stores, with an average space of 75,000 sq ft. and 22 small format stores, all of which are below 25,000 sq ft. We believe there is demand for up to 240 stores.
One of the strengths of the Debenhams model is that we can tailor store sizes to suit local market conditions and can generate strong returns from all sizes of store.
Although new store opportunities have been limited over the past two years and will continue to be so in 2012 when only the resited Newbury store will open, the property market is beginning to improve.
Further out, we are contracted to open nine new stores over the next five years, with the first scheduled to open in 2013.
They will collectively add nearly 435,000 sq ft of new trading space.
Nearly 30 more new store opportunities are under discussion.
New stores are only one part of the picture.
All of the 45 UK core stores will be modernised during the next two years see more about the modernisation programme on pages 14 and 15.
Andwe are not waiting for modernisation to take place to start to improve the performance of these stores.
UK and Ireland 163 141 22 stores full department small format stores stores 9 c. 30 240 new stores new stores in possible stores in Modernising Manchester contracted to open, discussion UKand Ireland Our Manchester store was modernised starting in 2013 in 2010.
An improved food offer and new visuals were just two of many changes.
12 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts 5.8% 17% average sales increase after modernisation average ROCE of 2010 and 2011 modernisations 350 3,000 UK jobs created in new stores in 2011 UK jobs created in new stores over past 5 years Improving UK core stores We use the term core store to describe an older store that is awaiting modernisation.
We have committed to modernise all of these stores bytheend of 2013.
However there are many things we can do to improve the performance ahead of modernisation by focusing on key retailing principles.
This is a question of focus, not of additional cost or capital spend.
We review the management team and determine any training needs across the store.
We replace choice that may have been lost through recent concession closures.
Weoptimise the space to increase its productivity.
And we ensure that costs, margins and stock loss are managed very closely.
These actions mean that the core stores are in the best possible shape they can be when they are modernised.
Breaking new ground at Westfield Debenhams is the largest store at Westfield London, one of Europes premier shopping centres.
Opened in 2008, it has been a blueprint for the new stores we have opened subsequently, giving customers the modern, contemporary shopping environment theywant.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Focusing on UK retail Improving and widening the reach of the brand in the UK continued Store modernisations We are accelerating our store modernisation programme so that all our customers can have a local store to be proud of.
Store modernisations focus on newness new brands, new product categories and new services as well as new layouts and store infrastructure and on increased choice.
We open up the circulation of the store, revise walkway patterns and increase the visibility of lifts and escalators.
We introduce a new food offer to match a new restaurant format and where possible we add new space, especially in productive, high sales density areas like the ground floor.
Although modernising astore inevitably causes disruption to sales whilst the work is underway, we know how to manage this and minimise disruption by advance planning, driving sales immediately prior to modernisation through special promotions and bringing large blocks of space such as the cosmetics department back onstream as early as possible.
These pictures show Debenhams Gloucester which prior to modernisation was one of the worst stores in the whole estate.
14 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts 45 core stores modernised by end of 2013 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15
