International Expanding the brand internationally International franchise stores sales m 2009 63.3 2010 66.1 2011 77.0 We know that consumers outside of our home market like our brands and products just as much as those in the UK.
Our experience of our franchise store programme and our Danish business Magasin du Nord convinces us of this.
We have ambitious plans for expanding our international business.
We intend to double the number of franchise stores over the next five years, including entry in a number ofnewmarkets.
Following the success of Magasin du Nord, acquisitions remain on the agenda to increase owned international assets.
Our international online business is gaining momentum too.
In 2011, it accounted for just a fraction of total online sales.
Overtime we expect this to grow to 20%.
By next spring we willhave expanded international delivery from seven countries to 67 countries.
We already have a country dedicated website for the Republic of Ireland and will be launching a German local currency and local language site in 2012.
The new Websphere7 website technology opens the door to the creation of country dedicated sites and we expect to launch several more over the medium-term.
Our current international store footprint Magasin du Nord Franchise stores 24 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts 65 25 international franchise stores franchise countries 67 20% countries we will deliver to by spring 2012 target international contribution to online sales International franchise stores Franchise stores are a successful low capital, low risk way to expand internationally and will continue to be our preferred route for entry into distant and emerging markets.
The first store opened in Kuwait in 1997.
There are now 65 stores in 25 countries, from Iceland to Indonesia.
Weexpect to double this in the next five years.
Fourteen stores have already been contracted, including seven new openings in 2012, amongst them ourfirst store in Pakistan.
Over 50 more stores are in discussion.
These include 10 new markets including China, Russia, Brazil and Colombia and expansion in large markets such as India and Turkey.
As well as the revenue they generate 77.0 million in 2011 the franchise stores enable us to increase the size of our own brand sourcing which often allows us tonegotiate better cost prices.
Debenhams in Iran Debenhams opened its first international franchise store in Iran in January 2009.
Sincethen, two further stores have been opened.
As with all our franchise stores, weworkclosely with our partner in Iran to ensure the stores carry the right range ofproducts and brands for the local market.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 International Expanding the brand internationally continued The Magasin du Nord blueprint Debenhams acquired Magasin du Nord, Denmarks leading department store chain, in November 2009.
Since then the business has grown strongly.
In 2011, Magasin delivered 246.7 million of sales, with like-for-like sales increasing by 6.3% on a local currency basis in 2011.
EBITDA of 13.5 million means that Magasin was acquired on an EV EBITDA ratio of less than one times.
There are further opportunities for growth at Magasin, both in terms of sales and margins as it benefits from leveraging Debenhams supply chain scale and knowledge.
Growth will also come from the launch of an online offer in Denmark during2012.
Magasin du Nord is also a blueprint for other potential acquisitions.
It has demonstrated that our model of servicing owned international assets from the UK works.
We will continue to assess acquisition opportunities as they becomeavailable.
246.7m Magasin sales in 2011 26 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27
