Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Directors report Principal activities The following notifications have been received since 3 September 2011: Debenhams is a leading international department store group Number % of issued which was established over 200 years ago.
The Company has a Date of notification Shareholder of shares sharecapital strong presence in key product categories including womenswear, menswear, childrenswear, home and health & beauty and offers its 9 September Schroders plc 165,907,315 12.9 customers a unique and differentiated mix of exclusive own bought Standard Life and international brands.
9 September Investments Ltd 78,219,702 6.1 Standard Life Debenhams has 169 stores in the UK, Republic of Ireland 15 September Investments Ltd 76,825,465 6.0 and Denmark, as well as 65 international franchise stores in 25countries.
Debenhams trades over approximately 12.4 million Share capital and control square feet of trading space and has around 30,000 employees.
The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 28 to the Debenhams extends its customer reach via its online stores at Financial Statements on page 98 and consists of ordinary shares www.
ie and through of 0.01 pence each.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The rights and iPhone, Android and Nokia apps.
obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to This Business review has been prepared in accordance with the those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to set out in this Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained by writing report a fair review of the business of the Group during the 53 week to the Company Secretary.
The Company was authorised by year ended 3 September 2011, including an analysis of the position shareholders at the January 2011 Annual General Meeting to purchase ofthe Group at the end of the financial year and the trends and factors in the market up to 128,680,629 ordinary shares.
Although this likely to affect the future development, performance and position authority was not utilised by the Company during the last financial of the business.
The purpose of the Business review is to enable year, approval will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their duty Annual General Meeting to renew this standard authority for a under Section 172 of The Companies Act 2006. further year.
It is the Companys present intention, should shares be bought back, for them to be cancelled or retained in treasury pending The contents of this Directors report, together with the Chairmans a subsequent sale, cancellation or transfer.
The Company does not statement, the Chief Executives review, the Finance Directors currently hold any shares in treasury.
The Company will only buy review, the Sustainability report, the board of directors, the Corporate back shares if the directors believe that it is in shareholders best governance report, the Remuneration report and the Directors interests and will increase earnings per share.
responsibility statement on page 61 constitute the Business review and are therefore incorporated into this report by reference.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 the Trust holds Anyliability is restricted tothe extent prescribed by the Companies 1,195,042 ordinary shares in the Company 0.09%.
shares, 471,506 shares relate to Invested Shares held by the Trust on behalf of the participants of the Deferred Bonus Matching Plan Events since the year end who exercise voting rights in relation to those shares.
Any voting or It was announced on 20 October 2011 that Chris Woodhouse would other similar decisions relating to the balance of shares held by the be stepping down from the board at the Annual General Meeting on Trust would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any 10 January 2012.
Simon Herrick will succeed Chris Woodhouse.
He recommendations of the Company.
joins Debenhams on 1 November 2011 and takes up his appointment of Chief Financial Officer on 10January2012.
In addition, since the There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party year end Debenhams has opened an international franchise store which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control inthe Philippines.
of the Company except that the supplier agreements with certain major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change Profit and dividends of control and the multicurrency credit facility dated 16 July 2010 as The profit after tax for the 53 week year ending 3 September 2011 amended by supplemental agreement dated 13 July 2011 contains was 117.2 million 2010: 97.0 million.
The directors recommend mandatory prepayment.
There are no agreements providing for the payment of a final dividend of 2.0 pence per ordinary share, tobe compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
Details paid on 13 January 2012 to members of on the register at the close concerning the impact on share options and share awards held by of business on 9 December 2011.
This, together with the interim directors or employees in the event of a change of control are set out dividend of 1.0 pence per share paid in July, gives a full year dividend on page 58 of the Remuneration report.
Essential contracts Interests in voting rights Debenhams has contractual arrangements with many organisations In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2, the following investor but no one contract is so material as to be essential to the business, interests have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to the with the exception of the warehouse operators.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Board of directors As at 3 September 2011: The membership of the board and biographical details of the directors are given on pages 44 to 45.
The rules governing the appointment Number % of issued Shareholder of shares sharecapital and replacement of the board members are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
154,282,220 12.0 Schroders plc 154,214,402 12.0 Standard Life Investments Ltd 90,364,958 7.0 Milestone Resources Group Ltd 89,183,155 6.9 Artemis Investment Management Ltd 63,855,868 5.0 AXA S. A.
60,803,116 4.7 Legal & General Group plc 42,075,474 3.3 Morton Holdings, Inc 39,359,706 3.1 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Directors report continued Directors indemnities Financial instruments In addition to the indemnity provisions in their Articles of Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative Association, the Company and other Group companies have entered trade.
Details of financial instruments entered into to manage into a direct indemnity agreement with each of the directors and underlying risks are set out in note 23 on page 91. certain other officers or senior employees of the Group.
The Company Political donations also maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives There were no disclosable expenses made during the financial appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
year which fall within the definition of a political donation under Directors interests the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
It is the The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors and their Groups policy not to make donations to political organisations or connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown on page independent election candidates or incur political expenditure.
Their interests in options and awards Charitable giving over shares in the Company are shown on page 60 of the same report.
During the year the Group made charitable donations totalling No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest 1.1million 2010 0.7 million.
The Company supports various charities.
in any contract of significance in relation to the Groups business.
Key donations made during the year were 260,334 to the NSPCC, 249,382 to the Breast Cancer Campaign, 64,541 to the Este Lauder Employees MAC Aids campaign and 25,298 to the Marine Conservation Society.
Business information and key messages are cascaded to all employees throughout the business via personal briefings and email.
Going concern Briefings are also held by the Chief Executive and members of the After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has board to update employees on the performance of the Company adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable and the Companys strategy.
The Employee Consultation Forum, future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis which is attended by elected representatives from stores and head inpreparing the financial statements.
office, is another medium by which employees receive information Corporate governance statement on the Company as well as giving employees the opportunity to be In accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure consulted on certain activities of the business.
1, the disclosures required by Debenhams is committed to ensuring that employees or applicants DTR 7.2.
10 are within the Corporate for employment are treated equally regardless of gender, race, governance review on pages 46 to 50 and Risk review on pages 32 ethic or national origin, religious, political or philosophical beliefs, to37 and are therefore incorporated into this report by reference.
disability, marital or civil partnership status, sexual orientation, Disclosure of information to auditors genderreassignment and age.
Through our equal opportunities Each of the directors of the Company at the time when the Directors policy weaim to create an environment that offers all employees report was approved confirms that: thechance to use their skills and talent.
a so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the As part of the Companys policy on equality of opportunity, decisions Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of on recruitment, training, promotion, pay, terms and conditions and which the Companys auditors are unaware: and leavers are based solely on objective, job-related criteria and personal competence and performance.
The Company seeks wherever possible to b s he has taken all the steps that s he ought to have taken as make reasonable adjustments to ensure that an employee who becomes a director in order to make herself or himself aware of any disabled during the course of his or her employment is able to continue information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with working effectively.
This includes: providing equipment or altering preparing the report and to establish that the Companys auditors working arrangements: providing additional training: reallocating on a are aware of that information.
temporary or permanent basis some of the employees duties to other Auditors members of staff: transferring the employee to a suitable alternative role:  LLP have indicated their willingness to and adjusting working times.
Any such adjustment will be monitored continue in office and a resolution dealing with their reappointment and reviewed on a regular basis to ensure it continues tobeeffective.
as auditors of the company will be proposed at the forthcoming Payment of suppliers Annual General Meeting.
It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with Annual General Meeting the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly The Annual General Meeting of Debenhams plc will be held at presented and not subject to dispute.
Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB on The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Tuesday 10 January 2012 at 2.00pm.
The Notice is given, together Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies thisreport.
invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 3 September 2011 By order of the board was nil days 2010: nil days.
The ratio, expressed in days between the amounts owed by the Group to trade creditors and the amount Paul Eardley invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 3 September 2011 Company Secretary was 60 days 2010: 61 days.
20 October 2011 52 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011
