Risk review Safeguarding future returns Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential if Debenhams is to deliver its strategic and operational goals, protect its reputation and ultimately enhance shareholder value.
The board of Debenhams is responsible for determining the nature Control environment and extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic The board demonstrates the control environment to Debenhams objectives.
As part of its decision-making process, the board, stakeholders through its compliance with the UK Corporate which has overall responsibility for risk management and internal Governance Code, Debenhams own internally published risk control, considers it important that there should be a regular and management strategy, related policies and procedures and, in systematic approach to risk issues in order to provide assurance that particular, the Debenhams Code of Business Conduct.
strategic targets can be met.
This approach includes the boards own Risk assessment assessment of risk which takes into consideration factors identified Risks to the achievement of Debenhams strategic and operational through organisation-wide risk reviews.
goals have been identified through various organisation-wide Internal control reviews, the most recent of which was completed in October 2011.
The board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control The senior management team, including the board, participated and for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems in this exercise which considered the business strategy, related inplace.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate objectives, internal and external risks to their achievement, changes the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can only in legislation and any new or emerging risks, together with existing provide a reasonable and not an absolute assurance against material and any new controls required to mitigate those risks.
Risks were misstatement or loss.
The board has conducted a review of the ranked according to a matrix of likelihood and impact of occurrence effectiveness of internal controls and is satisfied that the controls and plotted onto the Company risk map, an example of which is inplace remain appropriate.
Debenhams maintains a framework of internal controls using The calculation of the impact and likelihood was supported by the COSO model, which covers the following activities: control guideline bandings of how to classify the risk based on the overall environment: risk assessment: information and communication: change in performance across a number of KPIs to ensure consistency.
These activities are described in The Groups risk register was also updated and the internal audit plan more detail below.
In addition, the board takes into consideration adjusted accordingly.
relevant guidance provided by the Financial Reporting Council and other enterprise risk management best practices.
Risk map likelihood vs impact Poses limited risk to the Company Poses moderate risk to the Company Poses signi cant risk to the Company Poses high risk to the Company Low Moderate Serious Critical Impact 32 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Likelihood Unlikely Occasional Common Frequent Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Information and communication Risk management and internal audit The board reviews the key risks and relevant mitigation strategies Debenhams risk management function includes the internal annually, which could include that the risk is tolerated, transferred, audit, anti-fraud, insurance and profit protection departments.
This treated or terminated, to ensure that all key issues are being managed combination enables the Company to maintain a cohesive approach effectively, taking action to strengthen where necessary.
In addition, to all aspects of risk management whilst allowing the internal audit the Audit Committee satisfies itself that the key risks are being team to benefit from the insights that other elements of the function monitored by senior management and that the internal audit plan can provide.
The internal audit plan focuses on critical and serious risk isfocused on high priority areas.
testing of high priority areas.
The internal audit team updates the board and the Audit Committee An evaluation of the effectiveness of both internal and external audit on the effectiveness of risk management within each discrete area teams was undertaken by an external company in August 2011. audited throughout the year.
The Audit Committee will bring any Therespondents included all members of the Audit Committee, areas of concern to the attention of the board.
members of the board, function heads and senior retail managers.
Control activities In relation to the internal audit function, this evaluation considered A series of control activities is used to mitigate the risks identified effectiveness in a number of categories: interaction with the Audit include risk transfer through a third-party contract, financing the risk Committee, robustness of audit, quality of delivery and quality through insurance or consideration by management of re-engineering of team.
The categories for external audit were: robustness of the process in question.
audit, quality of delivery and quality of people and service.
Whilst improvements can always be made, the overall feedback was very In addition, only suitably qualified employees are responsible for each positive for both internal and external audit effectiveness.
of the functions within Debenhams to ensure that each area operates effectively.
Training, performance reviews and support mechanisms Whistleblowing are also in place to ensure standards of performance are maintained.
All Debenhams employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct and the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, with Monitoring senior employees required to confirm their compliance in writing.
The risks that have been identified are monitored through a variety These policies set out the ethical standards expected by the Company of mechanisms which include: monthly management accounts, and include details of how matters can be raised in strict confidence.
board meetings, the audit programme, fraud detection systems Two main routes are available to employees at all levels within the across point of sale and certain central data repositories including Company to raise concerns over malpractices.
The first, Employees newdevelopments for multi-channel operations, the critical and guideline to problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their serious risk monitor, internal procedures such as stocktakes and line manager, their managers line manager or, if still concerned, tocall stockfile counts, prevention tools such as CCTV and through HR Connect the Debenhams central human resources team directly.
The second route is a confidential reporting line through which In addition, Debenhams operates a number of processes to test its employees can speak to Debenhams anti-fraud team.
If an employee financial information and controls.
An operating plan is prepared in feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of August of each year, shortly before the start of the financial year and these ways, they should contact the Company Secretary or the Head a revised forecast is prepared each month of the financial year which of Internal Audit and Risk Management directly and contact details analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the are provided.
The Companys policy on whistleblowing and these plan.
In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key methods of raising issues of concern are published on the Debenhams ratios.
Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management intranet and emphasised on posters.
The policy is also reviewed accounts are prepared, all of which report on performance against annually by the Audit Committee.
All serious matters identified are the operating plan, last year and forecast.
Atreasury report is made to raised with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
each board meeting which covers matters such as senior operating Principal risks and uncertainties restrictions and covenant reporting and forecasting under the The risks detailed overleaf and in the Notes to the Financial Groups banking facilities, exposure to foreign exchange and hedging Statements are the principal risks and uncertainties that may arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash flow and cash impact Debenhams ability to achieve its strategic and operational flow forecasting and amounts deposited with counterparties.
Bothexternal factors, such as the economic environment, and internal factors, such as the retention of key management, are included in the risks and uncertainties that could substantially impact performance.
Relevant mitigation for each risk is also outlined.
Theserisks are presented in no particular order.
It should be noted that any system ofrisk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Risk review continued External risk Risk and impact Examples of mitigation Change Consistent fall in customer spending Board conducts strategic business reviews which ensure that as a result of economic downturn, management is focused on key priorities and cost control.
These inflation or deflation reviews also focus on the growth strategy through new stores, brand development, enhanced multi-channel offer and expanding Reduction in gross transaction value and a international opportunities.
decline in sales on discretionary purchases Competitive pressures in existing Debenhams differentiates its customer offer through its unique brand markets influencing customer and product mix.
An understanding of customers and their needs behaviour is developed by listening to their views, market intelligence and reviewing key performance indicators, which ensures that pricing Place pressure on our pricing strategy, is competitive.
margins and profitability Sustained supplier cost price increases Debenhams fosters excellent relationships with its suppliers that due to rising cost of raw materials, are mutually beneficial.
Both parties work towards the objective labour, water etc.
of optimising fulfilment and costs, which is measured regularly by management through key performance indicators.
Alongside this, h Place pressure on margin and will also Debenhams develops multiple sourcing routes to ensure pricing divert financial and management resources remains competitive.
from more beneficial uses Whilst the impact of higher input prices was managed well and average price increases over the spring and summer season were lower than the market as a whole.
Debenhams and its suppliers willcontinue to work hard to deliver the best performance possible inavery challenging market.
Loss of profit or additional The energy committee works on the key objectives to control energy expenditure caused by increased usage including the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment energy or fuel costs scheme.
An energy hedging policy is in place toprovide a high degree of cost certainty.
Place pressure on margin and will also divert financial and management resources from more beneficial uses Financial risk Risk and impact Change Examples of mitigation Risks associated with currency, Debenhams has a treasury policy in place which covers hedging, interest rates, credit, counterparty limits and hedging for both foreign exchange counterparties and financial and energy.
There is also an internal treasury function which covenants under the credit facilities ismandated by the board and audited annually.
Hinder ability to adjust rapidly to changing Debenhams closely monitors all aspects of working capital market conditions and impact earnings and tosupport its objective of deleveraging the balance sheet and cash flow effectiveness is measured regularly by management through aseries of key performance indicators.
Hedging strategy may not adequately protect operating results from the impact of Business critical spreadsheets and databases used by the Finance exchange rate fluctuations or may limit any department have been identified and appropriate control measures benefit caused by favourable movements put in place in line with Debenhams policy to ensure data integrity.
in exchange rates The risk has been decreased since net debt at year end was 373.7 Affect available cash and liquidity and could million, a reduction of 133.1 million since the start of the year.
have material effect on the business, results On 18 July 2011 we announced a further refinancing of the senior of operations and financial condition credit facility which has extended its duration from October 2013 to October 2015 and reduced the cash interest rate from c. 4.5% Inappropriate decisions could be made toc.
4.0% with effect from that date.
using wrong or ambiguous information orlack of knowledge Shortfall in the pension fund Trustees carefully monitor the pension fund and adjust the investment strategy appropriately with any shortfall being brought Increases in pension related liabilities could to the boards attention.
impact profit and cash flow Please refer to the Notes to the financial statements for other risks in this category.
Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2011.
34 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Strategic risk Risk and impact Examples of mitigation Change Inability to predict or fulfil customer Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer awareness research demands or preferences to understand current demands and preferences.
It delivers these requirements through multiple channels, including its stores and Sales will be lower, market share reduced website.
To achieve this Debenhams constantly develops these and forced to rely on markdowns and channels and maintains high operational standards to differentiate sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving itself from its competitors.
Debenhams manages stock levels inventory or inventory shortfalls on and the supply chain closely in order to ensure product newness popular merchandise ismaximised.
Although Debenhams remains cautious about the strength of consumer confidence and the timing of an economic recovery, Debenhams will be focusing on the retail basics of giving our customers great products in an inspirational shopping environment, whether in our stores or through one of our multi-channel access points.
We are therefore confident that Debenhams can continue tomake progress over the coming year.
Departure of key personnel and failure In order to attract and retain talent, both succession and personal to attract or retain talent development plans are in place throughout the organisation.
In addition, target-led, performance-related incentive schemes exist.
Significantly delay or prevent achievement of business plan Failure to develop and implement Debenhams undertakes research of key markets and demographics the new store roll out or acquisitions to identify potential locations to drive growth through new space.
successfully Afull investment appraisal is conducted as part of the decision making process and a specialist team has responsibility for Reduced growth or a decline in gross end-to-end management of each project once the decision ismade.
transaction value and may be required to write down the value of any stock acquired for sale in an uncompleted store Failure of ethical trading policy, poor The sustainability committee works on the key objectives such perception in the market on corporate asethical sourcing, legislative change and corporate responsibility responsibility matters or negative matters.
The work includes consideration of key topics such as impact to brand due to product quality, Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE : Registration, h supply chain practices, health and Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH safety etc.
and Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC.
To ensure that Debenhams has the most current information available, it is a Negative effect on reputation leading to member of relevant industry bodies that provide awareness loss of stakeholder trust and confidence, ofchanges to standards and legislation.
Debenhams is an active material adverse effect on the ability member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and expects all to attract and retain third party brands, suppliers to follow the ETI base code and to adhere to Debenhams suppliers, designers, concessionaires and own Supplier Code of Conduct.
A robust approval process is in place, franchisees with subsequent impact on to underpin the ETI base code, for the selection of factories for both performance and results new and existing suppliers: adherence is monitored through regular third party audits.
Factory outputs are also checked by the internal Quality Assurance team to ensure the integrity of Debenhams ownbrand products.
A reliance on third party suppliers, the challenges in the current economic environment and the complexity of the new and existing legislation make this an increasing risk which Debenhams and its suppliers must work harder to manage.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Risk review continued Operational risk Risk and impact Examples of mitigation Change Failure to deliver a business critical A full investment appraisal is conducted as part of the decision project making process and must be signed off by a board member before any projects are undertaken.
Divert financial and management resources from more beneficial uses and As part of project governance, a steering committee monitors all key significantly damage ability to manage areas involved in the delivery of the project, a project framework is information technology systems used, selected projects will be reviewed by internal audit and post investment appraisals are undertaken.
Ineffective brand awareness and Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer awareness research marketing programmes to understand current demands and preferences.
This information is used to identify specific segments of the market to target and Loss of market share, customer loyalty, to form a proposal as a marketing campaign.
A full investment reduction in gross transaction value and a appraisal is conducted as part of the decision making process and decline in sales on discretionary purchases must be signed off by a board member before any campaign is undertaken.
Campaign effectiveness is monitored through external feedback and internal analysis.
Risks associated with leasehold Debenhams has a specialist property team which manages all properties aspects of leasehold property, including cost renegotiations, communication of the store modernisation process, lease renewals Significant alterations in rental terms and adherence to all legal obligations under the lease.
could have a material adverse effect on the business, as would failure to secure Debenhams is also a member of key industry bodies which provide desirable locations awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Disputes over store modernisations Debenhams consults with industry experts to ensure that may lead to reinstatement costs and its asbestos policy and asbestos register are fully up to date.
termination of leases may lead to Alllocations where asbestos has been identified are clearly marked dilapidation costs being incurred with signage and the condition is checked on a regular basis with action taken in the event of any deterioration.
Any works Failure to manage asbestos in specific undertaken in these areas are approved by both the health and properties may lead to fines or other safety and building services teams, prior to any work permits being liabilities affecting Debenhams reputation issued with specialist companies used as required.
and the full or partial closure of properties Review of the historical performance in this area suggests that the exposure to this risk has reduced.
Hazard Risk and impact Examples of mitigation Change Loss of business or additional The business continuity committee works on the key objectives expenditure caused by terrorism, such as planning, testing and invoking.
As part of this, the strikes, riots, natural disaster or committee is responsible for: the selection of recovery sites which h pandemics are equipped to minimise the disruption to Head Office operations: ensuring that key third parties have suitable business continuity Adverse effect on inventory and gross plans in place: and the effective communication of matters transaction value and will divert financial surrounding business continuity to the organisation as a whole.
and management resources from more beneficial uses.
In the case of terrorism, The store business continuity plan was invoked as a result of the customer confidence may be impacted riots in August 2011 and the actions taken worked in practice and therefore losses were minimised.
Insurance policies have been placed as appropriate to minimise the impact of specific risks.
Additional expenditure or Debenhams has specialist taxation and legal and secretariat reputational damage caused by teams and is also a member of key industry bodies which provide changes in legislation or a breach awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
of regulations A new business policy is in place for anti-bribery and corruption, Adverse effect on inventory and gross andforums exist to focus on specific areas of legislation, for transaction value and will also divert example: adata protection steering group: an information security financial and management resources from forum tofocus on PCI : an anti-bribery and corruption committee more beneficial uses tofocus on compliance.
36 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Hazard continued Risk and impact Examples of mitigation Change Theft of customer data or breach of The information security forum reviews projects and key activities payment card industry data security for compliance to the relevant standards.
Debenhams compliance standards to the PCI standard is monitored by management and reported tothe Audit Committee.
A number of security tools are employed Negative effect on reputation leading to toprotect data, including encryption, intruder detection and data loss of stakeholder trust and confidence, loss prevention.
with subsequent impact on performance and results and will also divert financial and management resources from more beneficial uses Personal injury or property damage The executive health and safety committee reviews compliance for relating to a major Debenhams or Debenhams in this area and a number of participants are members supplier location of various relevant industry bodies.
The committee receives input from specialist teams which focus on discrete aspects.
These Injury or loss of life to staff or customers.
include health and safety, building services, insurance and buying Negative effect on reputation and will and merchandising.
To support compliance and to maintain high divert financial and management resources operational standards, health and safety awareness programmes are from more beneficial uses in place and each site has its own health and safety committee.
Disruptions or other adverse events In order to minimise the impact of any third party relationship affecting relationships with or the or performance issues, Debenhams objectives are to maintain performance of major suppliers, excellent third party relationships by ensuring strategies are aligned, store card providers, designers to have appropriate, unambiguous contracts in place, to ensure third orconcessionaires parties are financially robust and to have contingency plans in place in the event of a failure eg conversion of space to own bought for Costs associated with the transfer of concessionaire failure, multiple sourcing routes for supplier failure.
the operations or the potential of extra operational cost from a new provider Changes in exclusivity arrangements with designers or any decline in their popularity could have a material adverse impact Loss of a number of important concession partners may adversely affect GTV Adverse events within the supply chain could restrict the availability or significantly increase the cost of goods Credit insurance difficulties for a significant number of suppliers could lead to a detrimental variation of terms or alternative suppliers used to source some goods Fraud or industrial espionage In order to mitigate fraud across all channels in which Debenhams operates, a number of preventative measures are in place.
These Negative effect on reputation and will include: accounting policies and procedures: systems access divert financial and management resources restrictions: expenditure authorisation levels: whistleblowing from more beneficial uses and anti-bribery and corruption policies: and a Code of Business Conduct, all of which provide employees with guidelines on how to escalate an issue confidentially.
A variety of monitoring mechanisms are used to identify fraudulent activity, which includes data mining across point of sale and head office functions.
As part of the organisation-wide risk assessment, all members of management sign an anti-fraud, bribery and corruption declaration.
Issues identified are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37
