Multi-channel Increasing availability and choice through multi-channel Online sales m 2009 55.1 2010 103.8 2011 180.4 Customer behaviour is changing.
Customers already have a multi-channel mindset: they still love the high street but they also browse online before shopping instore, they click andcollect, they use instore ordering facilities and they shop on the go through apps and mobile websites.
We believe that department stores like Debenhams, with awide product range and large high street space, are ideally placed totake advantage of these changes.
The integration ofour stores and other sales channels is what makes us a true multi-channel retailer.
We use online sales as an indicator of multi-channel growth as it is the largest non-store sales channel.
Online sales grew by 73.8% in 2011 to 180.4 million.
But the opportunity is enormous and we are determined to be at the forefront of it.
Our medium-term target is to grow online sales to500 million.
Our multi-channel vision Multiple channels Stores Website Kiosks  Mobile Telephone TV ordering Wider product ranges Debenhams Extra Every floor of every Debenhams store now Single view of customer contains at least one instore ordering kiosks under the new Debenhams Extra branding.
20 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts 2.5m 13th visits per week to debenhams.
com largest e-tailer in the UK 500% 50% increase in small store range from instore kiosks increase in large store range from instore kiosks Increasing choice: more products We already offer a wide range of product categories instore but there are others that customers associate with department stores that we donot currently sell.
Multi-channel allows us to widen our product offer, particularly for large items like furniture, household appliances and TVs, in a way that is convenient for the customers and low risk for us.
There is also an increasing number of online only brands.
Andonline isa great way to sell additional and peripheral sizes.
Increasing choice: more ways to shop Customers can buy Debenhams products in an ever-increasing number of ways.
Our stores are clearly the biggest of our sales channels but we also offer websites, a range of mobile apps for smartphones and tablets, Debenhams TV, instore kiosks, telephone ordering andcatalogues.
Instore ordering We have been investing in instore ordering over the past year and have installed nearly 650 kiosks across the store portfolio.
They use the latest big button touchscreen technology which feels more like using an app than a website.
We are also trialling webshops in14stores.
A number of different approaches are being tried out withvarious groupings, locations and numbers of kiosks.
The largest is inCoventry where a full scale webshop is being trialled.
Increasing availability We want to be able to satisfy demand that is not currently being met.
In a small store this means demand for products that are not ranged.
Inall stores and online it is demand for items which are out of stock.
Wewant fewer instances when a product is reduced in price even though there is full price demand elsewhere in the business.
This will help us to reduce markdown.
Our goal is to be able to fulfil demand from any location in the business through a concept known as Endless Aisle.
We have already started and already supplement warehouse stock with the stockrooms of 30 large stores.
By the start of 2013 we will be able to utilise stock from across the business including the stockroom and shop floor of every store.
Systems and logistics We are investing to make sure we have the systems in place to meet our multi-channel aspirations.
As well as upgrading the website, weare investing in additional warehousing and distribution capacity which will see our Peterborough Distribution Centre converted to an online fulfilment centre which will allow us to expand delivery options and increase the profitability of multi-channel by improving collation of orders and reducing delivery costs.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Multi-channel Improving availability and choice through multi-channel continued Shopping on the go Shopping has been revolutionised by the advent of the smartphone.
The first Debenhams app was launched for the iPhone in October 2010.
This was followed in spring 2011 by Nokia and Android apps and a dedicated Beauty Club app.
The latest addition is an iPad app.
So far the apps have been downloaded 650,000 times between them.
They boast a host of value added features, such as a barcode scanner for easy product identification, the ability to create gift lists and wish lists, a location-based store finder and access to Debenhams TV.
The latest innovation is a dedicated mobile site which launched in September 2011 and makes using the website on a mobile device much quicker and easier.
Users are automatically directed to the site by their smartphone browser or can find it direct at m. debenhams.
Already one in ten visits to our online offer comes through mobile and this is likely to increase significantly in the coming years.
22 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23
