Delivering a compelling customer proposition Living up to our brand promise Designers at Debenhams sales m 2009 431 2010 498 2011 524 To drive growth we need to ensure we deliver a compelling proposition to our customers, ensuring we have the right products at the right prices and great customer service.
Wecall it our brand promise.
It all starts with the products.
As a department store, customers expect us to offer a wide range of brands and product categories.
Our biggest strength is a differentiated brand and product strategy which provides both exclusivity and flexibility and means that over half of what we sell can only be bought inDebenhams.
Our strong own bought sales participation putsus in control of most of what we sell and also offers enhanced margins.
Own bought sales accounted for 80.4% ofgross transaction value in 2011 excluding Magasin and ourtarget is85%.
We also need to provide a shopping experience that customers value and see as a compelling reason to shop with us.
So we are raising our standards instore in terms of merchandising, product presentation and service.
And we need to make sure customers know that Debenhams is changing through the communication of our proposition and so we are taking a more joined-up approach to marketing.
The Debenhams brand promise Make designers accessible Offer great value every day Inspire and help We offer an unrivalled collection of designer Debenhams is famous for sales and Our model is essentially self-service and brands at high street prices.
But we also offer great value customers want this but we need to make Debenhams democratises design.
And our every day, especially through our core sure we are there to offer inspiration and customers love it.
Three quarters of them brands like Mantaray, Collection and help when its needed.
tell us that Designers at Debenhams is one RedHerring.
of the most important reasons they shop with us.
16 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts 524m 750m Designers at Debenhams sales 2011 Designers at Debenhams sales target 80.4% 85% own bought sales participation 2011 own bought sales participation target A differentiated brand portfolio Debenhams is different from many department stores because ithasa unique and differentiated brand offer.
Over half of what wesellis exclusive to Debenhams.
You can read more about Designers atDebenhams overleaf.
Our core brands are also extremely important to us.
Brands such as Mantaray, Red Herring and Bluezoo are just as unique and exclusive as Designers.
They provide the lower and middle components of our price architecture and are a key part of our ability to offer great value every day.
Debenhams own brands are complemented by our offer of international brands, particularly in health & beauty where the availability of some of the worlds most prestigious brands such as Chanel, Este Lauder and MAC creates ahalo effect over the rest of the store.
There is also a role for concessions in our brand portfolio.
Concessions such as Coast, Miss Selfridge and Jacques Vert add choice and drive footfall.
Raising standards instore We need to raise our instore standards to change customers perceptions of Debenhams, reinforcing it as a modern and contemporary place to shop.
We are starting to do this through improved visual merchandising which makes extensive use of large format photography which not only looks good but increases product rate of sale.
We need to improve our product presentation so it is more inspiring and to a consistently high standard.
We also need to demonstrate more price and value confidence within our range of good, better and best products.
Service standards instore are also crucial.
Our model is predominantly self-service but we need to provide great service in areas like personal shopping, bra fit, gift list and in the restaurants.
Technology is an important enabler of service and we are introducing a number of new systems to help us achieve this.
Communicating the proposition Our marketing is becoming more joined up.
Messaging is consistent around the themes of Life made fabulous and Designers at Debenhams.
We are speaking with one voice for both brand marketing and promotional marketing whereas in the past we have used different approaches for each which customers found confusing.
Our marketing and PR activities are now completely aligned.
We are also changing the mix of marketing media.
Traditional media such as TV, print and direct marketing will continue to be important but new media will become increasingly important.
2012 will see some exciting developments, including the use of augmented reality.
We are not spending any more money, instead we are making it go further.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Delivering a compelling customer proposition Living up to our brand promise continued Designers at Debenhams Launched in 1995, Designers at Debenhams is an exclusive collection of diffusion brands designed for Debenhams by some of Britains leading fashion designers.
Designers at Debenhams has proved to be extremely resilient and demonstrated good growth in 2011 despite the difficult trading environment.
We expect to grow sales to 750 million over the medium-term, a43% increase on 2011, by expanding Designers further down the chain, introducing more categories and attracting new designers.
Developments in 2011 included Edition, a new concept which showcases some of Britains best new design talent, including Jonathan Saunders, Preen, Roksanda Ilincic and Jonathan Kelsey.
Edition was launched in its own pop-up shop in Londons Carnaby Street and has received many favourable reviews in the fashion press.
We are delighted to be welcoming Jenny Packham to Designers at Debenhams in 2012, as well as extending Edition into the home department.
FR OST FREN CH 18 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19
