Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Code, the directors have resolved that they will all offer themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Principal activities The principal activities of the group are the production and sale of The company maintains insurance for its directors in respect of their manufactured casings for the food industry.
Following shareholder approval, the company has also provided an indemnity for its directors and the secretary The company is a public limited company and is incorporated in which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purposes Scotland under number SC129785.
This indemnity was in force throughout the year and remains in place at the date of this report.
The companys principal subsidiary undertakings and branches, including those located outside the UK, are listed in note 16 to the None of the directors had or has an interest in any material contract financial statements.
relating to the business of the company or of any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Review of business The consolidated income statement for the year is set out on page The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company are 35.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the review of shown on page 34. business is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Financial Review, the Key Performance Indicators, and Charitable and political contributions the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 3 to 15.
The contributions made by the group during the year for charitable purposes amounted to 58,000 2010: 54,000.
The contributions Dividends were mainly made to charities where the groups operations are Reflecting the improvement in the groups performance, the Board based and can be analysed as follows:- is proposing a final dividend of 5.5 pence per share 2010: 5 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 8.0 pence per share 2010: 2011 2010 7 pence, an increase of 14.3%.
The final dividend will be payable to shareholders on the register as at 30 March 2012.
Based on the proposal for the full year, dividend cover excluding exceptional items Local community groups 38,000 29,000 will be 2.6 times.
Schools and colleges 13,000 11,000 Share capital 7,000 Health care and medical research 14,000 The share capital of the company consists entirely of ordinary shares 58,000 54,000 of 10 pence each, all of which have equal voting rights.
There were no contributions for political purposes 2010: nil.
The company had 165,008,564 shares in issue at 31 December 2011 2010: 163,609,007 as shown in note 26 to the financial Employees statements.
The group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters During the year, 1,381,557 shares were issued under the rules of affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan, and 18,000 shares were performance of the group.
This is achieved through regular issued under the Devro 1993 No.
2 Executive Share Option communications, and formal and informal meetings.
are circulated throughout the organisation on the day of their announcement.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on Share schemes a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
Details of share scheme awards granted but not exercised or lapsed at 31 December 2011 are shown in note 27 to the financial Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully statements.
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled Research and development every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group The group is committed to research and development activities continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of principally in relation to product and process development, in order the group that the training, career development and promotion of to secure its position as a world leader in the casings industry.
The disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of research and development expenditure incurred in the year is set other employees.
out in note 9 to the financial statements.
Policy on payment of suppliers Directors The group agrees terms and conditions with suppliers before The names and brief biographical details of the directors of the business takes place.
The groups policy is to pay agreed invoices in company at the date of this report are set out on page 18.
Mr S C accordance with the terms of payment.
At 31 December 2011, the Webb was appointed as a director on 17 January 2011.
Mr P C amount owed to trade creditors by the company was equivalent to Williams retired on 6 April 2011.
Mr P N Withers was appointed as 34 days of purchases from suppliers 2010: 40 days.
Ms J A Lodge was appointed as a director on 1 March 2012.
Financial instruments Details of the groups financial risk management policies are included in note 23 to the financial statements.
20 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information financial position of the company and the group and enable them to Change of control ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration The company has a number of financial agreements with major report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the banks, containing certain termination rights for our counterparties group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are upon a change of control of the company.
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and All of the companys share plans contain provisions relating to a detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Outstanding awards may become exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Annual General Meeting AGM the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ The AGM of the company will be held on 19 April 2012 at 10.00am from legislation in other jurisdictions.
at the Balmoral Hotel, 1 Princes Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2EQ.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 84 to 86.
In addition to the Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and ordinary business of the meeting under items 1 to 9, shareholders Transparency Rules will be asked for their approval of other items of business which are Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on explained in the notes on page 83.
These notes form part of this page 18 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of each directors report and are incorporated into it by cross-reference.
persons knowledge and belief: Independent auditors and disclosure of information the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as to auditors adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the In the case of each person who is a director at the date of approval assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group and of this report, each director is satisfied that the auditors are aware of company: and all information relevant to the audit of the groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 and that they the directors report contained in the annual report includes a fair have taken all the steps necessary to make themselves aware of the review of the development and performance of the business and relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are the position of the company and group, together with a aware of that information.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be the group website www.
re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Corporate governance Statement of directors responsibilities The companys statement on corporate governance can be found in The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the the corporate governance report on pages 22 to 27 of these remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with financial statements.
The corporate governance report forms part of applicable law and regulations.
this directors report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Substantial shareholdings for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have elected to At 2 March 2012, the company had been notified of the following prepare the group and parent company financial statements in material interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs company: as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Percentage the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for Number of % of that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are ordinary issued required to:- shares capital select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Artemis Investment Management Ltd 19,839,514 12.02 consistently: 1 Marathon Asset Management 16,229,594 9.84 2 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Schroder Investment Management 11,730,295 7.11 and prudent: Standard Life Investments Ltd 9,846,038 5.97 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Legal and General Investment Union have been followed, subject to any material departures Management 5,905,801 3.58 disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and 1 In respect of 3,044,557 ordinary shares, the voting rights are not exercised by Marathon prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 2 In respect of 2,210,201 ordinary shares, the voting rights are not exercised unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will by Schroder continue in business.
By order of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys J Meredith, Company Secretary transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 12 March 2012 21 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
