Directors and senior management Board Steve Hannam 63 Chairman Steve was appointed Chairman of Devro in May 2009.
Until 2000, he was Chief Executive of the global speciality chemical company BTP plc.
Since that time Steve has held a number of Non-Executive Director or Chairman positions with both public and private companies, mainly in the food and chemical sectors.
These have included Clariant AG, ABF plc, Aviagen International Inc. and AZ Electronic Materials Ltd.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director at Low & Bonar plc.
Steve chairs the Nomination, and Health and Safety Committees.
Peter Page 48 Chief Executive Peter has worked for 25 years in the international food and agribusiness sector, as a general manager, and as a marketing manager where he gained experience of managing the interface between technology and food manufacturers, which is relevant to Devros situation.
He held senior positions with Adnams plc and then Aviagen Group prior to joining Devro as Chief Executive in June 2007.
He is Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
Simon Webb 48 Group Finance Director A Chartered Accountant, Simon joined Devro at the start of 2011 and took over as Group Finance Director in April 2011.
He previously worked as Chief Financial Officer of fide La Rue plc and has held senior finance positions in global manufacturing companies such as Enodis plc, Paxar Inc and BAT plc.
Jane Lodge 56 Non-Executive Director Jane joined the Board on 1 March 2012.
A Chartered Accountant, she was until recently a senior audit partner with Deloitte, where she spent over 25 years advising global manufacturing companies including businesses in the food and automotive sectors.
Jane was the partner in charge of the UK manufacturing industry sector, where she was responsible for strategy and marketing, and was a member of the Deloitte Global Manufacturing Executive.
She was a member of the CBI Manufacturing Council until 2011.
Janes extensive experience with manufacturing companies and her strategic work with Deloitte has given her a strong international business perspective.
She will take over the role of Audit Committee Chairman when Stuart Paterson steps down on 19 April 2012.
Paul Neep 58 Non-Executive Director Paul joined Devro in February 2005 as a Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of The Glenmorangie Company, part of LVMH, having previously been President & Chief Executive.
Pauls knowledge of marketing and experience of international business development are particularly helpful in his role as a Non-Executive Director.
He is Senior Independent Director and is Chairman of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
Stuart Paterson 54 Non-Executive Director Stuart joined Devro in March 2006 as a Non-Executive Director.
He was recently appointed as Chief Financial Officer of Forth Ports Limited.
Former roles include Finance Director of Aggreko plc and Chief Financial Officer of Johnston Press plc.
This listed company experience, and qualification as a Chartered Accountant, is very relevant in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Stuart will step down from the Board at the annual general meeting on 19 April 2012.
Paul Withers 55 Non-Executive Director At BPB plc Paul was Group Managing Director responsible for emerging markets and group development, giving him real insights into the challenges and opportunities for growth at Devro.
As a Non-Executive Director of two other listed companies, Premier Farnell plc and Hyder Consulting plc, he is able to bring experience of current thinking to Devros Board.
18 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Executive Committee Mike Cooke 60 Strategic Development Director Mike joined Devro in September 2001.
After 25 years experience at ICI in a wide variety of roles, and as a Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, Mike makes particularly useful contributions to long-term decision-making, the development of major capital investments and establishing effective business processes.
Gordon Frame 52 Business Director Gordon joined Devro in 1986.
Over the past 25 years, Gordon has worked for Devro in USA, UK, Europe and Asia, and so has a broad understanding of customer applications and requirements in different situations.
In 2011, Gordon moved to Hong Kong, taking responsibility for the groups activities in China and South East Asia.
Alan Kilpatrick 46 Business Director Alan, a Chartered Accountant, joined Devro in 1996.
He now has 16 years experience at Devro, in both finance and general management roles at Group and Regional level.
In 2011, Alans role was expanded to cover UK and Ireland, Australasia and Japan.
Dorothy Lowry 51 Group Human Resources Director Dorothy joined the Company in January 2012.
She has held a number of senior level HR management positions across several of sectors, latterly as HR Director of HBOS Corporate.
She brings with her a thorough understanding of how to develop a strong senior management team through leadership development, succession planning, coaching and recruitment.
She is a Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
Douglas Stewart 49 Business Director Douglas has worked for Devro for 18 years in USA, UK, Asia and Australia, in roles ranging from shift manager to Regional Director, giving a real understanding of daily operational issues.
In December 2005 he relocated to South Carolina to become Business Director, Americas and has responsibility for leading the groups business activities in that region.
Michal Stocek 52 Business Director Michal has worked in product development and, more recently, general management, for 27 years, bringing in-depth knowledge of collagen products and an ability for adapting and improving them.
A chemical engineer, he was appointed to the Czech management team in 1997 and became a member of the Executive Committee of Devro and Business Director with responsibility for Eastern Europe in August 2006.
In 2011, his remit was expanded to include all of Continental Europe and Africa.
19 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
