Diageo Annual Report 2011 24 Business description of Diageos net sales and operating profit.
Europe is comprised References to ready to drink products in this report include progressive of Great Britain, Ireland, Iberia, Northern Europe, Southern Europe, adult beverages in the United States and certain markets supplied by and Russia and Eastern Europe.
The International region is made up the United States.
of three business units: Latin America and the Caribbean including In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo sold 118.6million Mexico, Africa and Global Travel and Middle East GTME.
The Asia equivalent units of spirits including ready to drink, 25.8million Pacific region comprises South Korea, Japan, the Peoples Republic equivalent units of beer and 3.1 million equivalent units of wine.
of China, India and other Asian markets, Australia and New Zealand.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, ready to drink products contributed Inthe past financial year roughly two-thirds of net sales were derived 5.7million equivalent units of total volume, of which Smirnoff ready from developed markets mainly North America and Western Europe to drink variants accounted for 3.8 million equivalent units.
Volume has and one-third from emerging markets mainly Latin America and the been measured on an equivalent units basis to nine-litre cases of spirits.
Caribbean, Africa and Asia Pacific.
In 2005 approximately four-fifths of An equivalent unit represents one nine-litre case of spirits, which is net sales arose in emerging markets and one-fifth in emerging markets.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml During the year ended 30 June 2011 the group reviewed its of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert volume operating model across its businesses and commenced a restructuring of products other than spirits to equivalent units, the following guide programme that is expected to be fully implemented by 30 June 2013. has been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine-litre cases Themain objective of the programme is to improve the effectiveness divide by five, ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide by 10 and certain and productivity of the groups operations and todeploy resources pre-mixed products that are classified as ready to drink in nine-litre closer to the market and in those geographical regions where cases divide by five.
the potential for growth is greatest.
This review will result Diageos portfolio of premium drinks comprises brands in changes tothe groups regional structure and the way owned by the company as a principal and brands held by the it organises its central functions.
The principal countries company under agency or distribution agreements.
Diageos impacted are the United Kingdom, Ireland and the agency agreements vary depending on the particular brand, United States.
but tend to be for a fixed number of years.
Diageos On 25 May 2011 Diageo announced that the principal agency brand is Jose Cuervo in North International region from 1 July 2011 will have America and many other markets with two autonomous regions: Diageo Latin distribution rights extending to 1 July 2013.
The Global Travel Diageo also brews and sells other companies business will be divided and each specific beer brands under licence, including duty free operation will be allocated to the Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, market of the geographic region where it is Heineken lager in Jamaica and Tiger beer in located.
The Middle East business will become Malaysia.
There can be no assurance that part of AsiaPacific.
Diageo will be able to prevent termination of distribution, manufacturing or licence Product offering agreements or to renegotiate distribution, Diageo classifies 14 brands as global strategic manufacturing or licence agreements on brands: Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, Baileys, Crown favourable terms when they expire.
Royal, Captain Morgan, Jose Cuervo, J&B, Diageo classifies its brands as strategic Buchanans, Windsor, Ketel One vodka, Croc, brands and other brands.
These brands are the main focus for the business and 78% of The strategic brands the groups marketing spend supports these Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies Innovation drove the growth of brands.
In aggregate, for the year ended 30 June Crown Royal in 2011, with the Smirnoff vodka and Smirnoff ready to drink products successful launch of Crown Royal 2011, they comprised 66% of Diageos net sales.
Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur Black, a variant which attracts super Brand performance for the year ended Crown Royal Canadian whisky premium bourbon consumers.
30June 2011 is now reported for the 14 strategic Captain Morgan rum and rum based products brands above which replaces the brand performance reporting of eight Jose Cuervo tequila agency brand in North America and many global priority brands disclosed in prior years and reflects the way the other markets brands are managed.
J&B scotch whisky Buchanans scotch whisky Business effectiveness Windsor Premier scotch whisky Over the long term, Diageos strategy continues to focus on driving Ketel One vodka exclusive worldwide growth and increasing shareholder value.
distribution rights Croc vodka Tanqueray gin Premium drinks Bushmills Irish whiskey Guinness stout Diageo is engaged in a broad range of activities within the beverage alcohol industry, with products sold in approximately 180 markets around the world.
Its operations include producing, distilling, brewing, Diageo has 14 strategic brands that it markets worldwide.
Diageo bottling, packaging, distributing, developing and marketing a range considers these brands to have the greatest current and future earnings potential.
Figures for strategic brands include related ready to drink of brands.
Diageo markets a wide range of recognised beverage alcohol brands including a number of the worlds leading spirits and products, unless otherwise indicated.
In calendar year 2010, the Diageo brand range included In the year ended 30 June 2011, strategic brands accounted for 17of the top 100 premium distilled spirits brands worldwide.
65% of total volume 95.8 million equivalent units and contributed net sales of 6,576 million.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 25 Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies comprise Johnnie Walker Red Label, Other beer brands include: Johnnie Walker Black Label and several other brand variants.
During Malta Guinness non-alcoholic malt the year ended 30 June 2011, Johnnie Walker Red Label sold 10.9million Harp lager equivalent units, Johnnie Walker Black Label sold 6.1million equivalent Tusker lager units and the remaining variants sold 0.8million equivalent units.
Smithwicks ale The Johnnie Walker franchise was ranked, by volume, as the number Senator lager one premium scotch whisky and the number three premium spirit Red Stripe lager brand in the world.
Smirnoff achieved volume of 28.3 million equivalent units in the In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo sold 14.8million equivalent year ended 30 June 2011.
Smirnoff vodka volume was 24.5million units of beers other than Guinness, achieving net sales of 1,029million.
It was ranked, by volume, as the number one premium Other beer volume was mainly attributable to owned brands with a vodka and the number one premium spirit brand in the world.
Smirnoff minority being attributable to beers brewed and or sold under licence, ready to drink volume totalled 3.8 million equivalent units.
such as Budweiser lager and Carlsberg lager in Ireland, Tiger beer in Baileys was ranked, by volume, as the number one liqueur in the Malaysia and Heineken lager in Jamaica.
world, having sold 6.8 million equivalent units in the year ended 30June2011.
Wine brands include: Captain Morgan was ranked number two in the world by volume, Blossom Hill amongst its competitive set, the rum category, with volume of Sterling Vineyards 9.1million equivalent units in the year ended 30June 2011.
Beaulieu Vineyard Guinness is the groups only strategic beer brand, and for the year Navarro Correas ended 30 June 2011 achieved volume of 11 million equivalent units.
Acacia Vineyard Certain strategic brands were also ranked, by volume, among the Rosenblum Cellars leading premium distilled spirits brands by Impact Databank.
These Piat dOr include: Jose Cuervo, ranked the number one premium tequila in the Chalone Vineyard world: Crown Royal Canadian whisky, ranked the number one Canadian Santa Rita whisky in the world: Tanqueray gin, ranked the number one imported gin in the United States: and J&B scotch whisky comprising J&B Rare, For the year ended 30 June 2011, wine volume was 3.1 million J&BReserve, J&B Manhattan and J&B Jet, ranked the number four equivalent units, contributing net sales of 488 million.
premium scotch whisky in the world.
During the year ended 30June 2011, Jose Cuervo, Crown Royal, Tanqueray and J&B sold 4.6 million, Production 5.1million, 2.0 million and 4.6 million equivalent units, respectively.
Diageo owns 106 production facilities including maltings, distilleries, Other strategic brands, Buchanans, Windsor, Bushmills, Ketel One breweries, packaging plants, maturation warehouses, cooperages, vodka and Croc sold 1.5 million, 1.0 million, 0.6 million, 2.1 million and vineyards, wineries and distribution warehouses.
Production also 1.3million equivalent units, respectively, in the year ended 30 June 2011. occurs at plants owned and operated by third parties and joint ventures at a number of locations internationally.
Other spirits brands include: Approximately 85% of total production is undertaken Gordons gin and vodka by Global Supply organised into four production centres, namely Old Parr scotch whisky Europe Supply, America Supply, Global Beer Supply and Asia Supply.
Bells scotch whisky The remaining production activities of the group are integrated with The Classic Malts scotch whiskies the distribution organisation, principally in Africa within International.
Seagrams 7 Crown whiskey and Seagrams VO whisky The majority of Global Supplys production centres have several Cacique rum production facilities.
The locations, principal activities, products, White Horse scotch whisky packaging production capacity and packaging production volume of Don Julio tequila Global Supplys principal production centres in the year ended 30 June Bundaberg rum 2011 are set out in the table below.
For the year ended 30 June 2011, other spirits brands contributed volume of 33.8 million equivalent units, representing 23% of total Diageo volume, and net sales of 1,684 million.
Production Production volume in capacity in 2011 in millions of millions of equivalents equivalent Production centre Location Principal products units units Europe Supply United Kingdom Scotch whisky, gin, vodka, rum, ready to drink 81 51 Ireland Baileys Irish cream liqueur, vodka 13 8 Italy Santa Vittoria Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 10 6 America Supply United States Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, wine, American whiskey, progressive adult beverages, ready to drink 37 30 Canada Vodka, gin, rum, Canadian whisky 9 9 Global Beer Supply Ireland Guinness Beer 9 8 Jamaica Beer 1 1 Asia Supply Australia Rum, vodka, ready to drink 4 3 Philippines Whisky, gin, vodka 2 1 Capacity represents ongoing production capacity at any production centre.
The production capacities quoted in the table are based on actual production levels for the year ended 30 June 2011 adjusted for the elimination of unplanned losses and inefficiencies, and taking into account planned manning levels for the coming year.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 26 Business description Spirits are produced in distilleries located worldwide.
The group owns review and a business case for investment behind consolidation is 29 scotch whisky distilleries in Scotland, an Irish whiskey distillery in being developed for approval.
Northern Ireland, two whisky distilleries in Canada, a whisky distillery in Diageos principal wineries are in the United States and Argentina.
the United States and vodka gin distilleries in the United Kingdom and For European markets, wines are mainly bottled in Diageos facilities the United States.
Diageo produces Smirnoff vodka internationally, inItaly.
Wines are sold both in their local markets and overseas.
Popov vodka and Gordons vodka in the United States, and Baileys in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Rum is blended and Property, plant and equipment bottled in the United States, Canada, Italy and the United Kingdom, Diageo owns or leases land and buildings throughout the world.
The and is distilled, blended and bottled in Australia and Venezuela.
All of principal production facilities are described above.
As at 30June 2011, Diageos maturing scotch whisky is located in warehouses in Scotland Diageos land and buildings are included in the groups consolidated primarily at Blackgrange, its maturing Canadian whisky in La Salle and balance sheet at anet book value of 734 million.
Diageos two largest Gimli in Canada and all its maturing American whiskey in Kentucky and individual facilities, in terms of book value, are Leven bottling and Tennessee in the United States.
blending facility in Scotland and StJamess Gate brewery in Dublin.
In July 2009, the group announced a restructuring of its operations Diageos properties are primarily a variety of manufacturing, distilling, in Scotland.
The plans included the consolidation of distilling, packaging brewing, bottling and administration facilities spread across the and warehousing activities and involved the closure of apackaging groups worldwide operations, as well as vineyards and wineries in the plant, adistillery and a cooperage over athree-year period.
Approximately 40%, 20% and 19% of the book Investment is concentrated in the production sites at Leven in value of Diageos land and buildings comprise properties Fife where a new packaging facility has become operational located in Great Britain, Ireland and the United States, in the summer of 2011, atShieldhall near Glasgow and at a new respectively.
Approximately 90% by value of the groups state of the art cooperage at Cambus near Alloa.
The Kilmarnock properties are owned and approximately 3% are held under packaging facility will close in the spring of2012.
leases running for 50years or longer.
In May 2011 Diageo announced the closure of the Menlo During the years ended 30 June 2011 and 30June 2010 Park bottling plant in California and the specialty product anumber of vineyards and facilities located in Napa Valley, building at the Relay plant in Maryland, in the United States.
California were purchased and leased back to Diageo under New investment will be made in the North American spirits a20-year lease, with Diageo holding options to extend supply chain over the next 18months principally in the the lease at fair value for up to 80years in total.
Diageo packaging plants at Plainfield in Illinois and Relay remains the operator of the properties under the lease inMaryland.
agreement and retains ownership of the brands, vines In the year ended 30 June 2010 Diageo also and grapes, which remain a strategic part of Diageos announced the closure of the Dorval bottling plant in wine business.
Quebec Canada with the production moved to Delta Beverages in Woodbridge, Ontario.
Inaddition, Raw materials and supply agreements arestructuring of the Daventry distribution centre in The group has a number of long term contracts in the United Kingdom was announced in 2010. place for the purchase of significant raw materials In June 2008, Diageo and the government of the including glass, other packaging, tequila, bulk whisky, US Virgin Islands announced a public private initiative neutral spirits, cream, rum and grapes.
In addition, for the construction and operation of a high capacity forward contracts are in place for the purchase of distillery in StCroix.
This new facility became operational other raw materials including sugar and cereals to in November 2010 and has the capacity to distil up to 13 minimise the effects of short term pricefluctuations.
million equivalent units annually and will supply all bulk Cream is the principal raw material used in the rum used to produce Captain Morgan branded production of Irish cream liqueur and is sourced from products for the United States.
Grapes are used in the production of wine and Baileys returned to growth Diageo produces a range of ready to drink are sourced from suppliers in the United States and in 2011, net sales grew 21% products mainly in the United Kingdom, Italy, Argentina.
Other raw materials purchased in significant in emerging markets, with the SouthAfrica, Australia, the United States and Canada.
launch of the new campaign quantities for the production of spirits and beer are Baileys.
Diageos principal brewing facilities are at the tequila, bulk whisky, neutral spirits, molasses, rum, StJamess Gate brewery in Dublin and in Kilkenny, cereals, sugar and a number of flavours such as Waterford and Dundalk in the Republic of Ireland, and in Nigeria, Kenya, juniper berries, agave, chocolate and herbs.
These are sourced Ghana, Cameroon, Tanzania, Malaysia and Jamaica.
Ireland is the main from suppliers around the world.
exporter of the Guinness brand.
In other countries, Guinness is brewed The majority of products are supplied to customers in glass by third parties under licence arrangements.
In addition, Diageo owns bottles.
Glass is purchased from suppliers located around the world, a25% equity interest in Sedibeng brewery in South Africa.
the principal supplier being the Owens Illinois group.
All Guinness Draught production is at the StJamess Gate brewery Diageo has a supply agreement with Casa Cuervo SA fide CV, in Dublin in the Republic of Ireland.
Guinness Draught in cans and aMexican company, for the supply of bulk tequila used to make the bottles is packaged at Runcorn and Belfast in the United Kingdom.
Jose Cuervo line of tequilas and tequila drinks in the United States.
TheRuncorn facility performs the kegging of Guinness Draught, Thesupply agreement extends to June 2013. transported to the United Kingdom in bulk for the Great Britain market.
Diageo has a supply agreement with Destilera Serralls Inc, Diageo announced the restructuring of its brewing operations in aPuerto Rican corporation, under which Diageo purchases all bulk rum Ireland in 2008 with the intention of consolidating operations to a new for use in Captain Morgan products sold in the United States.
Diageo greenfield brewery in the Dublin area and decommissioning the and Destilera Serralls Inc have agreed that this supply agreement will existing brewing infrastructure.
The project was reviewed in 2009 terminate with effect from the end of December 2011, from which time due to the changing economic conditions both globally and locally Diageo intends to source rum for its Captain Morgan products from the in Ireland.
Areview of options continued in 2011 to examine the Diageo distillery that has recently been constructed in the US desirability of network consolidation.
The project remains under VirginIslands.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 27 Diageo has an exclusive and perpetual supply agreement with the Diageo-Guinness USA markets Diageos US beer brands including Nolet Group, a Dutch company, for the supply of Ketel One vodka.
Guinness stout, Harp lager, Red Stripe lager and Smithwicks ale as well as the groups progressive adult beverages including Smirnoff Ice, Marketing and distribution Smirnoff premium mixed drinks, Captain Morgan Parrot Bay Tropical Diageo is committed to investing in its brands.
In the year ended Malt Beverage and Jeremiah Weed ready to drink.
30June 2011, 1,538 million was spent worldwide on marketing brands The Canada business unit distributes the groups collection of with a focus on the fourteen strategic brands that accounted for 78% spirits, wine and beer brands across all Canadian territories.
Within the of total marketing spend.
United States, there are generally two types of regulatory environments: Diageo makes extensive use of magazine, newspaper, point of sale open states and control states.
In open states, spirits companies are and poster and billboard advertising, and uses radio, cinema, television allowed to sell spirits, wine and beer directly to independent and internet advertising where appropriate and permitted by law to distributors.
In these open states, Diageo generally trades through a engage with consumers and customers.
Diageo runs consumer three-tier distribution system, where the product is initially sold to promotional programmes in the on trade for example, licensed bars distributors, who then sell it to on and off trade retailers.
In most control and restaurants and supports customers in both the on and off trades states, Diageo markets its spirits products to state liquor control boards with shopper consumer promotions.
Sponsorship is utilised in brand through the bailment warehousing system, and from there to state or marketing with Diageo currently active in the sponsorship of the agency liquor stores.
There are variations for example, certain states Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula One Team, a NASCAR racing control distribution but not retail sales.
Generally, wines are treated in team and the Johnnie Walker golf championships.
the same way as spirits, although most states that are control states for spirits are open states for wines.
Beer distribution generally follows Business analysis open states regulation across the United States.
In Canada, beer and In the year ended 30 June 2011, North America, Europe, International spirits distribution laws are generally consistent and similar to those of and Asia Pacific contributed 41%, 26%, 26% and 7%, respectively, of the control states in the United States.
Diageo, however, has some licences groups operating profit before exceptional items and corporate costs.
to deliver keg beer directly to licensed accounts, which account for An analysis of net sales and operating profit by operating segment approximately 20% of Diageos beer business in Canada.
for the year ended 30 June 2011 is set out in the table below.
Across the United States, Diageos distributors and brokers have over 2,800 dedicated sales people focused on selling its spirits and wine North America brands.
Diageo has pursued a distribution strategy centred around North America is the largest market for Diageo in terms of operating consolidating the distribution of Diageos US spirits and wine brands profit, and the largest market for premium drinks in the world.
In the into a single distributor or broker in each state where possible.
The year ended 30 June 2011 Diageo marketed its products through four strategy is designed to provide a consolidated distribution network, units: US Spirits, Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines, Diageo-Guinness USA which will limit the duplication of activities between Diageo and the and Diageo Canada.
For the year ending 30 June 2012 North America distributor, improve Diageos and distributors selling capabilities and will include the North American operations of Global Travel.
enable a number of alternative approaches to optimise product The US Spirits business, while managed as a single business unit, distribution.
To date, Diageo has consolidated its business in 41 markets executes sales and marketing activities through 14 teams or clusters.
40 states plus Washington DC, representing over 80% of Diageos US National brand strategy and strategic accounts marketing are managed spirits and wine volume.
The remaining states will be consolidated as at the corporate North America level.
The spirits clusters market the opportunities arise.
Diageo is now focused on building the capabilities majority of Diageos collection of spirits brands including Smirnoff and selling tools of the distributors dedicated sales forces and creating vodka, Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, Jose Cuervo tequila, Johnnie a more efficient and effective value chain.
Walker scotch whisky, Captain Morgan, Tanqueray gin, J&B scotch whisky, Crown Royal Canadian whisky, Seagrams 7 Crown American Europe whiskey, Seagrams VO Canadian whisky, Buchanans scotch whisky, In the year ended 30 June 2011 Diageo Europe comprised six units: Ketel One vodka and Croc vodka across the United States.
Great Britain, Ireland, Iberia, Northern Europe, Southern Europe, and Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines DC&E owns, leases and operates Russia and Eastern Europe.
For the year ending 30 June 2012 Europe wineries in California including Beaulieu Vineyard, Sterling Vineyards, will comprise four units: Western Europe, Russia and Eastern Europe, Chalone Vineyard, Acacia, Rosenblum and Provenance Vineyards and Turkey and the European operations of Global Travel.
markets these and other wines across the United States.
Over the last In Great Britain, Diageo sells and markets its products via three 12months, DC&E completed its rationalisation strategy and disposed business units: Diageo GB spirits, beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox & of its vineyards and facilities at Canoe Ridge, Echelon, Edna Valley, Co wines and Justerini & Brooks Retail private client wines.
Products Sagelands and Moon Mountain and disposed of other brands and assets.
are distributed both through independent wholesalers and directly to the major grocers, convenience and specialist stores.
In the on trade 2011 2010 Operating Operating profit loss profit loss before Operating before exceptional profit exceptional Operating Net sales items loss Net sales items profit loss million million million million million million North America 3,324 1,255 1,232 3,306 1,170 1,132 Europe 2,614 778 621 2,759 859 806 International 2,747 804 791 2,627 771 766 Asia Pacific 1,181 208 158 1,018 176 146 Global Supply 35 39 Corporate 70 161 172 70 225 237 Total 9,936 2,884 2,595 9,780 2,751 2,574 Diageo Annual Report 2011 28 Business description forexample, licensed bars and restaurants, products are sold through interest in a venture with Heineken which owns a brewery inGauteng, the major brewers, multiple retail groups and smaller regional South Africa.
Diageo has awholly owned brewery in Cameroon and independent brewers and wholesalers.
The customer base in Great also has majority owned breweries in Nigeria, Kenya, Tanzania, Ghana, Britain has seen consolidation in recent years in both the on trade and Uganda and the Seychelles.
In particular, Great Britains top four Global Travel and Middle East encompasses asales and marketing national multiple grocers together make up over 60% of home organisation which targets the international consumer in duty free and consumption total spirits volume.
travel retail outlets such as airport shops, airlines and ferries around the Ireland comprises the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
world, and distribution of Diageo brands in the Middle East and North Inboth territories, Diageo sells and distributes directly to both the on Africa.
The global nature of the travel channel and its organisation trade and the off trade for example, retail shops and wholesalers structure allows a specialist Diageo management team to apply a through a telesales operation, extensive sales calls to outlets and third co-ordinated approach to brand building initiatives and to build on party logistics providers.
The Guinness, Smirnoff and Baileys brands consumer insights in this trade channel, where consumer behaviour are market leaders in their respective categories of long alcoholic tends to be different from domestic markets.
In the Middle East and drinks, vodka and liqueurs.
Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers, also major North Africa, distribution is achieved through third party distributors.
products in the Diageo collection of brands in Ireland, are brewed and Lebanon is an exception, where a Diageo subsidiary distributes the sold under licence in addition to Smithwicks ale and Harp lager.
majority of the Diageo brands sold there.
In Russia, Diageo operates through its wholly owned subsidiary.
Across the remainder of mainland Europe, Diageo Asia Pacific distributes its spirits brands primarily through its own In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo Asia Pacific distribution companies with the following exceptions.
comprised India, the Peoples Republic of China, South Korea, InFrance Diageo sells its spirits and wine products through Japan, Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia and other ajoint arrangement with Mot Hennessy, and its beer Asian markets, Australia and New Zealand.
For the year products through Brasseries Kronenbourg part of the ending 30 June 2012, Asia Pacific will also comprise the Carlsberg group.
In Hungary Diageo sells its brands through Middle East business and Global Travel operations its associate company Zwack.
In the Baltic states, that are located in that region.
Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, In China, Hong Kong and Macau Diageo Malta, various territories in the Balkans, CIS and distributes the majority of its spirit brands through Israel, Diageo sells and markets its brands via local a joint venture arrangement with Mot Hennessy.
Inthe Nordic countries Diageo has Diageo has awholly owned subsidiary in China for sales offices in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, and brands not included in the joint venture such as representation through third party distributors in Smirnoff, Windsor and Baileys.
On 14 July 2011, Finland and Iceland.
Inall Nordic markets except Diageo acquired an additional 4% equity stake Denmark, off trade sales are controlled by state inSichuan Chengdu Quanxing Company Ltd. monopolies, with alcohol Quanxing from Chengdu Yingsheng Investment tax rates among the highest in the world, and Holding Co. Ltd. bringing the equity stake owned border trade and duty free are important sources by Diageo to 53%.
Quanxing is a holding of sales.
Smirnoff Ice is sold in Nordic countries company controlling a39.7% equity stake in through Carlsberg.
Sichuan ShuiJingFang Co. Ltd ShuiJingFang, A specialist unit has been established for the a super premium Chinese white spirits company distribution of Diageos beer brands in mainland listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange.
Diageo Europe inorder to achieve synergies in the is the sole distributor of ShuiJingFangs Chinese marketing and distribution of Guinness and white spirits outside ofChina.
Thedistribution of these brands is Diageo works with a number of joint venture Marketing spend on Windsor managed by this specialist unit with particular focus partners in Asia Pacific.
In Thailand, Malaysia and was focused on the Worlds on the markets in Germany, Russia and France, Singapore, Diageo distributes the majority of its No.
1 campaign which built on which are the largest mainland European beer Windsors gold medal at the spirits brands through joint venture arrangements prestigious 2010 International markets by size for Diageo.
In South Korea, India, Vietnam and Taiwan, International Diageos own distribution companies distribute the In the year ended 30 June 2011 Diageo International comprised Latin majority of Diageos brands.
InVietnam, Diageo entered into a strategic America and the Caribbean including Mexico, Africa excluding North partnership agreement with Hanoi Liquor Joint Stock Company Africa and Global Travel and Middle East business including North Halico in January 2011.
In addition, Diageo acquired a 24.9% equity Africa.
For the year ending 30 June 2012 Latin America and the stake in Halico from VinaCapital Vietnam Opportunity Fund Limited, Caribbean and Africa will be reported separately, Global Travel will be for 34million.
included in the geographical regions where the individual operations In Japan, the joint venture with Mot Hennessy distributes super are located and the Middle East will become part of Asia Pacific.
premium brands, such as the super deluxe variants of Johnnie Walker, In Latin America and the Caribbean, distribution is achieved while the joint venture with Kirin distributes Diageos other premium through a mixture of Diageo companies and third party distributors.
spirits such as Johnnie Walker Black Label and Smirnoff, as well as Inaddition, Diageo owns a controlling interest in Desnoes & Geddes Guinness and Smirnoff Ice.
Other spirit brands, which are not Limited, the Jamaican brewer of Red Stripe lager.
distributed by either Mot Hennessy or the Kirin joint venture, Africa provides some of the longest established and largest are distributed by third parties.
markets for the Guinness brand, with the brewing of Guinness Foreign In Indonesia, Guinness is brewed by PT Multi Bintang Indonesia Extra Stout in a number of African countries, either through subsidiaries MBI, and is distributed through adistribution agreement with PT Dima or under licence.
Diageo has a three-way venture with Heineken and Indonesia while spirit brands are distributed by government licensed Namibia Breweries Limited in South Africa for a combined beer, cider distributors.
In the Philippines, Diageo Philippines Inc, a 51% Diageo and ready to drink collection of brands.
Diageo also has a 25% equity owned joint venture, distributes the brands.
In Malaysia, Diageos own Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 29 and third party beers are brewed and distributed by a listed business of competitive advantage.
It continues to be Diageos goal to release Guinness Anchor Berhad in which Diageo and its partner, Asia Pacific the potential of all of its people.
Breweries, have a majority share through a jointly controlled entity.
Diageo aims to be amongst the most admired companies in all key InSingapore, Diageos beer brands are brewed and distributed by geographies.
Consistent with this, Diageo participated in independent AsiaPacific Breweries.
surveys during the year and is currently rated in the top 10 employers in The remaining markets in Asia are generally served by third party eight of its key markets.
Further to this aim, Diageo endeavours to create distribution networks monitored by regional offices.
a workplace that is both welcoming and challenging for all employees.
In Australia, Diageo has its own production and distribution Diageo values diversity in its workforce and works to ensure that the company, which handles the majority of products sold in the Australian group is inclusive of all people, regardless of their background or style.
It also has production and distribution arrangements with To enhance diversity, Diageo aims to create opportunities that are VOK Beverages and a licensed brewing arrangement with Fosters.
attractive to a wide range of candidates, including those with In New Zealand, Diageo operates through third party distributors disabilities, and seeks to make working for Diageo compatible with and has a licensed brewing arrangement with Lion Nathan.
Diageo sponsors an ever growing number of employee networks around the world that seek to support diverse Global Supply interest groups.
The company also seeks to design and adjust roles to Global Supply is responsible for the production of approximately 85% accommodate peoples lifestyles, and increasingly encourages flexible ofDiageos products sold globally, for sourcing materials and services working.
Not only is this approach to inclusion and diversity consistent through global procurement, for providing consistent technical with Diageos values, it is also believed to be important for the long term support through the global technical function and providing logistic health of the organisation.
As part of Diageos global policies, Diageo and customer services through the global supply chain organisation.
emphasises the importance of treating individuals justly and in a Production is managed by four Global Supply production centres, non-discriminatory manner in all aspects of employment, including Europe Supply, America Supply, Global Beer Supply and Asia Supply.
recruitment, compensation and benefits, training, promotion, transfer Europe Supply comprises Scotland scotch whisky, gin, vodka, rum and and termination.
Accordingly, factors not relevant to the requirements ready to drink, Baileys Ireland Irish cream liqueur and vodka and Santa of a role, including without limitation race, religion, colour, ethnic or Vittoria Italy vodka, wine, rum and ready to drink, all producing goods national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender or marital status, for markets globally.
America Supply comprises North America Spirits are not considered, and reasonable adjustments are considered Supply located in the United States and Canada vodka, gin, tequila, and if necessary appropriate training provided so that no individual rum, Canadian whisky, American whiskey, progressive adult beverages, is disadvantaged.
wine and ready to drink with domestic distribution, Venezuela rum, Inspirational leadership to deliver great results is critical to the US Virgin Islands rum and North America wines.
Global Beer Supply success of the business.
The Diageo Leadership Performance produces Guinness and other beers in Ireland distributed primarily in Programme, which was launched in 2007, remains a key programme Europe and North America and beer in Jamaica.
Asia Supply comprises for the organisation.
The focus in the year ending 30 June 2011 was on Singapore Baileys and scotch whisky packaging, the Philippines and continuing to apply and embed the learnings across the entire Australia rum, vodka and ready to drink.
The aim is for Diageo to be recognised for the Global Procurement has responsibility for sourcing goods and outstanding quality of its business leaders and their ability to deliver services on behalf of the Diageo group.
great performance for the group.
A global network of suppliers provides for a wide range of raw Employee engagement is a key element of Diageos people materials and packaging items that are necessary to ensure consistency strategy.
Diageos values are embedded in the business and guide how of quality to support the brands.
With the high level of dependency on all employees operate and behave.
A values survey, which includes a agricultural commodities such as cereals, hops, agave and sugar, measure of employee engagement, is conducted with employees forward-buying takes place to minimise value at risk.
Now in its ninth year, this survey provides an annual insight global procurement supports the business in sourcing creative media into what employees are thinking and feeling about the business.
solutions, sponsorship and point of sale activities.
Global Procurement Thevalues survey allows Diageo, at group, function and team levels, also supports business services, facilities and computer services.
toassess how the business is tracking against the long term goals of The global technical function develops and implements engaging employees and consistently bringing Diageos values to life.
consistent engineering solutions across the Global Supply organisation 89% of Diageos employees participated in the 2011 values survey and in other production sites in Africa and Asia.
The global supply chain and the overall engagement score was 85%.
Thehighest level of function also provides logistics services in Europe and is responsible engagement as measured by the survey is termed super engaged.
for a consistent customer service globally.
Diageos aspiration is that 50% or more of its employees are superengaged.
In the 2011 values survey, 39% of employees measured as Corporate super engaged, which is a decrease of 2% from the 2010 values Corporate costs which cannot be directly allocated to the business survey results.
areas are reported separately within Corporate in the analysis of Diageo strongly believes in the value of its employees sharing in business performance.
Also included in Corporate are the revenues the companys success and actively encourage employees to become and costs related to rents receivable in respect of properties not used shareholders.
The group seeks out opportunities to extend employee by Diageo in the manufacture, sale or distribution of premium drink share ownership around the world and in 2011 31 countries operated products and the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
an all employee share plan.
A further two countries will be invited to participate in Diageos International Sharematch Plan later this year.
Seasonal impacts This, combined with existing employee share plans, will further extend The festive holiday season provides the peak period for sales.
the opportunity to the majority of employees across a significant Approximately 40% of annual net sales occur in the last four months number of Diageos markets to share in the companys growth and of each calendar year.
As at 30 June 2011, 16,057 past and present employees held 1.17% 2010 0.74% of Diageos ordinary issued share capital.
Employees Diageos people, its culture and its values are at the heart of the companys strategy and Diageos directors believe this to be a source Diageo Annual Report 2011 30 Business description Diageo strives to keep its employees well informed on and engaged increasingly focused on digital marketing, using social networking with the companys strategy and business goals as a high priority, to encourage responsible attitudes to drinking.
In addition, Diageo focusing on dialogue and consultation both formal and informal updated its Digital Code of Practice.
onchanges that affect its employees.
To engage the industry around actions supporting the World Health Organisation WHO Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use Average number of employees of Alcohol, Diageo worked with the International Center for Alcohol 2011 2010 2009 Policies and its members who held consultations with relevant alcohol North America 1,690 1,615 2,258 beverage companies and trade associations in four different regions during the year ended 30June 2011.
Diageo continues to play its part Europe 2,912 3,007 3,253 in helping WHO member states in their implementation of the International 5,867 5,097 4,952 Global Alcohol Strategy.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo also Asia Pacific 2,705 2,636 2,668 signed the UK Responsibility Deal in which the industry committed Global Supply 7,802 8,171 8,116 to specific actions to address alcohol misuse.
Corporate and other 2,810 2,761 2,792 23,786 23,287 24,039 Water A reliable supply of good quality water is essential to Diageos business Supply operations of the US wines business were transferred from North America to because water is the main ingredient in almost all of Diageos products Global Supply in the year ended 30 June 2010. and is also used for cleaning and cooling at production sites.
Water resources are under pressure from development in many parts of the Sustainability & responsibility world and from climate changes that may restrict availability in the Diageo realises that it is increasingly important for investors to future.
Using United Nations UN and World Business Council for understand not only its financial performance, but also the manner in Sustainable Development data, Diageo has designated 9 of its 106 which it manages its social and environmental impacts.
This is integral production sites as being located in areas which are water stressed, to the companys business strategy and supports the purpose: identifying them as higher risk in terms of having a sustainable water celebrating life every day, everywhere.
supply in the coming years.
In Africa, where the United Nations UN Diageos Sustainability & Responsibility strategy aims to address predicts that nearly 50% of the population will face water scarcity by the companys key impacts at every stage of the value chain.
This is 2025, approximately half of Diageos production sites are located in water driven bythe needs and concerns of Diageos business partners and stressed areas.
Assuch, water challenges in these areas in particular will other stakeholders, including employees, regulators, customers, affect not only Diageos business but also its business partners and the non-profit organisations NGOs, as well as the investment community.
local communities who rely on water for their livelihoods.
The particular impacts Diageo focuses on are alcohol in society, In May 2010 Diageo launched a new water framework: the water, environmental sustainability, community, people and Diageo Blueprint Water Framework.
This guides Diageos approach governance and ethics.
In the year ended 30 June 2011 Diageo to managing water and protecting water sources in the regions where prioritised water within its environmental and community programmes Diageo operates.
The framework aims to improve water use efficiency and now reports on an integrated sustainability approach.
Diageo and reduce the wastewater impacts of Diageos direct operations: focuses on these six impacts with suppliers as well as with customers reduce water scarcity problems that affect local populations: and and consumers, the parts of the value chain outside of Diageos contribute to the water and sanitation Millennium Development Goals directoperations.
by working with other organisations in accordance with the UN Global Below is a summary of each impact area, with the exception of Compact CEO Water Mandate.
people, which is reported on above under employees, and governance In its operations, Diageo works to improve its understanding and ethics, which is primarily reported in the executive direction and of its water footprint, the impact of its water usage, and how a further control, internal control and risk management and compliance and reduction in its use of water resources may be achieved.
Diageo collects ethics programme sections of the Corporate Governance Report.
and reviews water consumption data from across the markets where A separate Sustainability & Responsibility Report with full details it operates and the production sites and offices over which it has of each impact area is available on the Diageo website.
operational control using internally developed guidelines.
The guidelines define water usage based on the total amount of water Alcohol in society abstracted from source such as groundwater, surface water or mains Drinking alcohol has been part of the social and cultural life of less any clean water provided back to local communities directly from communities throughout the world for centuries.
It can play a positive a site and water returned for agricultural irrigation.
Cooling water role in social occasions and celebrations for those who choose to drink, abstracted and returned to the same source is excluded from the total however, Diageo recognises that the misuse of alcohol can cause water used.
In addition to reviewing total water usage, Diageo strives serious problems for individuals, communities and society.
As such to improve its efficiency, by monitoring the amount of water used Diageo works to market its brands responsibly to adults, and support to produce one litre of product packaged and refining an operations programmes and policies that create a more positive role for alcohol in process to minimise water usage wherever possible.
As the worlds leading premium drinks business, Diageo wants is being devoted to the nine production sites designated as being to play an active part in tackling alcohol misuse and focuses on areas located in water stressed areas where Diageo has made additional where resources and expertise can be used most effectively, Diageo investment in water treatment and water recovery systems.
works with the beverage alcohol industry, governments and other Diageo has set targets aspiring to reduce the amount of water groups to establish high company and industry standards on used against a baseline set in the year ended 30 June 2007 and a target responsible marketing and selling: providing information to help year of 2015.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo achieved a consumers make informed and responsible choices about when, 3 decrease of 520,000m of total water used compared to the year ended whether and how they drink: investing in programmes that aim to 30 June 2010.
This improvement was achieved despite increased minimise alcohol misuse: and promoting effective government alcohol production and was driven by investments in water recovery in policies and debate about the role of alcohol in society.
packaging operations and maltings, optimisation programmes such Diageo runs more than 200 programmes throughout the world to as Clean-in-Place systems, and water efficiencies at Diageos address alcohol misuse with a focus on drink driving, underage drinking Cameronbridge distillery in Scotland.
Ongoing projects are expected and overconsumption.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 31 to increase water efficiency further, particularly in the nine production The release of greenhouse gases notably carbon dioxide generated sites designated as being located in water stressed areas.
In Kenya, by burning fossil fuels has an impact on climate change in terms of where three of Diageos water stressed sites are located, improvements global temperatures, weather patterns and weather severity which, in water usage resulted from an initiative to recycle the water used for either directly or indirectly, presents considerable risks both to the humidification in the germination stage of the maltings process, and business and the planet.
These risks include impacts on agriculture on by investment in an effluent treatment and water recovery plant, which the company depends for raw materials: disruption to the apasteuriser and a bottle washer water recovery project.
In addition, companys operations or those of commercial partners: and changes toinvesting in water treatment and recovery systems in water stressed to the nature or distribution of consumer demand.
Diageo assumes areas, Diageo supports targeted water conservation efforts and that the risks from climate change could be mitigated if the releases employee engagement in its efficiency programmes.
of greenhouse gases were sufficiently diminished and, as such, has The amount of water used in the last three years ended 30 June worked for many years to reduce direct emissions from fuels and is as follows: indirect emissions from electricity.
Accordingly, the group has set Year ended 30 June targets aspiring to reduce greenhouse gas emissions against a baseline 2011 2010 2009 set in the year ended 30 June 2007 and a target year of 2015.
3 Total water used metres 23,137,000 23,657,000 25,882,000 The amount of greenhouse gas emissions GHG in the last three years ended 30 June is as follows: Water efficiency litres per litre of product 6.73 6.94 7.88 Year ended 30 June 2011 2010 2009 Data included in this table is covered by KPMGs limited assurance scope see KPMG Scope 1 Direct emissions assurance opinion on page 191 in accordance with International Standard on e tonnes CO 596,300 616,400 662,400 2 Assurance Engagements 3000.
Scope 2 Indirect emissions e tonnes CO 94,300 127,100 112,600 2 In addition to water efficiency, Diageo aims to reduce the polluting e Total tonnes CO 690,600 743,500 775,000 2 power of its effluent measured in Biological Oxygen Demand BOD e GHG ratio gCO per litre per gram of litre of product.
The majority of Diageos effluent impact 2 of product packaged 201 218 236 comes from Diageos Cameronbridge distillery in Scotland where a new bioenergy plant is being built which will generate renewable energy Data included in this table is covered by KPMGs limited assurance scope see that aims to reduce BOD load.
KPMG assurance opinion on page 191 in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000.
Complementing the work to reduce the water impact of its direct e 1 GHG figures are calculated using the kWh CO conversion factor provided 2 operations, Diageos Water of Life community programme invests in by energy suppliers, the relevant factors to the country of operation or the many projects aimed at providing local communities with access to safe International Energy Agency, as applicable.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo launched the Safe Water 2 Diageo also exported electricity to the relevant grid during the years ended 30 June 2010 and 2009 where excess is generated on site, and the fuel used to for Africa programme in partnership with the Coca-Cola Foundation, generate this electricity is included in the amounts in the table, which accounts WaterHealth International and the International Finance Corporation for 0.03% of Diageos Scope 1 emissions.
to expand access to clean water across Africa by installing decentralised water treatment facilities.
Towards a similar goal, the Arthur Guinness Diageo uses the World Resources Institute World Business Council Fund has partnered with Enterprise Works Vita and Relief International for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate in Ghana and Nigeria to build a sustainable market for affordable Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, as a basis for household filters.
In addition, Diageo and the Diageo Foundation have reporting its emissions and includes the facilities over which it has supported water and sanitation projects in countries including Kenya, operational control.
Additional information on the calculations with South Africa, Ethiopia, China and India.
respect to Diageos greenhouse gas footprint is available on the Diageos website at www.
Environmental sustainability In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageos greenhouse gas Diageo uses a wide range of resources in its business.
Some, like fuel, e emissions decreased by 52,900 tonnes CO as compared to the prior 2 are finite: others, like cereals, are vulnerable to the effects of climate year.
This was achieved despite increased production and was driven change.
To reduce the risks to the business and position itself for future in part by Diageos continued investment in energy efficiency projects success, Diageos focus is to reduce the environmental impact of its at sites located in the markets where Diageo operates, including new operations.
This becomes ever more important as Diageo grows in brewing equipment in Ogba Nigeria, the Red Stripe generation plant emerging markets, where the demand on such resources is often optimisation in Jamaica, installation of energy efficient compressors greater.
Diageos overall environmental strategy focuses on direct at Huntingwood, Australia and increased use of low carbon energy environmental impacts and prioritises water efficiency, the reduction sources where available.
of greenhouse gases, the polluting power of water and waste to landfill, During the year ended 30 June 2011 Global Supply achieved and the sustainability of its packaging.
reaccreditation to the Carbon Trust Standard for its work in Scotland.
Diageo has set stretching targets across each of these priorities This award certifies that the business there has measured, managed driving towards a target year of 2015 with all but one of the targets and reduced its carbon footprint rather than off-setting emissions.
measured against a baseline year of 2007, the exception being the Thiswas driven in part by Diageos investment at its Roseisle distillery, newly developed sustainable packaging targets which are measured the reduction in the use of heavy fuel oil and a kiln fan replacement at against a baseline year of 2009.
The Diageo Executive Environmental the Ord malting plant.
Working Group is responsible for setting environmental strategy and Another focus of Diageos environmental programme is reducing policy.
The policy is supported by Global Supplys risk management the amount of waste Diageo sends to landfill.
In addition to minimising framework, which sets implementation criteria and provides a Diageos environmental footprint, this has a cost benefit through mechanism for monitoring compliance.
As stated in Diageos diverting waste distribution expenses and saving on material inputs.
environmental policy, the companys actions in respect of the Innovative solutions implemented in the year ended 30 June 2011 environment are planned in light of prevailing scientific knowledge and included using organic waste in local composting sites in Illinois, in the do not depend on having proof of specific damage, thus supporting United States and transforming co-product materials, such as draff, into the concept of a precautionary approach.
renewable energy sources at Diageos Roseisle distillery in Scotland.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 32 Business description Complementing the companys focus on its own waste is its focus on Responsible sourcing is critical to maintaining Diageos positive designing packaging that consumers can recycle easily.
Diageo defines reputation and meeting customers and consumers demands.
To this sustainable packaging as that which has the lowest possible end, Diageo manages social and ethical risk, ranging from labour and environmental footprint while still fulfilling the functional requirements human rights to commercial integrity, through a four-stage screening to protect, deliver and present its products and brands.
In the year and auditing process.
Diageos expectations of business ethics and ended 30 June 2011, Diageo further embedded its Sustainable sustainability are made clear to suppliers.
Minimum compliance and Packaging Guidelines throughout its markets and focused on Diageos ethics standards as well as aspirational goals are set out in Diageos highest volume brands to maximise the impact of any packaging Partnering with Suppliers Standards.
Among the initiatives is light weighting, or reducing the leading role in AIM-PROGRESS, the collaborative consumer goods weight of packaging: removing materials that cannot be or are difficult sector forum working to improve processes and standards in a more to recycle, including PVC, foil, mixed plastics, ceramics and some effective way through member organisations supply chains.
laminates: and, where viable alternatives exist, removing materials In the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo launched its Sustainable from the packaging, such as inks and heavy metals that may pose a risk Agriculture Sourcing Guidelines and subsequently worked to to the environment.
determine how the guidelines could help support broader sustainable development, focusing first on cream.
As a part of Community this initiative, Diageo helped its main cream supplier in Ireland Diageo recognises that its success in the future will depend in create their sustainability programme, including an advisory part onthe prosperity of the communities in which it operates committee, on which Diageo sits along with members of the and the strength of its relationships with those communities.
private, independent and public sectors, to help drive Diageo is committed to contributing to those communities sustainability performance in the Irish dairy farming industry.
by fostering inclusive business by encouraging local hiring and sourcing of raw materials, engaging local stakeholders, Customers and consumers and contributing through community investment and Sustainability performance is becoming increasingly payment of local taxes.
Diageo believes that supporting important in the consumer product marketplace.
Diageo long term sustainable initiatives in the communities sees this directly in its relationships with many of its where Diageo does business advances the customers, who are looking for suppliers who meet development of those communities, engages their sustainability criteria and can contribute employees, builds Diageos reputation and enhances to reducing the environmental impact of their supply its relationships with governments and other chains, and in its relationships with its consumers, stakeholders.
who are increasingly interested in the companys Community investment, which in the year sustainability practices.
ended 30June 2011 amounted to 1.1% of Diageos Driven in part by consumer demand, as well operating profit before exceptional items, is focused as regulatory and commercial trends, customers are on providing safe water access to local communities, increasingly interested in working with Diageo on supporting skills training to help disadvantaged its sustainability programmes.
As a result, Diageo people find employment, and contributing to is further integrating sustainability objectives into organisations that drive local economic its commercial strategies, such as developing development.
Diageos investment comes from its sustainable packaging solutions that help to businesses around the world inthe form of cash, reduce our customers environmental footprint.
in-kind donations and volunteer time, together Diageo also actively works with its customers in with grants from the Diageo Foundation.
Diageos largest community programme is Additionally, Diageos brands reach consumers Water of Life, explained above.
Other significant through responsible drinking campaigns as well as programmes include Learning for Life, which cause-related sustainability campaigns.
In the year provides education and vocational training in Latin ended 30 June 2011, Johnnie Walker continued its America and the Caribbean to help enable people to fourth year Join the Pact campaign along with the find employment, and brand-sponsored community Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula One Team.
Captain Morgan, Diageos initiatives such as the Arthur Guinness Fund which The Arthur Guinness Fund signed a three-year largest rum brand, delivered supports social entrepreneurs contributing to a good performance in 2011, agreement with Ashoka, an association of social with particularly strong growth economic development.
entrepreneurs, to help deliver a 3 million project in Canada, Great Britain In addition to global initiatives, Diageo supports to identify, fund and support innovative social and Germany.
involvement by its employees to benefit local entrepreneurship around the world.
Buchanans communities, for example taking proactive measures to react rapidly continued its Buchanan Forever campaign initiated in 2007 by creating to natural disasters affecting communities in the markets in which it a documentary film with the objective of raising funds to support, operates.
Inthe year ended 30June 2011, Diageo employees supported train and educate the Pasacaballos community in Colombia.
Diageo victims of natural disasters in Brazil, Australia, New Zealand, Japan and believes that, when these sustainability activities are done well, they the United States.
Through the employee-giving programme Giving engage consumers tobecome partners, and thus build its brands for Good, Diageo employees raised enough money to donate 3,500 and contribute to businessperformance.
water filter kits to schools and health clinics inGhana.
Competition Suppliers Diageo competes on the basis of consumer loyalty, quality and price.
Diageo buys a range of raw materials, products and services from In spirits, Diageos major global competitors are Pernod Ricard, people and organisations all over the world, creating value for the Bacardi, Fortune Brands and Brown-Forman, each of which has several communities and economies in which it operates, and gaining brands that compete directly with Diageo brands.
In addition, Diageo commercial value in return.
How the company works with suppliers faces competition from local and regional companies in the countries is therefore fundamental to the sustainable management of in which it operates.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 33 In beer, the Guinness brand competes globally as well as on a regional treatment of all beverage alcohol categories and to reducing and local basis with the profile varying between regions with several government-imposed barriers to fair trading.
competitors, including AB InBev, Heineken, SABMiller, Coors Brewing Advertising, marketing and sales of alcohol are subject to various Carling and Carlsberg.
restrictions in markets around the world.
These range from a complete In wine, the market is fragmented with many producers prohibition of alcohol in certain countries and cultures, through the anddistributors.
prohibition of the import of spirits, wine and beer, to restrictions on the advertising style, media and messages used.
In a number of countries, Research and development television is a prohibited medium for spirits brands and in other The overall nature of the groups business does not demand substantial countries, television advertising, while permitted, is carefully regulated.
expenditure on research and development.
However, the group has Spirits, beer and wine are also regulated in distribution.
In many ongoing programmes for developing new drinks products.
Innovation countries, alcohol may only be sold through licensed outlets, both on forms an important part of Diageos growth strategy, playing a key role and off trade, varying from government or state operated monopoly in positioning its brands for continued growth.
The strength and depth outlets for example, Canada, Norway and certain US states to the of Diageos brand range provide solid platforms from which common system of licensed on trade outlets for example, to drive innovation, while insights into shopper trends and licensed bars and restaurants which prevails in much of changing consumer habits inform product and packaging the western world for example, most US states and the development.
In about one-third of the states in the In the year ended 30 June 2011, the groups research and United States, price changes must be filed or published development expenditure amounted to 17 million 2010 30 days to three months, depending on the state, before 13million: 2009 17 million.
Research and development they become effective.
expenditure is generally written off in the year in which it Labelling of beverage alcohol products is also regulated isincurred.
in many markets, varying from health warning labels to importer identification, alcohol strength and other Trademarks consumer information.
As well as producer, importer or Diageo produces, sells and distributes branded goods bottler identification, specific warning statements and is therefore substantially dependent on the related to the risks of drinking beverage alcohol maintenance and protection of its trademarks.
products are required to be included on all Allbrand names mentioned in this document are beverage alcohol products sold in the United trademarks.
The group also holds numerous licences States and in other countries where Diageo and trade secrets, as well as having substantial trade operates.
Expressions of political concern signify knowledge related to its products.
The group the uncertain future of beverage alcohol products believes that its significant trademarks are registered advertising on network television in the United and or otherwise protected insofar as legal States.
Any prohibitions on advertising or protections are available in all material respects in its marketing could have an adverse impact on most important markets.
Diageo also owns valuable sales of the group.
patents and trade secrets for technology and takes all Regulatory decisions and changes in the reasonable steps to protect these rights.
legal and regulatory environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or impact on its Regulations and taxes business activities.
Diageos worldwide operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding Business services production, product liability, distribution, importation, Diageo continues to standardise its key business marketing, promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, activities with customers, consumers, suppliers packaging, advertising, labour, pensions, compliance and the processes that summarise and report and control systems and environmental issues.
In that regard, global United States, the beverage alcohol industry is subject processes have been designed, built and to strict federal and state government regulations implemented across a number of markets and In July 2011 Diageo completed covering virtually every aspect of its operations, operational entities.
the acquisition of a 50% equity controlling stake in Zacapa including production, distribution, marketing, Diageo uses shared services operations to from Industrias Licoreras fide promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, packaging deliver transaction processing and certain central Guatemala ILG.
finance activities, using captive and outsourced Spirits, beer and wine are subject to national import and excise centres.
A captive business service centre in Budapest, Hungary, duties in many markets around the world.
Most countries impose performs various process tasks for markets and operational entities.
excise duties on beverage alcohol products, although the form of such Diageo uses third party service centres in Manila, Shanghai and taxation varies significantly from a simple application to units of alcohol Bucharest to perform these tasks for basic processes.
Certain central by volume, toadvanced systems based on imported orwholesale finance activities, including elements of group financial planning value of the product.
Several countries impose additional import duty and reporting and treasury, are performed in the business service on distilled spirits, often discriminating between categories such as centre inBudapest.
scotch whisky or bourbon in the rate of such tariffs.
Within the European Union, such products are subject to different rates of excise Associates duty in each country, but within an overall European Union framework, Diageos principal associate is Mot Hennessy.
It also owns shares in a there are minimum rates of excise duties that can beapplied.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, the share of Import and excise duties can have a significant impact on the final profits of associates after tax was 176 million 2010 142million: 2009 pricing of Diageos products to consumers.
These duties have an 164million, of which Mot Hennessy accounted for 179 million impact on the competitive position as compared to other brands.
The group devotes resources to encouraging the equitable taxation Diageo Annual Report 2011 34 Business description Diageo owns 34% of Mot Hennessy, the spirits and wine subsidiary consideration of VND 798 billion 24million.
The purchase of a further of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH.
LVMH is based in 6.26% equity stake in Halico was completed on 26 May 2011 for a France and is listed on the Paris Stock Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also consideration of VND 268 billion 8million.
Additional costs of based in France and is a producer and exporter of a number of brands 2million in respect of the acquisition have been incurred in the year in its main business areas of champagne and cognac.
Its principal ended 30 June 2011 2010 1 million.
champagne brands are Mot & Chandon including Dom Prignon, On 5 July 2011, Diageo completed the acquisition of a 50% equity Veuve Clicquot and Mercier, all of which are included in the top 10 controlling stake in Rum Creations Products Inc RCP, the owner of the champagne brands worldwide by volume.
Mot Hennessy also owns Zacapa rum brand, from Industrias Licoreras fide Guatemala ILG for Hennessy, which is the top cognac brand worldwide by volume, and aconsideration of $225 million 140 million including $35 million Glenmorangie, a malt whisky.
ILG has a put option to sell the remaining Since 1987, a number of joint distribution arrangements have been 50% equity stake exercisable from 2016 calculated on a profit multiple.
established with LVMH, principally covering distribution of Diageos Inaddition, the transaction provided Diageo with perpetual global premium brands of scotch whisky and gin and Mot Hennessys distribution rights for Zacapa rum, excluding distribution in Guatemala premium champagne and cognac brands in the Asia Pacific region and the domestic markets of El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and France.
Diageo and LVMH have each undertaken not to engage CostaRica, Belize and Panama.
Diageo will consolidate the results in any champagne or cognac activities competing with those of ofRCP.
The arrangements also contain certain provisions for On 14 July 2011, Diageo acquired an additional 4% equity stake in the protection of Diageo as a minority shareholder in Mot Hennessy.
Sichuan Chengdu Quanxing Group Company Ltd. Quanxing from The operations of Mot Hennessy in France are conducted through Chengdu Yingsheng Investment Holding Co. Ltd.
The consideration a partnership in which Diageo has a 34% interest and, as a partner, for the additional 4% equity stake was RMB 140 million 13 million.
Diageo pays any tax due on its share of the results of the partnership The acquisition of the 4% equity stake brings Diageos shareholding in to the tax authorities.
Quanxing is a holding company controlling a 39.7% equity stake in Sichuan ShuiJingFang Co. Ltd. ShuiJingFang, a super Acquisitions and disposals premium Chinese white spirits company listed on the Shanghai Stock Diageo has made a number of acquisitions of brands, distribution rights Exchange.
Diageo has become the indirect largest shareholder of and equity interests in premium drinks businesses.
Inthe three years ShuiJingFang and, in accordance with Chinese takeover regulations ended 30 June 2011 acquisitions include the following: and, subject to securing the approval of the China Securities Regulatory On 17 December 2008 Diageo purchased the remaining 25% Commission CSRC, expects to make a mandatory tender offer to all the equity stake in the company that owns the Smirnov brand in Russia for other shareholders of ShuiJingFang.
The tender offer is expected to be 35 million.
This company unites the Smirnoff Smirnov brands in Russia completed by the end of the calendar year.
Were all other ShuiJingFang under common ownership and is the exclusive distributor of Smirnov shareholders to accept the tender offer, the amount payable would be and Diageos spirits brands in Russia.
Diageo currently operates in Russia RMB 6.3 billion 606 million.
As required by Chinese law, 20% of the through this wholly owned subsidiary.
maximum consideration payable under the tender offer 119 million On 16 June 2009, Diageo acquired the remaining 80% of equity was deposited with Chinas securities depositary and clearing agency, inStirrings LLC for 6 million and provided 7million as deferred Shanghai branch in the year ended 30 June 2010.
Quanxing was consideration payable in 2014. accounted for as an associate up to 14 July 2011 but following the On 29 June 2010, Diageo acquired an additional 28.75% equity acquisition of the additional 4% equity stake it became asubsidiary with stake in the London Group, owner of the Nuvo brand, an ultra-premium a 47% non-controlling interest.
vodka-based sparkling liqueur, for a consideration of $45 million On 6 June 2011 Diageo agreed to purchase SABMiller Africa BVs 29million.
This increased Diageos equity stake in London Group to 20% equity stake in Kenya Breweries Limited KBL through its 50.03% 71.25%.
Diageo has an obligation to purchase the remaining equity subsidiary, EABL, for cash consideration of the US dollar equivalent of stake of 28.75% at a pre-agreed profit multiple, reflecting fair value 19.5billion Kenyan shillings at completion 136million.
is dependent on EABL disposing of its 20% equity stake in Tanzania On 30 September 2010, Diageo acquired a 20% equity stake Breweries Limited by way of public offer.
Currently EABL owns an 80% in LNJGroup, LLC, owner of the 22 Marquis brand, a sparkling liqueur, equity stake in KBL.
KBL has terminated a brewing and distribution for a consideration of $10 million 6 million.
Depending on the agreement with SABMiller International BV and has ceased to distribute performance of the brand in the next three years Diageo has a SABMillers brands in Kenya.
contractual right to increase its ownership to 50% without additional On 23 August 2011, having received the necessary regulatory consideration.
Diageo also has an option to purchase the remaining clearances, Diageo completed the acquisition of Mey ki Sanayi 50% equity stake at a pre-agreed profit multiple, reflecting fair value five Ticaret A. S. Mey ki from TPG Capital and the Actera group.
The Turkish Competition Authority clearance is conditional upon the On 22 October 2010, Diageo completed the acquisition of a 51% subsequent disposal of the Mey ki brands Hare liqueur and Maestro equity stake in Serengeti Breweries Limited SBL, a beer business based gin.
Diageo anticipates that these disposals will be completed in the in Tanzania.
SBL owns the Premium Serengeti Lager brand and a year ending 30 June 2012.
Mey ki is the leading producer and number of other brands and three breweries in Tanzania.
The enterprise distributor of raki in Turkey and also owns other brands including vodka value was 60 million including borrowings acquired of 22 million.
Mey ki will be fully consolidated and transforms The acquisition price included deferred consideration of 6 million.
Diageos existing position in this fast growing spirits market.
In the year Transaction costs of 2 million were incurred during the year ended ended 31 December 2010 Mey ki had net sales of TRL 766 million.
Diageo owns SBL through its 50.03% The enterprise value for the acquisition is $2.1 billion 1.3 billion.
subsidiary East African Breweries Limited EABL and consolidates 100% During the year ended 30 June 2011 a number of non-strategic of SBL with a 75% non-controlling interest.
Diageo has a call option for wine businesses were sold in the United States and France as part of the the remaining 49% equity of SBL exercisable in 2013, calculated on restructuring of the US wine operations.
In addition, in the year ended aprofit multiple of SBL.
30 June 2011 the group disposed of the Gilbeys wine distribution and On 13 May 2011, Diageo acquired an 18.67% equity stake in Halico, wholesale drinks business in Ireland.
the largest domestic branded spirits producer in Vietnam, for a
