Diageo Annual Report 2011 16 Performance summary 1 Passion for our brands Consumers demonstrate passion for our products every day, across the globe.
In this multi-speed world individuals want to actively participate with our brands to create their own experiences through multi-faceted campaigns, we are encouraging loyalty and inspiring brand advocacy.
2 3 1 Vallenato Festival is the most anniversary of the signing of the was made to the pub in the most successful launch ever authentic cultural expression in 9,000 year lease on St. Jamess anticipation of the Presidents visit.
Old Parr is inherent to Gate in Dublin.
It continues to the event and consumers support the philanthropic 4 Bundaberg Distilling Co. 5 In GB we identified an associate the festival directly with legacy of Arthur Guinness re-launched its white rum after opportunity to get behind the the brand.
Taking place in April with the launch of an absence of over 30 years.
In feel good factor of the Royal with up to a million people www.
June, Bundaberg Five a five Wedding and the additional Bank participating over four days, it is times filtered rum was Holiday with Pimms.
We also a perfect connection moment 3 Guinness received the US launched.
Consumers were given introduced a limited edition to reinforce Old Parrs vibrant, presidential seal of approval advanced notice via social and Union Jack pack and a promotion approachable and contemporary when Barack Obama enjoyed general news media.
One to win a party pack to celebrate brand attributes.
a pint of Guinness with the First individual pictured waited in the Royal Wedding.
Lady in the local pub of his line at the distillery for 11 days 2 Arthurs Day is a global ancestral home in Ireland.
3,500 bottles celebration to mark the A special delivery of Guinness were sold on the first day of trade, 4 5 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Passion for our brands 17 7 6 8 6 Our annual Special Releases application.
This platform unexpected locations across the 10 In China we partnered with of single malt scotch whiskies are allowed Crown enthusiasts to world, always reminding guests Han Han, the countrys most eagerly sought-after, exclusive express their dedication for the that great parties start, and influential blogger.
This ignited a editions from iconic distilleries brand by sharing what they finish, responsibly.
conversation on progress in the such as Brora selling out within created with the purple velvet first ever Johnnie Walker blog.
days plus unusual bottlings from bags.
Success resulted from 9 In Thailand we launched More than six million people working distilleries enchanting allowing consumers numerous Hipkingdom, an online social actively engaged with this connoisseurs and reinforcing our ways to participate photograph networking nightlife tool.
campaign, resulting in Johnnie Walker being the most talked reputation for producing the and story submissions, votes, We worked in collaboration with finest quality whiskies.
the most popular local internet about whisky in China.
portal as their nightlife guide 7 Crown Royal passion was 8 VIP guests from across the page.
Hipkingdom has become cultivated online and broadcast globe descended on Cape Town known as the nightlife expert for via Facebook for the first time to Start a Party.
J&B will continue Thailand, with thousands of through the Purple Bag to Start a Party in more active participants.
