Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 79 Exceptional items These are items which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the user to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The determination of which items are separately disclosed as exceptional items requires a significant degree of judgement.
Taxation The group is required to estimate the corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets or liabilities which are included within the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated on the basis of taxation substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
This evaluation requires judgements to be made including the forecast of future taxable income.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
The group operates in many countries in the world and is subject to many tax jurisdictions and rules.
As a consequence the group is subject to tax audits, which by their nature are often complex and can require several years to conclude.
Management judgement is required to determine the total provision for income tax.
Amounts accrued are based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
However the actual tax liabilities could differ from the provision and in such event the group would be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a material impact on the groups profit and loss and or cash position.
New accounting standards During the year a number of IFRS standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB or IFRIC.
Those that are of relevance to the group are discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Governance 81 Board of directors and executive committee 83 Directors remuneration report 99 Corporate governance report Diageos super deluxe scotch organic net sales growth 108 Directors report in China, for year ended 30 June 2011.
