Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Board of directors and executive committee 81 of Arts and chair of the Council, Board of directors and University of Wales Bangor.
Previously he was Minister for company secretary Trade, Investment and Small Business for the UK Government between January 2009 and May 2010.
Prior to this role, Lord Davies was Chairman of Standard Chartered PLC.
Peggy B Bruzelius H Todd Stitzer 1,3, 4 1,3, 4 Non-executive director Non-executive director Swedish 61 American 59 Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in April director of Diageo plc in June 2009.
He is a non-executive Lancelot Asset Management director of Massachusetts Deirdre Mahlan Dr Franz B Humer and vice chairman of Electrolux Mutual Life Insurance Company.
Chief financial officer, Chairman, AB, both in Sweden, and sits on He is also a member of the 3 2 Non-executive director executive director the boards of Akzo Nobel NV in advisory board of Hamlin the Netherlands, Syngenta AG Betsy D Holden Capital Management, LLC, American 49 Swiss Austrian 65 1,3, 4 in Switzerland and Axfood AB a New York based investment Non-executive director Appointed chief financial officer Appointed chairman of Diageo and Husqvarna AB in Sweden.
advisory firm, and a member plc in July 2008, having been a and a director of Diageo plc in American 55 She was formerly managing of the advisory committee of non-executive director since October 2010, prior to which director of ABB Financial Appointed a non-executive Virgin Group Holdings Limited.
He is also chairman she was deputy chief financial Services AB and headed the director of Diageo plc in He was previously chief officer, Diageo plc, and before of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd in asset management arm of September 2009.
She is a senior executive of Cadbury plc.
Switzerland and chairman of that head of tax and treasury.
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken adviser to McKinsey & Company INSEADs board of directors.
She joined the company in 2001, AB.
She was also a nonand holds non-executive He was formerly chief operating having held various senior executive director of Scania AB.
directorships of MediaBank LLC, finance positions in Joseph E director of Glaxo Holdings plc Tribune Company and Western and has held a number of other Seagram & Sons Inc since 1992, Union Company, all in the non-executive directorships.
having formerly been a senior United States.
She is a member manager with Pricewaterhouse.
of the board of trustees at Duke She is also a member of the University and a member of the Main Committee of the 100 Deans advisory board at the Group of Finance Directors.
She was formerly president, Paul A Walker global marketing and category 1,3, 4 Non-executive director development and co-chief British 54 executive officer of Kraft Laurence M Danon Foods, Inc. 1,3, 4 Appointed a non-executive Non-executive director director of Diageo plc in June Paul S Walsh French 55 2002.
He is a non-executive Chief executive officer, Appointed a non-executive director of Experian plc and 2 director of Diageo plc in January chairman of The Perform Group executive director 2006.
She is chairman of the Limited.
During the year he British 56 executive board of Edmond fide stepped down as chief Lord Hollick of Appointed chief executive of Rothschild Corporate Finance executive of The Sage Group plc.
Notting Hill and a non-executive director Paul Walker will retire as a He has served in a number of of Groupe BPCE, Rhodia SA and director of Diageo plc Senior non-executive management roles since joining TF1, all in France.
Formerly she 1,3, 4 immediately after the AGM.
director GrandMets brewing division in served with the French Ministry Philip G Scott British 66 1982, including chief executive of Industry and Energy, held a 1, 3,4 Non-executive director officer of The Pillsbury Company.
number of senior management Appointed a non-executive British 57 He was appointed to the posts with Total Fina Elf and was director of Diageo plc in GrandMet board in October chairman and chief executive Appointed a non-executive December 2001 and senior 1995 and to the Diageo plc officer of France Printemps.
director of Diageo plc and non-executive director and board in December 1997.
She was also a non-executive chairman of the Audit chairman of the remuneration He is lead non-executive and director of Experian Group Committee in October 2007. committee in September 2004. deputy chair of the board of Limited.
He is the president elect of the He is a member of the the Department of Energy Council of the Institute and supervisory boards of and Climate Change, a Faculty of Actuaries and is a ProSiebenSat.
1 Media AG and Paul D Tunnacliffe non-executive director of non-executive director of the BMG Music Rights GmbH, both Company secretary Unilever PLC and a nonRoyal Bank of Scotland Group in Germany, a non-executive executive director of FedEx plc.
He was previously chief British 49 director of Honeywell Corporation in the United financial officer of Aviva plc.
International Inc in the Appointed company secretary States.
He is also a member of United States, a partner of of Diageo plc in January 2008. the Business Advisory Group G P Bullhound and a founding He was formerly company and chairman of the Scotch trustee of the Institute of Public secretary of Hanson PLC.
He was Lord Davies of Abersoch formerly chief executive of 1,3, 4 United Business Media plc, a Non-executive director partner of KKR and has held a British 58 number of other non-executive Appointed a non-executive directorships.
Lord Hollick will retire as a director of Diageo plc director of Diageo plc in immediately after the AGM.
Lord Davies is a partner of Corsair Capital, non executive chairman of Key to committees Pinebridge Investments 1.
Executive comprising director of Bharti Airtel Limited senior management and chair of the advisory board 3.
Remuneration trustee of the Royal Academy C hairman of committee Diageo Annual Report 2011 82 Governance Executive committee Andrew Morgan Gareth Williams Ivan Menezes 2 President, Diageo Europe Human Resources President, Diageo North 2 America, chairman, British 55 director Diageo Asia Pacific, Appointed president, Diageo British 58 Europe in October 2004, having chairman, Diageo Latin Appointed human resources been president, Venture 2 director in January 1999.
America and Caribbean Markets since July 2002.
He David Gosnell Formerly he held a number of Nicholas Nick Blazquez American 52 joined United Distillers in 1987 senior personnel management 2 President, Global Supply President, Diageo Africa and held various senior Appointed president, North positions with GrandMet and 2 and Global Procurement management positions with British 50 America, in January 2004, then United Distillers & Vintners Guinness and then Diageo, British 54 having been chief operating and spent ten years with Ford of Appointed president, having including group chief officer, North America since Britain in a number of personnel been managing director, Appointed president, having information officer and July 2002.
He was appointed and employee relations Diageo Africa since August been managing director, president, New Business chairman, Diageo Asia Pacific positions.
2004, prior to which he was Global Supply and Global Ventures for Guinness United in October 2008 and chairman, managing director, Diageo Asia Procurement, Diageo plc since Distillers & Vintners and director, Diageo Latin America and Key Markets.
He joined Diageo global strategy and innovation Caribbean in July 2011. managerial positions in in1998 as European supply for United Distillers & Vintners.
Formerly he held various senior United Distillers between director, then headed up management positions with 1989 and 1998.
Guinness & European RTD Guinness and then Diageo and supply, prior to which he spent worked across a variety of sales, 20 years in various roles with marketing and strategy roles Heinz.
He was previously a with Nestl in Asia, Booz-Allen & non-executive director of Hamilton Inc in North America Brambles plc.
He is Ian Wright also a non-executive director Corporate Relations of Coach Inc. in the USA.
2 director Timothy Tim Proctor British 53 2 General counsel Andrew Andy Fennell Appointed corporate relations 2 American British 61 director of Diageo plc in July Chief marketing officer 2004, having previously held Appointed general counsel British 44 positions with a number of of Diageo plc in January 2000.
Appointed chief marketing public relations consultancies Formerly he was director, officer of Diageo plc in James Jim Grover and The Boots Company.
worldwide human resources of September 2008.
He held a Global Business Support Glaxo Wellcome and senior vice number of marketing roles 2 president, human resources, director John Randy Millian in the UK and internationally Stuart Fletcher, formerly general counsel and secretary with Guinness and Diageo, prior President, Diageo Latin British 53 president, Diageo International, for Glaxos US operating to which he worked in various 2 America and Caribbean encompassing the Africa, Latin Appointed Global Business company.
He has over sales and marketing roles with Support director in February America and Caribbean and 25 years international legal American 58 Britvic and Bass plc.
2004, having been strategy GTME hubs, ceased to be an experience, including thirteen Appointed president, having director since December 1997.
Executive Committee member years with Merck and six years been managing director, on 30 June 2011, following an Formerly he held a number with Glaxo Wellcome.
Diageo Latin America and of senior strategy positions operating model review which Caribbean since 2005, having in GrandMet and worked as a made Africa and Latin America joined United Distillers & management consultant with and Caribbean autonomous Vintners Brazil in 1995 as its regions.
Booz-Allen & Hamilton Inc and managing director.
Prior to OC&C Strategy Consultants.
joining Diageo, he held senior Ron Anderson, formerly chief management positions with customer officer, also ceased American Express, Scheringto be an Executive Committee Plough, Personal Care Group Gilbert Ghostine member on 30 June 2011.
USA and Pepsi in a number of President, Diageo territories, including Latin 2 Stuart and Ron both decided Asia Pacific Larry Schwartz America, Europe, Asia and that this is the right moment 2 the USA.
President, Diageo USA Lebanese 51 for them to leave Diageo but American 58 stayed with the business into Appointed president, Diageo the first half of the new financial Asia Pacific in July 2009, Appointed president, Diageo year to support the transition to having previously been USA in September 2008, prior to the new operating model.
managing director, Diageo which he was president, Diageo Continental Europe, since North America key market hub, July 2006.
He was formerly and president of Diageos US managing director, Northern spirits business.
He joined the Europe, and president, US company in 2001, as president major markets and held of Joseph E Seagram & Sons Inc, various senior managerial having held a variety of senior positions in Africa, Asia, management positions with Key to committees Europe and the United States, Seagram.
Executive comprising having joined International Distillers & Vintners in 1995. senior management
