Diageo Annual Report 2011 14 Performance summary Growing our brands Marketing and innovation is at the heart of Diageos growth by brand and market.
Investing in compelling, targeted campaigns across our marketing mix achieves deep connections these activities, complemented with a strong and balanced pipeline, allow us to move quickly to target new consumer needs and occasions.
1 2 3 1 Baileys growth in Russia and Signatures delivered share gains to the latest football news, 5 France is the largest Scotch Eastern Europe was the result of in Australia and has created an entertainment, trivia, chat forums market in the world and one a focused celebration campaign entirely new category.
It has also and instant messaging.
Guinness that continues to grow.
Our new around the key periods of brought in new consumers to the VIP users have grown to 750,000 J&B campaign for the French Christmas and February to ready to serve category, since launch.
market plays to the brands March including bows on every particularly attracting women.
unique, rich history and bottle, gifting and a coffee time 4 Global Travels statement on personality.
Indoor placement 3 There are over 80 million luxury and retail transformation, campaign was supported by for Baileys in Russia played a big mobile phone users in Nigeria: Emporium, was opened in Dubai vibrant limited edition packs that and bold role in this delivery.
this combined with Diageos airport.
Emporium is just one soon became collector items.
strong track record in digital example of our innovative 2 The wine box is established marketing has enabled approach to building categories, in many countries.
We took this Guinness Nigeria to launch transforming airport retail space one step further and added spirits Guinness VIP.
The programme and forming partnerships to drive and mixer to the format.
Smirnoff offers a mobile community access growth rates in travel retail.
4 5 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Growing our brands 15 6 7 8 6 The Smirnoff Nightlife something as simple as a 20cl 9 Captain Morgan has become 10 Wealth creation in emerging Exchange Project saw 14 countries bottle affordable, like a round the fastest growing brand markets will continue to outpace discover and celebrate the best is a big idea.
Following the success amongst the top 100 spirits the developed world.
Diageo is elements of their countrys in Ghana, we are now rolling out brands in Mexico through responding with a recent launch nightlife.
Nightlife Exchange in 20cl bottles in Nigeria and frequent and memorable of Johnnie Walker XR 21 in China Brazil was voted the best party of Cameroon.
experiences in bars and discos, and Taiwan.
This innovation was the year in Sao Paulo by Veja, the irreverent advertising and specially created for Asia Pacific local equivalent of Time Out.
8 The Walk with Giants campaign engaging digital programmes to play at the right price point where we are seeing a fast was an unprecedented move for that have created a top 20 7 One of the biggest ways to spirits in Africa.
The campaign facebook community across growing demand for super access new occasions is through retells Haile Gebrselassies all brands in all industries deluxe whisky.
Simple ideas truly pioneering story it taps into a inMexico.
rooted in a deep understanding specific insight about the rise of of what people drink, when and Africa and the hope and dreams why.
Our test in Ghana showed of a continent.
