Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 23 Business description Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business, operating campaigns.
For example, the Keep Walking campaign on Johnnie globally across spirits, beer and wine.
Walker has been running globally for over 10 years, based on the Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England universal appeal of personal progress.
The marketing campaign is true and Wales.
Diageo was incorporated as Arthur Guinness Son & to this insight although the local creative executions look different Company Limited on 21 October 1886.
The group was formed by the around the world.
Likewise, consumer insights inform Diageos merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Company GrandMet innovation launches and pipeline.
The premiumisation of scotch to and Guinness PLC the Guinness Group in December 1997.
Diageo plcs appeal to consumers of luxury brands and the development of ready principal executive office is located at Lakeside Drive, Park Royal, to serve cocktails as at-home consumption increases have been London NW107HQ and its telephone number is 44 0 20 8978 6000. particularly successful.
Diageo is a major participant in the global beverage Diageo is also focused on driving category growth with alcohol industry, producing and distributing a leading its customers through shopper insights.
The sales ambition collection of branded premium spirits, beer and wine.
It brings is to win at the point of purchase.
The Diageo Way of Selling together world class brands and a management team that programme equips four thousand salesmen with best practice seeks to maximise shareholder value over the long term.
It builds capabilities in sales execution, management team expects to continue the strategy of customer service and the efficient use of trade investment investing behind Diageos strategic brands, launching so that Diageo becomes an indispensable business partner innovative new products, and seeking to expand selectively to its customers.
either through partnerships or acquisitions that add long Diageo is committed to building a sustainable term value for shareholders.
business across its value chain through its Sustainability &Responsibility strategy.
The way in which Diageo promotes a positive role for alcohol in society: respects Strategy the natural resources, communities and people it relies Diageo is the leading premium spirits business in the on: and champions a culture of good governance and ethics are all important drivers of growth.
The company world by volume, by net sales and by operating profit and is one of a small number of premium drinks and its employees are proud of the responsible manner companies that operate globally across spirits, beer in which its brands are marketed and the positive role that moderate consumption of its brands plays in the and wine.
Diageo creates long term value for lives of many people.
Diageo seeks to be at the forefront shareholders through its outstanding brands, its geographical breadth and the expertise of its people.
of industry efforts to promote responsible drinking Diageo manages a broad range of brands across and works with other stakeholders to combat alcohol misuse.
It manages eight of the worlds top Diageo recognises that it operates in a world where twenty premium spirits brands, including Smirnoff, the number one brand by volume and Johnnie Walker, the many of the natural resources that the business relies on, number one brand by value.
In beer, Diageo owns the such as fossil fuels and water, are limited.
In2007 Diageo set highly challenging environmental targets covering only global stout brand, Guinness, and a range of lager water efficiency, the reduction of carbon dioxide, brands sold primarily in Africa.
Diageos wine brands are sold predominantly in North America and Great Britain polluting power of water and waste-to-landfill, and in across a full range of price points.
2009 Diageo expanded these to include the sustainability of its packaging.
Measuring and managing Diageo is a global company with its products its environmental impact is not only important for the sold in more than 180 markets around the world.
In the developed markets of North America and planet, it is essential for the financial sustainability of Europe, Diageo has built scale and strong routes to Diageos supply chain and its business.
Diageo is also proud of the positive impact market.
Diageo is also the number one international it has on the communities in which it operates.
spirits company in the emerging markets of Africa, Latin Johnnie Walker is the worlds leading premium America and Asia.
These rapid growth markets now For example, from its start in 2007, the Water of Life spirit by value Impact comprise approximately one third of Diageos programme has brought clean and safe drinking Databank, March 2011 and net sales, up from 22% in 2005.
Through continued water to millions of people in Africa.
In Latin America, was the biggest contributor to Diageos total net sales organic growth driven by infrastructure investments the Learning for Life programme provides vocational growth in 2011. and targeted acquisitions, these markets are expected training and has directly transformed the lives of to contribute 50% of Diageos net sales by 2015. tens of thousands of young adults.
Diageo also In the majority of markets, Diageos brands reach customers recognises that the way in which it conducts its business, treats its and consumers through local teams with strong local expertise and people and works with local stakeholders can have an impact on networks.
In countries where Diageo has not established its own community development.
subsidiary, it looks to expand organically through business partners Diageo believes that industry leading performance will be and third party distributors.
Diageo is also committed to explore delivered through great leadership.
The Diageo Leadership opportunities to expand geographically through acquisitions, within its Performance Programme builds leadership capabilities and creates financial criteria.
The acquisition of companies with strong local routes the conditions for all employees to grow and perform at their best.
to market and brands that appeal to the growing number of middle class consumers are particularly appealing.
The acquisition of Mey ki Market participation in Turkey and the investment in ShuiJingFang in China are two Since 2005 up to the year ended 30 June 2011 Diageo managed its examples of this strategy in action.
business through four regions: North America, Europe, International, Diageo combines the benefits of global scale with local insights and Asia Pacific.
The North American region, comprising the into consumer trends and behaviours to deliver world class marketing UnitedStates and Canada, accounts for the largest proportion
