Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 41 Business review These key performance indicators are described below: Introduction Volume is a non-GAAP measure that has been measured on an Information presented equivalent units basis to nine-litre cases of spirits.
An equivalent unit Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business and operates represents one nine-litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 on an international scale selling all types of beverage alcohol.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of of a small number of premium drinks companies that operate across ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert volume of products, other spirits, beer and wine.
Diageos brands have broad consumer appeal than spirits, to equivalent units, the following guide has been used: beer across geographies, and as a result, the business is organised under the in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine-litre cases divide by five, ready business areas of North America, Europe, International, Asia Pacific and to drink in nine-litre cases divide by 10 and certain pre-mixed products Global Supply.
In view of the focus on reporting results by the location that are classified as ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide by five.
of third party customers in explaining the groups performance in the business review, the results of the Global Supply segment have been Organic movements in volume, sales, net sales, gross margin, marketing allocated to the geographic segments.
The following discussion is spend and operating profit are non-GAAP measures.
The performance based on Diageos results for the year ended 30 June 2011 compared of the group is discussed using these measures.
with the year ended 30 June 2010, and the year ended 30 June 2010 In the discussion of the performance of the business, organic compared with the year ended 30 June 2009. information is presented using pounds sterling amounts on a constant In the discussion of the performance of the business, net sales, currency basis.
This retranslates prior year reported numbers at current which is defined as sales after deducting excise duties, are presented year exchange rates and enables an understanding of the underlying in addition to sales, since sales reflect significant components of excise performance of the market that is most closely influenced by the duties which are set by external regulators and over which Diageo actions of that markets management.
The risk from exchange rate has no control.
Diageo incurs excise duties throughout the world.
movements is managed centrally and is not a factor over which local Insome countries, excise duties are based on sales and are separately managers have any control.
Residual exchange impacts are reported identified on the face of the invoice to the external customer.
it is effectively a production tax, which is incurred when the spirit is Acquisitions, disposals and exceptional items also impact on the removed from bonded warehouses.
In these countries it is part of the reported performance and therefore the reported movement in any cost of goods sold and is not separately identified on the sales invoice.
Management adjusts for the impact of such Changes in the level of excise duties can significantly affect the level of transactions in assessing the performance of the underlying business.
reported sales and cost of sales, without directly reflecting changes in The underlying performance on a constant currency basis and volume, mix or profitability that are the variables which impact on the excluding the impact of exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals element of sales retained by the group.
is referred to as organic performance.
Organic movement calculations The underlying performance on a constant currency basis and enable the reader to focus on the performance of the business which excluding the impact of exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals is common to both years.
is referred to as organic performance, and further information on Diageos strategic planning and budgeting process is based on the calculation of organic measures as used in the discussion of the organic movements in volume, sales, net sales, marketing spend and business is included in the organic movements calculation and in operating profit, and these measures closely reflect the way in which the notes to that calculation.
operating targets are defined and performance is monitored by the In addition, references to reserve brands include Johnnie Walker groups management.
Green Label, Johnnie Walker Gold Label 18 year old, Johnnie Walker These measures are chosen for planning, budgeting, reporting Blue Label, Johnnie Walker Blue Label King George V, The John Walker, and incentive purposes since they represent those measures which Classic Malts, The Singleton of Glen Ord, The Singleton of Glendullan, local managers are most directly able to influence and they enable The Singleton of Dufftown, Buchanans Special Reserve, Buchanans consideration of the underlying business performance without the Red Seal, Dimple 18 year old, Bulleit Bourbon, Tanqueray No.
10, Croc, distortion caused by fluctuating exchange rates, exceptional items Ketel One vodka, Don Julio, Zacapa and Godiva.
The groups management believes these measures provide Presentation of information in relation to the business valuable additional information for users of the financial statements In addition to describing the significant factors impacting on the in understanding the groups performance since they provide income statement compared to the prior year for both of the years information on those elements of performance which local managers ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010, additional information is also are most directly able to influence and they focus on that element of presented on the operating performance and cash flows of the group.
the core brand portfolio which is common to both years.
They should There are nine principal financial key performance indicators not be viewed as complementary to, and not replacements for, the specifically used in the consolidated financial statements themselves comparable GAAP measures and reported movements therein.
non-GAAP measures used by the groups management to assess the performance of the group in addition to income statement measures of performance.
These are volume, the organic movements in volume, sales, net sales, marketing spend and operating profit, return on average total invested capital, economic profit and free cash flow.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 42 Business review Return on average total invested capital is a non-GAAP measure that is Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure that comprises the net cash used by management to assess the return obtained from the groups flow from operating activities as aggregated with the net purchase asset base and is calculated to aid comparison of the performance of and disposal of investments, property, plant and equipment and the business.
computer software that form part of net cash flow from investing The profit used in assessing the return on total invested capital activities.
The groups management believes the measure assists reflects the operating performance of the business after applying the users of the financial statements in understanding the groups cash tax rate for the year stated before exceptional items and interest.
generating performance as it comprises items which arise from the Average total invested capital is calculated using the average derived running of the ongoing business.
from the consolidated balance sheets at the beginning, middle and The remaining components of net cash flow from investing end of the year.
Average capital employed comprises average net activities that do not form part of free cash flow, as defined by the assets for the year, excluding post employment benefit net liabilities groups management, are in respect of the acquisition and disposal net of deferred tax and average net borrowings.
This average capital of subsidiaries, associates and businesses.
The groups management employed is then aggregated with the average restructuring and regards the purchase and disposal of property, plant and equipment integration costs net of tax, and goodwill written off to reserves at and computer software as ultimately non-discretionary since ongoing 1July2004, the date of transition to IFRS, to obtain the average total investment in plant, machinery and technology is required to support invested capital.
the day-to-day operations, whereas acquisitions and sale of businesses are discretionary.
However, free cash flow does not necessarily reflect all Economic profit is a non-GAAP measure that is used by management amounts which the group has either a constructive or legal obligation to assess the groups return from its asset base compared to a standard to incur.
Where appropriate, separate discussion is given for the impacts cost of capital charge and is calculated to aid comparison of the of acquisitions and sale of businesses, equity dividends paid and the performance of the business.
purchase of own shares, each of which arises from decisions that are The profit used in assessing the return from the groups asset base independent from the running of the ongoing underlying business.
and the asset base itself are the same as those used in the calculation for The free cash flow measure is used by management for their the return on average total invested capital see above.
The standard own planning, budgeting, reporting and incentive purposes since it capital charge applied to the average total invested capital is currently provides information on those elements of performance which local 8%, being managements assessment of a constant minimum level of managers are most directly able to influence.
return that the group expects to generate from its asset base.
Economic profit is calculated as the difference between the standard capital charge on the average invested assets and the actual return achieved by the group on those assets.
