Diageo Annual Report 2011 6 Performance summary Regional overview Total net sales breakdown North America 3,324m by region m Excluding corporate net sales of70m.
Europe 2,614m International 2,747m Asia Pacific 1,181m North America Europe Flat 3% 2 % 3 % 3,324m 2,614m Volume Net sales Volume Net sales 2011 net sales in the region 2011 net sales in the region 7% 8% 4 % 7 % Marketing Operating Marketing Operating spend profit spend profit 1 3 North America Europe 1 During 2011, we began the 3 Winning with our strategic next phase of Diageos route to retail customers is a key growth market strategy in the United driver in Europe.
This year Diageo received supplier of the year States.
The new agreements will allow for clear leadership through awards from ASDA in GB and a single management structure, Tesco in Ireland and Poland.
with an increased focus on We have also partnered with Metro and Carrefour to not only multicultural, on premise and innovation, areas designated as grow our businesses, but also Winning with our strategic key priorities for future growth.
help their shoppers with retail customers is a key The new agreements are key information around alcohol and growth driver.
In September 2011 milestones toward driving a Diageos route to market national sales force approach strategy in the United States.
we are opening our new 4 with our brokers and distributors collaboration centre which has in North America.
been built with world leading 2 technology to inspire, partner 2 In November, Diageo United and grow with our customers.
States Virgin Islands held the grand opening of its rum distillery 4 In August 2011, Diageo completed the acquisition in St. Croix.
The distillery is part of a 30-year public-private initiative of Mey ki, the leading spirits between Diageo and the company in Turkey, for an Government of the USVI enterprise value of 1.3 billion.
Aerial view of the rum Mey ki is the leading spirits that allows Diageo to construct distillery in St Croix, USVI.
and operate a state of the art, producer and distributor in environmentally sound, Turkey it is the clear market high-capacity rum distillery leader in raki and has a leading position in vodka.
In addition in St. Croix that will produce Diageo completed the all bulk rum for Captain Morgan the company has an extensive acquisition of Mey ki, the leading spirits producer products in the United States nationwide sales and distribution and distributor in Turkey.
beginning in 2012. network in Turkey.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Regional overview 7 Africa 1,341m International net sales breakdown by region m From 1 July 2011 Diageo will Latin America and Caribbean 1,025m change the configuration of International to have two autonomous regions: Diageo Latin America and the Caribbean and Diageo Africa.
The Global Travel business will be divided and each specific duty free operation will be allocated to the market of the geographic region where it is located.
The Middle East business will become part of AsiaPacific.
GTME 381m International Asia Pacific 9% 13% 9% 9% 2,747m 1,181m Volume Net sales Volume Net sales 2011 net sales in the region 2011 net sales in the region 23% 19% 13% 13% Marketing Operating Marketing Operating spend profit spend profit 5 7 International Asia Pacific 5 In October, East African 7 Regulatory approval has been Breweries Limited EABL granted for Diageo to own a completed the acquisition of 51% majority shareholding in the Joint Venture Chinese White Spirits of the issued share capital of Serengeti Breweries Limited SBL Company Quanxing.
Diageo is from its existing shareholders for now seeking approval from the a consideration of 60 million China Securities Regulatory Commission to launch the including borrowings acquired of Serengeti Breweries joins ShuiJingFang is a leading 22 million.
SBL is a major brewer required mandatory tender offer the Diageo family.
and distributor of beverages in for the outstanding shares of Tanzania and produces a ShuiJingFang, in which Quanxing 6 8 holds a 39.7% equity stake.
portfolio of beer and nonalcoholic products, including its Chinese white spirits represent flagship Premium Serengeti over 50% of the Chinese total Lager.
SBL forms an integral part beverage alcohol market whilst international spirits only of EABLs East African supply footprint providing additional represent about 2% of the market.
capacity to Kenya and Uganda.
Halico is the largest 8 Diageo acquired an equity producer of branded interest in Halico in Vietnam.
6 In Latin America and the In Latin America and the spirits in Vietnam.
Caribbean, focus on sales Caribbean we focused The Halico acquisition signifies a on sales capability growth capability growth and reach breakthrough in our participation and reach.
resulted in 34 category in the huge local spirits category in Vietnam.
Halico is the largest captaincies across the region with key strategic retailers, and producer of branded spirits in over 10,000 Ease of Shop Vietnam, led by flagship brand programmes executed at the Vodka Hanoi.
point of purchase, giving the region a strong platform for both existing brands and its strong innovation pipeline.
All are organic movements unless stated otherwise.
