Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 12 | Business review continued We use valuable customer insight and ongoing training and support to our staff to ensure we consistently maintain and further Our business continues to grow thanks improve on the services and products we provide.
to the dedication of all our people.
Left: Shah Islam, Client Service Whether arranging a funeral, providing Adviser at Dignitys Client Service Centre in Sutton Coldfield.
a peaceful place to remember or helping people plan ahead, at its core is the service excellence we deliver.
1.7 million 2010: 1.3 million has also been spent on In recent years, the Group receives monies from the new cremators and other improvements to the crematoria Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have locations.
This investment helps our locations provide the been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the best possible service in comfortable surroundings to the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities in funeral directors and families that use them.
respect of current members Recoveries.
Recoveries were 1.5 million in both 2010 and 2011.
During the period, the Group completed the construction of two crematoria in Somerset and Worcestershire.
Somerset As with all the Groups operating profits, pre-arranged became operational at the end of the first quarter of 2011, funeral plan profits convert efficiently into a similar amount whilst Worcestershire became operational shortly before the of cash.
The Group has continued to work hard at developing its Work continues to complete the construction of a new portfolio of affinity partners and has formed a number of crematorium in Essex.
The Group is also the preferred new partnerships in the period with organisations in the bidder to operate Haringey Councils crematorium.
retail and financial services arena.
The changes to the portfolio in the year represented an The number of plan sales and also operating profits have investment of 9.0 million.
A further capital investment of increased strongly for a number of years.
approximately 5.9 million is expected in 2012 to complete the current developments.
Central overheads The Group continues to identify further locations suitable Overview for a new crematorium and is also continuing to seek Head office costs relate to central services that are not partnerships with local authorities.
specifically attributed to a particular operating division.
These include the provision of IT, finance, personnel and Pre-arranged funeral plans Directors emoluments.
In addition and consistent with previous periods, the Group records the costs of incentive Overview bonus arrangements, such as Long Term Incentive Plans The Group continues to have a strong market presence in LTIPs and annual performance bonuses, which are provided this area.
These plans represent future incremental business to over 100 managers working across the business.
for the funeral division, as the Group expects to perform the majority of these funerals.
Developments Costs in the period were 13.1 million 2010: 12.5 Developments million, an increase of 5 per cent.
This year on year The division has performed strongly in the period.
Focused increase principally reflects the additional cost of bonuses marketing activity with its partners has resulted in the paid to the operational managers of the business, together number of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans increasing with some additional pension costs.
The Group has also to 265,000 2010: 238,000 with operating profits in the invested in greater numbers of IT and personnel staff to division increasing to 4.0 million excluding Recoveries support the ever growing business.
Maximising our opportunities for growth We continue to strengthen and 265,000 develop our marketing and distribution relationships and have There were 265,000 unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans at the end formed a number of new partnerships in the period with organisations in of the period.
This reflects strong sales through the Groups funeral the retail and financial services arena to maximise opportunities locations and affinity partners.
Top 5 Left: Steve Wallis, General Manager Dignitys Client Service Centre for Pre-arrangement and Debbie Hall, achieved a top five place for three Senior Campaign Manager at Dignitys consecutive years in the biggest ever Head Office in Sutton Coldfield.
survey into UK call centres.
