Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 32 | Report on Directors remuneration for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 This report sets out the remuneration policy operated by the Group in respect of the Executive Directors, together with disclosures on all Directors remuneration.
The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has reviewed the Groups compliance with the 2010 Combined Code the Code on remuneration related matters and has followed the Code in the preparation of the report of the Remuneration Committee.
It is the opinion of the Board that the Group complied with all remuneration related aspects of the Code during the period.
Unaudited information The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management and for determining specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
Alan McWalter chairs the Remuneration Committee, having assumed the Chairmanship from Bill Forrester, who remains on the Committee, on 27 September 2011.
Its other members are the independent NonExecutive Directors: James Newman and Ishbel Macpherson.
At the end of March 2012, Bill Forrester and James Newman will retire from the Board and hence the Remuneration Committee.
They will be replaced on the Committee by the two new NonExecutive Directors, Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton.
The Code requires that a Group of the size of Dignity plc has a Remuneration Committee comprising a minimum of three nonexecutives.
The Remuneration Committee members have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships and no daytoday involvement in running the business.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend the Remuneration Committee by invitation or when required and the Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director, attends meetings when required as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
No Executive Director takes part in discussions relating to their own remuneration and benefits.
The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
A copy of the terms of reference is available for inspection on the Groups investor website www.
The Committee met five times during 2011.
At those meetings basic salaries of Executive Directors and senior managers were reviewed, the targets and quantum of annual performance related bonuses for Directors were also agreed, as were options granted under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The meetings also approved the payment of the 2010 performance related bonus and dealt with the vesting of the shares awarded under the LTIP scheme in 2008.
A further meeting was also held on 1 March 2012 to approve the payment of the performance related bonus for 2011, and the 2012 LTIP awards.
In 2008, the Committee retained the external benefit consultants, Hewitt New Bridge Street, to complete a review of the Executive Directors remuneration.
In discussions with the Committee, and in consultation with Hewitt New Bridge Street, it was decided that a Comparator Group would be defined consisting of all companies in the Consumer Goods and Consumer Services Sector of the FTSE 250 filtered to exclude companies deriving more than 50 per cent of their turnover from overseas or having a market capitalisation in excess of 1.4 billion at that time.
This gave a group of 32 companies with an average market capitalisation of 628 million at November 2008 as the Comparator Group.
At that date Dignity had a market capitalisation of 473 million and an enterprise value including net debt of 710 million.
The bottom half of the FTSE 250 was also used as a reference point for the benchmarking process.
The Committee continue to believe that the use of this Comparator Group is the most appropriate way of reviewing and setting Executive Directors salaries.
Remuneration policy The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide remuneration packages to each Executive Director that will: Align rewards with the interests of shareholders: Motivate and encourage superior performance: Allow the Group to retain the talent needed to execute its business strategy: Enable the Group to be competitive when recruiting appropriately skilled and experienced management: and Ensure that the overall package for each director is linked to strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this policy will retain and develop further the Groups entrepreneurial culture, whilst also focusing executive remuneration on performance which the Committee believes will best serve shareholders interests.
It is therefore the aim of the Remuneration Committee to encourage and reward superior performance by Executive Directors with that performance being based on strong financial performance and returns to shareholders.
This is achieved by weighting the overall remuneration package towards achievement of that performance.
Only 31 per cent of each Executive Directors total potential remuneration package ignoring benefits and pension contributions is accounted for by basic salary, assuming a full annual bonus is achieved and a maximum conditional award under the LTIP is made and then that LTIP vests in full.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 33 | The Remuneration Committee will continue to review all aspects of the policy on an annual basis to ensure that rewards continue to be in line with the Groups objectives and shareholders interests.
Basic salary When determining the basic salary of the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration: The levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable status, responsibility and skills, in organisations of broadly similar size and complexity: The performance of the individual Executive Director: The individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and Pay and conditions throughout the Group.
No changes were made to their basic salaries during the period.
The salary review for 2012 was set at 2 per cent by the Remuneration Committee.
Salaries effective from 1 January 2012 are: 2011 2012 Name 000 000 Mike McCollum 449 458 Andrew Davies 255 260 Richard Portman 204 208 Steve Whittern 204 208 Total 1,112 1,134 Annual performance related bonus The targets for the year, which are based on the achievement of set earnings per share targets, are reviewed and set annually by the Committee to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and remain challenging.
They are ratified by the full Board.
The targets are designed to enhance shareholder value.
The maximum bonus attainable for 2011 by Executive Directors was 100 per cent of basic salary.
A bonus of 70 per cent is attainable for meeting the first earnings per share target set by the Committee and a further bonus of 30 per cent may be earned by achieving a second and more demanding earnings per share target.
The increase in underlying earnings per share during the period was 18.8 per cent and the bonus percentage earned by the Executive Directors in the period was 100 per cent.
No other bonuses of any description were paid in the period to Executive Directors.
No changes have been proposed to the Annual Performance Related Bonus for 2012 at the date of the signing of the Annual Report.
This will continue to be based on demanding earnings per share targets with a maximum bonus equal to 100 per cent of base salary.
Share incentives Shareholders approved the current discretionary share incentive plan, the LTIP, on 5 June 2009.
If existing LTIPs were to be amended or if there was a new LTIP Scheme, approval would be sought from the shareholders.
The Committee reviewed the performance conditions for LTIPs during 2011 and concluded that the use of Total Shareholder Return TSR continued to the most appropriate performance condition to apply.
All Executive Directors and other employees are entitled to be considered for the grant of conditional share awards under the LTIP.
Under the rules, the maximum annual award that can be made to an individual is 125 per cent of salary.
All four Executive Directors serving at the start of the year, were granted conditional share awards during 2011 equivalent to the maximum award.
The Committee deemed this award appropriate, as in previous years, mindful of the need to encourage superior performance from the Executive Directors and ensure that a significant proportion of their total remuneration is linked to the performance of the Group.
This award is in addition to those made in 2004 through to 2011.
Total awards made to the Executive Directors under the scheme are shown on pages 36 and 37.
Eligible Executives are awarded rights, in the form of nil cost conditional share awards, to acquire a maximum number of shares at the beginning of a three year period, the proportion of which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period depending on the extent to which the performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation is made, are satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee selected comparative TSR as the performance condition for LTIP awards as it ensures that the Group outperforms the FTSE 350 Index over the measurement period in delivering shareholder value, before participants are entitled to receive any of their awards.
The constituent companies of the FTSE 350 Index, at the time the awards are made, are selected as a benchmark as there are no directly comparable quoted companies in the United Kingdom and as Dignity is a constituent of the FTSE 350 this is a valid benchmark.
The Remuneration Committee will calculate the TSR in accordance with the rules of the scheme and ratify the calculation prior to the release of any award.
Performance conditions under the LTIP are not subject to retesting.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 34 | Report on Directors remuneration continued for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 The percentage of the conditional share awards made up to and including the awards in 2009 are exercisable on vesting as follows: Ranked in the top quintile: 100 per cent of the total award: Ranked at median: 40 per cent of the total award: Ranked below median: zero: and Ranked between median and top quintile: straightline apportionment.
The percentage of the conditional share awards exercisable on vesting from the 2010 awards and onwards is calculated as follows: Ranked in the top quartile: 100 per cent of the total award: Ranked at median: 25 per cent of the total award: Ranked below median: zero: and Ranked between median and top quartile: straightline apportionment.
In addition and irrespective of the TSR performance target, no award will vest unless, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the underlying financial performance of the Group has been satisfactory over the measurement period.
The Committee will also introduce claw back provisions during 2012.
The graph shows the Groups TSR compared to the FTSE 350.
This gives a broad indication of the likelihood of any conditional award vesting.
3 Year Total Shareholder Return 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Dignity plc FTSE 350 Index On 18 March 2011 the conditional share awards made in 2008 under the LTIP became capable of vesting.
The TSR of the Group over the measurement period was compared to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 350 at the time the awards were made.
The performance of the Group was found to be below the median.
As a consequence no shares were capable of vesting and the options lapsed.
The total conditional awards held by each Director are shown on pages 36 and 37 in the section of the Remuneration Committees Report that is subject to audit.
In accordance with the ABI guidelines, the Group can issue a maximum of 10 per cent of its issued share capital in a rolling ten year period to employees under all share plans.
In addition, of this 10 per cent, the Company can only issue five per cent to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
At the period end, conditional awards under the LTIP Scheme to Executive Directors and senior managers amount to 1.48 per cent of the current issued share capital.
If the awards in 2004, to 2008, that have vested, are included, that percentage is 3.32 per cent.
The total, including SAYE options granted in both the 2004, 2007 and 2010 Schemes, is 5.42 per cent.
Pensions Mike McCollum and Richard Portman are members of the Groups pension scheme into which the Group contributed 10.5 per cent of salary details are set out within the audited section of this report on page 36.
The Group makes no pension contributions for Andrew Davies or Steve Whittern.
No NonExecutive Directors receive any pension contributions.
