Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 10 | Business review continued Dignity continues to invest in the grounds of its crematoria and cemeteries to create a place of beauty and tranquillity where We are committed to providing the local visitors can take their time to reflect and remember the lives communities we serve with the highest of their loved ones.
standard of service and facilities to meet Left: The Gardens of Remembrance at Glynn Valley the needs of generations to come.
This performance has been achieved through successful Satellite locations are anticipated to be loss making in their execution of our strategy.
Average revenues have increased, first full year of operation and be profitable in their third year of operation.
The total portfolio opened under this costs have remained well controlled and acquisition activity has generated incremental profits.
initiative broadly broke even in 2011.
Investment in our properties and our fleet remains central Two locations were closed in the period.
This reflects the disposal of two valuable freehold locations for cash that to the delivery of our strategy.
This year, the funeral services division has received investment of approximately 9.5 can be reinvested in the business.
Approximately 53 per cent of this has funded the routine replacement of our hearses and limousines.
The Since the year end, the Group has acquired four established funeral locations and opened a further three new satellite remainder has been used to improve our premises, including investment behind the scenes on mortuary equipment and locations.
associated requirements, which we believe is essential to provide the best possible service to our families.
Crematoria Funeral location portfolio Overview The Groups funeral location portfolio has increased by The Group is the largest single operator of crematoria in 33 in the year, reflecting acquisitions, disposals and the Britain, operating 35 2010: 33 crematoria.
The Group continuation of the new satellite funeral locations performed 47,600 cremations 2010: 45,200 in the period, programme, which started in 2010. representing 8.8 per cent 2010: 8.1 per cent of deaths in Britain.
Net acquisition investment of 12.0 million increased the portfolio by 10 funeral locations in the United Kingdom Developments including two in Northern Ireland.
Each of these Operating profits were 21.3 million 2010: 19.9 million, acquisitions met the Groups criteria of being larger than an increase of 7 per cent.
This reflects a strong performance average, long-established businesses that fit well within from the established crematoria and an improving the Groups existing network.
contribution from recently opened locations.
25 new satellite funeral locations 2010: 18 were opened The Group has spent 1.0 million 2010: 2.1 million in the year.
The principle of these locations is that they must during the year as part of its obligations to comply with be situated close enough to existing business centres to use the mercury abatement legislation, which is effective from their specialist vehicles and mortuary equipment, but far the end of 2012.
As a result of the investment so far, nine enough away that they service new families.
In this way, crematoria now have the required equipment installed and these funeral locations will provide the same outstanding operational.
Legislation requires any crematorium constructed level of client service that people experience from other after October 2006 to have mercury abatement equipment.
Dignity funeral locations without the need for significant Consequently an additional four crematoria within the capital investment.
Groups portfolio already comply with the legislation.
The Group expects to be fully compliant before the 31 December 2012 deadline, by installing equipment at six further locations.
Building on our experience and expertise We leverage our experience and 1.7 million expertise to identify further acquisition opportunities and locations suitable We invested 1.7 million in the upgrading of our existing for new build crematoria.
We also continue to seek new partnerships crematoria in the period.
with local authorities and to invest in new developments at existing 9.0 million crematoria.
9.0 million invested in the period in changes to our Left: Wyre Forest Crematorium and crematoria portfolio.
