Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 21 | Providing helpful advice and guidance Left: During the past year we have refreshed a range of ten client information leaflets which are intended to offer useful help and guidance for bereaved families.
These simple leaflets range from A guide to funeral etiquette to Helping friends through bereavement.
They are available at our funeral locations and to download from our website: www.
Our people Dignitys Training Department provides a variety of role Our aim: We are committed to high standards of specific courses that help to reinforce the understanding employment practice and aim to encourage, retain and each employee has of their role and ensures Dignitys develop successful employees.
policies and procedures are followed.
Our employees are critical to the continued success of Dignity During the past twelve months the Training Department has and staff turnover is low.
The average length of service for concentrated on providing skills and refresher courses for staff is 7.7 years and approximately a third of our staff have our Funeral Service Arrangers and delivering the Bringing over 10 years service.
The average age of our employees the deceased into our care and Spending time with the is 47 years.
To meet the needs of Dignitys expanding crematoria operation the Training Department have provided As in previous years there continues to be an almost equal induction courses for Crematorium Managers to help them split of male and female staff with 51 per cent male understand their role and the high standard of service we employees and 49 per cent female.
Staff in the Client Service Centre received the highly acclaimed Mary Gober Customer Service training The Davies Report during 2011.
We fully support the principal recommendations of the Davies Report encouraging the increase in the number of The courses provided by our Training Department are women on the Board of Directors.
During 2012 the Dignity continually assessed via feedback from delegates and line Board of Directors is set to meet the target it has set itself managers to guarantee that they are relevant and add value of having 20 per cent female representation on the Board.
to the contribution made by each employee.
Of the 28 senior managers within Dignity, 25 per cent are female.
Dignitys Training Department also provides a number of management development courses covering more complex Training and development issues such as Business Planning, Financial Analysis, Dignitys investment in training enables our staff to provide Recruitment Skills and Presentation Skills.
our clients with the highest standards of service and care.
Our on the job training concentrates on a buddy system Dignity has a number of training centres around the UK and where an experienced member of the team provides new provides employees with both in-house and external training operational staff with guidance on the responsibilities programmes.
External training includes both relevant job of their role, our professional practices and company training and tutoring for professional qualifications including procedures in addition to demonstrating our commitment the National Association of Funeral Directors NAFD Diploma to being a client focused organisation.
in Funeral Directing and Membership of the British Institute of Embalming BIE.
Striving for excellence in all that we do Dignitys aim is to be the ultimate 99.3% funeral professional.
Whether we are arranging a funeral service, helping 99.3 per cent of clients that respond to our client survey said mourners attending a service or looking after a client choosing a that we met or exceeded their expectations.
memorial or pre-arrangement plan, our continued focus on training and development enables us to maintain and strive for the very highest levels of client service excellence.
Left: Carl Mean, Funeral Manager, North East: Brian Phillips, Area Manager, Worcestershire: Annette McDonald, Business Manager, Aberdeen and Philip Smyth, Business Manager, North West London at Dignitys Training Centre in Bilston, West Midlands.
