Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 20 | Corporate and social Dignity has been identified by the FTSE Group in its FTSE4Good responsibility continued initiative as a company that meets globally recognised standards of corporate responsibility.
We submit our carbon footprint data to the Carbon Disclosure Project that measures disclosures from thousands of organisations across the worlds major economies.
Dignitys manufacturing facility has gained ISO14001 accreditation, an internationally accepted standard for 14001 developing an effective Environmental Management System.
Our CSR areas of focus Code of conduct We have focused our corporate and social responsibilities Our Code of Conduct ensures that all staff are aware of on four key areas: the principles that govern how we operate in the business environment and explains the standards of behaviour that Our people all our employees are expected to adhere to.
Health and safety Our environment The Code of Conduct states that all clients should be Our communities supported during the funeral arrangements, at the service or when choosing a memorial or funeral plan in a paternalistic Measuring our performance manner.
We should be compassionate and caring: pay Our people: attention to detail: spend as much time as the client needs: Dignity monitors employment applications and appointments be open and straightforward and keep in regular contact to ensure that we comply with all employment legislation.
A record is kept of training courses attended by each employee and this is analysed to help develop future Our Code of Conduct is also reinforced in a staff handbook, training requirements.
Helping our clients every step of the way, which is given to all new employees working in our funeral locations.
Health and safety: The aim of the handbook is to embed all new employees Proactively, health and safety is monitored via quarterly into the Dignity culture and to remind existing members return analysis, premises inspections, health surveillance, of staff of the standards of behaviour and attitudes that line manager observations of how tasks are performed and are expected of them.
A similar handbook, Serving our regular reports to the Board of Directors.
Investigating local communities is provided to our staff working at accidents, collation and analysis of statistics and ill-health our crematoria.
investigation reactively monitors health and safety.
The Code of Conduct is also published on the Dignity plc Our environment: investor website www.
Dignity submits its carbon data to the Carbon Disclosure Project, a not-for-profit organisation that measures disclosures We adhere to the Bribery and Corruption Act of 2010 and from thousands of organisations across the worlds major have introduced policies and procedures to minimise the economies.
The results are disclosed on page 24. risk of bribery.
Our communities: All funds raised for our corporate charity are recorded in detail and can be easily cross-referenced as deposits go into a specific Dignity Charity Account.
Therefore the amount of money being raised for charity can be compared with previous performance and this process facilitates funds being allocated to the geographical region that generated them.
Building trust and acting with integrity Our business is built upon our 98.1% reputation and relationships with our clients, our local communities, 98.1 per cent of respondents to our client survey say they would our people, our partners and shareholders.
We demonstrate our recommend us.
values and principles through our day-to-day behaviour and conduct 99.9% ourselves in a way that is 99.9 per cent of clients that responsible and ethical.
respond to our survey thought our staff were respectful.
Left: Wayne Goddard, Funeral Manager at Ginns & Gutteridge in Leicester.
