Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 07 | 1903 1914 1928 1930 1950 1994 2008 Today Birmingham John Bardgett & Son, Jonathan Harvey, South London Seaford&Newhaven Dignity Caring Northern Ireland Dignity is a British Crematorium Newcastle upon Tyne Glasgow Crematorium Funeral Service, Funeral Services Dignity acquires six company that is Birmingham John Bardgett, who In 1928, Jonathan Following World War East Sussex All of these locations in Northern listed on the London Crematorium opened had been a branch Harvey, a local motor One more people C Morling Ltd, businesses came Ireland.
Three of these Stock Exchange.
At this time manager of another engineer who became interested primarily a building together in 1994 are in Belfast with Dignity maintains it was only one of local funeral director, managed a vehicle in cremation and the company whose when Dignity was one each in Bangor, the rich heritage nine crematoria in established his own hire company and fifth crematorium in carpenters had made created through Newtonabbey and of these companies the UK.
By cab service, opened London was built in coffins for over 100 the merger of Carrickfergus.
and strives to set 1916 his three sons, a funeral business Streatham in 1930. years, opened an Plantsbrook Group the highest standards John Ernest, Arthur on Argyle Street in There were originally office in Seaford as and Great Southern in the industry.
A second three chapels but its funeral business.
Group and was reIn 2011, we opened joined him and Jonathan Harvey only St Georges branded as Dignity a state-of-the-art formed a limited funeral location was remains in use today.
in 2001. crematorium and company in 1935. established in 1950 The mausoleum was cemetery in Wyre They were the first and over the next 40 the first to be built Forest, Worcestershire.
funeral services in years another four in Britain in over Newcastle to have branches were 150 years.
Helping our clients Our promise every step of the way Serving the people in our local communities at one of the most What we are here difficult times in their lives remains at the heart of everything we to do: do and we are committed to providing the highest standards of service and care and to helping our clients every step of the way To help people when they need us.
in one of the most difficult times in their life.
How we do this: With compassion, respect, openness and care.
What we want to be: The company everyone knows they can trust in their time of need.
