Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 26 | Corporate and social Left: Dignity staff took part in The Southend Bikeathon, an responsibility continued annual event that raises money for Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research.
Right: Dignity has continued to support grass-roots sports clubs around the UK.
Supporting charities Malverns by Moonlight is a fundraiser for Macmillan Cancer In 2011, Dignity employees and clients continued to raise Support that was initiated and developed by Dignity staff funds for the staff elected charity Together for Short Lives in the South West region.
This year the team decided to use formerly Childrens Hospices UK.
This worthy cause is the their professional skills to help support the event so the national charity that gives voice and support to 41 childrens business manager drove the Dignity minibus and worked in hospices and provides care for approximately 20,000 conjunction with West Midlands Search and Rescue team, children each year.
All Dignity funeral locations and providing safety for the hilltop walk.
The administrators crematoria have been linked with a local childrens hospice managed the registration of all participants and a funeral and over the last two years they have raised a total of director organised a team of 20 crowd control marshals.
The event saw 500 women take to the Malvern Hills and raised 25,000 for Macmillan.
There were many fund raising initiatives held nationwide during the year including tea parties, car washes, sponsored Our five charity fairground organs continued to be a vital aid walks, cycling events, marathons and golf tournaments.
in fund raising activities and almost 93,000 was raised for Some brave members of staff even took part in The Big a variety of national and local charities in 2011.
a sponsored charity skydive that raises funds for childrens hospices.
Dignity employees also supported Cancer Research UK, Marie Curie Cancer Care, Help for Heroes, Cure Leukaemia There were also two rather unusual fund raisers for Together and a number of breast cancer charities during the past for Short Lives that Dignity staff were involved with.
our business managers in South London took part in a trapeze act as part of an Aerial Skills Circus show and another funeral director organised a concert where he and colleagues not only demonstrated their musical ability but also their professional, organisational and administrative skills to maximise fund raising.
The Dignity Bi-Annual Dinner & Dance organised by staff from the Scotland area raised a staggering 4,000 for their local childrens hospice.
Dignity employees in Glasgow also raised 1,895 with a Bucket Shake across the citys shopping centre.
Supporting charities and good causes Making a difference to the 100,000 communities we serve is at the heart of everything we do.
Our staff Dignity raised 100,000 for its corporate charity, Together for Short continue to work tirelessly each year to help raise valuable funds for local Lives, over the past two years.
93 000 Left: In 2012 Dignity will support Dignitys five fairground organs Marie Curie Cancer Care as its helped to raise 93,000 in the past corporate charity.
12 months for a variety of charities and good causes.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27 | Supportive Over the past two years we are delighted to have supported Together for Short Lives, our staff elected corporate charity, which delivers vital care and support for children and families when its needed most.
Helping to make a real difference Together for Short Lives care for more than 20,000 children each year and the charity supports and gives a national voice to 41 hospices across the UK.
Dignitys corporate charity continued to be supported by many of our staff who took part in various fund raising events in 2011 and have raised 100,000 over the past two years.
Above: Zoe Wakefield, Treasury Assistant: Lindsey Paris, Administration Assistant: Jo Gater, Client Service Centre Support Coordinator and Joe Povey, Post room Assistant who all work at Dignitys Head Office raised funds for Together For Short Lives formerly Childrens Hospices UK by taking part in The Big Jump a charity skydiving event.
