Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 30 | Directors report continued up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,916,496 of which Directors and their interests up to 287,474 may be for cash.
These authorities will Details of the Directors of the Company who were in expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting office during the period and up to the date of signing the on 14 June 2012.
It is the intention of the Directors to financial statements are shown in the Report on Directors seek renewal of these authorities at that Annual General Remuneration on page 35.
In accordance with the Articles Meeting.
There are no restrictions at the period end on the of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code transfer of securities.
2010 Code, at the Annual General Meeting, all Directors will retire as Directors of the Company and, being eligible, Results offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Meeting on 14 June 2012.
Group profit before tax amounted to 40.3 million 2010: 39.8 million.
During the period, the Company maintained liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Directors of Dividends each of the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of an An interim dividend of 4.87 pence per share was paid on indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board has proposed a final dividend The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying third party of 9.77 pence per share, which, subject to approval at the indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 29 June 2012 to Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period shareholders on the register at close of business on and is currently in force.
The Takeover Directive Payments policy The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary The Group or Company has no formal code or standard that Shares.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
The the Group or Company policy on the payment of all creditors rules governing the appointment and replacement of Board is to ensure that the terms of payment as specified by, and members and changes to the Articles of Association accord agreed with, the supplier are not exceeded, provided all with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
The authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal average creditor payment period for the Group was 40 days of that power at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 2010: 32 days.
The Company has no trade creditors.
within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is party Key contractual arrangements which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change The Directors consider there to be one key contractual of control of the Group.
arrangement in relation to the supply and maintenance of cremators.
This company is responsible for supplying and Health and safety policy installing the cremator abatement equipment.
If this The Groups operations are designed at all times in such a company ceased to trade, the Group may have difficulties in way as to ensure, so far as reasonably practical, the health, installing the necessary equipment by the end of 2012. safety and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who may be attending our premises.
This is discussed Employment policies in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages During the period the Group has maintained its obligations 18 to 27. to develop and improve arrangements aimed at involving employees in its affairs.
Methods of communication used Corporate Social Responsibility include an in-house newsletter, an employee website, Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all bulletins and management briefings.
This is discussed live is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed in more detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages Report on pages 18 to 27.
18 to 27 alongside other social and ethical considerations.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal Donations opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic The Group made charitable donations amounting to or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
0.1 million 2010: 0.1 million during the period.
Full consideration is given to the employment, training and There were no political donations.
Further information career development of disabled persons, subject only to can be found on page 26. their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavour, as far as practicable, to treat disabled persons equally with others and will also endeavour to help and accommodate persons who become disabled whilst working for Dignity.
