Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 22 | Corporate and social Employee service Employee ratio % responsibility continued Male 51% Less than 1 year 11% 1 4 years 35% Female 49% 5 9 years 23% 10 19 years 21% Over 20 years 10% In addition, Dignity has five members of staff who are Engaging our staff accredited NAFD tutors and three BIE training specialists.
Dignity publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, Dignity During the past year eight Dignity employees achieved Express, which is supplemented by monthly news bulletins recognised qualifications with the NAFD.
to keep all employees and pensioners informed of what is happening within the organisation.
Dignity Express enables Dignity provides additional support to staff development the Companys Directors and employees to share objectives, through its Welfare Trust, which provides funds for best practice and news in a cost effective manner.
The Trust has approximately useful information and background on the Company is also 1.6 million available for future use.
available to staff via a dedicated employee website.
Recognising achievement Health and Safety Dignity has budgeted to reward its loyal staff with long Our aim: Effective heath and safety management continues service awards totalling approximately 0.2 million in 2012. to be vital to Dignity and a key priority of the Directors.
Our operations are conducted at all times in such a way Promoting diversity as to ensure, as far as is reasonably practical, the health, Within Dignity there is no discrimination on the grounds safety and welfare of all our employees and all persons of gender, race, religion, age or sexual orientation in terms who may be attending our premises.
of recruitment or career advancement.
We encourage colleagues to show respect and understanding to each Dignity has a full-time Health and Safety Manager who is other and prejudice of any kind will not be tolerated.
dedicated to these issues and is supported by a Health and Safety Officer.
Recruitment A detailed job description identifying key responsibilities Regional Health and Safety Officers operate in each of the and competencies for each role in addition to a personal geographical funeral trading areas.
Dignitys head office, specification for the ideal applicant have been developed crematoria and manufacturing facility also have their own to aid recruitment.
These enable the interviewer to assess managers with responsibility for Health and Safety.
The each candidates suitability for the role to which they majority of these managers and officers have qualifications have applied.
from the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH or are scheduled to take these When interviewing for management positions competency examinations.
based interviews are held and candidates are expected to be able to clearly demonstrate their experience and expertise Dignity has 15 managers with qualifications from the during the selection process.
National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH.
Within this group there are also 10 that possess the NEBOSH Fire Certificate.
Valuing our people and promoting diversity At Dignity there is no discrimination 200,000 on the grounds of gender, age, race, religion or sexual orientation in Dignity has budgeted to reward its loyal staff with long service awards terms of recruitment or career advancement and we encourage totalling approximately 200,000 in 2012. colleagues to respect each other.
Left: Jyotshna Surti, Funeral Service 31% Arranger at Joseph Swift & Asian Almost a third of Dignitys employees Funeral Directors in Leicester.
have over ten years service.
