Y T E F A S & H T L A E H O U E R L E P N O V E I Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 18 | Corporate and social responsibility Meeting the needs of our clients, shareholders and engaging our employees whilst considering the communities and environment in which we work is at the heart of our business.
Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director Introduction working for a responsible company.
We give our clients At Dignity we aim to achieve our business objectives in confidence that they can rely on us to understand their a caring and responsible manner, we strive to ensure that needs and to take care of all the arrangements: and to feel we continue to operate responsibly and deliver the excellent confident that we can be responsible for looking after their service upon which our business depends.
We are committed loved one.
to meeting the needs of our clients, shareholders and engaging all our employees whilst considering the impact Dignity has been identified by the FTSE Group in its of our activities on the communities and environment in FTSE4Good initiative as a company that is working towards which we work.
environmental sustainability, developing positive relationships with stakeholders and upholding and supporting universal Within Dignity, Corporate Services Director, Richard human rights.
Portman, is accountable for corporate and social responsibility and under this remit identifies major issues We have created a culture of workplace safety so that our and reports these to his fellow Board members.
staff understand and abide by legislation and guidelines ensuring their own health and safety and that of their Management and accountability colleagues and clients.
The governing principles of Dignity are that we are here to help people at one of the most difficult times of their lives We promote environmental issues and sustainability, and we do this with compassion, respect, openness and continually seeking new initiatives that reduce the impact care.
We aim to be the company that everyone knows they of our business activities on our environment.
can trust in their time of need.
Making a positive contribution to charities and our local The flat structure of Dignity means that local management communities is embedded into our corporate culture and are empowered to make decisions that provide quick and is enthusiastically supported by our staff.
effective solutions to the needs of their clients, businesses and the communities they serve.
Only five per cent of our We enable our people to excel: employees are based at our head office in the West Midlands We train and develop our staff to the very highest standards, where they perform such necessary business tasks as enabling them to fulfil their potential and giving them the finance, IT, HR and purchasing.
This approach demonstrates skills to be able to meet and exceed our clients expectations.
our commitment to providing staff in locations where they can directly help and support our clients.
We build trust and respect: We build trust and respect with everyone touched by our Our values, which are enshrined in our governing principles, business operations our clients, our colleagues, our are a fundamental part of our culture.
By living these values, suppliers, trade associations, local authorities and members we ensure that we operate in a responsible way and that we of the communities we serve.
Everyone at Dignity understands deliver the excellent service upon which our business depends.
that at all times they are an ambassador for the Company and that the future success of the business depends on We foster a responsible culture: its reputation.
We make our clients feel confident in us so that they are reassured they are being served by responsible individuals Our CSR approach Our CSR commitments Our people Dignity is committed to high standards of employment practice and aims Making to encourage, retain and develop successful employees.
Building trust a positive Health and safety with all our impact on our Our business is conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as far as stakeholders communities is reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of all our employees Striving for and all persons who may be attending our premises.
Meeting our excellence in responsibilities Our environment everything to our clients, We are committed to maintaining the quality of the environment in which we do suppliers & we all live and we aim to reduce the impact of our operations so that we partners act in an environmentally friendly manner.
Our communities We are committed to making a difference to both our clients and to improving the welfare of all who live in the communities we serve.
R P O R N U M O E N T S E I T I N U M M O C R U O Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 19 | Responsible We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner and by living these values, we ensure that we continue to operate responsibly and deliver the excellent service upon which our business depends.
Growing our business responsibly Our key CSR highlights Dignity has grown through the careful acquisition of other funeral, , businesses.
Upon acquisition, many proprietors continue to be 1 300 15 500 involved in management or consultancy roles and Dignity provides Approximately 1,300 delegates Approximately 15,500 cremations attended training courses facilitated at Dignity crematoria were mercury support to all staff that join us as part of an acquisition to enable by Dignitys Training Department abated during 2011. them to reach their true potential.
during the past twelve months.
The families that choose to use our services do so based on our, 100 000 reputation and through recommendations.
We believe our continued 12% Dignity raised approximately commitment to excellent service for our clients will generate a The number of accidents reported 100,000 for its corporate charity, high level of referral and organic growth.
per thousand staff employed has Together for Short Lives, over the been reduced by approximately past two years.
12 per cent over the last three years.
