Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 29 | Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed consolidated financial statements for Dignity plc and its on page 28 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best subsidiaries for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011. of their knowledge and belief: The company registration number of Dignity plc is The Group financial statements, which have been prepared 4569346. in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Statement of Directors responsibilities profit of the Group: and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors report contained in the Annual Report Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the includes a fair review of the development and performance financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the business and the position of the Group, together and regulations.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Principal activities and business review Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in The principal activity of the Group is the provision of funeral accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards services including funeral directing, crematoria operation IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and have elected and the marketing and administration of pre-arranged to prepare the parent company financial statements in funeral plans.
The principal activity of the Company is that accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted of a holding company.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors The principal activities and key performance indicators must not approve the financial statements unless they are of the Group are also described on pages 14 to 16 of satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of the Financial Review.
A review of the development of the affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit business in 2011, events affecting the Group since the end or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these of the financial year and likely future developments are financial statements, the Directors are required to: referred to in the Business Review, which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The review of business activities in the Business Review, Make judgements and accounting estimates that are Financial Review and the Directors Statement of Corporate reasonable and prudent: and Governance are in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Principal risks and uncertainties followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Operational risks are considered on page 17. and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Share capital accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company During the period, the Group issued 52 Ordinary Shares and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial of 10.5 pence each to satisfy options exercised under the statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration Save As You Earn Scheme.
The SAYE options were granted comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the in 2010.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 30 December Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable 2011 consisted of 54,757,054 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other pence each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights irregularities.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups websites and legislation in the A special resolution passed at the last Annual General United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Meeting on 9 June 2011 gives Dignity plc the authority to of financial statements may differ from legislation in purchase up to 2,737,852 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence other jurisdictions.
each at not less than nominal value and not more than 5 per cent above the average middle market quotation for the preceding 5 business days.
At the same meeting the Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares
