Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 28 | Board of Directors 1 3 2 a Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Nomination Committee r Member of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director appointed to the Board on 1 April 2012 4 5 6 8 9 7 n Director of Kelda Group plc and a number of other public 1.
He has also been Chairman of Waste Recycling, Non-Executive Chairman Peter has extensive experience of the industry having been Deputy Chairman of the Governors of Sheffield Hallam University and a Non-Executive Director of Scott Wilson Group plc and appointed Chief Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc in 1991.
James is an FCA and a Member of the Following the acquisition of Plantsbrook Group plc and Great Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Southern Group plc by SCI in 1994, he was appointed CEO of SCI UK.
He subsequently led a management buy out of the a n r 7.
Bill Forrester 71 Group from SCI in 2002.
The Company was then floated on the Non-Executive Director Stock Exchange in 2004.
Peter became Non-Executive Chairman Bill is the Chairman of Nuaire Group Ltd and a Director of Brittpac in January 2009.
Before entering the funeral service industry, Peter spent 25 years in retailing, holding senior positions in Limited.
Prior to this he was Group Chief Executive of SIG plc, Europes largest distributor of insulation, ceiling, partitioning and Debenhams, Burtons and Harris Queensway.
roofing products and Chairman of John Laing plc, the infrastructure investment group.
He was also the Managing Director at Kuwait 2.
Mike McCollum 44 Chief Executive Insulation Manufacturing Company and the Sales and Marketing Director at BP Rockwool Limited.
Mike joined Dignitys former parent, SCI, in 1995 from KPMG Corporate Finance in London.
He was appointed Finance Director a n r 8.
Ishbel Macpherson 51 at the end of 2001 and became Chief Executive at the beginning of 2009.
He has a law degree from Birmingham University LL.
B, Non-Executive Director Ishbel was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009.
Ishbel is a solicitor and also holds an MBA from Warwick University.
is a Non-Executive Director of GAME Group plc and May Gurney Integrated Services plc, Senior Independent Director of Hydrogen 3.
Steve Whittern 37 Finance Director Group plc and Chairman of Speedy Hire plc.
Prior to those roles she held senior positions with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Hoare Steve joined the Group in 1999 from KPMG.
He was appointed Govett and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Finance Director at the beginning of 2009, having spent the previous two years as Financial Controller, being responsible a n r for the Group's finance function.
Steve led the further debt issue 9.
Alan McWalter 58 Non-Executive Director and Return of Value in 2010.
Steve is an FCA and holds a Alan was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009.
Alan mathematics degree from Warwick University.
is a Non-Executive Director of Churchill China plc, Haygarth 4.
Andrew Davies 50 Group Ltd, Fabris Lane Ltd and is Non-Executive Chairman of Constantine Group plc and Kornicis Group Ltd.
Prior to these Operations Director roles Alan was Marketing Director of Marks and Spencer plc Andrew joined his family owned business in 1979 and worked and prior to that held senior positions with Kingfisher plc and as a funeral director and embalmer until the business was sold to Great Southern Group in 1993.
He then held various Thomson Consumer Electronics.
management positions within Great Southern Group and following Jane Ashcroft 45 the acquisition by SCI in 1994, held senior operational positions Non-Executive Director within SCI UK.
He became Operations Director in 2001 and was a member of the management buy out team in 2002.
Jane is Chief Executive of Anchor, a leading provider of services to older people and has held a number of senior positions since joining them in 1999.
She is also Non-Executive Chair of 5.
Richard Portman 50 the English Community Care Association and was previously Corporate Services Director Richard joined SCI from HSBC as Chief Accountant in 1999. a Non-Executive Director of Stroud & Swindon Building Society.
A graduate of Stirling University, she is a Fellow of the Institute Following the IPO, Richard was appointed as Company Secretary of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators and a Member of the and became Corporate Services Director in 2006.
Richard is an Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
FCA, holds a geography degree from Birmingham University and is a Member of the Chartered Management Institute and of the Martin Pexton 55 Investor Relations Society.
Non-Executive Director a n r Martin was previously Managing Director of LMS Capital plc 6.
James Newman 62 Senior Independent Director and prior to that an Executive Director of London Merchant Securities plc and Personnel Director of the law firm Allen James has a portfolio of non-executive directorships in both the & Overy.
He has also in the past held a number of non-executive private and public sectors.
He is currently Chairman of Straight positions including roles with Minerva plc and Inflexion plc as plc and Brulines Group plc and Senior Non-Executive Director of Bglobal plc.
He is also Chairman of Finance Yorkshire, and well as a number with private companies.
He has an MBA from the London Business School.
Chairman of the Sheffield City Region Local Enterprise Partnership Board.
He was formerly Deputy Chief Executive and Finance
