Directors Report Corporate Governance Statutory Information The directors present their report and audited financial Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of statements for the 52 week period ended 30 April 2011.
Association, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will The Business Review, which provides a comprehensive review be managed by the Board, who may exercise all the powers of the ofthe development, performance and future prospects of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of Groups operations for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, the Company or not.
The powers of the Board are detailed in a includes the following: specific schedule, details of which are provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Business Overview, including principal activities Strategic Summary Directors responsibilities Performance Review, including Corporate Responsibility Report The directors responsibilities for the financial statements contained within this Annual Report and the directors Corporate Governance confirmations required under Disclosure and Transparency These sections are incorporated by reference and are deemed Rule 4.1.
12 are set out on page 55. toform part of this report.
Employees and employee share schemes Changes in composition of the Group A commentary on the Groups role as an employer is included After having considered the Groups options for PC City Spain, the inthe Corporate Responsibility Report and details of employee Board confirmed plans to exit operations in Spain on 14 April 2011. involvement through share participation are contained in the The decision was made due to the continuing weak consumer Remuneration Report.
environment and continuing losses of the business, together with the Groups plans to focus on combined electrical and computing Details of the Groups employee share plans and long-term stores.
All 34 stores and the online operations of PC City Spain will incentive plans are contained in the Remuneration Report and be closed or transferred to third parties.
note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet events Share capital Particulars of any important events affecting the Group since 30 The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, April 2011 are described in note 33 of the Financial Statements.
together with any shares issued during the period are set out innote 23 to the Financial Statements.
The voting rights of all Directors Dixons Retail plc shares are identical, with each share carrying The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the the rights to one vote.
Dixons Retail plc holds no ordinary shares directors serving during the period under review are provided in Treasury and did not make any market purchases of its own onpage 36. shares during the period under review.
The Company does not have any class of share other than its ordinary shares.
In line with best practice, all directors retired and being eligible offered themselves for reappointment at the 2010 AGM.
The Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company Board has decided to follow the same procedure at the 2011 There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on AGM and accordingly, all directors will retire and seek the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general reappointment.
The Remuneration Report on page 49 provides provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
details of applicable service agreements for executive directors The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders and terms of appointment for non-executive directors.
The Board of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the is satisfied that each director is qualified for reappointment by transfer of securities or on voting rights.
virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys During the year, no director had any material interest in any share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
contract of significance to the Groups business.
Their interests, including those of any connected persons, in the shares of the Change of control significant agreements Company are outlined in sections V, IX and X of the The Company does not have any significant agreements which Remuneration Report.
contain change of control clauses other than for its borrowings further details are disclosed in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the In addition, provisions under the rules of the Companys share Combined Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
incentive schemes may cause options and awards granted under The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the event of a of the shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The Group has purchased directors and officers liability insurance cover for any claim brought against directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty.
Dixons Retail plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Corporate Governance 36 -- 55 Directors Report Corporate Governance Major shareholders As at 23 June 2011, the Company has been notified in accordance with the Financial Service Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Direct indirect No.
of shares % Schroders Plc Indirect 400,893,720 11.1% UBS Global Asset Management Direct and Indirect 368,082,813 10.2% Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct and Indirect 343,988,634 9.5% Capital Research & Management Company Indirect 227,424,267 6.3% Tameside MBC Greater Manchester Pension Fund Direct 219,899,644 6.1% Invesco Limited Indirect 180,788,477 5.0% Letko, Brosseau & Associates Inc.
Indirect 179,918,108 5.0% Capital Group International, Inc.
Indirect 175,204,174 4.9% Skagen AS Direct 148,902,954 4.1% Legal & General Group Plc Direct 115,471,857 3.2% Issue of shares Going concern At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved a In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial resolution to give the directors authority to allot shares up to an statements, the directors have considered the Companys objectives aggregate nominal value of 30,083,043.
The directors have no and strategy, risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant andits review of business performance which are all set out in the toemployee share schemes.
This resolution remains valid until Business Overview, Strategic Summary and Performance Review the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting when sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups liquidity aresolution will be proposed to renew these authorities.
and funding arrangements are described in notes 17 and 22 f to thefinancial statements as well as in the funding section of the Performance Review and the directors consider that the Group has Related party transactions Details of related party transactions undertaken during the significant covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities for the foreseeable future.
yearare contained in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
Accordingly, after reviewing the Companys expenditure Political and charitable donations commitments, current financial projections and expected future The Group engages in various charitable activities as set out in cash flows, together with the available cash resources and the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 35.
During undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have theperiod under review, the Group made donations of 211,000 considered that adequate resources exist for the Company to 2009 10 136,000 to local charities serving the communities continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders of the Company adopted a resolution authorising the Board to incur Corporate governance compliance political expenditure up to an aggregate amount not exceeding The statement on compliance with the Combined Code for the 25,000 during 2010 11.
Notwithstanding this, theCompany reporting period is contained on page 40 of this report.
made no political donations during the period 2009 10 nil.
Annual General Meeting Payment of suppliers The Annual General Meeting will be held on 7 September 2011 at It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its suppliers Holiday Inn London - Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, on a case by case basis prior to commencing trade with them.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided London WC1N 1HT at 10.00am.
The Notice of Meeting, together with full details of the business to be conducted, will be included thesupplier has complied with relevant contractual obligations.
in a separate letter accompanying this report.
Trade creditors as at 30 April 2011 represent 53 days of annual purchases made during the period 1 May 2010 49 days.
Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be reappointed Audit information as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors and this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be information needed by the auditors in connection with their report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Having made proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all the steps that he she is obliged to take as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Helen Grantham Company Secretary 23 June 2011 Dixons Retail plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
