This division comprises PIXmania and dixons.
Total sales Directors Report weredown 5% in local currency and down 9% in sterling at Performance Review 842.7million 2009 10 921.2 million.
Underlying operating profit was 0.9 million 2009 10 11.3 million.
The Pure play Pure play e-commerce e-commerce business forms a core and integrated part of the Groups overall internet strategy, alongside the multi-channel operations of the other main business divisions.
Internet sales across the Group represent 16% of total sales.
Several factors have reduced the sales and profits of our Pure play e-commerce operations.
First, we have been making significant investments in developing the operation.
We have implemented anew platform in the UK to support all of our websites, which hascaused disruption while being integrated into the UK systems and trading platforms.
We have also been investing in e-merchant which supplies IT services to the Group and other retailers.
P IXmania traded well in its Second, while it delivered a solid performance in France, PIXmania has strong market positions in Southern Europe which have been core markets.
adversely impacted by reduced consumer demand.
co. uk benefits from several markets we have had increased competition from store based brands expanding their e-commerce business.
Finally there the UK & Ireland operating has been a significant shift of suppliers and customers in favouring platform.
multi-channel brands and away from pure play internet operators.
Investments being made in In the UK the Group operates the dixons.
co. uk business alongside the multi-channel brands of currys.
the year management directed internet sales activity through the more profitable multi-channel brands, particularly asthese are becoming the favoured route for customers and suppliers.
As a Underlying sales million pure play business dixons.
co. uk competes on price and is an important tool in enabling management to understand and 2010 11 842.7 compete in the pure play electricals retail section of the market.
2009 10 921.2 The implementation of the e-merchant platform and further improvements to the offer have incurred additional costs.
However, Underlying operating profit as dixons.
co. uk is fulfilled from the UK & Irelands main warehouse million and stock files, its cost to serve is relatively low.
co. uk operation is now on a much stronger footing, it has 2010 11 been impacted by the weak consumer environment, impacting 2009 10 11.3 profitability of the Pure play e-commerce division.
PIXmania now operates a total of 17 stores.
These stores, with an average space of approximately 1,400 sq ft per store, combine the ease and value of the internet and the convenience of stores to collect products.
It is expected that PIXmania will open further stores as they achieve high sales densities driven by internet pricing in high footfall shopping centre locations.
PIXmania also operates PIXplace which provides a platform for third party resellers under the PIXmania brand.
This also enables PIXmania to extend its offer for customers while benefitting from a charge for third party transactions.
In addition, PIXmania is able to provide its proprietary and market leading e-merchant platform and IT services to third party operators.
co. uk, PIXmania provides these services to Bouygues Telecom.
The Group considers that there are further opportunities in this area over the medium term.
Dixons Retail plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
