Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 John Allan 5 Rita Clifton Chairman Age 62 Independent Non-Executive Director Age 53 Appointment to the Board: 23 June 2009 and was appointed Chairman on Appointment to the Board: 1 September 2003 2 September 2009 Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committee Membership: Nominations Chairman and Remuneration External Appointments: Chairman of Interbrand U. K. Limited and Populus External Appointments: Chairman of WorldPay Limited and Care UK Health Limited, Non-Executive Director of Bupa, President of the Market Research & Social Care Holdings Limited.
Non-Executive Director of National Grid plc Society, Director of Henley Festival Limited, Visiting Professor at Henley and ISS A S. Member of the University of Edinburgh Campaign Board, Management College, Trustee of the WWF and Member of the Assurance Director of Natakate Ltd and non-executive member of the Home Office and Advisory Board of BP p. l. c. s carbon offset programme.
she has taken up the Chairmanship of BTCV, the social enterprise group.
Previous Experience: John Allan was previously Chief Executive of Exel PLC Previous Experience: Rita Clifton was formerly Vice Chairman and Executive and following its acquisition by Deutsche Post, a member of its Management Planning Director at Saatchi and Saatchi.
She has had a successful 18year Board and subsequently Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Post.
Prior to advertising career with both Saatchi and Saatchi and JWalter Thompson.
this, he was a director of BET Plc.
His early career was with Lever Brothers, Rita Clifton was previously a Non-Executive Director of Emap plc and a Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and Fine Fare Ltd. John Allan has extensive member of the Sustainable Development Commission.
Board experience having been Chairman of Samsonite Corporation and a non-executive director of PHS Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc 6 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen and Connell plc.
He has also served on the supervisory Boards of both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Postbank.
Independent Non-Executive Director Age 55 Appointment to the Board: 1 February 2010 Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 2 John Browett External Appointments: Owner of Positive Leadership a management Chief Executive Age 47 consultancy and co-owner of Grid-International and Alpha tecc the German Appointment to the Board: 5 December 2007 consumer electronics chain, Non-Executive Director of M. Video the leading Committee Membership: Executive Russian electronic retailer, Chairman of the Jury of the European Retail External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of easyJet PLC Institute, Vice-President of Modern Market-Methods Association in Germany, Previous Experience: John Browett joined the Group following a successful Advisor to Boston Consulting Group, and Honorary Professor at both career at Tesco PLC, where he held a series of senior roles including Westflische Wilhelms-Universitt Mnster and the Catholic University, Operations Development Director, Chief Executive of Tesco.
His early career was with Boston Consulting Group, where Previous Experience: Utho Creusen has extensive international retail he advised a series of retail and consumer goods clients.
He was previously Human Resources Director of Media-Saturn Holding GmbH an electronics retail chain.
Utho Creusen spent 22 years with 3 Nicholas Cadbury OBI AG, a leading European DIY retailer, where he rose to become a member of its Executive Board and Chairman of OBI Franchise GmbH.
Group Finance Director Age 45 Appointment to the Board: 17 July 2008 Committee Membership: Executive 7 Tim How External Appointments: None Independent Non-Executive Director Age 60 Previous Experience: Nicholas Cadbury joined the Group in 1993 after Appointment to the Board: 8 September 2009 qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with .
He has Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Chairman extensive experience of the Groups business and has held a range of senior External Appointments: Chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited and Woburn positions including Group International Finance Director, Finance Director and Enterprises Limited.
Non-Executive Director of Henderson Group plc and Commercial Director of PC World and Managing Director of Dixons Travel.
Framlington AIM VCT plc, Director of Enotria Group Ltd, Wine and Spirit Education Trust and a Governor of the Peabody Trust.
4 Andrew Lynch Previous Experience: Tim How was formerly Chief Executive of Majestic Wine PLC, where he led the management buy-out of the business and subsequent Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Age 54 Alternative Investment Market AIM flotation.
Prior to this, Tim How was Appointment to the Board: 20 May 2003 Managing Director of Bejam Group plc.
Committee Membership: Audit Chairman, Nominations and Remuneration External Appointments: Chief Executive of SSP Group Previous Experience: Andrew Lynch is a former Director and Group Finance 8 Dharmash Mistry Director of Compass Group PLC.
He led SSP, a food service group, through Independent Non-Executive Director Age 40 its divestment from Compass Group PLC and was involved in the Appointment to the Board: 27 September 2010 management buy-out of Travellers Fare from British Rail prior to its acquisition Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration by Compass Group PLC.
Andrew Lynch started his career at KPMG, after External Appointments: Partner at Balderton Capital Management UK LLP, which he joined Prudential Corporation plc, where he held a series of Investor Director and Board member of Sulake Habbo Hotel, corporate finance and financial management positions.
com, MOG, eWise and KupiVIP.
Previous Experience: Prior to joining Balderton Capital Management UK LLP, Dharmash Mistry was part of the executive team at Emap PLC, most recentlyas Group Managing Director of Emap Consumer Media and Emap Performance.
Prior to this, Dharmash was at Boston Consulting Group and started his career as a Brand Manager at Procter & Gamble.
Dixons Retail plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
