I love to capture the moment Point and shoot and the moments captured.
Transferred over to my iPad 2 and my photos are ready to edit, print or upload to the internet to share with my mates.
The guys at Currys helped me find the right camera, lens and memory card too.
They explained how to use KNOWHOW online storage solutions where I can save my precious photos, music and videos.
The Nikon D5100 Digital SLR Camera Technology at your fingertips with the Have fun taking perspective shots with the delivers crystal clear images.
Games, maps, apps, reading, films Nikon 10.5mm SLR Fisheye Lens.
The 8GB Full HD 1080p video recording options and photos have all been made faster and Kodak High Speed Memory Card means you with a 3 vari-angle LCD monitor making easier.
Talk to your friends face to face can take action shots in quick succession it easy to look back at photos and films.
using FaceTime and instantly upload photos and has plenty of space for storing photos and films for sharing online.
revolutonising the way we interact with our digital content.
Dixons Retail plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Strategic Summary 08 -- 22 Dixons Retail plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Dixons Retail plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Strategic Summary 08 -- 22 We just want to have fun You dont need to use a controller with XBox Kinect, just your body and voice.
We jump, dance, drive and play and the Kinect senses it all.
Its even better when Mum and Dad or even Gran and Grandad join in.
They look amazing on the 3DTV which the KNOWHOW man put on the wall.
He even set up Mum and Dads Bose DVD home entertainment system and connected the Kinect to the internet.
Our family has so much fun, I cant wait for the weekends!
Put on your 3D glasses and experience The Xbox Kinect sensor puts you into the For a premium home cinema surround sound breathtaking 3D films and TV programmes heart of the gaming action like never before.
experience, connect a Bose Lifestyle 38 on the Samsung 55 HD LED 3D Smart Your body is the game controller.
You dont DVD home entertainment system to your TV.
Its Smart Hub have to hold controllers or struggle with The HD viewing quality brings your films to provides access to the internet with features wires.
Just jump in front of the sensor life.
Audio can be shared in up to 14 rooms, and apps.
Watch films through a connected and start playing.
It can also store up to games console or stream them through 340 hours of digital music.
Dixons Retail plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Thats a load off my mind A new baby boy, a football mad son, and a tap dancing daughter equates to a mountain of washing alone.
I needed a large, high performance energy-efficient washing machine.
The team at Currys suggested the LG Direct Drive the answer to my prayers!
It can take a huge 11kg wash load and is packed with features such as allergen sanitisation and Scrub motion perfect for the kids clothes.
Its even got a Baby care wash programme and its so quiet.
With KNOWHOWs WHATEVER HAPPENS Kitchen Cover, Ive got peace of mind too.
Washing larger loads is light work with the Steam irons take the strain out of ironing, We will deliver your appliance at a time to 11kg load LG Direct Drive Washing Machine.
cutting through the pile of ironing in no time.
suit you and well even recycle your old Inverter Technology means it effectively The ceramic soleplate and variable steam product for free.
If you want us to install removes the dirt and bacteria that can settings mean you can use the GV8360 Pro it, we KNOWHOW.
If it needs a minor or aggravate allergies and has an A rating for Express Turbo Steam Iron as a dry iron too.
major repair, well fix it.... and if we cant, well energy efficiency.
If you simply need a bit more help to get the most out of your purchase or even want an upgrade, we KNOWHOW to help you.
Dixons Retail plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Strategic Summary 08 -- 22 Dixons Retail plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Dixons Retail plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Strategic Summary 08 -- 22 I need someone with KNOWHOW Just bought myself a state of the art TV from Currys.
Slimline LED screen, Hi Def and 3D ready to watch the footie with the lads.
Trouble is, I said to the bloke who served me at Currys that I knew how to install it and set it up.
Turns out its pretty technical stuff and I cant work out what goes where.
Luckily, I called Currys and they said they will arrange for someone from the KNOWHOW team to come over and install it for me.
Now all we need to worry about is keeping the beer chilled!
Deliver & Install Set Up & Upgrade Help & Support Repair & Protect Our KNOWHOW team can Laptops, cameras, tablets, home Need data transferring to a new TV on the blink?
Games console deliver and install your new networks.... we KNOWHOW to set PC, help with getting rid of a virus isnt working quite right?
We can product on a day and time to suit them up for you.
If your PC needs on your laptop or help restoring repair your faulty PC, TV, games you, seven days a week.
Well more memory or you simply missing data?
Were here to console and more in our state of even text you the night before need us to help with a software support you so you KNOWHOW the art repair lab and keep you up to remind you were coming.
upgrade, we can visit you at home to do it next time.
Or, simply call to date with its repair progress.
or you can just pop into a store.
us and well help you 24 7 again We KNOWHOW to fix it for you.
Dixons Retail plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
