Corporate Governance 36 -- 55 Directors Report Corporate Governance Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the senior leaders of the Company Sebastian James from various business functions and regions.
It is tasked with the Group Operations Director Age 44 day-to-day management of the Company.
Sebastian James joined the Group as Development Director in January 2010.
Prior to this, he was Chief Executive of Synergy Steve Ager Insurance Services Limited and Strategy Director at Mothercare plc.
Sebastian James started his career at Boston Consulting Group.
Commercial Director Age 51 Steve Ager joined the Group following a successful career with Tesco PLC, where he held several UK and international commercial and Mario Maiocchi buying roles.
His achievements include setting up Tescos operations Managing Director, Southern Europe Age 55 in Asia and Central Europe, creating the Tesco Express format and Mario Maiocchi joined the Group in February 2008 as Managing Director masterminding the Tesco Finest range.
of Unieuro, the Groups Italian business.
Prior to this, he held a range ofsenior leadership roles including President and General Manager Katie Bickerstaffe ofMetro Italia, Chief Financial Officer of Metro France and Managing Director of EMI Financial Services.
Group People, Marketing and Property Director Age 44 Katie Bickerstaffe has extensive retail experience, having joined the Group from Kwik Save where she was Managing Director.
She will Steve Rosenblum bejoining the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy plc as a NonPresident, PIXmania Age 37 Executive Director on 1 July 2011.
Prior to joining Dixons Retail, she was Steve Rosenblum has been President of PIXmania since buying out Group Retail Director and Group HR Director of Somerfield plc.
Her early the business with his brother in 2001.
PIXmania became a part of the career was with Dyson, PepsiCo and Unilever.
John Browett Jean-Emile Rosenblum Chief Executive Vice President, PIXmania Age 33 See Board of Directors on opposite page for biography.
Jean-Emile Rosenblum has been Vice President of PIXmania since buying out the business with his brother in 2001.
PIXmania became Nicholas Cadbury apart of the Dixons Retail Group in 2006.
Group Finance Director See Board of Directors on opposite page for biography.
Ronny Blomseth Managing Director, Nordic Region Age 42 Ronny Blomseth has had a 20 year career with Elkjp, Dixons Retail's Nordics business.
Following various store positions, he rose through thebusiness to hold the roles of Sales Manager at Elkjp, Norway andsubsequently Elkjp Group Managing Director.
Helen Grantham Company Secretary and General Counsel Age 46 Helen Grantham qualified as a Solicitor with Hammonds and then worked as an in-house lawyer with Boots.
She went on to serve as Company Secretary of Chubb plc and Hepworth PLC.
Helen Grantham joined the Group from William Hill PLC, where she was both Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Dixons Retail plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
