Simplifying the shopping trip for our customers is key to helping Directors Report them buy the right solution as well as getting the best out of Strategic Summary thetechnology they buy.
This is why we created the customer journey in each category.
We have trialled new ways of doing this Looking Forward in Black and elsewhere in our portfolio.
We have now developed an improved customer journey around a vision which not only simplifies the technology for customers, but also helps them choose other products and services to get the complete solution.
Trials of this have proved to be very successful and set the Keeping ahead of the groundwork for improved customer journeys in other categories.
competition Added value services are a key differentiator in our business model as discussed on page 17 and we will continue to innovate in this area.
For example, having introduced PDAs for our delivery and installation team we are looking at other ways to use this technology, such as dynamic routing of our colleagues out in the The Group is making significant progress under the Renewal field to make sure we meet and even exceed customers needs, andTransformation plan.
The operational processes across the the ability to provide customers with added value services while business are on a firmer foundation, the customer offer is better in their homes rather than on a second call out and use of the than it has ever been and costs are under control.
data provided by the PDAs to improve processes.
Our offer for customers must continually improve.
Here we set A lot of exciting things are going on, but we wont sit still.
We out just some of the innovations in the business which will enable will continue to innovate to deliver a better shopping trip for us to remain one step ahead of the competition and firmly our customers.
focused on customer needs in every market in which we operate.
This year we opened an exciting new concept store called Black in Birmingham.
This is a 15,000 sq ft high street store on three floors, totally new in design and positioned as the ultimate place to get up close with the most wanted gadgets around.
It is a must-visit store, appealing to customers who love their brands and how their kit looks.
We are using Black to conduct avariety of trials, exploring new ways of making the shopping tripand the presentation of our exciting technology and services even better for customers.
A totally new store layout, department style disciplines in categories, interactive displays and new ways of merchandising are all being explored in this store.
We have embedded the new KNOWHOW services brand in the store, providing areas for customers to use the services we can provide in a more interactive and relaxed environment.
Our colleagues have been encouraged to explore new ways of excelling at providing high levels of services and better solutions for customers.
The customer feedback has been very encouraging and we are already taking learnings from this format into the rest of the store portfolio across the Group.
Dixons Retail plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
