Performance Review 23 -- 35 This division comprises operations in Italy, Greece, the Czech Directors Report Republic, Slovakia and Turkey.
Total sales were down 2% at Performance Review constant exchange rates and by 5% in sterling to 1,226.7 million 2009 10 1,291.6 million.
Underlying operating losses were Other International 21.6 million 2009 10 loss of 8.3 million.
Towards the end of the financial year the Group announced that it was closing its PC City operations in Spain.
The closure programme is on track, with all stores now closed and a net cash cost of closure of approximately 30 million across the 2010 11 and 2011 12 financial years.
Underlying financials are reported excluding these PC City operations.
Italy This comprises Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores and Dixons Travel Italy operating in the airports in Rome and Milan.
The business has progressed well against the T urnaround plan in Italy is turnaround plan, with a positive EBITDA delivered for the first improving performance.
time in several years, ahead of plan.
The turnaround plan has involved considerable work to improve the ranges in-store, as well K otsovolos gaining share in a as availability for customers.
Significant progress has been made in improving the stock turn to improve working capital, helping tough market.
Using the same Six Sigma principles as have been employed in the UK & Ireland division, Unieuro has reduced Medium term opportunities in costs.
In addition the store network is being upgraded, including Czech Republic, Slovakia and store reformatting, again using the work done in the UK & Ireland division, which provides a better, easier to navigate store Turkey as markets develop.
Underlying sales A strong first quarter driven by the World Cup was followed by million a weaker sales environment as the business anniversaried the first stages of the regional digital switchover.
The consumer 2010 11 1,226.7 environment remained subdued in the second half, but Unieuro 2009 10 1,291.6 continued to outperform the market as it benefitted from a further stage of the digital switchover.
As the business becomes cash Underlying operating loss generative it will start to add Megastores as well as refurbish million existing stores to the 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City format that is 21.6 2010 11 proving to be the favoured format for customers.
The business is well positioned to make further gains in the years ahead.
2009 10 8.3 Greece Kotsovolos is the market leading specialist electrical retailer in Greece.
As a result of the economic situation in Greece the competitive environment is changing and with its strong market position Kotsovolos is increasingly being favoured by both customers and suppliers, enabling it to trade ahead of the markets, gaining two to three percentage points of share in the last six months of the financial year.
However, because the market has been down approximately 25% across the financial year, it has impacted profitability.
Management have partially offset this impact by reducing costs, enabling the business to deliver a positive EBITDA result in the year.
The business has also focused on delivering for customers, improving its relative proposition in the market and expanding its channels in e-commerce and franchising.
During the year Kotsovolos refurbished seven stores including two Megastores, with 35% of sales now being through new format stores.
Czech Republic and Slovakia Operations in the Czech Republic have performed well in their markets, despite the weak consumer environments.
The Group now operates 20 stores and a multi-channel internet operation inthe Czech Republic and three stores in Slovakia which are trading in line with expectations.
Turkey We operate 19 stores in Turkey, including four franchises, under the Electro World brand with our local joint venture partner.
These stores are based on the Groups new large space format, providing a greater product range and exciting retail environments for customers.
The business continues to deliver good sales growth as the operations there benefit from the Groups scale, store formats, in-store service and operating model.
Dixons Retail plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
