In the Nordic region, Elkjp delivered another strong performance Directors Report with sales increasing by 7% in local currency and 8% in sterling to Performance Review 2,268.9 million 2009 10 2,093.7 million.
Like for like sales were up 9% in the second half and up 5% across the year.
Nordics Underlying operating profits increased by 8% to 105.6 million 2009 10 97.4 million.
Elkjp performed strongly in all of its markets and product categories throughout the year.
In the prior year Elkjp took the opportunity to significantly grow its market share and invested in margins.
During the reported year Elkjp consolidated its position and recovered some of this gross margin investment.
New stores and extensions to Megastores were opened towards the end of the first half which, together with increased marketing, added to cost growth in the business over the Christmas Peak period.
Elkjp improved its cost position towards the end of the year and closed the year with gross margins up 0.5% year on year.
E lkjp performed strongly in all its markets.
This was an important transitional year for the Elkjp business as it established clear market leadership in all its markets.
The T ransitional year as Elkjp sales and profit performances in Finland, Denmark and Sweden were strong, with particularly good profit conversion in Finland established clear market and Denmark.
There is a significant opportunity to develop the leadership in all its markets.
Elkjp business further across all four markets through store refurbishments, Megastore roll outs and online.
F urther significant Elkjp operates in geographically diverse markets where scale opportunity.
across all four countries provides a strong competitive advantage.
Elkjp operates a centralised warehouse in Sweden Underlying sales and a low cost centralised head office operation supported by million efficient local functions in each market.
Each operation has high customer recognition for advice and value which enables it to 2010 11 2,268.9 deliver relatively high sales densities.
As a result Elkjp operates 2009 10 2,093.7 on a market leading cost to sales ratio of 19.5%.
Competition in each of the markets in the Nordics is typically characterised as Underlying operating profit buying groups or local independent operators and a small million number of local specialists which lack the scale efficiencies Elkjp enjoys.
2010 11 105.6 2009 10 97.4 Approximately 11% of Elkjps sales are through its successful franchise operation which enables the brand to operate in smaller and less accessible catchments across the Nordics.
As the franchisees purchase product from Elkjp on a wholesale basis, franchising enables Elkjp to benefit from increased purchasing scale.
Elkjp has now opened 20 Megastores which have performed particularly well.
It has also started a programme to refurbish existing superstores using the same format employed in the UK.
These new format stores are delivering gross profit uplifts of approximately 15% versus the rest of the chain.
Elkjp expects to operate 60 Megastores across the Nordics in the medium term.
Elkjps multi-channel offering grew by 34%, to 6% of sales during the year, driven by its reserve&collect service which continues to be well received by customers.
On 1 June 2011, the Group announced that it had exchanged contracts for the sale and leaseback of the Groups Nordic distribution centre in Jnkping, Sweden.
The sale and leaseback is expected to complete in June 2011 with the Group receiving SEK600 million approximately 59 million.
Dixons Retail plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
