Directors Report Strategic Summary Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives Risk management is an integral part of business management and it is something that Dixons Retail takes seriously.
The Group has continued to develop its approach during the past year and has taken steps to integrate risk management into business decision making.
In addition, the Board and Group Executive have invested time to identify and assess the key risks facing the business.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out below along with an illustration of what is being done to mitigate them: 1.
Macro-economic risks Risk Examples of mitigating action Economic environment Risk that the economic downturn is prolonged through 2011, Ongoing monitoring by Finance and the Executive Committee, particularly in the UK including review of portfolio of the businesses Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our business performance irrespective of macro economic factors Strategy and business planning which takes into account varying economic scenarios Market specific characteristics Seasonality A substantial proportion of revenue and operating Financial planning takes into account expected peaks and troughs profit is generated during the third financial quarter, which during the year and the business is run accordingly includes the Christmas and New Year season.
Adverse trading Increasing the proportion of services related business, which offers in this relatively short period is likely to impact significantly the a regular stream of income over the course of the year full years results Effective launches of new technology as it becomes available to Price deflation Price deflation has been a common feature the market across most electrical goods categories for a number of years, Growth of services related business to increase the number and primarily driven by technological advances and improved value of non-product sales production efficiencies Improve gross profit uplifts in transformed stores Control of stock and strong management over clearance and exit routes 2.
Competitor and market place risks Risk Examples of mitigating action Competition Competitors reduce the Groups market share and or drive down Renewal and Transformation plan is improving our stores, cost margins in specific markets structure and service proposition Continuing development of strong online brands, notably PIXmania and Dixons.
co. uk Ensuring our prices offer good value, including a customer price index Continuing to take money out of our cost base, and leveraging group-wide benefits where opportunities arise Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers Dixons Retail plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Strategic Summary 08 -- 22 Directors Report Strategic Summary 2.
Competitor and market place risks continued Risk Examples of mitigating action Changing technology consumer preferences Strong supplier relationships e. g. UK launch partner of Risk that we fail to capitalise on new technology or emerging Apple iPad trends to maximise revenues Delivery of Customer Plan to respond to identified changes in technology Store transformations to take into account emerging trends in store layouts Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination for the latest technology e. g. 3D TVs Our retail brands fail to meet the expectations of customers Understanding our customers and monitoring our levels of service through mystery shopping, customer exit surveys and analysis of purchase data Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range across all price points, including own label brands Renewal and Transformation plan improving the quality and optimising the location of our stores across the Group FIVES customer service training for all colleagues and product workshops to improve product knowledge Implementation of the Customer Plan in the UK to improve the customer journey a clear and focused plan at the heart of the business Innovations in service propositions and improved customer service levels across the Group Clearer and easier navigation of our e-commerce websites Legislative, contractual, reputational and regulatory risks Risk that as a result of a change in legislation, a decision by a In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and legal regulatory authority, or exposure in our compliance activities, the reports are submitted to the Board Groups business is impacted by reputational or financial damage Launch of Group Ethical Conduct policy, supported by annual or a need to adapt the Groups business and processes e. g. declaration of compliance by colleagues Monitoring changes in legislation regulation competition, consumer rights, intellectual property, contractual Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss obligations, health and safety or compromise of confidential reputational and regulatory risks customer data Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group credit facilities Contact with regulatory authorities, such as in relation to the Office of Fair Tradings OFT market study into extended warranties 3.
Operational risks Risk Examples of mitigating action Employees Group-wide standardised performance management Risk that we fail to attract, develop and retain the necessary talent for our business Talent reviews across the business Store structures which provide a clear career path for all employees Improved quality of training courses and development programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial and technical Bonus plans, which include a component relating to individual performance and business performance Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent Dixons Retail plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Directors Report Strategic Summary Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives continued 3.
Operational risks continued Risk Examples of mitigating action Systems failure and damage to property and consequential business interruption Risk that a key system becomes unavailable for a period of time Contingency plans developed that are tested regularly Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out before updating or introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions Ongoing systems implementation in key areas of the business The Groups ability to distribute merchandise to its stores and to Disaster recovery plans are in place sell and distribute merchandise to its customers is reliant on its Insurance is purchased to mitigate against business interruption operational infrastructure, particularly the efficient functioning of Preventative measures are constantly being updated to reduce the its distribution centres and distribution network likelihood of an incident Project delivery Risk that a project delivering an element of our Renewal and The portfolio plan is clearly defined and is managed and governed Transformation plan does not deliver its anticipated benefits through clear processes and regular meetings Post-investment analysis and performance tracking is in place including financial and customer measures Projects under the Customer Plan are aligned to our UK budget Internet Risk we fail to build a successful internet business, both in its Execution of online strategy Investment in site functionality and user friendliness own right and as part of a multi-channel retailing model Roll-out of our e-merchant platform across our businesses Successful marketing campaigns to raise the profile of online brands 4.
Financial risks Risk Examples of mitigating action Changes in supplier credit Ongoing engagement with suppliers and credit insurers Risk that credit insurance is no longer available to electrical and Improvements in stock management computing suppliers Innovations in and close scrutiny of working capital together with regular monitoring and review Finance and treasury Risk that the Groups exposure to exchange rate, interest rate, Detailed Group hedging policies reviewed through a separate Tax and Treasury Committee liquidity and credit risks have an adverse or unexpected impact Balance sheet management and reviews on results, funding requirements or purchasing ability Strong cash management Regular monitoring of receivables balances Strong pre and post investment appraisal processes Central control of treasury activity Pensions risk and policies Risk that the pension funding policy fails to react to or address Deficit reduction activities in place Defined benefit section of UK scheme closed to future accrual deficits, which may arise on the Groups pension schemes Dixons Retail plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Performance Review 23 -- 35 Directors Report Performance Review Overview Key highlights Business highlights Margins and underlying profit before tax, at 85.3 million, Renewal and Transformation plan delivering a market leading maintained in challenging market conditions.
Investment in the customer offer through the Renewal and Store transformation programme on track: Transformation plan is delivering.
360 stores reformatted at the year end: 70 Megastores now open with average annual sales of Increasing market share across most markets and sectors, 20 million: particularly in the UK and Nordics.
Over 80 Megastores across the Group, including 40 in Step change to the customer focused business model, the UK and 25 in the Nordics will have been reformatted differentiating the offer for customers.
by Peak 2011: Newly reformatted stores continue to deliver gross profit Further benefits to come through rolling out refurbished and uplifts of 20% versus the unreformatted stores in the UK Megastore formats, the transformation of the services offer and 15% in the Nordics: and through KNOWHOW, upgraded websites and a leaner operating model.
Second year trading for reformatted stores maintained.
Elkjp performed strongly in all of its markets, gaining Financial highlights significant market share.
1 2 Total underlying Group sales down 2% to 8,154.4 million 2009 10 8,320.0 million and down 1% on a constant New customer services brand KNOWHOW launched in the currency basis.
UK encompassing all after sales and support services.
Total Group sales, including those from businesses to Multi-channel internet sales up 13% across the Group, reflecting be closed and closed businesses, were 8,341.8 million the continued shift of sales to the multi-channel brands.
Closure of loss making PC City operations in Spain ahead of plan.
3 Group like for like sales down 4% in the second half and down 2% in the full year.
Cost savings on track: 50 million savings delivered in the financial year: and Underlying Group gross margins were flat in the second half of the year and up 0.1% in the full year.
50 million of additional cost savings expected in each of the next three years.
Impairment and restructuring 1 Underlying pre-tax profit of 85.3 million 2009 10 90.9 million.
Recognising challenging conditions in some of our markets, and the ongoing business restructuring under the Renewal and 1 5 Underlying diluted earnings per share of 1.6 pence 2009 10 Transformation plan, we have reviewed the balance sheet and 1.5 pence.
Basic loss per share for continuing operations of made impairment and other non underlying charges totalling 6.6 pence 2009 10 earnings per share of 2.0 pence.
The additional cash impact of these charges is estimated as 39 million, of which approximately 8 million Total loss before tax, after deducting non-underlying items of was incurred in 2010 11.
The impairments primarily relate to the 309.4 million, was 224.1 million 2009 10 profit before tax closure of operations in Spain 70.6 million, the impairment of 112.7 million.
of acquired goodwill in relation to Kotsovolos in Greece 53.2 million and PIXmania 106.3 million.
6 Free Cash Flow of 38.9 million before restructuring charges 2009 10 28.1 million.
As at 30 April 2011 the Group had net debt of 206.8 million 2009 10 220.6 million.
Rephased debt profile following issue of new 2015 Bonds and part repurchase of existing 2012 Bonds in July 2010.
Dixons Retail plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Directors Report Performance Review Overview continued Underlying sales and profit analysis Underlying sales Underlying profit loss 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended Currency ended ended 7 3 30 April 2011 1 May 2010 neutral Like for like 30 April 2011 1 May 2010 million million % change % change million million 8 UK & Ireland 3,816.1 4,013.5 5 % 3 % 71.3 71.1 9 Nordics 2,268.9 2,093.7 7% 5% 105.6 97.4 10 Other International 1,226.7 1,291.6 2 % 5 % 21.6 8.3 11 Pure play e-commerce 842.7 921.2 5 % 5 % 0.9 11.3 Central costs 15.8 19.5 Total Group Retail 8,154.4 8,320.0 1 % 2 % 140.4 152.0 Property losses 12.8 18.8 EBIT 127.6 133.2 Underlying net finance costs 42.3 42.3 Group underlying profit before tax 85.3 90.9 Notes 1 Throughout this report, references are made to underlying performance measures.
Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results from the business to be closed, closed businesses, the amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.
These excluded items are described as non-underlying.
The financial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement and in note 4 to the financial statements.
2 Business to be closed comprises PC City Spain.
Closed businesses comprise the operations of PC City Sweden and Markantalo in Finland.
Discontinued operations comprise operations in Poland and Hungary.
3 Like for like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period and are calculated using constant exchange rates.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations.
Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded as of the announcement date.
Stores subject to a refurbishment are excluded during the period of refurbishment.
All e-commerce pick-up store sales are included in like for like sales.
4 Underlying Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT equates to underlying operating profit and is defined as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, before deduction of net finance costs and tax.
5 The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share for the period prior to the rights issue, which completed on 9 June 2009, has been multiplied by an adjustment factor to reflect the bonus element of the shares issued under the terms of the rights issue as described in note 8 to the financial statements.
The adjustment factor used was 1.2138.
6 Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure.
7 Currency neutral change percentage reflects the year on year growth or decline in underlying sales, calculated excluding the effect of currency movements.
8 UK & Ireland comprises Currys, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, PC World, operations in Ireland, DSGi Business and KNOWHOW.
Like for like sales exclude DSGi Business.
9 Nordics comprises the Elkjp group and Dixons Travel Denmark.
10 Other International comprises Greece Kotsovolos, Italy Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores and Dixons Travel Italy, Czech Republic Electro World, Slovakia Electro World and Turkey Electro World.
11 Pure play e-commerce division comprises Dixons.
12 Unless otherwise noted, throughout this statement figures relate to continuing operations, excluding the results of the business to be closed closed businesses.
Total revenue including discontinued operations and business to be closed closed businesses was 8,341.8 million 2009 10 8,543.4 million.
Business performance Underlying Group sales excluding discontinued operations and the business to be closed closed businesses were down 2% to 8,154.4 million 2009 10 8,320.0 million and down 2% on a like for like basis.
Underlying Group sales were down 1% at constant exchange rates.
Total Group sales including the business to be closed closed businesses were down 2% to 8,341.8 million 2009 10 8,532.5 million.
Group gross margins were up 0.1% across the year.
Group EBIT underlying profit before interest and tax was 127.6 million 2009 10 133.2 million.
Group underlying profit before tax was 85.3 million 2009 10 90.9 million.
Total loss before tax, after deducting non-underlying items of 309.4 million, was 224.1 million 2009 10 profit before tax 112.7 million.
Dixons Retail plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
