Stores and internet Directors Report Convenience and ease of navigation are key in attracting Strategic Summary customers to shop with us.
Through the Renewal and Transformation plan more detail of which can be found at Business Model www.
com we are improving our stores, making them easier to shop with, for example, improved navigation, better signage, playtables to allow customers to interact with products before they buy, as well as good advice on features and benefits from our colleagues.
We are also combining our PC World and Customers are Currys stores into 2-in-1 stores which give our customers greater access to our specialist computing offer combined with our at the heart of market leading mixed electrical offering, and enables us to improve our sales densities and rent to space mix.
We favour the everything we do combined store format and we are implementing this in our stores across the Nordics and Other International businesses.
Bringing life to technology Our FIVES sales training programme combined with our Product Our customers are at the centre of an increasingly digitised world Learning Centres provides our colleagues with the right tools to which they can access and utilise in numerous different ways.
really understand customers needs and to provide them with the Whether this be social media, online gaming, downloading complete solution to properly meet those needs.
We will continue movies, sharing pictures, cloud computing or energy efficient to improve the training of our colleagues and the ways in which products, customers do not just come into our stores to buy we can help them be experts in the products we sell.
products, but to find a solution to a need.
It is our job to help find the right solution for our customers, ensuring they get the most Many of our customers research products online before coming out ofthe products they buy.
As such we put our customers at in to store to buy, so ease of navigation, clear descriptions of the heart of everything we do.
Our core purpose of bringing life to products and related information are important for our websites.
technology embodies our belief that in this increasingly complex We are increasingly seeing customers combining the ease of the world our customers need solutions and help.
From this core internet with the convenience of our stores by using our purpose we have built our customer plan which is discussed in reserve&collect service.
In the UK, we have implemented the more detail in the Chief Executives Review on pages 5 to 7. market leading e-merchant platform from PIXmania which enables us to continually evolve and improve our online offer to As one of Europes leading specialist electrical retailing and ensure customers are engaged with our internet operations.
services companies we operate a business model that supports delivery of our Customer Plan.
Products Combining our customer insight with our market strength across Customer insight Europe we can make sure we have the right range of products In order to ensure we understand what our customers want, how inour stores to suit customers needs.
Our scale means that they use the products they buy from us, and what they think of the wecan work with suppliers to showcase the latest technology service they get from us, we use extensive customer insight.
This and products in our stores, with areas dedicated to key suppliers includes discussions at customer panels, interviews, home visits products.
This also enables us to get products exclusively in our and other research.
This is supported by mystery shopping in our stores, such as the iPad on launch in 2010. own and competitors stores, exit surveys and customer feedback.
We use this information to build our ranges, improve our stores and Own brand products enable us to offer customers a greater range services as well as help us with other business decisions.
and choice of products at competitive prices.
We havedefined a clear good-better-best brand range of: Currys and PC World essentials: Logik: Advent: Goji: and Sandstrm brands.
Customer insight Store Internet Products After-sales Support service Sales advice Multi-channel Great brands Delivery & installation Easy to shop Pure play Wide range Set up & upgrade Playtables reserve&collect Exclusivity Help & support 2-in-1 store offering Specialist Own brand product Repair & protect Value Choice Service Low cost operating model Dixons Retail plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Strategic Summary 08 -- 22 Our low cost operating model drives continuous improvement Directors Report inour processes and services.
This continuous improvement Strategic Summary enables us to re-invest back into providing better value products Business Model and services to our customers.
continued Direct ownership of the service infrastructure from end to end means we can ensure the best service at all touch points with our customers.
We believe this gives us a unique operating After-sales services and support model for a specialist electrical retailer and a significant Many of our customers need help with their products, whether competitive advantage in meeting the needs of our customers.
it be delivery and installation, keeping their products up and running or repairing them when things go wrong.
Our business While much of the improvement work has been focused on the in the UK & Ireland sets the benchmark for our services UK, core elements of the business model exist in our businesses infrastructure.
In May 2011 we relaunched our services under in the Nordics and Other International divisions.
Further services the new KNOWHOW brand with four clear pillars of support under the KNOWHOW brand will be rolled out to these divisions for customers to choose from.
We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the UK Low cost operating model with around 60,000 deliveries per week enabling us to provide Dixons Retail operates in a highly competitive market.
In order to customers with the convenience of next day delivery in a three hour deliver an unbeatable customer offer we need to have a low cost time slot or the value of a free delivery later.
Our KNOWHOW team to sales ratio relative to the service based business we run.
This in store, in our call centre and out in the field can provide set up means we have to: and upgrade services as well as online fix and back up services.
have sufficient scale economics in each market usually Our market leading range of help and support services help ensure number one or two by market share: a customer has the backing of expertise and support that keeps their technology up and running.
In the event that a customer has lean business processes minimising wasteful activity: aproblem with their product we fix it.
For example our state of design our business processes end to end to minimise cost theart repair facility in Newark repairs 600,000 laptops and deliver a high quality of service: and andtelevisions each year and is able to repair and return a laptopin six days.
We offer customers a choice of support find new ways to continually improve what we do.
agreements such as Premier which provides them with a loan TV, for example, if theirs needs to be takenin for repair.
We use a technique called Lean Six Sigma to re-engineer our business processes to make them better for customers, easier for colleagues to operate and therefore cheaper to run.
Through this low cost operating model we can deliver an unbeatable offer for customers meaning that they reward us with increased market share and improved returns for our shareholders.
Delivery & Recycling Computer Set up & Set up and Support Network Fault & Fix Personalise Built-in Cooker Installation Store & Protect Aerial Fault & Fix Software Install & Check Cooker Installation Virus & Spyware Removal WEH - Computing Operating System Washer and Dishwasher 24 7 Help and Advice WEH PremierComputing Upgrade & Check Installation Store & Share WEH - TV Camera Set up & Fridge Freezer Installation PC Tune Up WEH PremierTV Personalise TV Set Up & Demo System Reset & Restore WEH - Kitchen Component Install & Check TV Wallmount & Demo Infinity WEH Premier - Kitchen Network Set up & Secure Integrated Appliance Install Data Transfer & Check WEH - Technology Memory Install & Check Home Theatre Set Up & Data Wipe & Check Instant Replacement Tablet Set up & Tutorial Demo Data Rescue & Protect Games Console Fault Tablet Set up Tutorial & Aerial Install & Tune & Fix Internet Protection Aerial Multiroom Install and Desktop PC Fault & Fix Netbook Set up Tune Digibox Fault & Fix Knowhow Appcentre Freesat Setup & Demo Laptop Fault & Fix Freesat Install & Demo TV Fault & Fix Freesat Install & Demo WEH Whateverhappens customer support agreements Dixons Retail plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
