Performance Review 23 -- 35 Dixons Travel continues to go from strength to strength with all Directors Report stores now operating in the new format which allows for more Performance Review customer focused ranges, with a particular focus on portable items and accessories.
The demographic of its customer base in UK & Ireland airports has meant the business has been less impacted by the consumer downturn.
In addition to the UK, Dixons Travel now operates in Copenhagen, Dublin, Rome and Milan airports with further opportunities in other airports across Europe.
Internet sales continue to be driven by the shift of consumers and manufacturers to multi-channel retail outlets with significant growth in reserve&collect.
At the start of the financial year, the PIXmania e-merchant platform was implemented across the UK websites significantly improving the navigation, operation and customer experience.
Further work to improve the offer and extended ranges online are planned for the new financial year.
Profit and margins maintained Gross margins in the UK & Ireland were up throughout the year despite challenging markets.
as a result of a number of factors: Performing ahead of our Improvements in stock control, enabling the business to exit the year with lower inventory levels than last year despite the competitors.
This has included improved processes for Launch of KNOWHOW exiting aged stock, limiting the need for excessive discounting: services.
Introduction of better promotional planning, enabling better support from suppliers, particularly as they increasingly favour multi-channel operators: and Underlying sales Cost saving initiatives in the distribution and services infrastructure.
million 2010 11 3,816.1 The division made good progress on the Renewal and Transformation plan through the year with 250 stores now refitted 2009 10 4,013.5 in the UK & Ireland, including 31 Megastores.
The preferred format for customers and for the business is the combined 2-in-1 Currys Underlying operating profit and PC World format.
All High Street and out of town Superstores million will be in this format.
The majority of the 70 Megastores the Group 2010 11 71.3 is targeting will also be in this format, with a small number of 2009 10 71.1 standalone Currys Megastores in larger catchments.
The Groups planned store base for the UK & Ireland is 450 stores, comprising 70 High Street stores, 310 Superstores and 70 Megastores.
The portfolio will be managed to this size as existing leases expire and stores in each catchment are refitted.
The Group operates the most comprehensive end to end service offering in electrical retailing in the UK, giving the Group a unique services model versus the competition.
In the spring Total sales in the UK & Ireland were down 5% to 3,816.1 million of 2011 the new services brand of KNOWHOW was launched.
2009 10 4,013.5 million and like for like sales were down 3% This follows an intensive period of investment and significant across the year.
Underlying operating profit for the full year was improvement in our service offering for customers.
The new flat year on year at 71.3 million 2009 10 71.1 million.
brand was introduced into stores in May 2011 with roll out to all stores being completed by the autumn.
The KNOWHOW This is an encouraging performance in the context of a weak brand provides customers with clear easily identifiable value market.
During the first half we benefitted from sales of TVs in for money services under four distinct categories: Deliver & the lead up to the World Cup.
The cash for goals promotion Install: Set up & Upgrade: Help & Support: and Repair & Protect.
caught customers imagination and enabled the business to Through growth and continuous process improvements the capture more than its market share of the uplift in sales of TVs.
unit costs can be reduced, enabling further investment in the The work being done under the Renewal and Transformation services offer.
plan to improve the store environment and the shopping trip for customers was recognised by Apple when they chose us as their key partner for the launch of the iPad.
Trade continued to be robust in the lead up to Christmas and in the early sale period, interrupted only by very poor weather conditions in the two week period preceding Christmas.
However, like for like sales in the second half were down 7% as the consumer environment weakened in the fourth quarter.
Against this environment Currys and PC World traded ahead of the competition and gained market share.
During the year, white goods held up well and computing has been supported by iPads and tablets, with the new iPad 2 selling very strongly.
Television sales benefitted from a strong World Cup, but have been particularly weak since January.
Dixons Retail plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
