Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 44 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE yEaR EnDED 31 OCTObER 2011 The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial No Director was interested during or at the end of the year in any statements for the year ended 31 October 2011. contract that was significant in relation to the Groups business.
PrinciPal activities creditor Payment Policy The principal activities of the Group continue to be research It is the policy of the Group to settle the terms of payment with all anddevelopment, manufacture and sale of industrial printing suppliers when agreeing a transaction, to ensure that suppliers are equipment, controllers and consumables for the high-speed aware of the terms, and to abide by such terms.
The number of trade printingof variableinformation.
creditor days outstanding on 31 October 2011 was 32 2010: 37 days.
Business review authority of the directors to issue shares The Directors are required to provide a business review.
The information At the last Annual General Meeting on 16 March 2011, the Directors the review is required to contain is set out in this report and on pages were given authority to allot up to 1,657,983 in nominal value of 10to 13 and 22 to 25 which are incorporated by reference.
This figure represented approximately 30 per cent of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital at that time.
research and develoPment The Group remains firmly committed to research and development Also at the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were given to maintain its position as a market leader in high-speed industrial authority to allot shares in the Company for cash without regard coding, marking and printing systems and variable laser marking.
tothe pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This During the year, the Group spent 15.3 million 2010: 15.6 million authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be on research and development.
held on 15 March 2012 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year under the Companies Act 2006. results and dividends The results of the Group are set out on page 60.
The Directors Purchase of own shares recommend a final dividend of 12.17 pence per share for the year At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the ended 31 October 2011.
This, together with the interim dividend Company to make market purchases on the London Stock Exchange of6.58 pence per share paid on 19 August 2011, amounts to 18.75 of up to 16,027,175 ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.5 pence per share 2010: 15.62 pence.
Subject to approval at the per cent of its issued share capital at that time.
This authority will Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 10 April expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the 2012 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of Company unless renewed at that meeting.
business on 9 March 2012. amendment to articles of association directors The Articles of Association the Articles may be amended by special The Directors who were in office at the end of the year and their resolution of the shareholders.
interests in the shares of the Company are shown in note 6 to the financial statements.
All the Directors listed in note 6 held office suBstantial shareholdings throughout the financial year.
As at 31 October 2011, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the All the Directors will retire at the next Annual General Meeting and following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: offer themselves for re-election.
All the Executive Directors have service contracts with the Company that are terminable on 12 months notice.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The appointments of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are terminable on six months notice.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 45 Percentage of voting rights numBer of name of holder and issued share caPital ordinary shares nature of holding BLACkROCk INC 12.4% 13,784,332 INDIRECT SChRODERS pLC 9.8% 10,842,799 INDIRECT AEGON Uk GROUp 5.9% 6,563,532 DIRECT & INDIRECT ARTEMIS INvESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD 5.7% 6,319,383 DIRECT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUp pLC 4.9% 5,466,025 DIRECT STANDARD LIfE INvESTMENTS LTD 4.8% 5,344,070 DIRECT & INDIRECT MONTANARO ASSET MANAGEMENT 4.0% 4,454,536 DIRECT During the period commencing on 1 November 2011 and ending 12 December 2011 the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Percentage of voting rights numBer of name of holder and issued share caPital ordinary shares nature of holding AMERIpRISE fINANCIAL INC 4.4% 4,894,325 DIRECT & INDIRECT aPPointment of directors caPital structure The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint additional or Details of share capital are shown in note 25.
The Company has replacement Directors.
The Articles also require Directors to retire oneclass of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of following appointment and for one third of the Directors to retire by theCompany.
rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board has decided that each Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions Power of directors ofthe Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to ofany agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may relevant statutes, any directions given by shareholder resolution and result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions relating to the Companys power to borrow money.
The No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share Articles also contain powers relating to the issue of shares and the capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
purchase of the Companys own shares.
share schemes waiver of dividends significant agreements and other arrangements The trustees of the Companys employee benefit trusts and the The Company has various contractual arrangements for the supply qualifying employee share trust the Trusts have agreed to waive ofmaterials, components and equipment.
It also has contractual dividends payable on the Companys shares held by the Trusts, except arrangements in place for the distribution of its products by third for the shares relating to the Long-Term Incentive plan 1997, which party distributors and also for the distribution of third party products have vested and are held in trust for a further three years, and the by the Domino Group.
shares relating to the Share Incentive plan.
As at 31 October 2011 theTrusts held 1,570,105 shares on which dividends payable had The Company has a borrowing facility agreement which includes beenwaived.
This represents 1.41 per cent of the issued share change of control provisions.
On a change in control of the Company capitalat the year end.
this facility could be withdrawn or renegotiated.
share schemes voting rights regarding control The earn-out arrangements contained in some acquisition agreements of the comPany provide for payment of contingent consideration to the original sellers The trustees of the qualifying employee share trust have the in the event of a change in control of the Domino Group.
discretion to sell the shares held in the trust or to consent to the acquisition of control of the Company by another party.
The trustees There are a number of other agreements that may be terminated on of the Share Incentive plan have the discretion to seek direction from a change in control.
None is considered to be significant in terms of participants as to how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the the potential impact on the Group.
If no direction is given the trustees are prohibited from exercising the voting rights.
agreements with directors There are agreements in place with the Directors which provide for for shares held in trust under the Long-Term Incentive plan, the trustee compensation for loss of employment if this occurs within a specified has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights in respect of shares period following a change in control.
Details are given in the held in trust.
Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 55. environmental, social and ethical issues The Board takes account of the significance of environmental, social and ethical matters to the business of the Group and a separate Corporate Social Responsibility Report is set out on pages 34 to 37.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 46 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE yEaR EnDED 31 OCTObER 2011 COnTInuED charitaBle and Political donations auditor Contributions by the Group during the year to Uk charities and other A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLp as the Companys auditor worthy causes amounted to 30,350 2010: 22,700.
No political willbe proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
disclosure of information to auditor PeoPle with disaBilities The following applies to each of those persons who were Directors Applications for employment made by disabled persons are given atthe time this report was approved: fulland fair consideration, having regard to the abilities and aptitudes of the candidates.
If existing employees become disabled, every so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit effortis made to accommodate them within their existing jobs or, information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and ifthis proves to be impossible, to find them suitable alternative he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in employment.
Opportunities for development and promotion order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to areopen to all employees.
establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
emPloyee involvement This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Employee communication is organised both centrally and locally.
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Centrally organised communication deals with the affairs of the Group as a whole and the media used for this purpose include the Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
annual report and accounts, information circulars and meetings.
Operating units organise local presentations by Directors or managers and hold briefings to pass on information to employees andto ascertain their views.
corPorate governance A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 47 to 51.
RICHaRD PRyn COMpANy SECRETARy going concern 12 December 2011 The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are described within Registered Office: Bar hill, Cambridge, CB23 8TU the Chief Executives Operating and Business Review on pages 10 to 13 Registered Number: 1363137 and the financial Review on pages 22 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described within the financial Review.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have also considered the Groups forecasts and projections.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
