Lee Ginsberg 54 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Lance became Chief Executive Officer on 26 Lee joined the Company in 2004 as Finance December 2011, having previously been the Deputy Director and Company Secretary.
He previously Chief Executive Officer since June 2011.
He held the post of Group Finance Director for Health originally joined the Board as a Non-Executive Club Holdings Limited, formerly Holmes Place plc, Board Director in July 2010 whilst the Chief Executive where he also served for 18 months as Deputy Officer of Tesco Mobile, part of Tesco plc.
Lee is a chartered accountant previously held senior roles at Vodafone Group plc, by profession.
Christopher Moore 52 career in The Royal Navy where he served as an Chief Executive Officer in FY2011 officer in submarines.
Lance holds an MBA from Chris was Chief Executive Officer from January Harvard Business School.
He is a Trustee of The 2008 until the end of FY2011.
He joined Dominos National Gallery.
Pizza Inc. in 1990 to set up the Companys 2.
Stephen Hemsley 54 European Marketing Department and has Non-Executive Chairman concentrated on the UK and Ireland since 1993 Stephen joined the Company as Finance Director when he joined Dominos Pizza Group Limited.
In 2001 he was appointed Chief Executive.
Chris became a Director in 1999 and Chief Stephen was appointed Executive Chairman of Operating Officer in 2005. the Group at the beginning of 2008 and became 5.
Michael Shallow 57 Non-Executive Chairman with effect from the Non-Executive Director close of the 2010 AGM.
Stephen is a chartered Michael was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is accountant by profession.
Chairman of both the Audit Committee and the 24 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | Board of Directors Nomination Committee and Senior Independent Chairman of Calumet Holdings LLC and Dayenn 10.
Nigel Wray 63 Director of the Company.
Michael is also a Limited and non-executive director of several Non-Executive Director non-executive director of Britvic plc and has other companies.
Nigel was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is worked in the food and drinks sector for the past Chairman of Saracens Rugby Club and non-executive 8.
Michael was previously the Finance director of several public and private companies.
Non-Executive Director Director for Greene King plc.
Helen was appointed to the Board in September 11.
Helen is a Non-Executive Director of Majestic General Counsel & Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Wine plc and Mattioli Woods plc.
She is also a Adam joined the Company in 2009 from leading Syl was appointed to the Board in September 2011. trustee of The Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Helen pub company Mitchells & Butlers plc where he was She is currently the Global Innovation Director for has previously been a Director of Chrysalis plc and the Director of Legal Affairs.
Prior to this she held senior marketing and The Britannia Building Society and held senior solicitor and has previously held the position of general management roles within Allied Domecq, roles within Vodafone Group plc and GE Capital.
Corporate Lawyer at Six Continents plc and Norton the Holson Burnes Group and Gillette and has an Rose LLP.
John Hodson 65 MBA from Harvard Business School.
Non-Executive Director Key to Committees 7.
Colin Halpern 75 John joined the Board in 2005 having previously Member of the Audit Committee Non-Executive Vice Chairman been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Colin acquired the Dominos Pizza Master Franchise Singer and Friedlander Group.
He is currently Indicates Chairman of Committee Agreement for the UK and Republic of Ireland in Chairman of Strategic Equity Capital plc.
1993 through International Franchise Systems Inc. Ages of Directors are as at 15 February 2012 In November 1999, with Colin as Chairman, the Company was taken public and listed on AIM.
Colin Peter Klauber was a Non-Executive Director is the Managing Director of HS Real Company LLC, until 30 September 2011 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25
