fide Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the 52 Business review weeks ended 25 December 2011.
Under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, a company is required to produce a business review containing a fair Principal Activity review of the business of the company and a description of the Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc the Company and its subsidiary principal risks and uncertainties facing the company.
Shareholders companies together the Group hold the master franchise for are referred to the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executive Dominos Pizza, one of the worlds leading home delivery pizza Officers report, the Chief Financial Officers review, the OFR, and brands, in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Germany this the Corporate Governance report for the required information at includes the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man the Territory.
Details of the Groups policy on addressing financial The Company operates the leading home delivery pizza brand in the risks is given in the OFR and details about financial instruments are UK and the Republic of Ireland and having only recently acquired shown in note 31 to the financial instruments at page 97.
They are the master franchise for Dominos Pizza in Germany 26 April 2011 intended to provide a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the believes the German market offers an exceptional opportunity for development and performance of the business, its performance the Dominos brand.
during the year, likely developments and any principal risks and As at 25 December 2011, the Group had the following franchised uncertainties associated with the Companys business.
and corporate owned stores in the Territory: Directors and their interests Franchised Corporate Owned Details of the current Directors are given in the Board of Directors section on pages 24 to 25.
UK & Ireland 720 0 Germany 1 5 The Directors who served during the year were: Stephen Hemsley Non-Executive Chairman Christopher Moore Chief Executive Officer Driven to Deliver retired 26 December 2011 The Group affiliates its systems to the quality of our product and Lance Batchelor Deputy Chief Executive the service it provides.
These factors have led to the creation of appointed 27 June 2011 the mission statement Driven to Deliver the best products to Lee Ginsberg Chief Financial Officer our customers in the quickest time it is safe to do so.
The Group Colin Halpern Non-Executive Vice Chairman achieves this through four underpinning values which are at the Nigel Wray Non-Executive Director heart of what the corporate and franchise teams do: John Hodson Non-Executive Director Michael Shallow Non-Executive Director Passionate about winning being the best by being better than Peter Klauber Non-Executive Director we were yesterday: stepped down 30 September 2011 Passionate about quality getting it right every time for our Syl Saller Non-Executive Director customers: appointed 20 September 2011 Passionate about service knowing who our customers are and Helen Keays Non-Executive Director beating their expectations every time we serve them: and appointed 20 September 2011 Passionate about relationships treating people with respect and in the way that you would want to be treated.
30 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Directors report Lance Batchelor was an independent Non-Executive Director of the Conflicts of interest Company until 27 June 2011 when he was appointed to the role of There are procedures in place to deal with any Directors conflicts Deputy Chief Executive.
On 28 September 2011, the Company of interest arising under section 175 of the 2006 Act and such announced that the final quarter of 2011 would be the last with the procedures have operated effectively since 1 October 2008. current Chief Executive, Chris Moore, at the helm.
Chris stepped Directors indemnity down as Chief Executive and retired from the Board with effect from The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision contained 26 December 2011 and Lance Batchelor took over as Chief Executive in the Companys Articles of Association.
The provision, which is a from the start of the 2012 financial year 26 December 2011. qualifying third party indemnity provision, was in force throughout Peter Klauber, having served on the Board for three years, stepped the last two financial years and is currently still in force.
The Group down as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 30 September also purchased and maintained throughout the financial period 2011.
Details of the two new Non-Executive Directors, Syl Saller and Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its Helen Keays, were announced on 20 June 2011 and Syl and Helen Directors and officers, although no cover exists in the event joined the Board on 20 September 2011.
Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No indemnity is provided for the Groups auditors.
At the start of the year under review, the Board comprised two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
With effect from 30 September 2011, the Board comprised three Executive Directors, six Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
As of 26 December 2011 the Board comprised two Executive Directors, six Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
Directors interests in contracts At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 31 www.
fide Directors interests in shares, including family interests Results and Dividends As at 26 December Results As at 2010 ordinary The Group profit for the period after taxation was 26,466,000 25 December 2011 shares or date of 2010: 24,065,000.
This is after a taxation charge of ordinary shares appointment if later 12,323,000 2010: 11,139,000 representing an effective tax rate Chairman of 31.8% 2010: 31.6%.
The financial statements setting out the ii Stephen Hemsley 3,948,914 3,991,170 results of the Group for the period ended 25 December 2011 are Executive Directors shown on pages 60 to 104.
Christopher Moore 2,434,360 2,517,706 Dividends vi Lance Batchelor 21,775 The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.80 Lee Ginsberg 100,320 100,320 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 29 March 2012 to members Non-Executive Directors on the Register at the close of business on 24 February 2012, subject i Colin Halpern 4,457,900 4,757,900 to shareholder approval.
Together with the interim dividend of 5.50p iii Nigel Wray 16,595,368 18,295,368 per ordinary share paid on 2 September 2011, the total dividend for iv Michael Shallow 48,000 48,000 the year will be 12.3p compared with 10.2p for the previous year, an v John Hodson 48,000 48,000 increase of 20.6%.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the vii Peter Klauber year in which they are paid, or, in the case of the final dividend, viii when approved by shareholders, such that the amount recognised in Syl Saller ix the 2011 accounts, as described in note 13, is made up of last years Helen Keays final dividend and this years interim dividend.
Total 27,654,637 29,758,464 Share Capital Share capital Details of disclosable interests in share options and LTIP awards are As at 25 December 2011, the Companys authorised share capital given on pages 58 to 59 of the Report on Directors remuneration.
HS Real LLC is ordinary shares of 1.5625 pence each and there were 162,035,784 owned by a discretionary trust, the beneficiaries of which are the adult children of ordinary shares in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the Colin and Gail Halpern.
A charging order is currently in place over the 4,457,900 shares held by HS Real LLC which prohibits the transfer of these shares or the payment of any London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or dividend, interest or redemption by the Company relating to them.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to ii.
1,000,462 ordinary shares 2010: 1,000,462 ordinary shares are held by CTG attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint Investment Limited, a discretionary trust of which Stephen Hemsley and his family are one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate potential beneficiaries.
2,790,000 ordinary shares in total 2010: 2,790,000 are held by The Stephen Hemsley Trust Nos.
1 to 5, a discretionary trust of which Stephen representatives are entitled to attend general meetings and to Hemsley and his family are potential beneficiaries.
158,452 ordinary shares 2010: exercise voting rights.
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid up.
188,388 are held in Stephens self invested pension plan.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every iii.
407,775 ordinary shares 2010: 407,775 are held by Roy Nominees Limited, which is beneficially owned by the family trusts of Nigel Wray, principal beneficiaries of which holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled are Nigel Wrays children.
16,177,404 shares 2010: 17,877,404 held by Syncbeam to vote shall have one vote unless the proxy is appointed by more Limited a company wholly owned by Nigel Wray are held by Euroblue Investments than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or more Limited, a company wholly owned by Nigel Wray.
10,189 ordinary shares are held by Nigel Wrays son, Joe Wray 2010: 10,189. shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution, in which case the proxy iv.
48,000 ordinary shares 2010: 48,000 are held by Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited on behalf of Michael Shallow.
has one vote for and one vote against.
This is to reflect the Shareholders Rights Regulations which have amended the 2006 v. 48,000 ordinary shares 2010: 48,000 are held in John Hodsons self invested pension plan.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and vi.
21,775 ordinary shares 2010: 0 are held by Lance Batchelor personally.
entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special voting rights with vii.
Peter Klauber stepped down from the Company on 30 September 2011. regard to control of the Company.
The Notice of annual general viii.
Syl Saller was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 September 2011. meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and ix.
Helen Keays was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 September 2011. appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the annual general meeting.
The relevant proxy votes are None of the Directors have a beneficial interest in the shares of any counted and the number for, against or withheld in relation to each subsidiary.
Should any ordinary shares be requested to satisfy resolution are announced at the annual general meeting and awards under the Long Term Investment Plan Share Scheme the published on the Companys website after the meeting.
LTIP, these may be provided by the employee benefit trust the EBT.
Further details relating to the LTIP and the EBT can be found There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the on pages 50 to 55.
Company other than certain restrictions that may be imposed from time to time by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors, Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, including share options, in the share capital of the Company as at officers and employees of the Group require the approval of the 15 February 2012.
Group to deal in ordinary shares of the Group.
The Group is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
32 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Directors report Shares held by Employee Share Trusts Substantial shareholdings The Group has an EBT, the trustee of which is Ogier Employee As at 25 December 2011, the Company has been notified of the Benefit Trust Limited.
As at 25 December 2011, the EBT held following interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the 560,523 shares which are used to satisfy awards made under the Company: LTIP.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercisable by % of share capital the trustee, however in accordance with investor protection Wellington Management 5.5 guidelines, the trustee abstains from voting.
Vontobel Asset Management 5.3 Acquisition Germany Barclays Stockbrokers EO 4.7 On 26 April 2011, the Company acquired a 75 per cent shareholding Moonpal Grewal 3.7 interest in the master franchise for Dominos Pizza in Germany Oppenheimer Funds 3.7 Dominos Germany via DP Cyco Limited DP Cyprus a Cypriot Standard Life Investments 3.6 registered subsidiary company of the Company acquired specifically Montanaro Investment Managers 3.1 for the acquisition the German Acquisition.
DP Cyprus Using the total voting rights figure as at 25 December 2011 of 162,035,784. subsequently acquired the entire share capital of Dominos Pizza Germany GmbH a company registered in Berlin, Charlottenburg Nigel Wray, a Non-Executive Director, has an interest of 3% or more Germany.
The other 25 percent shareholding interest in Dominos in the issued share capital of the Company.
Please see the Directors Germany is retained by the vendor of the Dominos Pizza franchise report on page 32 for the full details of all of the Directors in Germany, Briskas Ltd Briskas.
Briskas is an affiliate of the shareholdings.
Grand City Hotels Group, the second largest hotel operator in Except for the above, the Group is not aware of any ordinary Germany and with over 100 hotels in Europe.
Briskas was awarded shareholders with interests of 3% or more in the issued share the master franchise for Dominos Pizza in April 2010 by Dominos capital of the Company.
The Company has not been notified of any Pizza Overseas Franchising B. V DPOF and at the time of other changes to the notifiable voting rights in its shares up to acquisition by the Company had two corporate owned Dominos 15February 2012.
As at 25 December 2011 Dominos Germany had 5 corporately owned Dominos Pizza stores in Berlin and 1 Employees franchised store in the Bonn region of Germany.
United Kingdom and ROI In the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the Group Under the terms of the German Acquisition, the Company purchased employed an average of 425 people in 2011 up to and including the 75 per cent interest in Dominos Germany for a total 25 December 2011 2010: 386 at its head office and three consideration of 2,200,000 ordinary shares of the Company of commissaries.
Through its shareholding interest in one Dominos 1.5625 pence each the Ordinary Shares.
The Company issued Pizza store, the Group indirectly employed on average an additional 1,320,000 Ordinary Shares on completion of the Germany 41 people in 2011 2010: 47.
Acquisition the Initial Consideration Shares and a further 880,000 Ordinary Shares will be issued to Briskas on the opening Head Office United Kingdom 193 of the 35th Dominos Pizza store in Germany.
The Initial Milton Keynes Commissary 147 Consideration Shares were admitted to trading on 3 May 2011 and Penrith Commissary 55 rank pari passu in all respects with the existing Ordinary Shares in the Company.
Naas Commissary 30 In order to fund the development of Dominos Germany the Germany Company provided Dominos Germany with a 7,500,000 loan In Germany, the Group employed an average of 88 people from 26 facility the Purchaser Loan from the Companys existing cash April 2011 to 25 December 2011 2010: 0 the acquisition of reserves.
1,000,000 of the Purchaser Loan was drawn down at Dominos Germany took place on 26 April 2011. completion of Dominos Germany.
The Purchaser Loan is in addition to a 2,500,000 million of loan capital provided by Briskas to Head Office Germany 7 Dominos Germany.
German Commissary 1 Purchase of own shares Domino's Pizza Store Charlottenburg Berlin 25 At the annual general meeting of shareholders held on 30 March Domino's Pizza Store Schneberg Berlin 25 2011 2011 AGM, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Domino's Pizza Store Zehlendorf Berlin 21 Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to Domino's Pizza Store Tempelhof Berlin 4 10% of its ordinary shares.
As at 15 February 2012, 500,000 Domino's Pizza Store Mitte Berlin 5 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1.5625 pence each had been bought back and cancelled under this authority at a total cost of 2,219,000, representing 0.3% of the Companys called up share capital as at 28 March 2012, the date of the 2012 annual general meeting of shareholders 2012 AGM.
The Company engages in share buybacks to create value for shareholders, when cash flows permit and there is no immediate alternative investment use for the funds.
Taking into account all of the buybacks since 2004, 16.3% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital has been purchased.
Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the forthcoming 2012 AGM.
It is the Companys present policy to cancel any ordinary shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 33 www.
fide Employment policies Employee engagement & wellbeing The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in There is a close correlation between levels of employee motivation, employment.
The Group recruits and selects applicants for organisational performance and the provision of a safe and healthy employment based solely on their qualifications and suitability for workplace.
The Group aims to continue to provide a high quality work the position, whilst bearing in mind equality and diversity.
It is the experience for all its employees to ensure they feel supported, valued Groups policy to recruit the most capable person available for each and involved in the work of their team.
Most importantly the Group position.
The Group recognises the need to treat all employees endeavours for employees to feel proud to be a part of Dominos Pizza honestly and fairly.
The Group is committed to ensuring that its and to recognise that they contribute to the Groups success.
employees feel respected, valued and are able to fulfill their The Group is committed to asking employees about their potential and recognises that the success of the business relies on employment experience and to addressing areas which have been their skill and dedication.
identified as needing improvement in the eyes of the employee.
This The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for is achieved through regular employee surveys and interaction with employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular employee groups.
The feedback received helps to create action aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the plans and strategies and to enhance the general working experience.
employment of those who become disabled during their Internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are employment.
well informed about the business of the Group.
These include a staff Procedures, diversity and inclusivity magazine called Slice and new for 2012 will be monthly staff Group HR practices and procedures, including those relating to pay, briefing sessions hosted by the Chief Executive and attended by the benefits, promotions, terminations, training and self-development Dominos Pizza Group Limited board of directors the Executive opportunities, comply with relevant legislation, without Committee.
A cross functional team has been established to discrimination regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic or national develop and implement DOMcard, the Groups performance origin, religious belief, political opinion, or affiliation, sex, marital scorecard.
This team have worked with the Executive Committee to status, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age or disability.
identify and communicate the key strategic priorities for the Group.
The Group does not tolerate harassment of any employee.
Progress will now be cascaded to all employees through the intranet and the monthly staff briefing sessions.
Training During the year the Company won the Training Journals e-learning A number of regular training and motivational events for Programme of the Year 2011 Award.
Competing against companies franchisees, hosted by corporate employees, facilitate the such as the BBC, Aviva and HSBC, the Company landed the development of strong relationships.
Employees are actively e-learning award for its D Tube programme, which was developed to encouraged to become shareholders of the Group through a variety help in-store managers improve their HR knowledge of discipline of schemes, principally the Company Share Option Plan CSOP and and grievance and includes a series of videos to highlight and test the Share Save Scheme.
managers on various in-store scenarios.
General Information To ensure the very highest brand standards and to maximise the Annual General Meeting abilities of the Groups employees, the Group offers a The Notice convening the 2012 AGM to be held at 1 p. m. on comprehensive training and development programme for all its Wednesday 28 March 2012 at The Training Centre, Unit B, Kingston employees and franchisees.
The Groups dedicated training centre Centre, Winchester Circle, Kingston, Milton Keynes, MK10 0BA is provides the ideal environment for franchisees to participate in the contained in a circular sent to all shareholders with this report.
Full Groups franchise development programme and numerous other details of all resolutions to be proposed are provided in this training programmes for franchisees and their staff offered by the shareholder circular.
Corporate staff are encouraged to participate in both The Directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the internally held and externally provided training courses.
notice of 2012 AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its Following the successful mentoring pilot project delivered over the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors will be voting in favour of last year the Group is planning to develop mentoring to the next them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour stage.
Many of the Groups employees have valuable expertise, of each of them.
knowledge and skills that can be shared with others.
The Group will Significant agreements and change of control provisions be looking for experts to become specialist mentors and to provide The principal risks and uncertainties section of the Corporate development opportunities to other employees in a meaningful and Governance report set out on pages 44 to 47 provides details effective way.
or refers to where details can be found of the three most significant Whistleblowing agreements to the Groups business, which are as follows: A whistleblowing policy and procedure is in place and has been UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement UK MFA : notified by the Group to all employees.
The policy enables Know How Licence Agreement: and employees to report any concerns on matters affecting the Group or German Master Franchise Agreement German MFA, their employment, without fear of recrimination.
pursuant to which certain of the Groups companies are granted the right to franchise stores and operate commissaries in the Territory.
34 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Directors report The Groups agreements listed above do not terminate on a change each Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a of control.
The Group does not have agreements with any Director Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the of that information.
Groups share schemes and plans may cause options and awards Going concern granted to employees and Directors under such schemes and plans The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to vest on a takeover.
The Groups banking arrangements do contain to affect its future development, performance and position are set change of control provisions which, if triggered, could limit future out in the OFR on pages 8 to 29.
The financial position of the utilisations, require the repayment of existing utilisations or lead to Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities a renegotiation of terms.
are described in the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 20 to Articles of Association 23.
In addition, notes 30 and 31 to the financial statements include The Companys articles of association remain unchanged during the the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its 2011 financial year.
capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to Environmental and Social responsibility credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect the As highlighted in note 30 to the financial statements, the Company environment and the social well-being of others.
Details of the has a bank revolving facility that is due for renewal on 31 December Groups approach to these issues are set out in the Corporate Social 2012.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty Responsibility report at pages 26 to 29. particularly over the general availability of bank finance in the foreseeable future.
The Companys forecasts and projections, taking Charitable donations account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, Financial donations to a range of charities and good causes show that the Company should be able to operate within the level amounted to 41,000 2010: 39,000.
Principally this comprised of its existing facilities, subsequent to the repayment of the 25m a donation to Special Olympics Great Britain and a donation to term facility.
The Company will open renewal negotiations with its Barretstown, a specially-designed camp in Ireland that provides bank in due course and has, at this stage, not sought any written therapeutic recreation programmes for children with serious commitment that the facility will be renewed.
However, the illnesses, and their families.
Company has held discussion with its bank about its future The Company makes no political donations 2010: nil.
borrowing needs and no matters have been drawn to the Companys attention to suggest that renewal may not be forthcoming on Key Performance Indicators KPIs acceptable terms.
Details of the Groups KPIs can be found in the OFR on pages 18 and 19.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Payments to suppliers foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern The Group understands the benefits to be derived from maintaining basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
good relationships with its suppliers and where possible payment terms and conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance based on Post balance sheet events the Groups standard terms and conditions for the supply of goods There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date and services.
Where such terms have not been agreed it is the which would have a material effect on the financial statements.
Groups policy to pays its creditors on a pay on time basis which Cautionary statement varies according to the type of product and service provided by the This Annual Report contains forward looking statements.
These supplier but is typically between 7 and 28 days and is agreed with forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, suppliers in advance.
rather they are based on current views and assumptions as at the The average numbers of days of payments outstanding for the Group date of this Annual Report and are made by the Directors in good at the financial period end was 24 2010: 27.
The Company has faith based on the information available to them at the time of their no trade creditors as these are assumed and settled by another approval of this report.
These statements should be treated with Group company.
caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such forward looking information.
The Group undertakes no Auditors obligation to update these forward looking statements.
Ernst & Young LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and the Group is satisfied that By order of the Board Ernst & Young LLP is independent and there are adequate Adam Batty safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution to Company Secretary re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be 15 February 2012 proposed at the 2012 AGM.
Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report and financial statements have each confirmed that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 35
