04 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Maximising the value of the Drax business Our business model Our overriding objective is to maximise the value of the Drax business whilst increasing our electricity generation from biomass, and so reducing our carbon footprint, subject to the availability of appropriate levels of regulatory support.
Our profitability is determined by both the difference between the price at which we sell our power and the cost of coal and carbon, known as the dark green spread, and increasingly by the bark spread for co-ring, which is the difference between power price and renewable support and the cost of biomass.
From this starting point there are several steps in the Drax value chain, with each one adding incremental value to the business and ultimately maximising the value of our business and delivering our gross margin.
1 Fuel Key facts for 2011 We now make use of a range of fuels, including coal, k 9.1 million tonnes biomass and others which are economically advantageous.
of coal burnt 2 How we maximise value k 1.3 million tonnes of biomass burnt For the last nine years we have burnt biomass in place of some of our coal, when economic to do so.
Beyond biomass, k 0.7 million tonnes of economically we also have the ability to burn other fuels, such as petcoke advantageous and pond fines, which can be economically advantageous.
fuels burnt By diversifying our fuel sources, not only are we less reliant on a single fuel type, but we are able to capture value from commodity market cycles, and in the case of biomass avoid the cost of carbon.
2 Trading Key facts for 2011 Through keeping a constant eye on the commodity k 26.4TWh net markets within which we operate we are able to optimise sales of power the commercial despatch of our power.
k 11.9 million tonnes How we maximise value of CO2 emissions allowances As the largest power station in the UK we are able to utilise purchased economies of scale through, for example, procuring fuel at k 1.2 million competitive prices.
Our trading strategy to hedge our power Renewables sales with coal and carbon purchases enables us to lock in Obligation Certicates sold value in the near, short and long term.
We are always looking for renewable to increase the trading options available to us, for example, power generated through our retail business.
We benefit from having a physical asset to trade around and through a seamless interface with the operations side of the business we derive value from the 1 operational characteristics of the power station, such as high availability and exibility, enabling us to extract value even when market conditions are poor.
05 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 5 3 Retail Key facts for 2011 Our retail business is focused on providing businesses k 3.3TWh supplied of all sizes with cost effective, tailored electricity supply k 100% sales backed by dedicated customer support.
growth by volume How we maximise value k 40,000 business We have already achieved significant growth in the sites on supply at the end of the year marketplace and have become a recognised key player by businesses throughout the UK.
We have ambitious plans to grow further and bring this individual service to even more business customers.
Our retail business increases the trading options available for the power output of the Group, providing us with an alternative and direct route to market.
4 Generation Key facts for 2011 Drax Power Station is the largest, cleanest and most k 3,960MW efficient coal-red power station in the UK, almost twice connected the size of the next largest power station.
capacity of Drax 3 Power Station How we maximise value k 88.4% plant Already the most efficient coal-red power station in the availability UK, we are improving our overall efficiency through our k 5.8% forced turbine upgrade project which brings with it coal outage rate and carbon savings.
With leading performances across k 6.2% planned all aspects of the operational side of the generation business, outage rate from safety to maintenance, we are able to deliver high availability and reliability.
In addition, the exibility of our power station allows us to respond quickly to changes in demand.
Together that means we are consistently there when needed, both to meet our contractual obligations and to provide support services critical to security of supply.
5 Environment Key facts for 2011 We work towards reducing our impact on the k 2.0 million tonnes environment with a policy of regarding compliance of CO2 saved with legislation as a minimum level of achievement.
through co-ring sustainable biomass How we maximise value 4 k 1.2 million tonnes We strive to be at the forefront of environmental performance of ash sold in pursuit of maintaining our commercial and environmental k 0.7 million tonnes leadership position in the coal-red sector.
Through burning of gypsum sold sustainable biomass and our turbine upgrade project we are able to reduce the amount of coal we burn, save on carbon costs and reduce emissions of CO2.
We generate revenue through sales of our by-products.
We aim to maximise the sales of ash produced from burning coal, which not only saves on landll costs, but creates its own revenue stream.
By reducing emissions of sulphur dioxide, through our ue gas desulphurisation process, we produce gypsum which, like ash, is sold to the construction industry.
