com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Directors Peter Johnson Miles Roberts Steve Dryden Christopher Bunker Chairman c Group Chief Executive b, c Group Finance Director b Senior Independent Director a, c, d, e Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 4 May Appointed to the Board on 1 April 8 December 1999 as a non- 2010 as Group Chief Executive.
He 2008 as Group Finance Director.
Appointed to the Board on Executive Director.
He became was previously Chief Executive of He is a non-Executive Director of 9 December 2003 as a non-Executive Chairman of the Board on 1 January McBride plc from July 2005 until Fiberweb plc.
He is the Senior Independent 2007 and is Chairman of the April 2010, having originally joined the position of Finance Director of Director and until recently was Nomination Committee.
He is a as its Group Finance Director in Filtrona plc following its demerger Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Supervisory Board of January 2002.
He was a nonfrom Bunzl plc in 2005.
Prior to that He was previously Group Finance Wienerberger AG and is Chairman Executive Director of Care UK plc he was divisional Finance Director of Director of Thames Water Plc, of Electrocomponents plc.
Age 47. the Filtrona businesses and held other Tarmac Plc and Westland Group Plc.
previously a non-Executive Director of senior finance positions within Bunzl He is a non-Executive Director SSL International plc, Chief Executive plc.
He began his career at Price of Travis Perkins plc and was a nonof George Wimpey Plc and prior to Waterhouse and has also held Executive Director of Mowlem Plc, that Chief Executive of The Rugby various finance roles within RollsBaltimore Technologies plc and Xansa Group PLC.
Gareth Davis Philippe Mellier Jonathan Nicholls a, c, d, e a, d a, c, e Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 1 June 7 September 2006 as a non- 1 December 2009 as a non- 2010 as a non-Executive Director Executive Director.
He will be joining Executive Director and is the and is Chairman of the Remuneration fide Beers Group in July 2011 as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is the Chairman of Group Chief Executive Officer.
He He was previously Group Finance both William Hill PLC and Wolseley is currently President of Alstom Director of Hanson Plc and, most plc.
He was previously Group Chief Transport and an Executive Vicerecently, Group Finance Director of Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group President of Alstom Group.
Age 61. a non-Executive Director he was Chairman and CEO of Director and Chairman of the Audit b member of General Purposes Committee Renault Trucks and a Member of Committees of Great Portland Estates c member of Nomination Committee the Executive Committee of AB Volvo, plc and SIG plc and was a nond member of Remuneration Committee and prior to that held senior Executive Director of Man Group Plc.
e member of Audit Committee management positions with Renault Age 53.
S. A. and Ford Motor Company.
