BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA A G L LO S SV T TA A ET T RE E N M M A E EN N NC T TS S E OF MEETING 51271 p31-39 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:34 Page 39 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 39 Group Steering Team The Group Steering Team, chaired by Miles Roberts, has been established to bring together the running of the Group as a whole, to ensure a joined-up approach so that the strategy is implemented effectively throughout the business.
The Group Finance Director, Steve Peter Damman Paul Harridine Nigel Hayter Dryden, and the Group Divisional Chief Executive, Spicers Chief Procurement Officer Group Human Resources Director General Counsel and Joined DS Smith in February 2011.
Joined DS Smith in September 1992.
Company Secretary, Peter has broad global experience in Previous experience includes senior Nigel has been Group Human the office products industry gained purchasing and supply chain roles Resources Director since 1999.
In Matthew Jowett, are also from a 22 year career in the industry.
in the automotive, aerospace and that role he is responsible for health members of this team.
He has held a number of senior construction industries as well as and safety and for pensions, as commercial management positions positions on the operating boards well as managing all aspects of the including Vice President Office Depot of Oxford Instrument plc and development of the employee base.
Europe, President Corporate Express fide La Rue plc.
Prior to that, within DS Smith, he was Europe and Vice President Tech Human Resources Director for the UK Depot.
Jean Lienhardt Jean-Marie Paultes Gary Saunders Mark Smith Divisional Chief Executive, Divisional Chief Executive, Divisional Chief Executive, Divisional Chief Executive, DS Smith Kaysersberg DS Smith Packaging France DS Smith Packaging UK DS Smith Plastics, Liquid Packaging and Dispensing Joined DS Smith in January 1994.
Joined DS Smith in September 2010.
Joined DS Smith in November 2010.
Jean has been Divisional Chief Jean-Marie joined DS Smith in Gary has substantial experience Joined DS Smith in September 2001.
Executive of DS Smith Kaysersberg September 2010 on the acquisition gained from a 30 year career in fast Mark became Divisional Chief since October 2006.
Prior to that he by DS Smith of Otor.
He had been moving consumer goods and retail Executive of DS Smith Plastics, Liquid was finance director of that division, General Manager of Otor for the companies.
He has had a range of Packaging and Dispensing, in with additional responsibilities for previous six years.
senior operational roles with Quaker November 2010, following a series the operations in Poland and other Oats, Nestle, Sainsburys, RHM now of senior positions within the Liquid parts of the continental European Premier Foods and McBride plc.
Packaging and Dispensing business business.
in the US, progressing from Research Director to heading the US operations of the business.
