com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Our Strategy When I joined DS Smith in May 2010 I knew that it had the potential to be a great company with much better financial returns for shareholders.
Following work with the senior management team, I explained the new strategy for the Group in December 2010.
The aim of this strategy is to make DS Smith operate as one business and to transform the profile of our financial returns.
DS Smith will be a Group that delivers consistent growth ahead of GDP, has reduced cyclicality, higher margins and a return on capital above our cost of capital.
Set out over the next few pages is how we will achieve that.
Our aims capital efficiency and the structure of our Group.
We will also realise significant cost I want DS Smith to deliver financial returns business organisation as well as our and capital efficiencies through changing that are sustainable and attractive to commercial contracts.
We have further the organisational structure and ways shareholders.
That means organic volume considered the culture of the organisation of working.
growth in excess of GDP growth, less and also how to align our employees with The next few pages take you through each cyclicality in profitability and returns, higher the tasks ahead.
Finally, we have considered of these themes in turn, showing why we margins to make the Group more financially how to achieve this while minimising think that recycled packaging for consumer resilient, and consistent delivery of a return implementation risk.
goods is the right business to achieve our on capital above our cost of capital.
Our focus aims, how we will differentiate ourselves and In order to evaluate the business, the Group The Group aspires to be the leading supplier the steps that we are taking to deliver the management team have first reviewed of recycled packaging for consumer goods.
efficiency, cultural shift and risk management our current business mix and critically This is the area of the business that we will that we need.
considered which markets and businesses seek to develop through investment of our will provide the sort of sustainable returns time and capital.
that are attractive to shareholders and those In order to achieve this we intend to focus that will not.
We have then considered how on our packaging business, particularly we differentiate ourselves, so that we win in building on our fast moving consumer the markets in which we choose to compete, Miles Roberts goods FMCG customers.
We will expand and how we match our offering with our Group Chief Executive our recycling business that supports and customers needs.
These factors will drive is integral to our recycled packaging.
margins and produce greater resilience We will reduce our exposure to paper across the business.
Next we have manufacturing where it is not aligned with considered the efficiency and effectiveness packaging, and look to streamline the of the Group, including cost efficiency, How we should be measured We have set testing targets for the next three years.
We aim to satisfy our four stakeholders customers, employees, the environment and shareholders by creating a higher margin business with reduced cyclicality, and returns on capital that consistently exceed our cost of capital.
Metric FY 2009 10 FY 2010 11 Target Customer service On-time, in-full delivery 94% 96% 97% Financial Like-for-like volume growth Flat 3% 3% Return on sales 4.7% 5.5% 6 8% Return on capital employed 10.1% 12.7% 12 15% Net debt EBITDA 1.4x 1.6x 2.0x 1 Operating cash ow operating profit 150% 125% 120% Employee Accident frequency rate 7.7 7.2 nil Environmental CO2 revenue kg 000 426 369 -20% in 10 years 1 before growth capital expenditure BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS028 IFC-p05 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:48 Page 3 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 3 Overview Improving our business mix Differentiating by adding value efficiency Developing a winning culture, building on existing foundations How our strategy is delivering the financial profile that we aim for Financial aim Strategic aim Achievements in 2010 11 Consistent GDP growth Drive the use of retail-ready packaging by our Underlying volume growth in packaging 8% FMCG customers Underlying Group volume growth 3% Build our business in Eastern Europe Underlying revenue growth 10% Reduced cyclicality Target FMCG customers who themselves tend to FMCG customer base expanded with see consistent demand for their products to reduce Otor acquisition volume cyclicality Consultation started on proposed closure of Reduce exposure to paper production, which is subject to one paper mill in the UK, potentially reducing cyclicality in both price and volume annual output by 95 thousand tonnes Reduce the price-review period in contracts to reduce Contractual price review periods reduced to cyclicality in our profits four months Increase the recycling business, which tends to deliver Recycling business has started work on its consistent returns expansion into Central and Eastern Europe Higher operating profit Focus on delivering a high quality product differentiated Operating profit margin up 80 basis points by service, quality and innovation bps to 5.5% margins Improve efficiency Customer service, measured by our Group on-time, in-full performance, up from 94% to 96% On track to deliver cost savings totalling 20 million from the UK business and from procurement over the next three years Otor acquisition moved our business mix Returns on capital above Grow our packaging and recycling businesses, which our cost of capital have higher returns on capital towards corrugated packaging Reduce working capital by c. 75 million from 8% to Working capital productivity improved by 24 million 5% of revenue Reduce the proportion of paper manufacturing in the ROACE up 260bps to 12.7% Group the most capital-intensive and low return area of the business where strategically possible 51271 new1 p04 Layout 1 06 07 2011 16:52 Page 4 4 www.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Our Strategy continued We will invest our time and capital in markets Improving our where the opportunities for growth and for business mix consistent returns are greatest.
Therefore we will build our packaging and recycling to drive growth, reduce cyclicality businesses while reducing our exposure and improve our return on capital.
We see sustained growth in in this region in absolute terms and to We will focus on our strategic increase the proportion of profits they bring corrugated packaging for priorities consumer goods to the Group.
This will be achieved by Our facilities for production of paper used organic growth and, where appropriate, We believe that there is considerable for corrugated packaging will be maintained sustainable growth potential in our by acquisition.
where integrated supply is strategically corrugated packaging businesses, both in beneficial, such as in the UK.
Paper Recycling gives us access to our Western Europe and in Central and Eastern production for external sale will be reduced.
The corrugated packaging sector For example, we have announced the start Our recycling business gives us security of has growth prospects in excess of GDP of consultation in respect of the proposed supply of our essential raw material, waste growth.
The use of retail-ready packaging is closure of one mill in the UK capacity 95 paper.
The recycling being driven by major retailers and FMCG thousand tonnes per annum.
business also connects us with the end-user companies, for whom it helps to reduce of our packaging, the retailer, facilitating the Our Office Products Wholesaling business costs and build sales.
We have identified use of corrugated packaging.
The model of has no synergies with the packaging opportunities within the UK and France to owning our recycling business has proved business and has the lowest margins in drive further adoption of higher quality successful in the UK and we plan to expand the Group.
We have strengthened the retail-ready packaging and for greater use it in continental Europe in conjunction with management team to realise the of corrugated packaging, in substitution for our customers.
opportunities to improve performance, other materials that are less easily recycled.
in order to maximise shareholder value.
The Plastic Packaging business has a similar In Central and Eastern Europe, consumption customer base to the corrugated packaging of corrugated packaging for FMCG is business and has some synergies with it.
We growing on the back of increased domestic will continue to invest in Plastic Packaging consumption, and of growing export where appropriate.
It is our aim to grow our businesses Retail-ready packaging benets retailers significant potential for growth in Central and Eastern Europe Reduces their costs Increased consumption of consumer goods faster shelf-stacking Growth of international retailers 46.0 less transit packaging 53% faster packing lines Low cost manufacturing base for FMCG easier to dispose of Drives sales through easier 35% 26.4 product identication, fewer stock-outs Is 100% recyclable Central and Western Carrefour Tesco Eastern Europe Europe % use of retail-ready packaging corrugated consumption per on store shelves capita kg per capita BB UU SS IN IN EE SS SS N N O O TT IC IC EE BR U R E SE V IN V IE IE E W S W S REVIEW G G O O VV E G E RR O N N A VA E N N RC N C EA ENCE FF F IN IIN N AA A N N N CC C IA IIA A L L LS S S TA T TA A TT T EE E M M M EE E N N N TT T SS S NO O O F TF IC M M E E E E O E TF T IN IN M G G EETING DS028 IFC-p05 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:48 Page 5 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 5 Acquiring Otor was a significant first step in improving our business mix On 1 September 2010 DS Smith acquired the business of Otor, a corrugated packaging business with six main sites in France and a strong FMCG customer base.
Otor has a tradition of excellent service and of innovation, demonstrated by the 50 patents they hold.
Otor has historically delivered consistent high returns without significant cyclicality the average return on sales for the three years prior to acquisition was 8.6%.
Acquiring Otor was a significant first step in improving our business mix, by increasing our exposure to the attractive FMCG market for corrugated packaging.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:01 Page 6 6 6 w ww ww w.. d ds ss sm miit th h.. u uk k.. c co om m D DS S S Sm miitth h P Pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rtt 2 20 01 11 1 Our Strategy continued We will build our market share by delivering Differentiating to our customers high standards of service, by adding value quality and innovation in the sustainable packaging solutions we offer.
and by focusing on our customers needs.
We will meet our customers high on-time, in-full, essential to being a trusted By offering our customers innovative business partner.
This metric is now reported solutions that help them cut their costs and standards for service, quality on regularly by all parts of the Group.
While their carbon footprint, we aim to maintain and innovation we have made considerable progress over and build our competitive position.
We aim to differentiate our corrugated the year 2010 11, improving from 94% to packaging products through the service, We offer our customers 96%, we aim to continue to improve to a quality and innovation that we offer to our sustainable solutions 97% target level in 2011 12. customers.
We will continue to invest in, and We differentiate DS Smith from our focus on, delivering short lead times and competition with our recycling proposition.
Innovation delivers solutions high quality products.
These qualities are Through DS Smith Recycling, we are able to to our customers necessary to win and keep the high quality offer a cradle-to-cradle service, recycling We aim to drive sales through offering but demanding FMCG customers which we waste packaging rather than sending it innovative products that solve the packaging to landfill.
We have a strong relationship have today and which we are targeting for needs of our customers.
The acquisition of the future.
We aim to match the service with many of the largest retailers in the Otor has accelerated this process due to the UK who use DS Smith Recycling to manage requirements that they are expected to strong legacy of innovation within Otor, with their recycling.
We offer our customers products such as the Otor 8 a box with deliver to their own customer, the retailer.
a 24 7 365 service, making sure that We work continuously with customers to angled corners for greater strength.
In the corrugated packaging fits easily in their UK, R-Flute was first launched in 2009 ensure our solutions add value to, and supply chain.
The recycling proposition and over the year 2010 11 we have been reduce costs in, the supply chain of which is an important point of differentiation as marketing it to customers with considerable they form a part.
consumer goods companies and retailers success.
Work is ongoing to ensure that High standards of service seek to fulfil their environmental innovation designed in one part of the are essential to be a trusted commitments.
It also facilitates the use business is effectively leveraged by the business partner of corrugated board as a packaging whole organisation.
R-Flute is now being Service is measured by the proportion of material and secures our supply rolled out into continental Europe to fulfil orders that we deliver to our customer of this valuable resource.
demand from our largest customers.
R-Flute drives sales, lowers costs and reduces carbon emissions Thicker corrugated board is usually the Benets: Packaging is 20% thinner, meaning more strongest, whilst board where the uting packaging can be delivered per pallet and is close together gives a better surface per vehicle, with less warehousing required for printing.
DS Smith has designed and all of which saves cost and carbon in the registered a new type of corrugated board, supply chain R-Flute, that delivers the best of both in terms of strength and print quality, ideal Reported improved packing line efficiency for retail-ready packaging.
High quality print nish attractive to consumers 20% fewer vehicles Better quality perforations give cleaner The Saucy Fish Co. receives more edges for an attractive retail display packaging per delivery, resulting in 20% fewer vehicles on the road.
BB UU SS IN IN EE SS SS N N O O TT IC IC EE BR U R E SE V IN V IE IE E W S W S REVIEW G G O O VV E G E RR O N N A VA E N N RC N C EA ENCE FF F IN IIN N AA A N N N CC C IA IIA A L L LS S S TA T TA A TT T EE E M M M EE E N N N TT T SS S NO O O F TF IC M M E E E E O E TF T IN IN M G G EETING DS028 p06-11 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:02 Page 7 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 7 Customer focused Cadbury has been an important customer of DS Smith for a number of years.
We are committed to delivering the highest standards of service and quality to them.
For example, we ensure that the iconic Cadbury purple colour is consistent on all the packaging we produce for them, throughout Europe.
8 sites producing packaging for Cadbury Europe excl.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:02 Page 8 8 8 w ww ww w.. d ds ss sm miit th h.. u uk k.. c co om m D DS S S Sm miitth h P Pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rtt 2 20 01 11 1 Our Strategy continued We will build a more efficient Group, with the efficiency aim of operating as one business.
It is not just about cost synergies by working together by restructuring and integrating operations.
more effectively we can improve our customer service and reduce inventory levels too.
We will drive the efficiency and January 2011 and progress is being made, effectiveness of the business with a total of 6 million split between We will be improving further the efficiency operational and capital expenditure of the Group, in respect of both operations expected to be delivered in 2011 12. and capital.
Operational efficiencies will We are improving our capital come from a change in the structure of efficiency too the Group, with businesses more closely We will also improve our capital efficiency in integrated to eliminate duplicate overheads relation to working capital and investment.
and to drive revenue growth through coWe face a significant challenge in working ordinated customer management and shared capital as rising prices increase the carrying best practice in innovation.
Annual cost value of inventories and debtors.
On working savings of 10 million are expected to capital, our targeted savings are for a be realised by April 2014 from the changes reduction in working capital as a percentage in structure to the UK businesses, and are of revenue from 8% to 5% over the three expected to cost 10 million to achieve in years to April 2014, equivalent to c. 75 cash terms.
We expect to deliver 3 million million.
24 million has been achieved by of these savings in 2011 12.
There are opportunities to reduce Capital investments will be made on a costs in purchasing strategic basis, with an emphasis on the Further, we are targeting annual cost savings packaging businesses and market sectors from procurement of 10 million by April that have historically delivered higher and 2012, by building a central purchasing less cyclical operating margins.
Work has been underway since... and to drive financial performance A new structure to support the business functions...
Through adopting a new structure and CEO adding expertise in areas such as procurement, we expect to make material savings in cost and capital Continental Europe Business Units 10 million from UK structural costs by Ofce UK France Plastics April 2014 Products 10 million from procurement by Group Customer Management Support April 2012 Functions 75 million from working capital by Procurement April 2014 Human Resources Finance and Legal BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS028 p06-11 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:02 Page 9 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 9 Becoming one DS Smith We are re-branding those parts of the business that have not previously used the DS Smith name.
Severnside Recycling has become DS Smith Recycling whilst St Regis has become DS Smith Paper.
Meanwhile in France, the Otor business and existing French corrugated packaging operations are now trading as DS Smith Packaging France.
It is now visible to our customers, employees and local communities that we are one business.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:02 Page 10 1 10 0 w ww ww w.. d ds ss sm miit th h.. u uk k.. c co om m D DS S S Sm miitth h P Pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rtt 2 20 01 11 1 Our Strategy continued Our people are essential in the successful Developing a implementation of the strategy.
We are winning culture, working, therefore, to ensure that everyone understands the part they play, underpinned building on our by a strong management team.
foundations to align our people with our strategy and position DS Smith for the future.
We are developing our people the progress made against these plans.
The Group Steering Team has been We are undertaking a series of steps to The Group has also embarked on a established chaired by Miles Roberts, improve engagement among employees programme to communicate and engage to manage the progress of the Group with the corporate goals and to align our all its employees with the new corporate as a whole.
employees with the aims of the Group.
This programme will ensure that Managing our execution risk A new Group-wide development appraisal all employees know the Groups vision and The execution risk associated with this programme is being rolled out so that values, its strategic goals and the role they business strategy is being managed by everyone understands the part they play in can play.
ensuring that our actions are rooted in the organisation.
We have also conducted We aim to be a great our existing capabilities and customers.
our first Group-wide employee survey and safe place to work Opportunities for investment will be critically to understand how to develop our Safety at work is always our first priority.
assessed on the basis of demand from our people further.
We are delighted with the progress that has existing group of customers, with care taken Employees are being aligned been made this year to improve further on our that no individual customer accounts for too with shareholders record for example we recorded a 9% large a proportion of our revenue.
Our people are also being offered the reduction in lost time accidents and a 7% Customers are at the centre opportunity to be shareholders in the Group, reduction in the accident frequency rate for of our new structure with the roll-out of a Sharesave Plan to UK the Group as a whole.
The acquisition of We have put in place a pan-European employees in early 2011.
There are plans Otor presents us with the challenge and customer management team to ensure that to extend similar offers to employees in opportunity to bring their safety record into we take care of our largest customers in a other regions.
line with that of the rest of the Group.
co-ordinated way across the Group.
This In 2010 11 DS Smith completed its first Senior management has team comprises account executives and Group-wide engagement survey, with 79% been enhanced senior regional managers, who work of employees taking the time to participate.
Senior management in the Group has been together to ensure that these customers This is a very high level of participation for strengthened, for example, with the creation are offered a seamless service and that a first survey, which reflects the dedication of the new role of Divisional Chief Executive we organise our business to deliver to and commitment of the Groups employees.
of the UK Packaging business, encompassing them in the most effective manner.
The engagement survey is an opportunity to the recycling, paper and corrugated listen to the structured feedback and views packaging businesses, and a Group of our employees.
The results have been Procurement Officer.
Senior managers analysed and communicated, and priorities now have a major element of their annual for improvement have been identified by remuneration linked both to profit and to management teams with action plans return on average capital employed in developed for the coming year.
A further order to align their interests with those survey will be completed in 2012 to monitor of shareholders.
BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS028 p06-11 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:02 Page 11 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 11 62 sites had no lost time accidents Our overall goal is to have no lost time accidents in the Group a significant target for a manufacturing business.
62 of our 128 sites achieved this stretching target in 2010 11, testimony to a relentless focus on safe working practices.
In the Groups engagement survey, 84% of respondents agreed that health and safety was taken seriously at their workplace.
