2 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business overview Choice is at the heart of our proposition and allows us to attract a broad cross section of customers.
B Bu us siin ne es ss s o Ov five errv viie ew w Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 3 3 How we generate shareholder value Our markets The UK Homewares market is estimated to be worth 11bn per annum, comprising Textiles & Soft Furnishings 45% and Household, Hardware and Lighting 55%.
Dunelm competes strongly in all segments.
Customer buying decisions in this market are primarily influenced by range, price and convenience with quality and service also essential attributes to a winning formula.
Our business model Our offer is based on a simply value for money proposition.
We reach our customers through a UK chain of 112 retail stores and two websites www.
co. uk 103 of the stores are in our out-of-town superstore format.
Our key sources of competitive advantage are industry-leading choice, everyday low prices and convenient out of town locations.
Our superstores stock over 20,000 different products with 2 a typical store size of approximately 30,000ft.
Our strategy Our strategy is to develop the business as follows: 1.
4 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business overview Our focus on constantly improving our customer offer has allowed us to gain market share.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 5 Our near term objectives Our strategic priorities 1 Develop our specialist Continuously evolve proposition product ranges We must continue to evolve our offer so that we Develop knowledge maintain and grow our competitive advantage in based customer choice and price, supported by quality, service service as a point of and availability.
differentiation Develop the store portfolio 2 We aim to grow market share and reach more customers by opening more superstores across Continue new store the UK.
We expect to grow our portfolio to 150-200 superstores in the medium term.
opening programme Develop collect in-store Grow multi-channel 3 service www.
We expect to increase customer Establish social media engagement, develop new customer touch presence points, grow revenue and further develop our Extend the range on-line multi-channel offer through reserve & collect and an improved delivery service.
Develop Dunelm At Home 4 Develop and exploit our Exploit core retail infrastructure systems to improve stock control We have a well-invested infrastructure.
Our aim is to ensure that we continue to develop this Drive efficiency through ahead of our growth curve, so that it is an new store support and enabler and never a constraint.
distribution facilities 6 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business overview We opened ten new superstores in the year adding over 300,000 square feet of selling space.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 7 Strong superstore roll out plan Our committed pipeline of stores, which we continue to add to, will provide further growth over the next 12 to 18 months as we expand towards our target for national coverage in the UK of between 150 and 200 superstores.
10 new stores Superstore locations opened in 2010 Superstores as at 3 July 2010 13 further Superstores opened openings since 3 July 2010 committed Ways to shop at Dunelm www.
