38 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, I wrote to shareholders in last years annual report setting out the principles behind Dunelms approach to executive remuneration, as well as explaining the thinking behind the most significant remuneration event of last year which was setting the remuneration and incentive targets for our new Chief Executive, Nick Wharton.
There has been no change to our underlying philosophy over the past year.
However, as indicated in my previous letter we have taken independent advice on the reward level and performance targets relating to our Long Term Incentive Plan for Executive Directors.
Proposed changes have been discussed with major shareholders and are described fully within the Remuneration Report.
We will seek shareholder approval for them at the forthcoming AGM.
Other than the above point, there are no plans for significant change to remuneration in the coming year.
Base salary increases for Executive Directors will be minimal, with only David Stead receiving an increase.
The performance range for awards under the annual bonus scheme will be tightened to 95% 105% of EPS target previously 93% 112%, as we feel this is more appropriate for the size of business which Dunelm has become.
The Remuneration Committee has been actively involved in setting remuneration packages for senior managers below Board level.
The principles applying to Executive Director remuneration have also been used in structuring the packages for members of the newly formed operating board, ensuring strong alignment of targets at that next level in the organisation.
As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am passionate about extending share ownership as far into the organisation as possible.
The Committee has therefore agreed a minimum shareholding requirement for Executive Directors of twice base salary, to be acquired over time.
At the operating board level, managers are required to build over time a holding of at least one times their base salary.
Last but not least, I am delighted that many members of staff have had the opportunity to share in Dunelms wealth creation through our approved Sharesave scheme, under which two savings opportunities have now matured.
Yours faithfully, Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee 15 September 2011
