OUR BUSINESS MODELS Aggreko is organised around two different more than that: in 2011, we invoiced our largest business models.
utility customer excluding pass-through fuel around 80 million.
Over 80% of revenue comes from power utilities in developing countries but we also serve Local business governments, armed forces, as well as oil and gas and mining companies.
A typical contract in this business Our Local business runs with high volumes of generally would be for the rental of 20-50MW for an initial quite low value transactions, renting equipment to period of 6-12 months, which will often be extended.
enable customers to respond quickly to requirements Our power-plants are highly modular, and their for power and temperature control.
Aside from major capacity can be flexed in 1MW increments using events where contracts can be worth tens of millions standard containerised units of our own proprietary of pounds, the average contract size is around 10,000, design, assembled in our factory in Scotland: but the range is from 200 to over 1,000,000. importantly, these generators are also in widespread Although most of this business has a lead-time of use in the Local business, so fleet can be shared 24 hours or more, about 25% of its revenues come from between the two businesses.
They use either diesel or responding to emergencies.
It is therefore essential to gas as fuel and are designed to be easily transportable, have the capability to deploy equipment and people reliable and robust.
Power projects can arise anywhere to the customers site within a matter of hours.
This in the world and the required response time is business operates from 165 service centres in North, generally weeks rather than the hours or days needed Central & South America, Europe, the Middle East, in the Local business.
To support these projects, Africa, Asia and Australasia.
These service centres we concentrate our fleet in a number of hubs in look after customers who are normally within a radius Central America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
of 200 miles, and they offer the complete range of our From each hub, large amounts of equipment can be products and services.
shipped or flown rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2011, the Local business had revenues of 734 million In 2011, our International Power Projects business which is 57% of Aggrekos total revenue excluding 1 generated revenues of 554 million, or 43% of Aggrekos pass-through fuel.
1 total revenue excluding pass-through fuel revenue.
International Power Projects Who are our customers?
The International Power Projects business sells power Aggreko serves every industry that uses power which we deliver using power plants built, owned and and temperature control, making our customer-base operated by ourselves.
Whereas in the Local business a very diverse both in terms of geography and market contract with a customer is described in terms of renting segment.
This is a great advantage, as it gives us some specified items of equipment for a period of time, most of protection against problems in any one particular the contracts that International Power Projects performs market.
And we can quickly move resources to are for providing a defined amount of electrical power, sectors and countries which are growing.
for which a customer pays a fixed monthly capacity charge: they then pay, in addition, a variable charge for each MW-hour they take.
Under the terms of Competitive environment these contracts, Aggreko is responsible for installing and operating the equipment and the invoice to the When customers need power or temperature control customer is for power generation capacity not equipment equipment, they have the choice to buy, lease or rented.
Most projects in this business are worth over rent, and therefore the biggest competitors for our 1 million a year and some can be worth very much customers money are not rental companies, but equipment manufacturers.
The vast majority of chillers and generators supplied to end-users each year are bought or leased, and only a few are rented.
1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to contracts in our International So, in terms of pricing and service, we always have to Power Projects business in Uganda and Tanzania where we provide be focused on the fact that customers have a choice, fuel on a pass-through basis.
12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report outside their home market.
So in most areas in which Aggreko revenue by customer segment we operate, competition in the Local business is fierce: Excluding pass-through fuel revenue but the names with whom we do battle will tend to be 11 different country by country.
1 Utilities 41% 12 10 2 Oil and gas 11% 9 For International Power Projects, in some regions 3 Military 6% 8 notably South America there are a number of 1 4 Petrochemical and refining 7% 7 companies that operate in their own patch, but 5 Manufacturing 6% 6 they find it hard to operate outside their regional 6 Events 5% 5 base.
There are about 10-15 Caterpillar dealers who 7 Construction 4% 4 compete for power projects, but again, they tend to 3 2 8 Contracting 4% stick to neighbourhoods they know.
These companies 9 Services 4% find it hard to organise themselves across territories, Source: Aggreko internal reports 10 Quarrying and mining 5% however, and it is difficult to operate efficiently in the 11 Shipping 2% International Power Projects business without a large 12 Other 5% homogenous fleet and the infrastructure to market, sell and operate it in a consistent manner around the world.
There is only one other company that has the proven ability to operate worldwide, which is APR Aggreko revenue by geography Energy plc, based in Jacksonville, Florida, and we Excluding pass-through fuel revenue have been competing with them, on and off, for about seven years.
Analysts consensus in December 2011 1 North America 20% was that their 2011 revenues would be around 6 1 2 Europe 15% $200 million, which is about 10% of Aggrekos.
3 Middle East 15% 4 Africa 12% In both the Local business and International Power 5 Asia and Australasia 22% 5 2 Projects valuable economies of scale accrue to those 6 Latin America 16% who can operate on a global basis.
However, to gain these benefits of global scale requires a very long-term 3 4 commitment to building distribution, deep technical expertise across a number of disciplines, and a well developed supply-chain: it also requires hundreds of Source: Aggreko internal reports millions of pounds of capital to fund fleet investment.
Some people have the misconception that Aggreko has grown from nothing over a short period of time: to not only of using other rental companies, but also the contrary, Aggreko was founded some 50 years ago, to buy from manufacturers.
The defining issues in the and it has taken us decades, several billion pounds of choice between buying and renting tend to be speed cumulative investment in fleet and a global network how quickly do you need it?
and duration how long of service centres to get to the point where we are big do you need it for?
Urgency, and or short duration, enough to enjoy the benefits of global scale.
Over the is the need that we, as a rental business, serve.
last 10 years, some very large and powerful companies who have global scale in adjacent markets have tried to Within the Local business, barriers to entry are emulate Aggreko but none has yet succeeded in building relatively low: many companies, small and large, drift a global integrated power and temperature control in and out of rental, and competition in each market business of the same scale.
Aggreko is currently the only is fierce.
Typically, competitors in the Local business business in the market which has grown large enough to are either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, capture the economies of global scale and, in turn, these or divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Their efficiencies have enabled us to fund rates of investment common characteristic is that they are local: most of far ahead of any competitor.
As a consequence of this them operate in a single country and, often, in just a rate of investment, we have grown to be significantly particular part of a country.
In their own territory they larger than any other company operating in our market.
are very effective, but they find it difficult to operate Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13
