Angus Cockburn 67 Chairman 48 Finance Director Philip Rogerson is Chairman of Carillion plc and Angus Cockburn, a Chartered Accountant, joined of Bunzl plc and, since 1 March 2012, is a director Aggreko in May 2000 as Finance Director.
Until February 1998 he was Deputy previously Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, Chairman of BG plc formerly British Gas plc having a division of Dawson International PLC, having joined been a Director since 1992, and has subsequently held that company in 1997 from PepsiCo Inc. At PepsiCo a number of Non-executive appointments.
He joined he spent five years in various positions, latterly as the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997 and Regional Finance Director for Central Europe based was appointed as Chairman in April 2002. in Budapest.
He has worked with KPMG both in the UK and in the USA and has an MBA from the 2.
Rupert Soames OBE IMD Business School in Switzerland.
He is also a Non-executive Director of Howden Joinery Group 52 Group Chief Executive Plc formerly Galiform plc and a former chairman Rupert Soames joined the Board as Group Chief of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
He was formerly with Misys PLC, where he was Chief Executive of the Banking 4.
George Walker and Securities Division.
Before joining Misys, Rupert was with GEC plc for 15 years, working in a number 54 President Aggreko North America of their subsidiaries: in the last four years of his service George Walker, a United States citizen, joined with GEC he was responsible for the UK, African and Aggreko in 1987 when the Group initially entered the Asian operations of Avery Berkel.
He is the Senior temperature control business through the acquisition of Independent Director of Electrocomponents plc.
Mobile Air-Conditioning Inc. where he was Controller and then Vice-President.
A graduate of the University of Texas, he became a Vice-President of Aggreko Inc. in 1988 and was appointed Executive Vice-President in 1997.
In January 2001 he became President of Aggreko North America and was appointed as an Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
54 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report 5.
Russell King 54 Regional Director Europe and the Middle East 54 Non-executive Director Bill Caplan joined the Board on 17 November 2008.
Russell King joined the Board in February 2009.
He previously worked for 20 years in Europe, Asia, the He was appointed Non-executive Director of Spectris Middle East, Africa and the USA with United Parcel plc in October 2010.
He is senior advisor to RBC Service UPS and UPS Supply Chain Solutions.
He Capital Markets and the founder of Sorrett Advisors.
was born and educated in the USA, gaining an MBA Until October 2009 he was Chief Strategy Officer from Harvard Business School after selling his family of Anglo American PLC, having joined Anglo owned beverage distribution business in 1987.
He American as Group Head of Human Resources, currently serves as a Board Trustee and Non-executive Business Development and Sustainable Development Director for Phoenix Futures, a UK based charity.
Previously, he spent over 20 years at ICI, with experience in its fertiliser, petrochemical 6.
Kash Pandya and paint businesses.
Ken Hanna Kash Pandya joined the Board on 20 June 2005.
He was previously Chief Executive of Johnston 58 Non-executive Director Group plc, and prior to that he was President, Europe, Ken Hanna was appointed to the Board in October Asia & South America of APW, the worlds largest 2010.
He is currently Chairman of Inchcape plc and manufacturer of specialist cabinets and enclosures for a Non-executive Director of Tesco plc.
Ken is also the telecoms and computer industries.
Between 1996 Chairman of Shooting Star CHASE a South West and 1999, Kash worked for Caradon plc, latterly as London charity supporting families with children Director of European Operations of the Radiator and teenagers who have life limiting conditions.
Between his appointment in 2005 and Until early 2009, Ken was Chief Financial Officer of December 2008 he ran Aggrekos European business.
He has also held positions as Operating In January 2009 he took over responsibility for Partner in Compass Partners, a European Private Aggreko International.
Equity firm: Group Chief Executive at Dalgety plc: Group Finance Director of United Distillers plc and 7.
David Hamill Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
54 Non-executive Director David Hamill was appointed to the Board in May Company Secretary 2007.
He was appointed Chairman of Ideal Standard 11.
Peter Kennerley 55 International in February 2011 having been with the Company since January 2010.
He was until December Peter Kennerley was appointed Director of Legal 2007 Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints and Affairs and Company Secretary in October 2008. a main board director of ICI.
In January 2008 ICI was He was formerly Company Secretary and General acquired by Akzo Nobel and for the calendar year of Counsel of Scottish & Newcastle plc and before 2008, Mr Hamill led the integration process, forming that a partner at Simmons & Simmons specialising the worlds largest decorative paints business.
He also spent two years as Secretary 2009, he was appointed as Senior Advisor to Bain to the Takeover Panel.
Capital and has developed personal business interests.
Robert MacLeod Audit, Remuneration, Nomination 47 Non-executive Director Robert MacLeod was appointed to the Board in September 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc.
From June 2004 until June 2009 he was Group Finance Director of WS Atkins plc.
He joined the Atkins Group as Group Financial Controller in March 2003 having previously worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
A graduate of Cambridge University, he trained at KPMG.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55
