Directors Report WHAT WE DO Our business Aggreko provides power and temperature control business or even whole cities and countries solutions to customers who need them either very functioning and safe.
They are therefore likely to be quickly, or for a short or indeterminate length of time.
more interested in quality of service rather than price.
We have two business models.
In the Local business, we hire our equipment to customers who then operate it for We are not exposed to the fortunes of any single themselves, although we retain responsibility for servicing end-user market.
All businesses use power, and many and maintenance.
In the International Power Projects use temperature control.
Our equipment and services business, we operate as a power producer: we install and are transferable between end-user segments, so the operate power plants and our customers pay us for having generator used today in a petrochemical plant may be the generating capacity available, as well as the electricity on a film set tomorrow and a building site the day after.
We do all of this on a global basis and in 2011 we served customers in about 100 countries: We operate globally.
This means that we can we run our business from 165 service centres and offices, respond to events as they happen anywhere around located in 39 countries.
The solutions we provide range the world and can move our equipment to wherever from the very large and complex to the very simple.
it can deliver the best returns.
Large and complex would include: We are organised to address all types of opportunity, from the rental of a single generator for a weekend, keeping the lights on in entire countries when their to managing huge projects, worth tens of millions existing grid cannot cope with demand by delivering of pounds, delivering hundreds of MW on the other hundreds of megawatts MW of additional power: side of the world.
helping oil refineries to maintain production in We are experts.
We are focused on a very narrow hot weather by providing additional cooling and range of products power and temperature control power: and and that means we have technical expertise, equipment, skills and experience on a scale, and designing and providing critical power infrastructure to a depth, that we believe nobody else can rival.
for broadcasting, security and field-of-play lighting for major sporting events such as the Olympic We design and manufacture our own fleet, Games and the FIFA World Cup.
which means that we are able to optimise it for the specific requirements of our customers Simple would include: and of the rental business.
providing temperature control in an office after We keep our equipment for its useful life, so the the air-conditioning has broken down: better we build and maintain the equipment, the longer its life will be and the more money we make.
installing chillers to provide the cooling for We therefore take enormous care to build and temporary ice-rinks: and maintain our equipment to the highest standards and this, in turn, means that our customers see providing a generator for a few days to a power utility high quality and reliable equipment.
while it carries out improvements to transmission lines.
By developing these competitive advantages, Aggreko has The distinguishing features of our business are: grown over the last 50 years to be the world market leader with outstanding people, strong customer relationships, The products and services we provide are missiona powerful brand and an excellent reputation.
Power and temperature control are utility have also developed a business large enough to enjoy services without which our customers cannot operate.
economies of scale, which has enabled us to deliver Most customers use our services only occasionally highly attractive returns to shareholders while delivering but, when they do, they rely on us to keep their outstanding value and service to our customers.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7
