Directors Report OUR STRATEGY it continues to be the basis of our business planning, and we believe that consistency of purpose has been a major contributor to our success.
19% compound growth in revenues and 30% compound growth in trading profit over this period indicate that the strategy is the right one, and we continue to work relentlessly to implement it.
Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel 2011 2003 CAGR Revenue m 1,288 324 19% Rupert Soames | Chief Executive Trading profit m 336 42 30% Trading margin 26% 13% Diluted earnings per share pence 86.76 10.14 31% Return on capital employed ROCE 28% 13% Enterprise value at 1 year end m 5,744 514 35% Calculated by dividing operating profit for a period by the average net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June and 31 December.
1 Enterprise value is defined as market value plus net debt.
The strong growth over recent years was only made Angus Cockburn | Finance Director possible because, over the preceding forty years, Aggrekos management and owners had patiently built a foundation of service centres in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Australia: had Group strategy spotted that designing and building our own equipment The objective of our strategy is to deliver long-term had major advantages: had created a hard-working, value to shareholders, excellent service to customers entrepreneurial and customer-focused culture: and and rewarding careers to our employees by being had built a brand.
The lesson we see every day is that the leading global provider of temporary power it takes decades to achieve the sort of global scale and temperature control.
Our strategy is founded which Aggreko now has, and there are no short cuts.
on the belief that, in our market sector, it is possible to create competitive advantage by building a truly Aggrekos strategy is developed by the senior global business i. e. one which operates in the same management team, led by the Chief Executive, way around the world and can use the same fleet and involves internal and external research, everywhere, the same processes, the same skills, and much of it proprietary.
We seek to develop a deep the same infrastructure.
This homogeneity means that understanding of the drivers of demand, changing significant operating advantages and efficiencies accrue customer requirements, and the competitive to those who have global scale: the focus of our efforts environment, as well as developments in technology is therefore directed towards building global scale and and regulation.
We look at our own strengths and securing these advantages and efficiencies for ourselves.
weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats that are likely to face us.
From this analysis, we develop The strategy was developed following an in-depth a list of investment and operational options, and review of Aggrekos business in 2003, and has analyse their relative risks and rewards, bearing in been consistently applied for the last eight years: mind the capabilities and resources of the Group.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Our Strategy continued We regularly test our strategy which keeps it fresh With the 2007 Strategy Review reaching the end and relevant, and enables us to spot and react to new of its life in 2012, we have already started work on opportunities.
Having conducted a root-and-branch the 2012 Strategy Review.
A significant amount review in 2003 we re-examined our conclusions in of research has been commissioned, and many of 2005, 2007 and 2009.
The conclusions from the 2009 the senior managers in the business are involved review, which were communicated to investors in developing our way forward.
The outcome of this in March 2010 and which we continue to believe, review will be presented to investors in March 2013. are summarised below: Our current strategy for each of the business lines The strategy we developed in 2003, and re-affirmed is set out below.
Business line operational strategy Our Local business continues to offer attractive Supporting the Group strategy, Aggreko has opportunities for growth, both from growing our developed operational strategies for our two density and footprint in existing markets, and different lines of business: expanding into new countries.
The Local business rents power and temperature The factors which have driven the growth of our control systems, ranging from small generators International Power Projects business will continue up to large industrial cooling towers, to customers to provide plenty of headroom for this business who are typically within a few hours driving time for the foreseeable future: the world faces serious of our service centres: structural shortages of power which will last for many years and which should sustain demand The International Power Projects business builds for our services.
and then operates temporary power plants, selling their capacity and electricity to utilities, the In our 2009 review we stepped up the work we are military and major mining and oil companies.
To back this up, we have been running two major initiatives.
The first is to build The Local business a fleet of gas-fuelled power generators, which have The Local business serves customers from 165 service significantly lower emissions: by the end of 2011, centres in 39 countries in North, Central & South we had invested a total of 239 million in new gas America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and sets, and will have about 960MW of capacity in our Australasia.
This is a business with high transaction fleet.
The second initiative has been to embark on volumes: average contracts excluding major events a wholesale upgrading of our North American fleet have a value of around 10,000 and last a few weeks.
to be compliant with at least Tier 2 EPA levels.
The Local business represents 57% of Aggrekos revenues, excluding pass-through fuel, and 36% In all our businesses, there are always opportunities of trading profit.
Since our first strategy review in to improve the efficiency of operations, whilst 2003, revenues and trading profit have increased at a maintaining our prized agility.
There are plenty compound growth rate of 14% and 21% respectively: of things we can do better.
In 2008 we launched a major Group-wide initiative called Orange Aggreko Local business % of Group Excellence, which aims to develop our capability to improve the way we do things in the business: 2011 2003 CAGR 2011 2003 under this programme, we have so far trained 330 Revenue m 734 258 14% 57% 80% people to Orange Belt standard, and 40 people to Trading profit m 121 27 21% 36% 64% Black Belt standard, and, as a consequence of this, Trading margin 17% 10% the company has hugely improved its capability ROCE 18% 11% to drive continuous improvement in the business.
20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report There are three elements in our strategy for the superior customer service at a competitive price Local business: and, at the same time, deliver to our shareholders an attractive return on capital.
Maintain a clear differentiation between our lead-times are short, logistics are complex, and we offering and that of our competitors through process a large number of low-value transactions, superior service.
a pre-condition of efficiency is having high quality systems and robust processes.
Use the benefits of global scale to be extremely efficient.
This should enable us to make attractive The operation of our Local businesses in most areas returns whilst delivering a superior service at is based on a hub-and-spoke model which has two competitive prices.
types of service centre: hubs hold our larger items of equipment as well as providing service and repair 3.
Offering superior service at competitive prices facilities: spokes are smaller and act as logistics points will allow us to increase market share and extend from which equipment can be delivered quickly to our global reach, delivering growing revenues at a customers site.
The hubs and spokes have been attractive margins.
organised into areas in which a manager has responsibility for the revenues, profitability and Against the first objective to maintain a clear the return on capital employed within that area.
differentiation between our offering and that of our In this model, most administrative and call handling competitors third-party research shows that Aggreko functions are carried out in central rental centres.
is one of the worlds best-performing companies in terms of customer satisfaction.
We are determined to Our Local business enjoys numerous advantages maintain this reputation for premium service and we as a result of its global scale.
Standardised operating do this through the attitude and expertise of our staff, processes, and the investment in a single global IT the geographic reach of our operations, the design, platform, bring visibility and homogeneity.
Global availability and reliability of our equipment, and the utilisation statistics allow us to spot where equipment ability to respond to our customers 24 hours a day, is under-utilised, and where it can be moved to for 7 days a week.
the best return, and this is reflected in the increase in sales gross rental assets, which is a financial measure The claim to be one of the worlds best-performing of utilisation: between 2004 and 2011, sales gross companies in terms of customer satisfaction is a big rental assets in the Local business increased from 62% one, but we think we have good reason to make it.
Global fleet sourcing allows us to stock our For each of the last 3 years we have been asking fleet with premium-quality equipment at competitive approximately 17,000 customers what they think cost.
Global reach allows us to deliver service to of the service they have received from us, and we customers such as major events customers wherever measure our Net Promoter Scores.
This is an objective they go.
Global processes allow us to disseminate measure of customer satisfaction which reflects the best practice quickly.
The benefits of our global scale balance between those who think we are wonderful, accrue to both customers and shareholders.
Our Net and those who think we are dreadful.
Happily, the Promoter Scores tell us that the model works well for former greatly outnumber the latter.
Over the last 6 customers and, for our shareholders the benefit has years our score has improved by 10pp and Satmetrix, been a compound growth in trading profit of 21% over a global leader in customer experience programmes the last 8 years and a return on capital employed that who manage over 11 million customer responses has improved from 11% to 18% over the same period.
annually including Aggrekos, have confirmed that Some people ask us why the return on capital in the our Net Promoter Score in 2011 was amongst the Local business is lower than in International Power top 5 highest of all their customers benchmarked Projects: the main answer to this is that inherently worldwide in the business-to-business segment.
the risks political, economic and people-related we run in the Local business are far lower than in The second objective of our strategy for the Local International Power Projects, and therefore the business is to be extremely efficient in the way we run rewards are consequently and properly lower.
This is essential if we are to provide Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Our Strategy continued The third objective of our strategy for the Local International Power Projects business is to deliver growth in revenues by increasing This business serves the requirements of power utilities, market share and global reach.
In our more mature governments, armed forces and major industrial users for markets, such as North America and Europe, we know utility-quality, temporary power generation.
Whereas that the most profitable businesses are those where in the Local business we rent equipment to customers we have dense networks of service centres which who operate it for themselves, in the International can share equipment, staff and customers, and benefit Power Projects business we contract to provide power from the low transport costs that come from being generated by plants financed, built, commissioned and physically close to customers.
So, in these markets, operated by our own staff.
The power plants can range we focus on adding new service centres and upgrading in size from 10MW to 200MW on a single site.
existing centres to make them more capable.
In the last 5 years, in our mature markets in Australia New Most often, the business operates in areas where we Zealand, North America and Europe, we have opened do not have a large Local business.
The majority of the or upgraded service centres, including those acquired customers are power utilities in Africa, Asia, Central as part of an acquisition in: and South America.
As described in the What we do section, the driver of demand in these markets is that North America: Indianapolis, Long Island, Fort our customers economies are growing, with consequent McMurray, Gillette, Shreveport, increases in demand for additional power which cannot Minneapolis St Paul, Seattle, be met by the current generating capacity.
As a result, Fort St. John, Minot, Roosevelt many of our customers face chronic power shortages Europe: Berlin, Bordeaux, Bristol, London, which damage their ability to support economic growth Padova, Warsaw, Istanbul and increased prosperity.
These shortages are often Australia caused or exacerbated by the variability of supply New Zealand: Christchurch, Geraldton, Gladstone, arising from the use of hydro-electric power plants Muswellbrook, Newman, New whose output is cyclical and dependent on rainfall.
Plymouth, Tauranga, Wellington, Wollongong International Power Projects now represents 43% of Group revenues and 64% of trading profit, excluding However, we know that our businesses grow fastest pass-through fuel.
Since 2003, International Power where there is strong growth in GDP, and, specifically, Projects revenue excluding pass-through fuel and in Aggreko GDP GDP weighted to industries which trading profit have grown at a compound annual typically use our services.
So a core part of our growth rate of 31% and 40% respectively: strategy has been expanding our Local business in the faster-growing economies of South America, International Power Projects excl.
pass-through fuel the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
The acquisition % of Group of GE Energy Rentals in 2006 helped us to expand 2011 2003 CAGR 2011 2003 our footprint in Brazil, Chile and Mexico and, since Revenue m 554 66 31% 43% 20% then, we have opened or upgraded service centres in: Trading profit m 215 15 40% 64% 36% Trading margin 39% 23% Africa: Durban, Johannesburg ROCE 40% 25% Middle East: Doha, Jebel Ali, Abu Dhabi, Note: pass-through fuel refers to revenues we generate from two Muscat, Jeddah, Al Khobar customers for whom we have agreed to manage the provision of fuel Latin America: Panama, Buenos Aires, Antofagasta, on a pass-through basis.
This revenue stream fluctuates with the cost Recife, Parapuebas, Concepcion, of fuel and the volumes taken, while having an immaterial impact on Monterrey, Villahermosa, Belo our profitability.
We therefore exclude pass-through fuel from most discussions of our business.
Horizonte, Bogota, Camacari, Copiapo, Lima, Porto Alegre The strategy for this business is straightforward: grow Asia: Pune, Shanghai, Dalian, Singapore, as fast as we prudently can, to secure for ourselves the New Delhi, Guangzhou operating efficiencies and competitive advantages which Russia: Moscow come from being the largest global operator.
So far, 22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report we have been successful in executing this strategy, hundreds of MW of capacity from our various and our International Power Projects business is now businesses around the world on very short notice.
many times larger than its next largest competitor.
A good example of our speed of delivery would be the The reason why it is advantageous to be a global recent power contract in Japan, where, in response to operator in International Power Projects is because the Fukushima disaster, we were able to deliver and demand can shift rapidly between continents.
In 2003, commission 200MW across 2 sites within 70 days of South America and Asia were probably the largest the contract signature: most of our competitors would markets, and Africa was only a small proportion of find it difficult to deploy that amount of fleet in that global demand.
In 2009, the market in Africa was larger lead time.
than South America and Asia combined.
In 2011, the position as measured by our fleet-on-rent reversed The management of risk is a critical part of our with South America and Asia representing around 50% business: we place tens of millions of pounds worth of our average fleet on rent.
These shifts in demand of capital assets in countries where the operational, were driven in part by rainfall patterns, in part by the political and payment risks are high sometimes relationship between economic growth and investment very high.
While we take great care to mitigate these in permanent power generation and, in part, by georisks, it is probable that sooner or later we will have political issues.
To be successful in the long-term, a loss of either receivables, or equipment, or both.
therefore, requires the ability to serve demand globally, However, because of our scale, such a loss would and that requires sales, marketing and operational not imperil the Group as a whole.
We treat our risks infrastructure to be present in all major markets.
in the same way investors do: we minimise the risk of losses doing material damage to the business by The reason we want to be big and bigger than any having a broad portfolio of exposures, none of them of our competitors is because we believe that, as in correlated.
For smaller companies, their portfolio of the Local business, scale brings significant competitive country risk is inevitably much more concentrated: advantages in International Power Projects.
There are the probability of loss in any one country for smaller numerous reasons for this: companies is no less than it is for us, but their ability to withstand the consequences of a large loss is.
Being able to address demand on a worldwide basis Scale therefore allows us to deal in markets where means higher utilisation.
When fleet returns from others might, with good reason, fear to tread.
a customer at the end of a contract, the speed with which it can be put back on contract again is a Returns from rental businesses are heavily dependent major determinant of profitability and returns on upon the underlying capital cost of the rental fleet.
Fleet will find new work far more quickly Clearly, large buyers should get better terms than if it can address the total pool of world demand small buyers and, since we are by far the largest than if it is only able to operate in a single region.
purchaser of power generation for rental applications in the world, we believe that we are advantaged in By the time customers have decided they really this area.
The fact that we have the scale to justify do have to spend money on temporary power, having our own manufacturing and design facilities they generally want it as fast as possible.
Being also means that we can source equipment which is able to offer very fast lead-times for large amounts better suited to our precise requirements, and more of capacity is a significant competitive advantage.
Small operators simply cannot afford to keep 250-300MW of capacity say, 30-40 million In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility of capital sitting idle waiting for the next job.
of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, Because the equipment used in International Power be better able to respond to customer requirements, Projects is also used in the Local business fleet, we and will have a lower capital cost per MW of fleet.
manage our large generators as a common global In International Power Projects, bigger is better pool.
Between the Local business and International and Aggreko is now much larger than any other Power Projects, we currently have a fleet of over competitor in this market.
6,000 of these large generators, and can deploy Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23
