Directors Report OUR FLEET Aggreko is probably unique amongst large equipment Most rental businesses have a model of buying assets rental companies in that we design and build the and then selling them on at a relatively early stage majority of our fleet in our own, newly purpose-built in their useful life.
This minimises maintenance costs manufacturing facility in Scotland.
We believe that and enables them to use income from used fleet sales this is an important competitive advantage, for a to help finance new equipment purchases.
Because we number of reasons: build longevity into our equipment, and failure rates in generators and chillers are more related to how First, it means that we can optimise the equipment well they are maintained rather than how old they are, to meet our particular operational requirements.
we opt for a policy of rigorously maintaining our assets A generator or chiller is normally designed to be and running them for as long as possible.
This also has permanently installed and rarely, if ever, moved: its the important benefit that our business model is not performance will also be adapted for the regulations exposed to the vagaries of prices achievable in the and ambient conditions of the country in which it used equipment market, which tend to fluctuate is sold.
An Aggreko generator will be picked up and with the economic cycle.
put down hundreds of times during its working life, and may be required to work faultlessly at 50C Our power fleet is significantly larger than any of our in the Saudi Arabian desert and a few weeks later competitors: at the end of 2011, it comprised 15,600 at 40C in Siberia.
This is not a capability that is generators ranging in size from 10KW to 2MW which, available in off-the-shelf equipment.
We also design in aggregate, amount to over 8,000MW of generating our equipment with the knowledge that we will capacity.
To put this into perspective, that is the own it for its operating life and the more reliable equivalent of about 12% of peak power demand it is, and the longer it lasts, the higher the returns on the UK national grid.
This fleet includes some we will make.
Given the choice of 6mm steel for 470 1MW generators that have undergone at least a bed-plate, or 8mm, we choose 10mm.
This refurbishment capability, most important for our International Power Projects Second, the volume in which we purchase the key business, is a major competitive advantage in that components is significant in terms of the overall it delivers as good as new generators for around two market.
In some sizes of equipment, we are probably thirds of the original cost.
We also have very large the largest buyer in the world.
By designing and inventories of transformers, cable and distribution manufacturing our own equipment, we can capture equipment.
In aggregate, the net asset value of our for ourselves the benefits of being a volume power fleet is 868 million, and the original cost purchaser.
On a like-for-like basis, we think we carried in our balance sheet is 1,646 million.
have a cost advantage over our competitors, and, in a capital-intensive business, that is important.
Our chiller fleet is also much larger than any of our competitors, with over 2,050 units having a total Third, having our own design and manufacturing capacity of 990MW.
The net asset value of our chiller capability means that we can react extremely quickly fleet is 37 million, and the original cost carried in to customer requirements.
We only have to convince our balance sheet is 107 million.
ourselves of the desirability of a particular design feature, not a third party manufacturer.
The rest of our fleet mainly comprises air-conditioners, oil-free air compressors, cooling towers and other ancillary equipment with an aggregate net asset value of 110 million, and the original cost carried in our balance sheet is 260 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9
