THE MARKET Our market How big is the market, and what is our market share?
Demand for Aggrekos services is created by events: our customers generally turn to us when something Because we operate in very specific niches of the unusual happens which means they need power or rental market power, temperature control and, in temperature control quickly, or there is a requirement North America only, oil-free compressed air and which is transitory.
Events that stimulate demand across a very broad geography, it is very difficult to range from the very large and infrequent to the small determine with any accuracy the size of our market.
A complicating fact is that our own activities serve to create market demand Bangladesh and Indonesia did Examples of high-value, infrequent events or situations not figure highly in our estimates of market size a few we have worked on include: years ago, but they are now important customers as a result of our sales efforts.
Furthermore, our market is Large-scale power shortage Bangladesh, Argentina event driven, and major events such as hurricanes in and Indonesia.
North America, the Olympic Games, or major droughts in Africa can influence market size in the short-term.
Major sporting occasions Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup, Asian Games.
As there is no third-party research that exactly matches our business, we have to use a number of Entertainment and broadcasting Glastonbury.
different approaches to estimate the size of the global market.
All of our measurements of market size relate Natural disasters Japanese tsunami in 2011, to rental revenue, as services revenues like fuel and Nashville floods in 2010. freight are highly volatile and do not have any reflection on underlying market size.
Post-conflict re-construction Congo, Iraq and Afghanistan.
For most OECD countries in which we operate, we use three techniques: Examples of lower-value, more frequent events on which we might work are: Supply-side estimation.
We use market intelligence to estimate the supply-side i. e. how large our An oil refinery needs additional cooling during competitors are.
This is notoriously inaccurate, the summer to maintain production throughput.
as competitors often have much broader product ranges.
It is extremely difficult to work out how A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its much of their revenue comes specifically from plant and needs power while its own equipment generators and chillers, and how much from the is being repaired.
many other lines of equipment they may offer.
A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink Demand-side estimation.
In our Local business, our for the Christmas period.
global IT system and a much sharper emphasis on sector-based marketing, are helping us to develop an improved understanding of our revenue by sector and customer.
For our International Power Projects business, we have invested considerable effort in proprietary research with professional economists to develop models which forecast the supply of, and demand for, power.
Third-party data, where it is available.
14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report What drives market growth in the Local business?
By triangulating these techniques, we develop an Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven by three estimate of market size but the truth is that it is a main factors: guess, and probably not a very accurate one.
In 2003, we did a great deal of work on market sizing, and came GDP as an economy grows, so does demand to the conclusion that the market was worth about for energy.
1.3 billion and was growing at about 5%.
Since then, our own rental revenues have grown at a compound Propensity to rent how inclined people are to rent annual rate CAGR of 20%, which would imply rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as the either that our market share has grown improbably tax treatment of capital assets and the growing fast, that the original market size was wrong or that awareness and acceptance of outsourcing.
In all probability, the truth is a mixture of all three factors.
Our best guess Events high-value low-frequency events change is that the market in which we operate is now worth the size of a market, although only temporarily.
For somewhere around 4 billion per year.
As part of our example, the scale of the Japanese tsunami has led 5 year strategy review in 2012, we are commissioning to a short-term surge in temporary power demand in a series of studies to get a better estimate of the market the areas affected by the disaster: likewise, the FIFA size, which will be presented in next years report.
World Cup in 2010 vastly increased the market for power rental in South Africa, but for 6 months only.
Given our rental revenues of 1,042 million in 2011, a 4 billion market would imply an Aggreko worldwide In seeking to understand the drivers of growth better, share of sales of around 25%.
Behind this lies enormous we have devised the concept of Aggreko GDP: this is variation.
In many developing countries, where the the GDP of a country weighted to account for Aggrekos rental market is barely developed, and where we are sectoral mix of revenues.
Typically, this means that called in to provide temporary utility power, we may we are weighted more towards manufacturing than, represent 100% of the power rental market for the say, financial services.
Over the past few years, we period of the project but none when it ends.
In OECD have observed that in countries where the growth rate countries, where the rental markets are better developed, of Aggreko GDP is below 5%, our revenues tend to grow our share of the market will be lower than the 25% we at 2-3 percentage points faster than the rate of Aggreko estimate for our global share of the market.
In economies where Aggreko GDP growth is in nearly all the major markets in which we operate, above 5%, we get an increasingly leveraged effect, with Aggreko is the largest or second-largest player.
Aggreko sales growth far outpacing GDP growth.
This is for a number of reasons but, most notably, simply that when economies are growing fast, customers want equipment quickly: they want high levels of service, and they want to focus on doing what they are good at, rather than owning large amounts of equipment.
The graph overleaf plots this relationship between growth in Aggrekos revenues by country and growth in Aggreko nominal GDP between 2003 and 2007.
We have not included 2008 2011 because the data for these years is polluted by the global recession during this period.
We would also caution that these figures include the impact of the GE Energy Rentals acquisition in December 2006 which will exaggerate the underlying sales growth in some countries, but we feel that the trend they show is directionally correct.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Country 10 Country 9 Country 8 Country 7 Country 6 Country 5 Country 4 Country 3 Country 2 Country 1 The Market continued What drives market growth in the Local business?
continued cutting back on our services until the recession is Aggreko Revenue CAGR 03-07 vs Aggreko well underway.
We also recovered from the recession Nominal GDP extremely quickly: within a year our like-for-like volumes in the local business were growing again.
The % Aggreko GDP Aggreko Revenue recovery was particularly sharp in North America.
One 45.0 40.0 might conclude from this that Aggreko is in the happy 35.0 position of being late-cycle into a recession and early- 30.0 cycle out of it.
We would be very suspicious of such a 25.0 golden scenario.
We think, on balance, that a number 20.0 15.0 of factors helped us: unlike many businesses, we 10.0 trimmed our costs rather than hacked them and, above 5.0 all, sought to keep our sales force in place, which 0.0 meant that we were able to maintain relationships -5.0 with customers through the downturn and were ready to serve them when they were ready to buy again: our global reach and presence in markets that barely felt Source: Oxford Economics, Aggreko Management accounts the impact of the recession also helped us, as did our Note: Includes GE-ER revenues in 2007 exposure to customers in sectors such as oil and gas and petrochemicals in which plant maintenance can be delayed a year or two, but, ultimately, has to be done.
Overall, in times of positive GDP growth, we estimate We were also the beneficiaries of great good luck, in that the market addressed by our Local business for the that 2010 was an annus mirabilis in major events short-term rental of power and temperature control revenue, with the Vancouver Winter Olympics, the is growing at some 2-3% above GDP in developed FIFA World Cup, and the Asian Games all occurring markets.
So, if GDP grows at 3% on average over in the same year, generating some 87 million of the cycle, our market should grow at about 5%.
This happy coincidence of three major events In countries with rates of nominal GDP growth in a single year happens only once every 4 years.
that are above 5%, the market can grow much faster.
During the period we really felt the recession in our An obvious question is so what happens in a Local business Q2 2009 to Q1 2010, and we reduced downturn?
The experience of the last 2-3 years has rates to keep volumes up for the critical summer season.
been instructive but, before discussing it, we have to The power and temperature control businesses reacted qualify the analysis by saying that all recessions are very differently: power volumes were surprisingly stable, different and, just because our business behaved one but temperature control volumes dropped by about way in the recession of 2008-2009, does not mean 10%.
For many of our customers, being without power it will behave the same in the next one.
is not an option, but going without extra cooling capacity may well be possible, particularly if industrial We started warning in early 2008 that we thought customers are not running their processes at full that demand and rates would weaken in our Local capacity.
Rates fell for both power and temperature businesses in North America and Europe, but it was control during this period.
not until the second quarter of 2009 that we felt any impact, with demand weakening in almost every Our conclusion from this?
It is that, in a recession, Local business.
From this might come the tentative the Local business probably behaves the same way conclusion that our business is late-cycle.
Whether as it does when GDP is growing i. e. volume shrinks that will be true of all future recessions is uncertain, as at about twice the rate of Aggreko GDP, but there there are no particular reasons we can think of which is then an additional impact of rate erosion which would explain why customers should seek to leave can be of the order of 5-10%.
The factors which drive the growth of our International The rapid growth in power consumption in Power Projects business are different.
The main trigger developing countries is driven by industrialisation of demand is power cuts: when the lights go out in and by the growing number of consumers having a country, people want power restored as quickly as access to devices which consume electricity, such possible.
It is a perverse fact that people value power as fridges, televisions and mobile phones.
Between most when they are without it.
We believe that in 2000 and 2015, we forecast that the number of people many parts of the world, and most particularly in whose power consumption is growing faster than many developing countries, there will be increasing per-capita GDP will double, from 2.5 billion to over numbers of power cuts, caused by a combination 5 billion see graph below.
The majority of these of burgeoning demand for power and inadequate people live in developing countries, where investment investment in new capacity.
in the acquisition of new generating capacity and maintenance of existing capacity has been far below We believe that demand for power is going to grow the levels required to keep supply in line with demand.
much faster than is commonly believed: working with a leading group of professional economists at Oxford Population with electricity consumption growing Economics, we have built a model which takes data on faster than GDP billion GDP and population growth, power consumption, and power generation capacity for 120 countries over the 6 last 10 years.
Using this historical data, it then projects future power demand based on forecasts of population 5 and GDP growth.
Our model predicts that worldwide demand for power will grow by around 4% per annum 4 between 2007 and 2015, compared with forecasts by 3 the International Energy Agency IEA of 2.6%.
Our model reflects the sharp divergence between the growth 2 in power consumption between OECD and non-OECD countries in recent years, as shown in the graph below.
1 Poor countries are seeing demand for power increasing by over 7-8% per annum, whilst rich countries are 0 growing at under 1-2% see graph below.
Source: Oxford Economics Rolling 3-year average growth in electricity consumption 1988-2008 % OECD World Non-OECD 9.0 8.0 7.0 6.0 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 Source: International Energy Agency Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 The Market continued What drives market growth in the International Power Projects business?
continued To make this situation worse, by 2015, 25% of the Investors have been keen to understand what the worlds installed power-generating capacity will be over impact of a recession might be on our International 40 years old, which we believe is a reasonable proxy Power Projects business.
In our 2008 Annual Report, for the average life of a permanent power plant.
The we wrote It is certainly likely that lower rates of percoming years will see the beginning of a replacement capita GDP growth will lead to slower rates of growth cycle during which a large part of existing power-plant in demand for electricity in developing countries.
construction capacity will be dedicated to replacing However, we believe that, unless there is a prolonged existing plants in North America and Europe, rather economic catastrophe, the market for temporary than building replacement or additional capacity in power in developing countries will continue to grow.
The sums which need to be Experience in the last three years has supported this mobilised over the next 10 years to re-build the power hypothesis: growth in MW on rent during 2009 was distribution and generation capacity in North America 10%, down from 40% growth in 2008, but growth and Europe are huge: in the UK alone, the regulator nevertheless: in 2010, we had record levels of orderestimates that up to 200 billion will be required.
intake and grew the MW on rent by 14%: in 2011 the This means that developing countries will have to MW on rent grew by 21%.
Recent figures produced compete for funds with developed countries, where by the IEA suggest that consumption of electricity investment risk is perceived to be far lower.
in non-OECD countries grew by 5.3% in 2008 a recession notwithstanding.
Another concern has Our current models predict that the combination of been that recession might bring a bad-debt problem these demand-side and supply-side factors will increase in International Power Projects, but this has not been the worldwide shortfall of power generating capacity our experience: the reasons some of our customers nearly 10-fold, from about 70 gigawatts GW in 2005 occasionally take time out from paying their bills to around 600GW by 2015.
Research which we are tends to be more for organisational and political doing at the moment suggests that this figure may be reasons, rather than macro-economic reasons.
high, and, over the coming year we will re-work and refine our models.
The ultimate size of the shortfall will We end this section with our customary warning: depend on both the rate of increase in demand, and the International Power Projects specialises in providing net additional generation and transmission capacity energy infrastructure in countries where political and brought into production during the period.
Even if the commercial risk is high sometimes very high and shortfall is lower than our current forecasts, it will still the fact is that we do business where others fear to tread.
represent a level of global power shortage many times To date, we have never had a material loss of equipment larger than todays.
We are confident that such a level or receivables, but it is very likely that sooner or later of power shortage will drive powerful growth over one of our customers will misbehave.
Our assets are at the medium and long term in demand for temporary much greater risk of loss or impairment than they would power as countries struggle to keep the lights on.
be if they were sitting in the suburbs of London or New York or Singapore.
We have extensive risk-mitigation procedures and techniques, but investors should regard the current level of returns in this business as being risk-unadjusted rates of return, because nobody has yet behaved badly enough to adjust them.
18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
