Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 13 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Example only.
easyJet lean Strategy implementation easyJets lean projects are set up under the 18.6% easyJet has continued to make excellent progress in sponsorship of the Chief Financial officer and the goal Growth in mainland executing the strategy as outlined in November 2010 is to maintain its cost advantage by ensuring below Europe capacity to drive sustainable planning cycle.
An update against ination non-fuel cost per seat increases.
This will be the pillars of the programme is set outbelow.
achieved by driving cost efficiencies through best in c90m class procurement, leveraging our scale, tight control of Network optimisation overhead costs, greater crew exibility and improved Savings identied easyJets goal is to improve the underlying ROCE of the for2012 operational performance.
network through optimisation of the schedule and route portfolio.
Progress in 2011 Unit costs excluding fuel fell by 1.3% at constant Progress in 2011 currency with strong performances in ground Strong growth in mainland Europe with seats own handling, maintenance and disruption related costs up18.6% Process re-engineering to deliver cost optimisation Valuable peak times slots obtained at London e. g. fide-icing in Malpensa: ground handling contracts Gatwick, Paris Charles fide Gaulle, Amsterdam Implemented plans to increase proportion of lower Clinical approach to reviewing route performance unit cost A320 in the fleet e. g. dropping Gothenburg from the network Improvement in operational resilience.
OTP improved New capital allocation framework introduced by 13 percentage points to 79% focusing on return on capital metrics by route 92 million of savings identied in 2012 which will Supporting business traveller strategy partially offset inationary increases and investment in initiatives such as allocated seating Passengers travelling on business easyJets goal is to drive additional contribution of 100 million from passengers travelling on business through Market review delivering improvements in product and distribution The UK macroeconomic environment remains difficult, Progress in 2011 especially in the travel and tourism sector as the Frequency increased on key business routes such as number of UK residents taking an overseas holiday Gatwick to Milan Malpensa up from four to five times over the three months to August 2011 fell by 4% a day compared to the same period in 2010.
The competitive environment remained tough with capacity increases in Rollout of exifare on easyJet.
Against this backdrop easyJet performed well Sales force starting to deliver, significant enterprise with total revenue per seat growth of mid single digits.
contracts signed At London Gatwick easyJet signicantly increased frequency on many of the busiest business routes such Agreements reached with travel management as Madrid, Milan, Rome and Amsterdam.
easyJet also companies increased its market share at bases such as Bristol as Key business to business deals negotiated with carriers such as Ryanair retreated, and in Glasgow after pipeline of corporate growth deals BMI withdrew services to Heathrow from the airport.
New commercial freedom in Global Distribution Despite the Euro-crisis German consumer confidence System GDS contracts remained positive.
However, the introduction of APD in Germany in January 2011 has damaged profitability across all airlines operating in Germany.
easyJets focus in 2011 has been on maintaining our market leadership on key city routes from Berlin with increased frequencies on routes to London Gatwick, Copenhagen, Basel and Barcelona.
