Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 25 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Example only.
Net assets increased by 204 million over the year Going concern driven by the profit for the year offset by a small net easyJets business activities, together with factors likely change in the hedging reserve.
to affect its future development and performance, are The net book value of property plant and equipment described in the business review on pages 8 to 17. increased by 221 million driven principally by the Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages acquisition of a net ten owned A320 family aircraft, and 27 to 30.
Note 22 to the accounts sets out the Groups advance payments under the new aircraft order objectives, policies and procedures for managing its announced in January 2011. capital and gives details of the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
Net working capital improved by 175 million to a net negative 765 million.
Passengers pay for their ights in The Group holds cash and cash equivalents of 1.1 full when booking, therefore the key component of this billion as at 30 September 2011.
Total debt of 1.3 billion balance is unearned revenue, which increased by 115 is free from financial covenants, with 155 million due million.
The increase in restricted cash is connected for repayment in the year to 30 September 2012. with this increase due to contractual arrangements The business is exposed to uctuations in fuel prices with certain card acquirers.
and US dollar and euro exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to hedge between 65% and 85% of estimated 2011 2010 Change exposures 12 months in advance, and 45% and 65% of million million million estimated exposures from 13 up to 24 months in Cash and cash equivalents 1,100 912 188 advance.
The Group was compliant with this policy at Money market deposits 300 260 40 the date of this Annual report and accounts.
1,400 1,172 218 After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be Bank loans 1,079 1,057 22 able to operate within the level of available facilities and Finance lease obligations 221 155 66 cash for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they 1,300 1,212 88 continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Net cash debt 100 40 140 easyJet ends the year with 1,400 million in cash and Significant contracts and money market deposits: an increase of 218 million creditor policy compared with 30 September 2010.
Net borrowings increased by 88 million.
The majority of bank loans significant contracts and finance leases and all money market deposits are easyJet operates a fleet constituted mainly of Airbus denominated in US dollars and the sterling value of this aircraft with two Boeings which will have left the fleet net liability increased by 8 million during the year as a by 30 September 2012.
Engines are provided by CFM consequence of exchange rate changes.
International and the maintenance of the aircraft Net cash at 30 September 2011 were 100 million andengines is undertaken by SRT, Virgin Atlantic compared with net debt of 40 million at 30 Engineering, Aerotron, GE, MTU, BF Goodrich and September 2010.
Strong operating cash ow and the Lufthansa Technik.
The major lessors of aircraft to increase in net assets delivered a reduction in gearing easyJet are Amentum Capital, AWAS, GECAS, of five percentage points to 28% at 30 September 2011.
Nomura Babcock & Brown, Royal Bank of Scotland, Sumisho, and Santander.
The major lenders to easyJet for aircraft purchase are Alliance & Leicester, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, BNP Paribas, Calyon, Commerz, HSH Nordbank, KfW, Natixis, PK AirFinance, Royal Bank of Scotland, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and WestLB.
26 easyJet plc Financial review Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued Our main insurers are Global, La Reunion, AXA, Canada Our main ancillary partners are Gate Gourmet, who Life, QBE and Houston Casualty Company Europe.
provide our in-ight merchandise, Europcar, who provide car rental services, Hotelopia and Laterooms One of our biggest costs is fuel and our main suppliers who broker hotels, Low Cost Holidays who provide are Shell, Air BP, Exxon, Air Total and Q8.
Our IT systems accommodation and transfers for easyJet Holidays include agreements with AIMS, who provide crew, andAlvia who, through the Mondial brand, provide aircraft and ight management control and operation travel insurance.
software: SAVVIS who provide data centre hosting facilities and our data network: Lufthansa Systems who Our credit card acquirers are Elavon, Lloyds TSB, provide ight planning systems: SOPRA who develop Barclays Merchant Services and American Express.
and support our reservations system and other areas Ourpayment service providers are CyberSource.
of system development: AD OPT Technologies who The Company is regulated in the UK by the CAA and provide our pairings and roster optimiser: and Agresso easyJet Switzerland is regulated by FOCA.
We have who provide our accounting system.
important relationships with NATS and Eurocontrol in As at 30 September 2011 easyJet had 19 bases and relation to air trafc services.
they were operated by: The main employee unions we deal with in the UK are BAA BALPA, UNITE and Prospect: in France they are SNPL Global Infrastructure Partners and UNAC SNPNC CFTC: in Spain they are SEPLA, AdP STAVLA and CCOO: in Italy IPA, FIT-CISL and FILT-CGIL: EuroAirport  in Germany Ver.
di: and in Switzerland SSP VPOD.
Manchester Airports Group We use contract pilots from Airline Recruitment and South West Airports Parc Aviation and ight simulation services from CAE.
Abertis Peel Holdings We have a key relationship with easyGroup IP Licensing Aeroports fide Lyon who own the easyJet brand, and with Sir Stelios Flughafen Berlin-Schoenefeld Haji-Ioannou through the Agreement Letter.
Aeroporti Di Milano These contracts contain provisions giving the other party the right to Newcastle Airport terminate if there is a change in control in easyJet.
Geneva International Airport Policy and practice on payment of creditors AENA easyJet aims to have partnership agreements with Aeroporti di Roma suppliers, which stresses the importance of strong At these airports our ground handling was carried suppliers aligned to the success of easyJet as a outby: business.
Many of our supply agreements are unique and tailored to the needs of the business, to make sure Menzies Aviation that suppliers are rewarded appropriately for delivering Servisair services which meet pre-agreed performance targets Group Europe Handling and align with easyJets own internal performance Aviapartner goals.
Our practice is to: Swissport SEA Handling Agree the terms of payment at the start of business Globeground Berlin with the supplier Swissport Menzies Ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the Gate Aviation terms of the payments Aviation Service Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations At 30 September 2011, the number of creditors days outstanding for the Group was 8 days 2010: 6 days, and for the Company was nil days 2010: nil days.
