10 easyJet plc Chief Executives introduction Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued Customer satisfaction Strategic position The improvement in operational performance has been reected in increased customer satisfaction.
easyJet business strengths Overall satisfaction was up by six percentage points to easyJet is the fourth largest short-haul carrier in Europe 3 79% compared with the same period last year.
easyJet derives its competitive advantage from the following attributes: easyJet continues to develop its end-to-end customer proposition and announced on 15 November 2011 that leading short-haul network in Europe with the highest it will start trialing allocated seating on selected routes number of market pairs within Europes top 100 3 from spring 2012. market pairs and strong market shares in valuable markets such as London Gatwick, Paris, Milan Engagement Malpensa, Amsterdam and Geneva At easyJet people are at the heart of delivering for low cost and efficient business model derived from ourcustomers and executing the strategy to create scale and cost advantage, high asset utilisation, a value for shareholders.
Consequently improving young efficient fleet with low cost of ownership and communication and engagement have been given a industry leading load factors high priority this year as the whole of the Executive Management Team have travelled extensively across financial and balance sheet strength the network.
Note 3: Market share data from OAG.
europe by easyJet Competitive and regulatory environment easyJet has made good progress implementing its new In the past year capacity in European short-haul grew European structure.
Country managers are now in 3 by 2.8%, and by 3.1% on easyJets routes.
It is expected place in each of our key European markets and are that due to higher fuel costs, rising airport costs, focused on improving the end to end customer taxation on air travel and a weak economic proposition driving better route decisions and better environment that over the coming year capacity engagement and lobbying with key regulatory and growth will be at lower rate as carriers seeks to rebuild governmental agencies.
"In September easyJet launched its new advertising A significant proportion of easyJets cost base is campaign ""europe by easyJet""."
We have seen determined by governments and regulators and promising initial results from the campaign with a 250% easyJet continues to constructively engage with them 2 increase in customers describing themselves as much on a number of issues that will impact easyJets cost more likely to buy from easyJet base in the future Note 2: source Gfk Brand tracking.
Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 11 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Example only.
easyJet remains concerned that monopoly After providing appropriate returns for shareholders, infrastructure providers across Europe, of both airports capital is allocated to support the network.
Capital 12.7% and airspace, continue to impose higher charges, expenditure will be principally allocated to the following ROCE achieved in year despite the uncertain economic climate.
Consequently activities: there is now an increased focus on regulated airport maintaining fleet size through the replacement charges, and easyJet has actively participated in the 79% ofleased aircraft as they exit the fleet and the regulatory dialogue for Spanish: French: UK: Dutch: 13 ppt improvement maintenance, repair and overhaul of engines German: and Italian airports in 2011.
Monopoly airports inOTP anoverhaul being required when an aircraft has need to become more efficient, with infrastructure and operated for between eight and nine years in easyJet associated charges built around the needs of service in accordance with the manufacturers passengers on point-to-point carriers such as easyJet.
maintenance programme This will bring wider economic benets by promoting tourism and trade.
new network opportunities where the Board is satisfied that they can deliver on-target returns within The UK Government has reversed its election promise a tight and dened timescale to turn Air Passenger Duty into a per plane tax.
Instead it is proposing to lower the tax on long-haul ights and In the past year, easyJet has implemented a new and increase it on short-haul ights.
Evidence shows this is more rigorous approach to assessing network returns.
both economically and environmentally damaging.
Routes are measured on the returns they are delivering Aviations entry into the European Union Emissions against the Company's 12% ROCE target.
Capacity on Trading System means that there is no longer any underperforming routes is reallocated, or performance environmental case for taxes on aviation.
managed and profitability improved, to deliver an appropriate return.
In a dynamic market place, Pleasingly the European Commission is planning in 2012 profitability of routes can change over time and by to propose reforms to the consumer rules that govern ensuring that route returns are continually monitored aviation.
easyJet welcomes this announcement and will the Company is most effectively able to drive ROCE.
be working to ensure the proposals give passengers the rights they deserve, but do not expose airlines to Capacity is also principally deployed on routes which unmanageable risks of the type we saw arising from operate on a year-round basis, with less than 5% of the ash clouds of 2010.
The Commission will also be easyJets capacity allocated to summer-only routes, all working on a reform of the slot regulation.
We hope of which are intended to deliver upper quartile ROCE this will give a renewed opportunity to ensure that slots on average delivering ROCE above 12%.
are allocated to airlines such as easyJet which will use Fleet plan and growth them efficiently.
easyJet has built exibility into its fleet planning Capacity planning and capital allocation arrangements such that it can increase or decrease The Board is focused on driving returns for capacity deployed, subject to the opportunities shareholders and consistent with this focus has available and prevailing economic conditions.
The outlined a clear set of financial objectives and metrics.
Company also has exibility to move aircraft between routes and markets to improve ROCE.
The Boards objective is to achieve returns in excess of the cost of capital and this will be measured by the ROCE achieved within a financial year.
The Board has set a target of 12% ROCE through the five years planning cycle and for the financial year ended 30 September 2011 easyJet achieved a ROCE of12.7%.
12 easyJet plc Chief Executives introduction Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued During the past financial year, the Company took The current contracted fleet plan over the period to advantage of the agreement signed with Airbus in 30September 2013 as set out below: 2002 and converted 15 A320-family aircraft that had been under option to the Company since June 2007 GB easyJet Airways Total into rm orders for 15 A320 aircraft, primarily to replace A320 Boeing A320 contracted 4 existing aircraft that will be retiring from the fleet in 2013. family 737-700 family aircraft At 30 September In the year, easyJet took delivery of 13 A319 aircraft and 2011 202 2 204 12 A320 aircraft under the terms of the Airbus easyJet At 30 September agreement.
The two remaining Boeing 737-700s have 2012 213 213 been withdrawn from service and will be returned to At 30 September their lessors in the first half of 2012.
2013 216 2 218 Note 4: To be delivered as part of a GB Airways commitment.
The total fleet at 30 September 2011 comprised 204 aircraft.
Fleet as at 30 September 2011: Future Unexercised Operating Finance Changes committed purchase rights 5 6 Owned leases leases Total in year deliveries and options easyJet A319 105 56 6 167 8 easyJet A320 24 6 5 35 12 35 73 Boeing 737-700 2 2 -6 GB Airways A320 family -6 2 129641120483773 Note 5: The 35 future easyJet deliveries and 2 ex-GB Airways deliveries are anticipated to be delivered over the next three financial years: 20 in 2012, 12 in 2013 and 5 in 2014.
Note 6: Purchase options and rights may be taken on any A320 family aircraft and are valid until 2015.
A further 35 easyJet specication aircraft deliveries are currently planned for arrival over the next three years, which will be offset by 24 planned exits from theeet.
The high cost of jet fuel and uncertain consumer demand across Europe means that easyJet is taking a cautious approach to capacity, utilising the exibility in its fleet planning arrangements to ensure the fleet is held constant for the next two winters at 204 aircraft, as announced on 10May 2011.
Thereafter, the Company has sufficient exibility in its fleet planning arrangements to adapt to market and economic conditions, which the Board continues to keep under review.
