38 easyJet plc Corporate responsibility Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued We believe the most significant environmental impact Delivering our environmental promises is on climate change.
This is the dominant global Our promises revolve around actions we can take in environmental issue, and it also is of long-term strategic theshort term to directly improve the environmental importance to the airline industry.
We have therefore efficiency of our business, and at the same time focused our reporting and public policy work on this working to deliver a sustainable long-term outcome issue.
The latter involves changing the framework within which the industry operates to Why the environment matters ensure it delivers sustainable outcomes.
Addressing our environmental impact is clearly part of our responsibility as an airline.
However, it is also a Governance business imperative.
Environmental concerns have a Many people within easyJet help deliver our significant impact on public policy towards aviation, environmental aims.
Oversight of our environment from restrictions on airport expansion to passenger policy is carried out by a manager in our regulatory taxes.
It is therefore in our own interest to ensure that team, and the EMT receives regular updates on both we and the wider industry properly address environmental policy as part of our reporting on environmental concerns.
This is why we have focused regulatory issues.
on considering public policy solutions to the challenges the industry faces.
easyJets actions Long-term sustainability of the industry How we y our aircraft has an effect on the Aviation emissions have increased steadily over time, environment and nding new innovative ways of doing despite significant improvement in environmental so continues to drive us.
efficiency the growth in air trafc has outweighed the efficiency gains.
Over the last ten years global We are continually working to improve the aviation trafc has grown by over 5% a year, while environmental impact of our current operations, efficiency gains have been about 2%.
This has led to byincreasing fuel efficiency.
We have a fuel efficiency concerns that aviation emissions will continue to grow programme which is continually monitored, with new into the future, and that this will be inconsistent with measures being regularly implemented.
While some of the overall reductions in greenhouse gas emissions these measures save relatively small amounts of CO2 thatare needed to limit the impact of climate change.
per ight, as we have an average of over 1,000 ights a This is clearly unsustainable and needs to change day the total savings can be very large.
Examples of fuel efficiency programmes are: We believe that the main environmental key challenge Ground power usage facing the industry is to ensure that emissions are put on a downwards path.
There is a real risk that if the We have instituted a policy of using ground based industry does not achieve this on its own, it will have power where possible rather than the Auxiliary Power growth constraints placed on it.
We have already seen Unit on the aircraft : this is considerably more efficient.
suggestions of this in the UK, where the Committee This saves 13 kg of CO2 per turnaround, and in total we onClimate in its December 2009 report on aviation have saved 44,000 tonnes of CO2 over the year based emissions suggested the growth of the industry would on current usage levels.
need to be limited to 60% over the next 40 years to Landing lights control UK emissions.
We have lowered the height at which the landing lights To ensure the industry does not face any articial are lowered on landing reducing drag.
This saves constraints we need to signicantly improve the 150grams of CO2 per ight, and 550 tonnes of CO2 efficiency of ying, through step-changes in peryear.
technology, and the right incentives to ensure that airlines and passengers y as efficiently as possible.
One engine taxi on departure Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 39 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Example only.
We now use a single engine to taxi the aircraft before Aviation in ETS departure at airports where it is possible to do this.
This Aviation entered the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EU saves 7.9 kg of CO2 per departure, and across the ETS in 2010, and airlines will have to surrender permits network we have saved 1,380 tonnes of CO2 in the year in 2013 to cover their 2012 emissions.
We were a strong based on current usage.
supporter of aviations entry and we continue to believe that this is the best way to ensure aviation makes its fair New technologies and design contribution to tackling climate change.
In 2011 we were the first commercial airline to trial a revolutionary nano-technology coating on our aircraft Ensuring any taxes support environmental objectives aimed at reducing drag and increasing fuel efficiency.
We do not support the imposition of aviation specic We are also regularly looking at ways to reduce weight taxes.
However, where they are in place such as the onboard and are currently looking at lighter seats in UK we believe they must be designed to provide thecabin.
incentives for more environmentally efficient ying.
Entry into ETS Thismeans the tax base must be ights, not passengers.
In 2010 we were required Minimum standards for aircraft to report our CO2 emissions and the Revenue Tonne Kilometres own by easyJet.
In 2012 we will be required International minimum standards are needed to drive to surrender permits to cover CO2 emissions.
ETS the development of new technology aircraft.
compliance is overseen by our finance team.
We have put in place the appropriate mechanisms to monitor and report the required data and to manage our exposure to the carbon market.
Changing the industry framework Achieving step change in the environmental efficiency of aviation will require significant progress in the development of next-generation aircraft.
Without significant improvements in fuel efficiency it will not be possible to increase the rate of environmental efficiency improvement.
While we have seen some progress in the short-haul market, with the development of the Airbus A320 NEO and Boeing B737 MAX, we remain concerned that the current effective duopoly in the production of large commercial aircraft is restricting the development of next-generation aircraft.
There has been limited progress on the development of a next-generation short-haul aircraft and it is clear that it will be many years before there is a new short-haul aircraft.
We are continuing to push the manufacturers to develop a next-generation short-haul aircraft.
It is also vital that the policy framework set out by governments supports the objective of increasing the environmental efficiency of aviation.
We believe there are three parts to this, only one of which is in place.
