Board of Directors Peter Johnson Ian Mason Simon Boddie Adrian Auer Paul Hollingworth Rupert Soames Ian Haslegrave Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Peter Johnson, 63, joined as Ian Mason, 49, joined the Group Simon Boddie, 51, joined as Adrian Auer, 62, joined as a nonPaul Hollingworth, 51, joined as Rupert Soames, 52, joined Chairman in October 2010. in February 1995 as Director Group Finance Director in executive Director on 1 July 2009. a non-executive Director in May as a non-executive Director Ian Haslegrave, 42, joined the He is Chairman of DS Smith plc, of Business Development.
He September 2005 from Diageo plc.
Adrian is Chairman of both Shanks 2008.
He is Group Chief Financial in July 2007.
Rupert is Group Company in September 2006 a leading international producer was appointed to the Board of He joined Diageo in 1992 where Group plc and Readymix plc.
Officer of Thomas Cook Group Chief Executive of Aggreko plc.
from Viacom Outdoor Limited of paper and packaging materials Directors in July 2000 as Chief he held a variety of senior finance He is a non-executive Director plc.
Previously he was Chief Previously he was Chief Executive where he was International Legal and distributor of office products.
Operating Officer and was positions, latterly as Finance of Umeco plc, and in May of this Financial Officer of Mondi Group of the Banking and Securities Director.
Previously he worked He is also a Member of the appointed Group Chief Executive Director of Key Markets.
year he became a non-executive and prior to that held positions as Division of Misys plc and a nonat United Biscuits Limited and Supervisory Board of Wienerberger in July 2001.
Previously he worked Director of AZ Electronic Materials Group Finance Director of BPB plc, executive Director of Baggeridge Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
b Chairman of the Treasury AG and until recently was a for The Boston Consulting Group.
He is also Chairman of fide La Rue plc and Ransomes plc.
Committee b c non-executive Director of SSL In November 2007 he was Addaction, Britains largest Chairman of the Audit Senior Independent Director and International plc.
He was appointed as a non-executive specialist drug and alcohol Committee a d e Chairman of the Remuneration previously Chief Executive treatment charity.
Adrian has held Director of The Sage Group plc.
Committee a d e of George Wimpey plc and the position of Finance Director Chairman of the Group Executive prior to that Chief Executive in a number of major companies Committee b c and has extensive international of The Rugby Group plc.
a d e Chairman of the Nomination Committee from 1 October 2010 a a member of the Nomination Committee b member of the Treasury Committee c member of the Group Executive Committee d member of the Remuneration Committee e member of the Audit committee 36 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Board of Directors Peter Johnson Ian Mason Simon Boddie Adrian Auer Paul Hollingworth Rupert Soames Ian Haslegrave Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Peter Johnson, 63, joined as Ian Mason, 49, joined the Group Simon Boddie, 51, joined as Adrian Auer, 62, joined as a nonPaul Hollingworth, 51, joined as Rupert Soames, 52, joined Chairman in October 2010. in February 1995 as Director Group Finance Director in executive Director on 1 July 2009. a non-executive Director in May as a non-executive Director Ian Haslegrave, 42, joined the He is Chairman of DS Smith plc, of Business Development.
a d e Chairman of the Nomination Committee from 1 October 2010 a a member of the Nomination Committee b member of the Treasury Committee c member of the Group Executive Committee d member of the Remuneration Committee e member of the Audit committee Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37
