Strategy in action Developing our electronics offer Supplier: Siemens Industry The Siemens Industry Sector Erlangen, Germany is the worldwide leading supplier of environmentally friendly production, transportation, building and lighting technologies.
Withintegrated automation technologies and comprehensive industry-specific solutions, Siemens increases the productivity, efficiency and flexibility ofits customers in the fields of industry and infrastructure.
With around 204,000 employees worldwide 30 September 2010, Siemens Industry achieved in fiscal year 2010 total salesof approximately 34.9 billion.
com industry Siemens Industry Sector and RS Components have had a strong and well established relationship across Europe for more than 20 years.
With 35,000 Siemens products available from RS, Siemens and RS stepped up their engagement in 2010 and signed amemorandum of understanding with the objective to further expand their cooperation across the globe.
The high service level, customer reachand marketing power from RS, associated with the premium technological leadership from Siemens Industry Sector, makes the partnership a very compelling offer to the service ofdesign and maintenance engineers.
12 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview The symbiosis betweeninnovative, high-quality products from Siemens and the easy access to a wide customer clientele ofRS Components ranging across different sized companies, distinguishes the cooperation, especially in the respective business models on which RS is focused.
Uwe Haeberer Senior Vice-president, Business Development from Siemens Industry Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Strategy in action Delivering a world class product offer Supplier: TE Connectivity formerly Tyco Electronics TE is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions, specialty products and undersea telecoms systems with 2010 sales revenues over $12 billion.
TE has a long and fruitful relationship with Electrocomponents, stretching back over 30 years, and is one of Electrocomponents leading strategic suppliers.
Electros carries over 20,000 TE products including connectors, relays and passives: predominantly electronic products, which it offers tocustomers globally.
Additionally, Electros has over 5,000 TE products available as 3D models on its eCommerce site and has registered over 4,000 model downloads since July 2010.
14 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview We value our relationship with Electros.
With their global distribution reach and delivery support to key global markets they provide a vital connection between TE and our mutual customers.
Canda Carr Director of Global Distribution Sales and Strategy Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Strategy in action The right people in the right market Continental Europe: Employee engagement The regionalisation of the ContinentalEurope business into asingle organisation structure in 2010continues to produce impressive business results and improving employee engagement.
For many employees it offers the opportunity to work internationally andin different parts of the European business.
For example, we have one marketing team, and two sales teams one for north Europe and one for the south while our supply chain is run asone European team.
Our employees come from different countries across Europe and they share a common passion for customer service.
This passion is tangible: our customer service levels, when recently externally measured, have increased and are approaching the top decile ofbest performing businesses in the world.
Business results are equally impressive with sales growth of over 20% and revenues over 400m.
16 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Our people r ightly saw the regionalisation asa true opportunity.
Itprovides them with agreater potential to widen their roles.
Klaus Gldenbot Regional General Manager, EMEA Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17
