Components of growth Electrocomponents plc is the worlds leading high service distributor of electronics and maintenance products.
We estimate that the global market in which we operate is Focus on international markets valued at around 30 billion and growing, driven by demand for electronics and for maintenance products growing at more than twice GDP and just ahead of GDP respectively.
We are becoming an increasingly global business: 70% Our success is based on taking market share from smaller ofour revenues are derived from international markets, up competitors in a highly fragmented market, who cannot from just 40% in 2000.
We now have direct operations in match our product range or our market leading customer 32 countries with distributors giving us an indirect presence service offering.
The five international high service distributors including The countries that we operate within represent around 90% Electrocomponents together have an estimated market of the worlds GDP, therefore there is significant opportunity share of around 15%.
Therefore, the opportunity for to grow within our existing international markets.
Over the long-term structural growth is considerable.
last five years our International business has achieved compound annual sales growth of 7% and we are targeting Electrocomponents has at its core a strategy based on five 7%-10% annual sales growth in the medium term.
priorities which we see as the components of growth and During the year we continued to benefit from the the foundations of our success.
These components of growth regionalisation of our European business and we extended have been driving the business forward since 2008 and have our operations into Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic shaped our business to deliver record results in 2011. and Switzerland.
We also launched local language, local We explain these five areas below: currency websites in South Korea and in Mexico.
We recently doubled the capacity of our distribution facility inShanghai building on our position as the leading high-service distributor in China.
2 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Develop our electronics and Leveraging operating margins maintenance offers We now deliver around 550,000 products to 1.6 million customers globally from 17 international distribution centres Ensuring we have the right product offering is key to our across 32 countries: the vast majority of our customers success.
In practical terms, this means having the most orders are despatched the day they are received.
comprehensive electronics and maintenance product range available to all customers on a global basis.
Having an international operating structure allows us totake advantage of economies of scale and achieve In support of this objective, this year we added 76,000 significant operating leverage.
newproducts to our portfolio sourced from leading suppliers, growing our global range to over 550,000 The UK market yields 29% contribution as a percentage products.
Our rate of new product introductions has ofsales.
Therefore, the opportunity as we grow sales is grownand is now significantly ahead of previous years.
toextract these scale economies from our international operations, which currently achieve an 18% contribution We recognise that technology facilitates a better level.
We can use improved scale as a springboard into relationship with our customers and in particular with our newmarkets.
For example, leveraging our European sales, electronics customers.
Recent developments now allow marketing and operational capability enabled us to launch them to view over 17,000 3D product models online and into Eastern Europe and Switzerland during the year.
through DesignSpark PCB we are providing electronics engineers with the ability to design circuit boards and model different product combinations: 75,000 downloads of this software have been activated in less than a year.
Maintain UK profitability Revenues from our electronics products grew by 30% withsemiconductor sales growing by over 60%.
The UK had an exceptional year, benefitting from the successful deployment of the Groups strategy together with a recovering manufacturing sector.
The UK achieved Exploit the full potential of eCommerce double digit sales growth for the first time in 15 years andgrew contribution by nearly 22% to over 100m, whichis above pre-recession levels.
This performance We continued to accelerate implementing our eCommerce wasunderpinned by the businesss continued strong cost strategy and saw a 37% growth in online revenues: 53% control with costs reducing by nearly 4% year on year.
ofour total revenues are now generated from eCommerce.
Promotional activity, with campaigns targeted to drive up eCommerce allows our customers greater flexibility in the order values, has increased significantly, highlighting value way they purchase their products and greater convenience for money through every step of the customer journey.
and we have around 60 websites with the majority in local languages and local currencies.
It also allows us to remain eCommerce revenues grew by around 24%, and around competitive as we can offer targeted pricing to customers 57% of the UKs revenue is now via eCommerce.
The based on dynamic market pricing.
addition of Live Chat also provides our customer facing teams with the tools to improve our customers online eCommerce is at the heart of our multi-channel approach experience helping them to find and buy the products combining the internet with our traditional catalogue, they need.
fieldsales who understand our customers needs and internal sales, who provide instant support for customers.
The UK achieved the distinction of increased customer satisfaction independent research highlighting that our Our websites allow us to follow the search and navigation UK business is amongst the top 10% of best performing journeys of customers and those who are using our website businesses across all companies in Europe.
Search engine marketing allows us to convert that research and demand into sales.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3
