26 Board of directors and senior executives NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1.
1. roBert Beeston 3. chris girling chairman non-executive director committee membership: n c committee membership: a c, n, r Robert Beeston was appointed non-executive Chairman of Elementis Chris Girling was appointed a non-executive director in April 2005 and and Chairman of the Nomination Committee in September 2006.
Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2008.
He was group finance He was non-executive chairman of Cookson Group plc from April 2003 director of Carillion plc, a construction and support service group, from to May 2010 and a non-executive director of DS Smith plc between 1999 to 2007, and previous to that he was finance director of Vosper December 2000 and December 2010, where he was the senior Thornycroft plc for ten years.
He holds an MBA and is a Fellow of the independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
From 1992 until 2002 he was chief executive officer non-executive director and the chairman of the audit committee of of FKI plc.
He spent 18 years with Dowty Group before joining John Keller Group plc, chairman of the board of trustees of the Slaughter and Brown Plastics Machinery UK Ltd as managing director.
In 1985, he was May pension scheme and a non-executive director of ARCO Limited.
appointed managing director of BTR Valve Group, a position he held for six years before joining FKI plc.
2. ian Brindle 4. kevin matthews senior independent director non-executive director committee membership: a, n committee membership: a, n, r c Ian Brindle was appointed a non-executive director and Chairman of Kevin Matthews was appointed a non-executive director in February the Audit Committee in June 2005.
He retired as Chairman of the Audit 2005 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2008.
He Committee in April 2008 and was appointed Senior Independent is chief executive officer of Isogenica Limited, a private biotechnology Director.
He was senior partner of Price Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 business based in the UK and established in 2000.
Prior to that, he was and UK chairman of  until 2001.
He was also CEO of Oxonica plc, a UK-based nanotechnology company, a role he a member of the Accounting Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 held from April 2001 to September 2009, and previous to that he held and the deputy chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel roles in Rhodia Consumer Specialties Limited, Albright & Wilson UK between 2001 and 2008.
He is senior independent director and Limited and ICI Chemicals and Polymers.
He is a non-executive director chairman of the audit committee of Spirent Communications plc, senior of Cellectricon AB, a Swedish private biotechnology business, and independent director also of 4imprint Group plc, a non-executive holds a D. Phil in chemistry.
director of F&C Asset Management plc and non-executive chairman of Sherborne Investors Guernsey A Limited.
5. andrew christie non-executive director committee membership: a, n, r Andrew Christie was appointed a non-executive director in August 2008 and has over 25 years of investment banking and international corporate finance experience.
He is a partner of Smith Square Partners LLP, a corporate finance advisory firm, and before that was, until March 2008, a UK managing director in the European Investment Banking Group at Credit Suisse.
In his prior role at Credit Suisse, he was head of Investment Banking, Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong and, before that, held the same position with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He was previously chairman and non-executive director of Ark Therapeutics Group plc and holds an MBA and a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 27 SENIOR EXECUTIVES key 8.
12. a - Audit Committee n Nominaton Committee r Remuneration Committee c Chairman of Committee 9.
6. david dutro 10. walker allen general counsel and group chief executive chief compliance officer David Dutro was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2007.
He joined Elementis in November 1998 as President of Elementis Pigments Walker Allen joined Elementis as General Counsel in 1999 and was then became President and Chief Operating Officer of Elementis appointed General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer in 2006.
He was vice president and general Prior to joining Elementis, he was associate general counsel with manager of Universal Foods Dairy and Food Ingredient businesses GE Americom a GE Capital company and before that senior business now Sensient Technologies Corp, and also spent time with ICI in their counsel with GE Plastics a division of General Electric Company.
colours, polymer additives and surfactants businesses.
David Dutro He began his legal career as a lawyer in private practice with two was born and educated in the US and holds a Bachelor of Science leading New York City law firms, where he specialised in corporate law, degree in marketing.
securities, and mergers and acquisitions.
He is a member of the New York Bar and is admitted as in-house counsel in New Jersey.
Brian taylorson 11. jerry horton vice President worldwide finance director human resources Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance Director in April 2002.
Before joining Elementis he was head of European chemicals M&A group at Jerry Horton was appointed Vice President Worldwide Human KPMG Corporate Finance.
He joined KPMG in 2000 from the Dow Resources in January 2008.
He joined Elementis as Vice President Chemical Company where he held a number of positions in finance Human Resources, Elementis Pigments in December 2000.
Prior to over a period of 17 years.
He holds an MA from Cambridge University, joining Elementis, he was vice president labour relations for Earthgrains, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and now Sara Lee, and before that he was the director of human resources Wales and a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is with Hussmann, now Ingersoll Rand.
Jerry Horton obtained an MBA in a non-executive director of Fiberweb plc.
1996 and has worked for 30 years in the human resources field.
8. greg mcclatchy P resident of elementis specialties 12.
Brad rector chief information officer comprised of elementis specialty Brad Rector was appointed Chief Information Officer in September 2010.
Products and elementis surfactants Prior to joining Elementis, he held senior IT positions in the US, Hong Greg McClatchy was appointed President of Elementis Specialties in Kong and Germany for LyondellBasell Chemical and its predecessor January 2007.
He joined Elementis Pigments in 1999, served as companies.
Before that, he was a management consultant with Price Managing Director of its Durham UK operations, was appointed Waterhouse and an engineer with Texaco.
Brad Rector holds an MBA President of Specialty Rubber in 2002 and President of Elementis from the University of Houston Clear Lake and a Bachelor of Science Chromium in 2005.
He was previously with Universal Foods now in mechanical engineering from the University of Arizona.
Sensient Technologies Corp and ICIs polymer additives business.
Greg McClatchy completed his undergraduate studies in chemistry and economics at the University of Delaware.
9. dennis valentino P resident of elementis chromium 13. wai wong company secretary Dennis Valentino re-joined Elementis as President of Elementis Wai Wong joined Elementis and was appointed Company Secretary in Chromium in April 2009.
His previous positions at Elementis included May 2007.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Managing Director of Asia Pacific and President of Elementis Pigments Administrators ICSA.
Prior to joining Elementis, he held a number until it was sold in August 2007 when he left the Group.
Prior to of senior company secretarial positions including at John Menzies plc, Elementis, he joined Pfizer Pigments in 1975 and held various positions ICSA and .
Wai Wong has a Bachelors degree there including vice president of manufacturing and vice president of in commerce and law from the University of Edinburgh and a Masters its North America Coatings business.
Dennis Valentino completed his degree in corporate and commercial law from Queen Mary College, undergraduate study in chemical engineering at the University of University of London.
Missouri Rolla, and obtained his MBA from St. Louis University.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 28 directors rePort RepoRt and financial statements employment policies The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements The Group Chief Executive is the Board member responsible for for the year ended 31 December 2011. employee matters and human rights, and he is assisted by the Vice President of Global Human Resources.
The Group employs pRincipal activities, business Review and HR specialists throughout its worldwide locations to advise on all futuRe development HR matters, including training and development, and various HR For the purposes of this report, the expression Company performance indicators are maintained in order to monitor and or Elementis means Elementis plc and the expression Group evaluate the effectiveness of employment policies.
means the Company and its subsidiaries.
Elementis values the diverse backgrounds of all its people and The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and sale of works to create an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
The Business review forms part of this report and Harassment or discrimination of any kind based on race, colour, contains a fair review of, and likely future trends and factors that might religion, gender, age, national origin, citizenship, mental or physical affect, the development, performance and position of the Group.
disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other similarly A review of the Groups risk management framework as well as protected status is unacceptable.
This principle applies to all principal risks and uncertainties is set out on pages 16 to 18, and aspects of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, policies on financial risk can be found in Note 21 to the Financial transfer, promotion, layoff, recall, termination and other terms and Statements on page 69.
The Corporate social responsibility report on conditions of employment.
The Group is committed to providing pages 19 to 25 summarises the Groups policy on business conduct equal employment opportunities for all Elementis people and all and ethics, and sets out its approach to health and safety, the applicants for employment, based on individual qualifications and environment, social responsibility and community matters.
without regard to the factors mentioned above.
It is Group policy to comply with all applicable laws governing employment practices The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, research and and not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria, and its development activities for new products and to improve existing practices include the prohibition on the use of child or forced labour.
Employment policies are fair and equitable and consistent with the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
coRpoRate goveRnance Elementis respects the rights of its employees to join a trade union or This Directors report constitutes the management report for the participate in collective bargaining arrangements and over 40 per cent purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency of our global workforce are members of a trade union.
In addition, the Corporate governance report on page 32, the Directors responsibility statement on page 31 and the Were an employee to have or acquire a disability, the Groups biographical information on the directors shown on pages 26 and 27 policy is, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment all form part of this Directors report for the purposes of the DTR.
under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion as appropriate.
Results The Group profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the The Board expects the Group to conduct its operations based on parent amounted to $124.1 million 2010: $74.1 million.
sound ethical practices which are open and free from unlawful discrimination and harassment.
Elementis supports the wider dividend fundamental human rights of its employees worldwide and has taken Details about the final dividend for the year are disclosed in the steps to ensure that our standards are reflected and incorporated, Chairmans statement on page 2. wherever practicable, in our business relationships and dealings, particularly as they relate to our wider stakeholders including diRectoRs customers, suppliers and the local communities where we operate.
The directors of the Company are Robert Beeston, Ian Brindle, Further information about the Groups policy on business conduct and Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Chris Girling, Kevin Matthews and ethics is set out in the Corporate social responsibility report.
All of these directors served on the Board throughout the financial year.
More information about the directors is provided in employee communications and involvement the Corporate governance report.
It is Group policy to communicate with all employees on major matters to encourage them to take a wider interest in the affairs of The interests of directors in the share capital of the Company are set their employing company and the Group and to make them aware out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
This is done in a variety of ways including informal Re-election of diRectoRs consultations, bulletins and briefing sessions.
There are well In compliance with the UK corporate governance code, all directors established procedures, including regular meetings with recognised will retire and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the unions, to ensure that the views of employees are taken into 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
A statement about Board account in making decisions likely to affect their interests.
Managers evaluation and the contribution of directors is set out in the Report throughout the Group have a responsibility to keep their staff of the Nomination Committee.
informed of developments and matters of interest.
The Company operates savings-related share option schemes allowing UK and US employees the opportunity to become shareholders, details of which are set out in Note 24 to the Financial Statements on page 83.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 29 going conceRn significant agReements change of contRol The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Other than as set out in this paragraph, there are no significant affect its future performance and development, are set out in the agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, Business review on pages 2 to 25.
The financial position of the Group alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company.
and description of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out in The Company is a guarantor under the Groups $200 million revolving the Finance report on pages 17 and 18.
Note 21 details the Groups credit facility which runs until July 2014.
Under the terms of that facility, exposure to credit, liquidity and market risk and its mechanisms for in the event of a change of control, any lender among the facility dealing with these risks.
syndicate, of which there are six with commitments ranging from $20 million to $45 million, may withdraw from the facility and that The Groups primary source of funding is a syndicated revolving credit lenders participation in any loans drawn down are required to facility for $200 million which expires in July 2014.
the Group was in a net cash position but it still has to comply with covenants and report on these on a half yearly basis to the syndicate Under David Dutros service contract with the Company, of banks.
This involves covenant tests for net debt: EBITDA ratio, compensation is payable to him equivalent to one years basic salary if interest cover and net worth.
No breaches in these covenant tests he terminates his contract upon a change of control provided that the were reported during the year.
The Group uses various short and Company has not first obtained a written agreement to be bound by medium term forecasts to monitor anticipated future compliance and his service contract from any successor in a change of control.
There these include stress testing assumptions to identify the headroom on is no specific change of control provision in Brian Taylorsons service the covenant tests.
contract with the Company but the provisions on early termination set out on page 42 of the Directors remuneration report apply and After evaluating the covenant compliance modelling and the ongoing compensation equivalent to one years basic salary and benefits trading of the businesses, the directors are satisfied that the Company would be payable if less than 12 months notice of termination by and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the the Company is given.
foreseeable future as going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on the shaRe capital rights of the participants under those schemes.
Under the rules of the The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set out respective schemes, participants would generally be able to exercise in Note 7 to the Parent Company Financial Statements on page 90. their options on a change of control, provided that the relevant All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank performance conditions have been satisfied and, where relevant, equally in all respects.
The rights attached to them, in addition to options are not exchanged for new options granted by an acquiring those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys company.
articles of association the Articles.
Other than those specific provisions set out in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the significant Relationships transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached The Group has in place a number of supply contracts for key raw to them.
From time to time the Elementis Employee Share Ownership materials that are essential to the business.
In Specialty Products, Trust ESOT holds shares in the Company for the purposes of supply contracts are for clays, quaternary amines and other chemical various share incentive plans and the rights attaching to them are intermediates.
The suppliers of these contracts are important and, exercised by independent trustees, who may take into account any although we have sought to develop a strategic long term relationship recommendation by the Company.
As at 31 December 2011 the ESOT with them, we have taken steps to maintain a sufficiently broad base held 1,165,719 2010: 5,578,169 ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the of suppliers to mitigate any supply chain risks.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of all shares held by also owns and operates a hectorite clay mine in California which the ESOT.
reduces our reliance on third party suppliers for raw materials.
The Surfactants business sources a number of products from a reasonably diRectoRs, aRticles and puRchase of shaRes wide base of third party suppliers for use in the manufacturing of Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set its products.
These include supplies for ethylene oxide, propylene out in the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by oxide, nonylphenol ethoxylate and fatty alcohols.
The Chromium shareholders passing a special resolution.
The directors powers are divisions key raw materials are chrome ore, soda ash and sulphuric conferred on them by UK legislation and by the Articles.
Chrome ore is sourced from a number of South African mining the power conferred on it by shareholders to purchase its own shares companies, while soda ash and sulphuric acid are sourced from and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual suppliers in the US.
The business is continually looking for new sources General Meeting within the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting.
of supply to broaden its base of suppliers.
All businesses purchase energy in the form of natural gas, fuel oil or electricity.
It is the Groups practice to enter into agreements with suppliers to lock in the price of at least 50 per cent of its energy costs for each year.
Information about individual suppliers is not disclosed as the Board considers that disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 30 directors rePort continued As its businesses are reasonably diverse in terms of the customers political and chaRitable donations and sectors they serve, the Group is not dependent on any particular During the year the Group donated $51,113 2010: $56,040 for customer and therefore no further information is given.
The Group charitable purposes of which $17,394 2010: $12,872 was made in the supplies some of its products through approved distributors, who are UK.
The Group made no political donations during the year 2010: $nil.
able to provide or access technical support services, and has a joint venture in China at an organoclay plant and, whilst these relationships policy on payment of supplieRs are an important part of our business, the Board does not consider any The Companys and the Groups policies concerning the payment individual relationship to be material to the Group.
The Group values to suppliers are to agree terms of payment at the start of business all of its employees and, although some perform roles that are more with each supplier and to adhere to these, subject to satisfactory important to the business than others, the Board does not consider performance by the suppliers.
The Company and the Group do that the Groups success is materially dependent on any single not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
Additionally, the Board is satisfied that the Companys creditors for the Group at 31 December 2011 represented 55 days incentive arrangements are appropriate to attract, retain and motivate 2010: 60 days of annual purchases, adjusted for currency and key people within the organisation.
The Company has no trade creditors.
substantial shaReholdeRs diRectoRs and officeRs liability insuRance As at 28 February 2012 the Company had been notified, in accordance The Company maintains liability insurance for the directors and with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In addition, in 2008, the interests in its issued ordinary capital: directors of the Company were granted indemnities in respect of any liability or loss that may arise out of or in connection with the Percentage of execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of ordinary issued ordinary the Company, or of any subsidiary, to the extent permitted under the shares share capital Companies Act 2006.
Copies of these indemnities, which continue Schroders plc 44,613,178 9.92 to remain in place, are available for inspection at the Companys AXA investment Managers SA 28,739,014 6.39 registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Ameriprise Financial, inc. and its group 24,578,041 5.46 norges Bank 22,839,063 5.08 diRectoRs conflict of inteRest Prudential Plc Group of companies 22,627,563 5.03 The only director who was in receipt of a conflict authorisation during the year is Brian Taylorson, who is Finance Director and a Trustee of Legal & General Group plc 22,544,252 5.01 the UK pension scheme.
The conflict authorisation enables him to BlackRock, inc 22,444,591 4.99 continue to act as a Trustee notwithstanding that this role could give cazenove capital Management Limited 22,171,163 4.93 rise to a situation in which there is a conflict of interest.
The conflict JPMorgan Asset Management authorisation was first put in place in October 2008 and is subject to Holdings inc. 20,565,772 4.57 annual review.
The Board has reviewed this and has agreed to extend the conflict authorisation for another year.
Under the terms of the conflict resolution, reciprocal provisions have been put in place with auditoR a view to safeguarding information that is confidential to the Group A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company as well as to the Trustees.
Were a conflict of interest to arise, Brian will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be Taylorson is required to excuse himself from reading the relevant held on 26 April 2012. pension papers and absent himself from participating in relevant Trustee discussions.
Each director in office at the date of this Directors report confirms that a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of post balance sheet events which the Companys auditors are unaware and b he has taken all the There are no post balance sheet events.
steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys annual geneRal meeting auditors are aware of that information.
The fifteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Thursday 26 April 2012.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document sent to shareholders.
By order of the Board Wai Wong Company Secretary 28 February 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
