02 cHAirMAns stAteMent BALANCE ShEET Robert Beeston As a result of another year of strong cash flow performance, enhanced Chairman by the recovery of the funds from the European Commission, the Group is in the very favourable position of having a net cash position at the end of 2011.
The IAS 19 deficit under the Groups pension schemes increased by $27.4 million to $94.8 million in the year, due to a fall in bond yields, and current pension regulations require that these plans are funded to a higher level for the time being.
Overall, however, the Group is in a very strong financial position and well placed to continue to invest in its future growth.
Given the Groups robust balance sheet position and the strongly cash generative nature of our business, the Board will monitor and review the capital structure to ensure it remains appropriate for the Groups needs and delivers optimal returns for investors.
DIvIDEND The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.66 cents per share In 2011, the global economic environment continued to be which will be paid on 1 June 2012 in pounds sterling at an exchange challenging for businesses in general, with low growth in North rate of 1 $1.5723 equivalent to a sterling amount of 2.9638 pence America and disruption in Europe caused by the financial strains in per share, to shareholders on the register on 4 May 2012.
This the Euro currency area.
In such an environment, the quality and brings the total dividend to shareholders for the year to 7.00 cents resilience of a company is very much put to the test and only those 2010: 4.94 cents representing an increase of 42 per cent over the companies with a valuable product offering to their customers, a clear previous year.
Going forward the Board intends to progress the strategy and the inherent skills to drive performance are likely to be dividend as the Groups dollar earnings and cash flow permit.
I am therefore pleased to report that Elementis has continued to meet that test in 2011, by delivering improvements in hEALTh, SAFETy AND ENvIRONmENT sales, operating profit and margins, leading to strong cash flow Our activities in this important area of our business have continued generation and growth in earnings per share.
At the core of our success to be of a high standard and I am able to report that there were no is our global presence, the superior product and technical service significant incidents in the year.
To ensure that our performance provided to our customers by Specialty Products, combined with a remains exemplary, we also closely monitor minor incidents and more resilient business model in Chromium.
Actions taken over the use the key learnings from each of these to constantly upgrade our past three years to improve the quality of our businesses are clearly processes.
In 2011, there was some increase in minor incidents and evident in our results, with our operating margins continuing to we have taken immediate steps to ensure that any underlying causes improve and now reaching levels well above those experienced before are quickly corrected.
Cash flow has also been impressive over that period, such that the Group now enjoys a strong balance CORPORATE GOvERNANCE sheet with a net cash position.
The UK corporate governance code asks company chairmen to report on how the Board has applied various provisions concerning the role Group revenues in 2011 were $760.5 million compared to and effectiveness of the Board.
I have set out the Boards position in $697.4 million in 2010, which is a growth rate of nine per cent, or these matters in the Corporate governance report.
seven per cent on a constant currency basis.
Operating profit, before exceptional items, increased by 34 per cent to $137.1 million, PEOPLE or 30 per cent on a constant currency basis.
Both Specialty Products The excellent results reported by the Group this year are only possible and Chromium reported improved operating margins in the year.
through the efforts, dedication and skill of our people around the Diluted earnings per share, before exceptional items, improved world.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their by 37 per cent to 20.8 cents in 2011, compared to 15.2 cents in the tremendous contribution to our ongoing success.
OUTLOOK As previously reported, the Group recovered 23.4 million The Board is confident that the Group has a clearly defined strategy approximately $34.5 million from the European Commission and solid business model and balance sheet that can continue to during the year and this, together with a provision of $7.0 million generate value for our shareholders.
Trading in 2012 has started on relating to our pension plans in the Netherlands, have been a solid footing and, although economic uncertainties in Europe are recorded as exceptional items in the year because of their size still in evidence, we are confident that we can make further progress and non-recurring nature.
After taking account of these items, in the coming year.
basic earnings per share for 2011 was 27.8 cents compared to 16.7 cents in 2010, which included a one-time tax credit.
Robert Beeston Chairman 28 February 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
