08 business cOMMentAries continued Elementis Specialty Products is a leading manufacturer of rheology to explore new opportunities in this fast growing and attractive control additives that are used to enhance the performance of our market.
In Europe, coatings sales improved by ten per cent, or customers products.
It is the global leader in organoclay technology, five per cent on a constant currency basis.
Sales volumes slowed with a unique position in hectorite clay, owning the only rheology during the second half of the year due to the economic challenges grade hectorite mine in the world.
Best in class technical support and in Europe, particularly in the southern region.
For the year as a whole, customer service are critical core competencies of the business and European volumes were lower by seven per cent, but were offset provide the platform to deliver added value in the coatings, oilfield by better pricing and a more favourable product mix.
In Asia Pacific, drilling and personal care markets.
The strategy of the business is to sales of coatings products were at a similar level to the previous year grow in high value rheology products and complementary additives due to a planned programme of product mix optimisation, which through new product innovation, expansion into new geographies impacted overall sales volumes but improved margins over the and bolt on acquisitions.
In coatings, the largest of its markets, previous year.
Elementis has a unique global position, providing technical service and a broad product offering to both multinational and regional In oilfield, sales in 2011 were 34 per cent higher than the previous coatings companies.
The rheology solutions of Elementis are critical year as demand from shale drilling and other unconventional drilling to the performance of our coating customers products.
In personal applications continued to show rapid growth.
Sales of drilling care, Elementis is a significant player in additives for cosmetic additives for shale represented 32 per cent of total oilfield sales in products based on its expertise in hectorite rheology and other 2011 and grew by 58 per cent over the previous year, due to sustained complementary technologies.
In oilfield drilling, Elementis is the drilling activity in North America.
Unconventional drilling applications, preferred supplier to oil service companies for high performance such as deep water, high pressure and extreme temperatures, rheological additives used in oil and gas drilling.
The businesss represented 37 per cent of sales and grew by 49 per cent.
unique technologies and strong alignment with key industry players have allowed it to benefit from the recent increase in drilling activity In personal care, sales improved by ten per cent in Europe and for shale gas in North America.
When combined with the continuing 14 per cent in Asia Pacific, as demand for hectorite based rheology global trend of exploiting oil and gas reserves in more extreme additives remained robust, complemented by the demand for natural environments, which require greater and more sophisticated oil based additives which were acquired with Fancor at the end of rheological solutions, these dynamics are enabling Elementis to 2009.
In North America the year on year comparison of sales was rapidly grow in this high value segment.
impacted by the restructuring of the lowest margin Fancor products but, excluding this, underlying sales improved by four per cent.
Sales in Specialty Products for 2011 were $449.9 million compared to $410.8 million in the previous year, an increase of ten per cent, or Operating profit before exceptional items for the year improved by six per cent on a constant currency basis.
In 2011 the business 25 per cent to $89.7 million, compared to 2010, or 20 per cent on a benefited from improved pricing, continuing market share gains and constant currency basis.
Operating margin before exceptional items a positive shift in the product portfolio.
For example, sales of high improved from 17.5 per cent in 2010 to 19.9 per cent due to a positive value oilfield products increased from 13 per cent of total sales in 2010 shift in the product portfolio towards higher value products, such as to 16 per cent in 2011.
Average pricing in 2011 was five per cent higher oilfield additives, as well as selective price increases to sustain margins than the previous year as the business raised prices, mostly during the in an inflationary raw material environment.
A strong focus on cost first half of the year, in response to an environment of raw material control and operational excellence also played a significant role, inflationary pressures throughout the coatings industry supply chain.
such that total fixed costs were only two per cent higher in 2011 than the previous year.
In the coatings market, sales in North America increased by 15 per cent over the previous year due to market share gains, value added pricing and a general recovery in the decorative coatings market, albeit from relatively low levels.
Sales to Latin America grew strongly, increasing by 20 per cent in 2011, as the business continued REvEnuE split % GEOGRAphiC sAlEs % 52 32 8 9 Key Key Industrial coatings North America Architectural coatings Europe 16 Oilfield Asia Pacific Personal care Rest of the world 29 31 23 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 09 Elementis Chromium is one of the worlds largest suppliers of eleMentis cHrOMiuM chrome chemicals, which are used in a variety of end markets including metal alloys, metal finishing, leather tanning and refractory applications.
Elementis Chromium seeks to produce stable earnings and cash flow by serving higher value markets, leveraging its skills in operational excellence and by utilising its flexible manufacturing base to adjust to changes in demand.
As the only global producer with its manufacturing base located in the United States, Elementis Chromium is uniquely positioned to serve this market with value Dennis valentino added products, offering just in time service via custom designed President of Elementis Chromium delivery systems.
Chromium sales in 2011 were $231.0 million compared to $209.7 million in 2010, an increase of ten per cent.
Currency had no material impact on year on year sales.
Sales volumes were six per cent lower than the previous year, largely due to a planned plant shutdown in the early part of the year to convert the Castle Hayne facility to a 2011 2010 flexible fuel system.
The new system allowed the business to switch $million $million over to natural gas, instead of fuel oil, but also allows it to switch Sales 231.0 209.7 back again should future energy economics dictate.
Otherwise, Operating profit 56.1 35.8 the manufacturing facilities operated at high capacity rates for most Operating margin 24.3% 17.1% of the year.
In North America sales volumes were stable with solid ROCE 67.0% 44.8% demand for chromic acid from both the timber treatment and auto industries, and also for chrome sulphate from the leather tanning Before tax and excluding goodwill.
Sales volumes of chrome oxide to the coatings, construction and refractory sectors were lower than the previous year, largely due to weaker demand from the US residential market.
In Europe, sales volumes in the first half of 2011 were consistent with the previous year, but declined in the second half as the general economic concerns MeAsurinG perFOrMAnce AGAinst Our in Europe began to impact on customer demand.
Sales volumes to stAted Objectives Asia Pacific were also at a similar level to the previous year.
Average selling prices increased by 16 per cent in response to rising raw Sales and operating profit up ten per cent and 57 per cent material prices.
Operating margin increased to 24.3 per cent.
Operating profit improved by 57 per cent to $56.1 million in 2011, 12 month average working capital to sales ratio increased by compared to the previous year and operating margin increased to 20 basis points to 20.0 per cent.
Lower energy costs contributed $3.0 million to the operating profit improvement and were largely Return on capital employed before tax and excluding goodwill a result of the conversion of Castle Hayne to natural gas during the improved to 67.0 per cent.
The conversion contributed $5.0 million in manufacturing operating at high capacity utilisation.
energy savings for the year, more than offsetting cost increases in fuel oil, which was previously the primary energy source at the 2012 FOcus facility.
Otherwise operating margins improved due to flexing the manufacturing facilities in order to favour higher value applications Improving yields through operating efficiencies and while, at the same time, addressing the changes in demand fide-bottlenecking.
highlighted above, combined with disciplined cost control.
maintaining level of earnings and cash flow through optimising The current year also benefited from an insurance settlement product mix, controlling raw material and energy costs, totalling $2.4 million relating to the recovery of past legal costs.
broadening the supplier base and managing working capital.
REvEnuE split % GEOGRAphiC sAlEs % 41 54 9 9 Key Key Chromic acid North America Chromic oxide Asia Pacific 15 Sodium dichromate Europe Liquid chrome sulphate Rest of the world 25 22 25 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 10 business cOMMentAries continued Elementis Surfactants is a specialty surfactant manufacturer offering eleMentis surFActAnts innovative products to markets, such as oilfield chemicals, textile and leather, construction and household products, which it produces at 2011 2010 its facility in the Netherlands.
Its strategy is to focus on higher margin $million $million markets, such as agro-chemicals, animal feed, plastic and resins, and Sales 94.3 88.1 transition its manufacturing facility over time to primarily produce Operating profit 5.4 6.1 coatings additives for the Specialty Products business, which currently ROCE 21.7% 24.5% shares the facility.
At the same time, the business seeks to improve margins through superior customer service and by continually Before exceptional items.
enhancing the productivity of its manufacturing operations.
Before tax and excluding goodwill.
Sales in Surfactants for 2011 were $94.3 million compared to $88.1 million in the previous year, an increase of seven per cent, or one per cent on a constant currency basis.
The majority of sales in this MeAsurinG perFOrMAnce AGAinst Our business is denominated in Euros.
In line with the businesss strategy to transition its manufacturing assets to producing more coatings stAted Objectives products for Specialty Products, sales volumes in Surfactants declined Sales up seven per cent and operating profit improved, excluding by 16 per cent compared to the previous year.
As part of that process one-time items.
the business continues to improve the sales portfolio by increasing 12 month average working capital to sales ratio reduced by the proportion of higher value products and this was evident in the 40 basis points to 12.3 per cent.
Average selling prices improved by 15 per cent in Return on capital employed before tax and excluding goodwill response to raw material price inflation.
improved to 21.7 per cent, excluding one-time items.
Operating profit before exceptional items in 2011 was $5.4 million compared to $6.1 million in the previous year.
However, the 2010 2012 FOcus result benefited from a one-time legal settlement of $2.7 million and therefore, after adjusting for this item, operating margin Continuing the transition of product portfolio to higher margin improved from 3.9 per cent in 2010 to 5.7 per cent in 2011.
Improved niche markets and sectors.
selling prices largely compensated for increases in raw material maintaining sales and commercial focus to improve the level of costs and the increase in operating margin was a result of portfolio earnings and tight management of operating costs.
optimisation and strict cost control.
REvEnuE split % GEOGRAphiC sAlEs % 5 43 1 90 3 6 6 Key Europe Oilfield chemicals Rest of the world 12 Other Asia Pacific Textiles and leather North America Water treatment Resins 34 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
