Q & a Q. the alma and galia development Q & a WIth thE requires EnQuest to commit a substantial proportion of EnQuEst ExEcutIVE its financial fire power to one project, are you comfortable with what is such a very amjad Bseisu Chief executive concentrated risk exposure for EnQuest?
What financial nigel hares capacity does it leave you with?
Based on the Field Development Plan FDP case, Alma Galia Jonathan swinney can be financed internally and Chief financial officer it is a project in which we would potentially be willing to retain a 100% interest.
There is also merit in diversification and a farm in could EnQuest has more than doubled improve the overall economics of the project.
Following FDP the size of its workforce since IPO, approval by the Department attracting top industry talent: we now of Energy and Climate Change have the capacity and the scalability DECC, EnQuest expects to consider farm in proposals.
Setting aside the financial issues, simply in terms of your operational organisation, what spare capacity do you have to respond to other opportunities?
a. EnQuest has more than doubled the size of its workforce since IPO, attracting top industry talent: we now have the capacity and the scalability to deliver additional projects.
EnQuest PLC 14 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BusInEss REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EnQuest manages its fields for their full maximum economic Life of Field potential.
Q. should we expect EnQuest to roll Q. EnQuest is very cash generative, Q. the EnQuest model may work its model out internationally?
based on analysts forecasts, you when oil is priced at over $100 could buy back your own market per barrel but how viable a.
In due course yes, as we have capitalisation in two or three years.
would large projects like Alma always said the EnQuest model given that you are so cash rich why Galia be at lower levels?
will work outside of the uKCS.
would you not pay a dividend now?
EnQuest will always seek to apply a.
We naturally test all of our projects its skill set to add value to the a. EnQuest believes that it can at a range of oil prices and do specific situation in question, but generate more attractive returns not extrapolate what may be when we do move outside the for investors by reinvesting in our temporarily high prices over the life uKCS, you should expect to see core business and that we have a of a development.
Our base case some or all of the familiar EnQuest steady pipeline of such investment project assumptions for projects model features.
These include opportunities set to drive in 2011 have therefore been well proven high quality petroleum sustainable long term growth in below prevailing oil price levels and systems, mature basins being reserves and production.
Payment we stress test them at considerably exited by the majors, operational of a dividend will continue to be lower price scenarios than those control, low risk, near field reassessed on a regular basis.
exploration potential, bookable reserves, and no deep water or Q. EnQuest says that it has a Q.
Is the scale of EnQuests harsh environments.
We would Life of Field approach to its exploration not too small to however envisage only a small assets, what does that mean?
be worth investing in, are you number of additional geographies, disappointed with the results and the uKCS will remain our main a. EnQuest manages its fields for so far?
area for many years to come.
their full maximum economic Life of Field potential.
Our exploration strategy is focused asset owners focus only on on low cost near field exploration the short timescale over which and appraisal projects, with production from the fields can reasonable chances of success.
make a contribution which is It is a component of our strategy.
material to them resulting in Because they are usually near premature decommissioning, a field, our exploration wells may loss of host field reserves and the cost as little as $10 million to effective sterilisation of adjacent $15 million.
With two successes discoveries and prospects.
out of six wells drilled since IPO, EnQuest on the other hand is our success rate has been as we focused on the full life cycle and anticipated.
Exploration is not will bring new investment, new EnQuests main growth driver, ideas and a new enthusiasm to but it does provide potential, the field, resulting in additional sometimes material upside, and development and investment.
normally with only a low level of initial investment at risk.
