gOVERnancE sEnIOR managEmEnt David heslop.
general manager David Heslop graduated with a manager uKcs.
BSc in Aeronautical Engineering Tim Bradbury has an Honours degree Andrew Thomson has a Masters and subsequently gained an MSc in Chemical Engineering and began degree in Petroleum Engineering and in Petroleum Engineering.
David his career as a process engineer a wealth of experience working as a was initially a wireline engineer at at Grangemouth Refinery before petroleum, reservoir and operations Schlumberger, working in the Middle moving onto the role of facilities and engineer.
Andrew first worked for East, before moving to Mobil Oil offshore engineer on the BP Forties Schlumberger and spent seven years where amongst other roles, he was field.
Tim went on to manage the working for Britoil and BP.
In 1990 the development manager responsible technical and commercial issues Andrew co-founded RML where he for exploration, development and of Southern North Sea gas fields, was managing director, then Senergy reservoir management activities for then the commissioning and early in 2005, where he held roles as CFO over 50 fields in Continental Europe.
operation of the first hydrocarbon and then CEO of Senergy Investments.
Prior to joining EnQuest in June 2011, development in Papua New Guinea.
Andrew is a Competent Person in David was at Talisman Energy where Tim then moved to Abu Dhabi as reserves reporting and is a chartered his roles included: vice president, wells: safety manager, and then to Alaska as engineer.
Andrew joined EnQuest in vice president of the Greater Fulmar operations manager of Prudhoe Bay.
October 2010, having supported the area: and subsurface manager.
In 1999 Tim returned to Aberdeen formation of EnQuest as a consultant.
to manage the Forties field and then joined the BP petrochemicals business, first as manufacturing manager in South Carolina and then as logistics director for BP Chemicals in Europe.
Following that Tim joined Ineos as supply chain director and subsequently became their manufacturing director, before joining EnQuest in early 2011.
EnQuest PLC 38 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW gOVERnancE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS craig matthew.
Head of business Faysal Hamza.
Craig Matthew graduated with an Graham Cooper graduated from Faysal Hamza has an MBA from Honours degree in Civil Engineering Cambridge university with a Masters Georgetown university in Washington and now has 20 years of field degree in Natural Sciences.
Graham and over 22 years of experience development, project management, worked as a wireline logging engineer in oil and gas, finance, business engineering and construction before joining Conoco as a geologist development and private equity.
Initially Craig spent 10 and petrophysicist.
During the period joined EnQuest in August 2011 and years working for Stena in a variety of from 1982 to 1993, he held a number of prior to that was managing director, subsea roles whilst also completing a technical roles for Conoco, both in the private equity at Swicorp, a diversified Post Graduate Certificate in Project uK and Dubai uAE, before moving into financial services firm operating Management.
Craig then joined various commercial roles in acquisitions through an extensive network of Kerr-McGee as subsea manager, and divestments, asset commercial, offices in the Middle East and North eventually becoming project manager and joint venture management.
Faysal has also held roles as for the Dumbarton field development.
1999, Graham joined Shell uK as senior executive at Arab Petroleum Craig became part of EnQuest via new business development manager Investments Corporation APICORP : Petrofac Energy Developments, after in Aberdeen and subsequently group business development joining them as project manager moved to The Hague in 2005 to manager with the Alturki Group, a for the Don area development.
take up the role of vice-president diversified industrial conglomerate commercial for global exploration.
in Saudi Arabia: and management Graham latterly became head of positions at Arco International Oil Shells commercial academy, before & Gas Company ARCO in the uS, joining EnQuest in October 2010.
Saudi International Bank in London, and the Saudi Arabian Oil Company Saudi Aramco in Saudi Arabia.
