gOVERnancE BOaRD OF DIREctORs Dr James Buckee.
executive officer of Petrofac Energy of Chartered Accountants of England James Buckee holds a BSc Honours Developments International Limited.
Jonathan qualified as a degree in Physics and a PhD in In 2010 Amjad formed EnQuest PLC solicitor in 1997 and trained at Cameron Astrophysics.
Between 1971 and and was appointed as chief executive.
McKenna, joining the acquisition 1987, James held various petroleum Previously Amjad was a founding nonfinance team upon qualification.
In 1998 engineering positions with Shell executive director of Serica Energy plc Jonathan joined Credit Suisse First International, Burma Oil and BP, London.
Amjad Boston working within the corporate In 1987, James was appointed as is also non-executive chairman of broking team.
Jonathan later moved to operations manager for BP Norway, and Enviromena Power Systems, a private Lehman Brothers advising on a wide thereafter vice-president, development company and the leading developer range of transactions and in 2006 he programmes, for BP Alaska.
In 1989 of solar services in the Middle East.
became a managing director within James returned to the uK as manager, the corporate broking team.
Jonathan planning, for BP Exploration.
joined Petrofac Limited in April 2008 as he was appointed president and chief From 1972 to 1994, Nigel worked for head of mergers and acquisitions for the operating officer of BP Canada Inc. BP in the uK, Abu Dhabi, Norway and Petrofac Group.
Jonathan left Petrofac and in 1993 as president and chief Alaska.
At BP, Nigels roles included Limited to join EnQuest PLC in 2010 executive officer of Talisman Energy Inc. those of drilling, petroleum, reservoir, when he was appointed to the Board.
James retired well-site, and offshore production from Talisman Energy Inc in 2007. engineer.
Nigel also held positions of helmut langanger.
non-executive production and pipeline superintendent, director.
James was appointed as nonmanager of petroleum engineering, Helmut Langanger holds an MSc executive chairman of EnQuest PLC manager of reservoir studies for degree in Petroleum Engineering and in 2010, and chairs the nomination Middle East, Europe and Africa and an MA in Economics.
James also serves as business advisor, developing global gas and 2010, Helmut was employed by a non-executive director on the strategies for BP.
Nigel then moved OMV, Austria where he was a reservoir board of Cairn Energy PLC.
to Talisman Energy Inc. as executive engineer until 1980.
From 1981 to 1985, vice-president, international operations, Helmut was an evaluation engineer for Amjad Bseisu.
heading international operations the technical and economic assessment Amjad holds a BSc Honours degree in for the uK, Norway, Netherlands, of international E&P ventures, and from Mechanical Engineering and an MSc Algeria, Sudan, Malaysia, Indonesia, 1985 to 1989 he held the position of and D. ENG degree in Aeronautical Vietnam, Peru, Colombia and Trinidad.
vice-president, planning and economics Engineering.
From 1984 to 1998, In 2010 Nigel joined EnQuest PLC for E&P and natural gas projects.
In Amjad worked for the Atlantic and was appointed to the Board.
1989, Helmut was appointed as senior Richfield Company ARCO, eventually vice-president of international E&P and becoming president of ARCO Jonathan Swinney.
Chief financial in 1992 became senior vice-president Petroleum Ventures and ARCO Crude officer.
of E&P for OMVs global operations.
In 1998 Amjad founded the Jonathan qualified as a chartered From 2002 Helmut had been the operations and investment business accountant with Arthur Andersen in group executive vice-president for for Petrofac Limited and was the chief 1992 and is a member of the Institute E&P, OMV until he retired in 2010.
EnQuest PLC 36 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW gOVERnancE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2010 Helmut was appointed to the and seismic acquisition quality 2007 she was also deputy chairman Board of EnQuest PLC and sits on the control officer.
Since 1993 Alexandre of British Energy PLC.
Clare retired audit and nomination committees and has worked with public companies from Tullow Oil plc in 2011 where she chairs the remuneration committee.
associated with the Lundin family had been a non-executive director Helmut is also the senior non-executive and in 1998, he was appointed vicesince 2002 and was appointed to the director of EnQuest PLC and a member president, exploration, of Lundin Oil AB.
Board of EnQuest PLC in July 2011. of the supervisory board of Schoeller Clare sits on the audit, nomination Bleckman Oilfield Equipment A. G. In 2001 Lundin Oil AB was acquired and remuneration committees.
by Talisman Energy of Canada and Jock lennox.
Alexandre was appointed executive Jock Lennox holds a Law degree vice-president and chief operating and in 1980 qualified as a chartered officer of Lundin Petroleum AB.
accountant with Ernst & Young LLP, Alexandre is also a director of ShaMaran Edinburgh and is a member of the Petroleum Corp. a Canadian listed oil Institute of Chartered Accountants and gas company with interests in the of Scotland.
In 1988 Jock became Kurdistan region of the Republic of a partner at Ernst & Young LLP, Iraq.
In 2010 Alexandre was appointed London, and retired in 2009. to the Board of EnQuest PLC.
In 2010 Jock was appointed to the clare spottiswoode.
non-executive Board of EnQuest PLC and sits on director.
the nomination and remuneration Clare Spottiswoode holds an M. Phil committees and chairs the audit degree in Economics and an MA committee.
Jock is a non-executive in Mathematics and Economics.
A director of Dixons Retail plc, Hill & mathematician and an economist Smith Holdings plc, A&J Mucklow by training, Clare began her career Group plc, and Oxford Instruments plc in the Treasury before starting her and sits on the council of the Institute own software company.
Between of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
1993 and 1998, she was director general of Ofgas, the uK gas alexandre schneiter.
Clare was also a member director.
of the uK Treasurys Independent Alexandre Schneiter holds a degree Commission on Banking until 2012. in Geology and a Masters degree in Geophysics.
Between 1987 and Currently, Clare is non-executive 1989, Alexandre worked in the mining chairman of both Gas Strategies and industry as a geophysicist before Energetix, and is also a non-executive joining a public Canadian oil company director of G4S plc, Ilika plc and as geophysicist, seismic interpreter EnergySolutions Inc. From 2002 to EnQuest PLC 37 Annual Report 2011
