78 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated.
The Directors believe that the financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of Filtronas performance and financial position.
i Pensions Filtrona accounts for its defined benefit pension schemes in accordance with IAS 19 Revised.
The application of IAS 19 Revised requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the assumptions used see note 18 and for each assumption there is a range of possible outcomes.
In consultation with Filtronas actuaries, management decides the point within those ranges that most appropriately reflects Filtronas circumstances.
Small changes to these assumptions can have a significant impact on valuations.
ii Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement and balance sheet.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
iii Taxation Accruals for tax contingencies require management judgements and estimates in respect of tax audit issues and exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
iv Provisions Filtronas provisions are managements best estimate of exposure, in cases where there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, based on currently available information.
By their nature these provisions are judgemental.
