44 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors Jeff Harris Paul Drechsler Colin Day Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: May 2005 Appointed to the Board: May 2005 Appointed to the Board: April 2011 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chairman of Filtrona since its formation Paul is currently Chairman and Chief Executive Prior to joining Filtrona, Colin was Chief in 2005, Jeff has played a key role in of WatesGroup Limited, a private family-owned Financial Officer at ReckittBenckiser Group ensuring continuity upon demerger construction services company.
Having served plc for over tenyears.
In addition to leading and in the subsequent development on the Board of Filtrona since its formation the finance function Colin was instrumental of the Company.
Jeff is a Chartered in 2005, Paul has played a key role in the in both mergers and acquisitions activity and Accountant, having spent over 25years development of the Company, particularly the development of group strategy.
Prior to working in public companies, and brings regarding its remuneration policy.
Paul brings joining Reckitt Benckiser, Colin held a range a wealth of financial and strategic extensive international business experience of senior finance and operational positions experience to Filtrona.
to his role, having spent 24 years at ICIPLC at a variety of companies.
in a variety of senior positions.
Other appointments Other appointments Other appointments Non-Executive Chairman of Cookson Member of the Trinity College Dublin Business Non-Executive Director of WPP Group plc Group plc and Non-Executive Director School Advisory Board, Chairman of the and AMEC plc of WH Smith PLC CBI Energy Policy Committee and member of the CBI Chairmans Committee, member Past appointments Past appointments of Business in the Community and Chairman Chief Financial Officer of Aegis Group plc.
Chief Executive and Chairman of Alliance of its Education Leadership Team Non-Executive Director of EasyJet plc, UniChem plc, Non-Executive Chairman Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Cadbury plc of Bunzl plc, Non-Executive Director of Past appointments Associated British Foods plc Executive Director of ICI plc, Chairman of the ICIGroup pension fund Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance | Board of Directors 45 Steve Crummett Terry Twigger Lars Emilson Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2008 Appointed to the Board: June 2009 Appointed to the Board: May 2007 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Steve joined Filtrona in May 2007 as Terry is currently Chief Executive of Meggitt Lars has considerable experience of Director of Corporate Development.
PLC, a designer and manufacturer of high manufacturing companies, having spent Prior to this, he was Group Director technology products and systems for the the majority of his career in the packaging of Mergers and Acquisitions at Exel plc, international aerospace, defence and energy industry.
Prior to his retirement in 2007, and has worked in a number of other markets.
Terry has considerable acquisition Lars was Chief Executive of RexamPLC senior finance roles.
Steve is a Chartered experience and has also held a number from 2004.
Accountant, having qualified with of senior finance roles, including having ArthurAndersen.
previously been Finance Director at Meggitt.
Past appointments Past appointments Lucas Aerospace Non-Executive Chairman, Charter International plc Committee membership Other appointments Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of Director of East Capital Explorer AB the Remuneration and Nomination Committees Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees
