8 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 What We Do Filtrona operates at a Company and a divisional level.
The Company is responsible for managing the overall portfolio of business activities, to create sustainable long-term value for shareholders OUR BUSINESS MODEL Clear portfolio management Shared divisional priorities We have a clear model for managing Leverage our scale our portfolio of business activities We have a well-invested and flexible international sourcing, supply chain and Establishing the strategic framework and culture production infrastructure.
This allows us for the Company as a whole to offer businesses across the Company the opportunity to use our existing infrastructure Ensuring divisional strategies are aligned to Company strategy and management to exploit new opportunities efficiently and cost effectively.
Our international Setting the risk appetite and risk management framework distribution network ensures the delivery of cost competitive and high quality products Participating in and agreeing the annual divisional plans in response to customers requirements.
High Setting appropriate and stretching divisional performance targets, levels of service and broad geographic reach supported by effective remuneration programmes are an important competitive differentiator.
Reviewing and challenging divisional performance Approving and allocating capital for disciplined investment in the business Reviewing the Companys structure and considering 3 2 opportunities to create value through portfolio management Overseeing and supporting the implementation of acquisitions, Principal manufacturing facilities to ensure delivery against ongoing plans Establishing the governance controls and ensuring appropriate processes and policies are in place Operate efficiently Fulfilling the requirements of a UK listed company We have a comprehensive international production and distribution footprint, which can be flexed to respond to customers needs, whether they be product, service, cost or supply chain driven.
Supported by sophisticated IT systems, we are focused on being a low cost producer, to secure revenue growth at attractive margins.
Continuous improvement programmes, with tight cost control and productivity gains, serve to reduce conversion costs.
Gross margin at constant exchange % 2008 32.2 2009 32.2 2010 34.9 2011 35.7 Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | What We Do 9 Protection & Finishing Products Porous Technologies Coated & Security Products Filter Products Each of the four operating divisions is responsible for managing their respective business activities to meet the needs of their customers and to create value for the Company.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL Delivering value Develop long-term Invest in new Build on our leading customer relationships product innovation international market positions We develop and maintain a close relationship The continued successful launch and We have secured leading international with a wide portfolio of blue-chip customers, commercialisation of new products and positions in many of our served markets who are successful leaders in their respective services is a key driver for our future growth.
in each of our four operating divisions.
The high standards of service and Investment in research and development With our investment in international supply demanded by such customers help functions, supported by the identification infrastructure, technology, innovation to drive continuous improvement across the of additional product sourcing opportunities and people, the strength of our businesses Company.
Our manufacturing and distribution to deliver product innovation and range within their respective markets enables expertise adds value in response to customer development, provides the platform to us to deliver balanced, profitable growth.
demands, and our innovative capabilities drive further enhance our competitive positions.
the joint development of new products and Robust quality systems to internationally services with key strategic partners.
accredited standards assist the fulfilment of customers demands.
6 2 5 Sales and distribution operations to We have five research and development facilities serve our international customer base Benefit from our experienced management team We have a highly experienced and well-regarded management team.
The detailed insight into customer needs and market trends allows us proactively to respond to changing priorities and to drive performance.
Technical expertise is reflected in production and supply chain efficiencies and product innovation.
12yrs We have an average 12 years of service at senior management level
