64 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Other Statutory Information The Directors present their Report prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
This requires the Company to provide a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2011, and the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2011 Principal activities The Company is adopting the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 formerly the UK Combined Code The principal activities of Filtrona are the light manufacture and supply in relation to directors appointments and in particular the annual of speciality plastic, fibre and foam products.
Therefore in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code all the Directors The principal activity of the Company is a holding company.
will retire at the AGM and being eligible offer themselves up for re-election.
The Companys Registered Office is Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9 1AU and Registered Number 5444653.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have service contracts.
Results and dividends In accordance with the Companys Conflict of Interests policy Directors are required to review their potential conflict of interests at least on The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group for the year an annual basis and to notify any changes to the Company Secretary ended 31 December 2011 was 42.4m 2010: 42.5m.
& General Counsel as soon as possible.
The current register was approved by the Nomination Committee in December 2011 and As at 22 February 2012 the Company has paid the following dividend no material conflict of interests were identified during the year.
in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011: At no time during the year has any Director had any material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of significance in relation Per share Total to the Groups business.
A statement of Directors interests in shares p m of the Company is on page 63.
Interim dividend paid 28 October 2011 3.3 6.8 Share capital The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 7.2p 2010: 6.0p The issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 19 to the per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year financialstatements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid and the provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, on 30 April 2012 to shareholders on the register at 13 April 2012. as well as the powers of, the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained Directors from Companies House in the UK, by writing to the Company Secretary, or on the Company website www.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Board of Directorscomprised: There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company, except, Colin Day Chief Executive appointed 1 April 2011 in the case of transfers of securities: Steve Crummett Group Finance Director Paul Drechsler Senior Independent a That certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by Non-Executive Director laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Lars Emilson Non-Executive Director b Whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Terry Twigger Non-Executive Director Authority, certain employees of the Company require approval Mark Harper Chief Executive resigned 14 April 2011 of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance | Other Statutory Information 65 No persons hold securities in the Company carrying special rights with Since the Company has no trade creditors, the disclosure of creditor regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any days does not apply.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Significant agreements Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association The Company has committed bank facilities consisting of two five year of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended multi-currency revolving credit facilities of 165.0m and 187.7m.
by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Under the terms of these facilities, the banks can give notice to Filtrona to repay outstanding amounts and cancel the commitments where Substantial shareholders there is a change of control of the Company.
At the close of business on 21 February 2012, the Company was advised Under a note purchase agreement dated 29 April 2010 relating to of the following voting rights attaching to Filtrona shares in accordance US$80m senior notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m senior notes with the Rule 5.1.
2R of Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial due 29April 2020, on a change of control the Company must make Services Authority.
an offer to prepay all the notes at par, without any premium of any kind, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
% of total voting rights All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a Black Rock 12.00 change in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and AXA Investment Managers SA 8.11 become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction Oppenheimer Funds 7.00 of any performance conditions at that time.
Threadneedle Ameriprise 5.35 TIAA-CREF Investment Managers Teachers Advisors Inc 5.18 There are a number of other agreements, involving the Company or Cazenove Capital Management 4.99 its subsidiaries, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial J P Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 4.84 contracts and joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be Invesco Limited 4.79 significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Allianz SE 4.74 Group as a whole, to any potential bidder for the Company or Group.
Legal and General Group 3.93 Ignis Asset Management 3.92 Annual General Meeting Hermes Specialist UK Focus Fund 3.89 BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 3.66 The AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500SaxonGate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK9 2HQ Royal London Asset Management 3.11 on Tuesday 24April 2012 at 12 noon.
Property values In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included In the opinion of the Directors, there was no significant difference between in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting: the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2011.
Revised performance award provisions for future Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards Charitable and political contributions The Directors are seeking approval from shareholders to enable the Company to amend the maximum performance award provisions In line with Group policy the Company made no political contributions of the rules of the Filtrona Long Term Incentive Plan the Plan.
Donations to UK charities amounted to 0.1m 2010: 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2010: nil, with all contributions The Remuneration Committee of the Companys Board of Directors being made by its subsidiary companies.
the Committee has undertaken a review of the existing executive reward structure at the Company, focused on the development Directors indemnities of a remuneration policy strategy aligned with the future growth objectives of the Company.
During the year and as at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and Further to that review, the Remuneration Committee is recommending the Company Secretary & General Counsel, in addition to other senior changes to certain aspects of the existing remuneration arrangements, executives who are Directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent including a change to the performance share award grant level available permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect under the Plan.
of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a Director or officer of the Company The rules of the LTIP currently provide that participants may receive or any of its subsidiaries, including the pension scheme trustee companies.
performance share awards over shares worth up to two times their The scope of the indemnities extends to include liabilities to third parties.
basic salary in any financial year.
Creditor payment policy It is proposed that the rules of the LTIP be amended to increase the limit to three times basic salary.
Resolution 12 seeks shareholders The Company policy for payment of suppliers is to pay according to the approval for such a change to the rules of the LTIP.
terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers performance in accordance with those agreed terms and conditions.
66 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Other Statutory Information continued No other changes are proposed to the rules of the LTIP at this time, be paid is the highest of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the save that the Committee proposes to introduce provisions into the rules average market value for a share for the five business days immediately of the LTIP that will provide scope for the Committee to claw-back preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the value delivered to executives under the LTIP in the event of financial last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the misstatement or summary dismissal.
trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
Authority to allot unissued shares The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to At the last AGM held in 2011, the Directors were granted authority make market purchases.
However, the authority provides the flexibility to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 17,241,428, to allow them to do so in the future.
The Directors will only utilise this which expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
authority if satisfied that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally, and could be expected to At this years AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant the Directors result in an increase in earnings per share of the Company.
authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,407,715 During the financial year ending 31 December 2011 3,230,401 ordinary representing approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital, shares were transferred out of Treasury by the Company to satisfy excluding treasury shares, at 21February 2012 such an amount to be reduced share options under the Companys SAYE Sharesave and executive by the nominal amount allotted or granted under section ii below in share incentiveplans.
excess of such sum : and ii comprising equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 34,815,431 representing approximately two-thirds No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in Treasury and of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 21February 2012 no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
such an amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under section i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
Auditor The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional KPMG Audit Plc has indicated that it is willing to continue in office.
investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders Resolutions to re-appoint them and to authorise the Board to set interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 10 and exercising either of these authorities, which will expire at the end of 11 respectively in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
next years AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 23 June 2013 except in relation to share options.
Recommendation Allotment of shares for cash The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General At the last AGM held in 2011, shareholders approved a special resolution Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as to enable the Directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM and Resolution13 in the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
Derivatives The resolution authorises the Directors to allot or sell shares for cash Information related to derivatives is included in the Accounting Policies without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to on page 74, and in note 15. their existing shareholdings up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company, including treasury Post balance sheet events shares, at 31December 2011 equivalent to 10,966,340 ordinary shares.
On 17 February 2012, Filtrona acquired 100% of the share capital of In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their Securit World Ltd Securit for a cash consideration of 6m.
Securit intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement distributes desktop personal identification ID card systems, providing of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling printers, software and associated accessories.
The acquisition of UK-based three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of Securit will add to the existing capabilities of Filtrona's Payne Security 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the following AGM or, if earlier, on 23 June 2013.
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued Directors statement as to disclosure by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing of information to the Auditor shareholders interests are safeguarded.
As required by section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors Purchase of own shares who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report, At the last AGM held in 2011, shareholders approved a special having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditor, confirm that: resolution to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware At this years AGM, the Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders Each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a approval to enable the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 10% director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to ensure of its issued share capital excluding any treasury shares for cancellation, that the Companys auditor is aware of that information or to be held in Treasury, such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or if earlier, 23 June 2013.
In accordance with the requirements of By order of the Board the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share is its nominal value Jon Green and the maximum price exclusive of expenses for shares which may Company Secretary & General Counsel 22 February 2012
