42 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Group Management Committee 01 02 03 04 05 06 01 02 03 Colin Day Steve Crummett Alan Tidy Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Human Resources Director Colins biographical details Steves biographical details Alan Tidy joined Filtrona in 2005 as Group can be found on page 44. can be found on page 45.
Human Resources Director from Wagon plc, where he was group Human Resources Director.
Alan is Chairman of Filtronas UK Pension Trustee Board and the Filtrona Group Health, Safety & Environment Council.
Alan is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
04 05 06 Rob Purcell Tony Edwards Russ Rogers Managing Director, Managing Director, President, Porous Technologies Protection & Finishing Products Coated & Security Products Russ Rogers joined Filtrona in 1997 as Director Rob Purcell joined Filtrona in 1996 as Managing Tony Edwards joined Filtrona in 1996 as of Manufacturing on the acquisition of American Director of the Moss plastic parts business from Finance Director of the Payne business upon Filtrona Corporation.
Before being appointed Low and Bonar, where he had been Managing its acquisition from Norcros plc.
Before to his current role in 2003, Russ performed Director of its technical textiles business.
Rob being appointed to his current role in 2002, increasingly senior roles in engineering, logistics, was appointed to his current role in 2003, and Tony was Finance Director of the Filtrona purchasing and manufacturing in the Porous was a Trustee of the Filtrona Senior Pension business division within Bunzl plc.
Scheme for a number of years.
a Chartered Accountant, having qualified with Price Waterhouse.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance | Group Management Committee 43 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 PT Sreekumar Matthew Gregory Joanna Speed Managing Director, Filter Products Corporate Development Director Corporate Affairs Director PT Sreekumar joined Filtrona in 1995, being Matthew Gregory joined Filtrona in 2003 Joanna Speed joined Filtrona in 2011 as initially responsible for the Companys joint as Finance Director of the Moss plastic Corporate Affairs Director, having previously venture in India.
Before being appointed to his parts business.
Before being appointed held the position of Investor Relations Director current role in 2005, Sreekumar was Regional to his current role in 2010, Matthew was at Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Scottish Director for Asia Pacific, responsible for the Finance Director of the Protection & Finishing & Newcastle plc.
Prior to this, Joanna was business in Asia and the Middle East.
Prior to joining Filtrona, an equity analyst and worked in investment to joining Filtrona, Sreekumar worked for Matthew worked for the Rank Group plc banking for a number of international banks.
the Indian tobacco company Godfrey Philips.
in a number of senior finance roles.
Matthew Joanna is a Chartered Accountant, having is a Chartered Accountant, having qualified qualified with Arthur Andersen.
10 11 Jon Green Malcolm Waugh Company Secretary & General Counsel Group Commercial Director Jon Green joined Filtrona in 2005, and was Malcolm Waugh joined Filtrona in 2007 appointed Company Secretary & General as Managing Director of Payne Tear Tape, Counsel in July 2005.
Prior to joining Filtrona, and was appointed to his current role in Jon worked as an in-house lawyer for a January 2012.
Prior to joining Filtrona, number of large international businesses, Malcolm was Commercial Director at including Hays plc and Unilever plc.
Jon is Tetra Pak UK and Ireland, holding a a qualified solicitor.
variety of business development and commercial positions during his 18 year career there.
