22 Unlocking Value Divisional Overview ENRC is a global diversified mining Ferroalloys Division company and operates through six The Ferroalloys Division primarily produces and sells Divisions supported by a central sales ferrochrome, as well as other ferroalloys, for use as alloying products in the production of steel, whilst manganese and and marketing department.
Five of chrome ore are sold to third-party producers of ferroalloys as these Divisions are predominantly well as the chemical industry.
ENRC is the largest ferrochrome producer in the world by chrome content and the lowest based in Kazakhstan with the Other cost producer of high-carbon ferrochrome.
The Ferroalloys Division is vertically integrated, having its own chrome ore Non-ferrous Division based in Africa.
and manganese ore mines feeding its ferroalloy production in Kazakhstan and Russia.
In addition to its own ore, the Division also benefits from competitively priced electricity supplied by the Energy Division, as well as having a gas-fired power station at its Aktobe plant.
ENRC plans to fully divest of its shares in Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd. Tuoli, its Chinese ferroalloy plant, during 2012.
3,567 kt Saleable chrome ore extraction 1,766 kt Saleable ferroalloys production 1,226 kt High-carbon ferrochrome production Iron Ore Division Alumina and Aluminium Division The Iron Ore Division consists of producing assets in the Republic of Kazakhstan and exploring and developing assets The Alumina and Aluminium Division produces and sells in Brazil.
In Kazakhstan the Iron Ore Division produces and sells alumina to aluminium producers, and also produces and sells iron ore concentrate and pellets primarily to steel producers the Groups own aluminium.
ENRC believes, based on full and on the basis of full year 2011 data, is a material exporter year 2011 data, that the Alumina and Aluminium Division is the of iron ore and in the lowest quartile of the global cost curve.
worlds ninth largest supplier of traded alumina by volume and Kazakhstan-based operations include iron ore mines, crushing, is at the lower end of the global industry cost curve for alumina beneficiation and pelletising plants and a thermal power station.
The Alumina and Aluminium Divisions vertically In Brazil, the Division is focused on the development of a integrated operations include: bauxite mines, a limestone mine, high-quality iron ore deposit in the Caetit region in the State an alumina refinery, an aluminium smelter and a power station.
of Bahia, as well as two early stage exploration projects, both located in the State of Minas Gerais.
5,495 kt Bauxite extraction 43,212 kt 1,670 kt Ore extraction amount Alumina volumes 17,636 kt 249 kt Primary concentrate production Aluminium production ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 www.
com Divisional Overview Other Non-ferrous Division Energy Division The Other Non-ferrous Division operates principally in the The Energy Division is one of the largest electricity providers Democratic Republic of the Congo, where it mines copper in the Republic of Kazakhstan, accounting for approximately and cobalt and processes the ore through Boss Mining Sprl.
16.3% of the countrys recorded electricity production in 2011 ENRCs copper and cobalt operations also include a 50.5% 2010: 16.6%.
Taking into account all of the energy generation share of Camrose Resources Limited: processing capacity at facilities of ENRC, including SSGPO, the alumina refinery Kolwezi and at the Frontier mine both acquired in 2012 : and Aluminium of Kazakhstan and the Aktobe ferroalloys smelter the Chambishi smelter located in Zambia.
In addition, the Kazchrome, the Groups share of Kazakhstans energy supply Other Non-ferrous Division includes a number of development was 22.5% in 2011 2010: 22.6%.
The Energy Division provides prospects: Mozambique coal: Mali bauxite: Zimbabwe a cost-effective energy supply to the Groups other principal platinum: and South Africa fluorspar, coal and manganese.
Kazakhstani operating Divisions, with internal consumption of The Groups African logistics and trucking business, SABOT, 71.5% 2010: 73.9% of the electricity produced in 2011, as well operates in Central and Southern Africa.
as producing a surplus for sales to third parties in Kazakhstan.
29.6 kt 20,110 kt Total saleable copper contained production Coal extraction 11.4 kt 13,993 GWh Total saleable cobalt contained production Power generation Logistics Division Page The Logistics Division provides transportation and logistics Ferroalloys 24 services to the Groups principal Kazakhstani operating Divisions, as well as to third parties.
The Divisions operations Iron Ore 28 include freight forwarding, wagon repair services, railway construction and repair services and trucking.
The availability Alumina and Aluminium 30 of these services within the Group mitigates many of the risks associated with the supply of raw materials and delivery of Other Non-ferrous 32 products to customers.
In addition, the Division operates a railway transfer and reloading terminal on the Kazakhstan China Energy 36 border, facilitating the Groups access to the Chinese market.
Logistics 38 61,765 kt Goods transported by railway 14.3% Goods transported for third parties
