70 Unlocking Value Independent Assurance Report to the Directors of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC We have been engaged by the Directors Understanding reporting and Our responsibilities of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation measurement methodologies We are responsible for: PLC to perform an independent limited There is not yet a generally established assurance engagement in respect of the practice for evaluating and measuring the Forming independent conclusions, based information set out below and included in Selected Data performance information.
on our limited assurance procedures: and the Annual Report and Accounts for the The range of different, but acceptable, year ended 31 December 2011.
Reporting our conclusions to the Directors techniques used can result in materially of ENRC.
different reporting outcomes which may We planned and performed our work, affect comparability with other organisations.
summarised below, to obtain the evidence Our conclusions It is therefore important to read and we considered necessary to reach our understand the Reporting Principles that As a result of our procedures nothing has come assurance conclusions on the Selected the Group has used to evaluate and prepare to our attention that indicates the Selected Data.
The scope of our work was restricted the Selected Data.
Data for the year ended 31 December 2011 to the Selected Data for the year ended has not been prepared in all material 31 December 2011 and does not extend Work done by our independent and respects with the Reporting Principles at to information in respect of earlier periods multi-disciplinary team of sustainability www.
com en-GB Media1 reporting or to any other information in the Annual 4 and assurance specialists Report and Accounts 2011.
This report, including our conclusions, has We performed the following activities: been prepared solely for the Directors of What we are assuring Selected Data ENRC PLC as a body in accordance with Making enquiries of relevant ENRC The Selected Data as set out in the Annual the agreement between us, to assist management: Report and Accounts 2011 on page 39 the Directors in reporting the Groups consists of: Evaluating the design of the key processes sustainability performance and activities.
and controls for managing, recording and We permit this report to be disclosed in the Workforce employees: reporting the Selected Data.
This did not Annual Report and Accounts for the year extend to testing that the controls operated ended 31 December 2011, to enable the Fatalities work-related : as intended for the period under review: Directors to show they have addressed their Fatalities contractors and non governance responsibilities by obtaining an Limited substantive testing on a selective work-related : independent assurance report in connection basis of the Selected Data documentation with the Selected Data.
To the fullest extent Lost time injuries employees: and management information.
This permitted by law, we do not accept or included conducting site visits in Lost time injury frequency rate: assume responsibility to anyone other than Kazakhstan, Africa and corporate head the Directors as a body and ENRC PLC for Community social investment: office in London: and our work or this report except where terms Energy consumed production only : Checking disclosures in relation to are expressly agreed between us in writing.
the Selected Data for accuracy and Greenhouse gas emissions: consistency.
Water withdrawn: and ENRCs responsibilities People trained in Trust but Verify ethics and conduct training.
The Directors of ENRC are responsible for:  LLP, Chartered Accountants, London How the information is assessed Designing, implementing and maintaining 16 April 2012 Reporting Principles internal controls over information relevant to the Selected Data: ENRCs Reporting Principles at www.
1 com en-GB Media1 reporting, set out how Establishing objective assessment and the Selected Data is prepared and reported.
Reporting Principles for preparing the Selected Data: 2 Assurance standard and level of Measuring the Groups performance 3 assurance based on the Reporting Principles: and ISAE3000, limited assurance.
The content of the Annual Report and Accounts 2011.
1 T he maintenance and integrity of the ENRC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Data or Reporting Principles when presented on the ENRC website.
2 I nternational Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the IAASB.
3 A ssurance, defined by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board IAASB, gives the user confidence about the subject matter Selected Data assessed against the Reporting Principles.
Reasonable assurance gives more confidence than limited assurance.
The evidence gathered to support a reasonable assurance conclusion is greater than that gathered to support a limited assurance conclusion.
4 W e comply with the applicable independence and competency requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW Code of Ethics.
