Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Our Divisions Activities FINANCIAL PUBLISHING TRAINING 23% 9% of group of group 83.8m Revenue 32.5m Revenue turnover turnover Financial publishing includes an The training division runs a extensive portfolio of titles covering comprehensive range of banking, the international capital markets as finance and legal courses, both public well as a number of specialist financial and in-house, under the Euromoney titles.
Products include magazines, and DC Gardner brands.
newsletters, journals, surveys and Courses are run all over the world for both research, directories, and books.
In addition the companys Boston-based subsidiary, MIS, runs a A selection of the companys leading financial wide range of courses for the audit and information brands includes: Euromoney, Institutional Investor, security market.
EuroWeek, Latin Finance, Asiamoney, Global Investor, Project Finance, Futures & Options World and the hedge fund titles EuroHedge, InvestHedge, AsiaHedge and AR.
BUSINESS PUBLISHING 16% of group 59.5m Revenue turnover The business publishing division Principal Brands produces specialist magazines and other publications covering the metals and mining, legal, telecoms and energy sectors.
Its leading brands include: Metal Bulletin, American Metal Market: International Financial Law Review, International Tax Review and Managing Intellectual Property: Capacity: Petroleum Economist, World Oil and Hydrocarbon Processing.
02 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com CONFERENCES and SEMINARS RESEARCH and DATA 24% 28% of group of group 86.2m Revenue 104.3m Revenue turnover turnover The group runs a large number The group provides a number of of sponsored conferences and subscription-based research and data seminars for the international services for financial markets.
financial markets, mostly under the Montreal based BCA Research is one of the worlds Euromoney, Institutional Investor, leading independent providers of global economic Metal Bulletin and IMN brands.
During the year, the group expanded its independent research activities with the acquisition Many of these conferences are the leading of US-based Ned Davis Research, a leading provider annual events in their sector and provide sponsors of independent financial research to institutional with a high quality programme and speakers, and retail investors.
The companys US subsidiary, and outstanding networking opportunities.
Such Internet Securities, Inc. provides the worlds most events include: The Global Borrowers and Investors comprehensive service for news and data on global Forum: the Annual Global Hedge Fund Summit: emerging markets under the Emerging Markets the European Airfinance Conference: the Super Information Service EMIS brand, and also includes Bowl of Indexing: and Global ABS and ABS East CEIC, one of the leading providers of time-series for the assetbacked securities market.
In the macro-economic data for emerging markets.
The energy sector, the group runs the worlds leading group also offers global capital market databases annual coal conferences, Coaltrans and Coaltrans through a venture with its AIM-listed partner, Asia: TelCap runs International Telecoms Week, the Dealogic plc.
worldwide meeting place for telecom carriers and service providers: and MIS runs a leading event for the information security sector in the US, InfoSec World.
Ned Davis Research Group 03 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Our Divisions Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
