Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report The directors submit their annual report and group accounts for the year 2.
The key elements of the groups strategy are: Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a driving top-line revenue growth from both new and existing products: number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results building robust subscription and repeat revenues and reducing the to differ materially from any expected future events or results referred to in dependence on advertising: these forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable improving operating margins through revenue growth and tight cost law, regulation or accounting standard, the directors do not undertake any control: obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as investing from profits in new businesses, technology and the online a result of new information, future development or otherwise.
Nothing in migration of its publishing activities: this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
leveraging technology to launch specialised new electronic information services: The Directors Report has been prepared for the group as a whole and, making acquisitions that supplement the groups existing businesses, therefore, gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant strengthen the companys market position in key areas and have the to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its subsidiary undertakings capacity for organic growth using the existing knowledge base of when viewed as a whole.
It has been prepared solely to provide additional the group: and information to shareholders to assess the companys strategy and the keeping its debt within a net debt to EBITDA limit of three times.
potential for that strategy to succeed, and the Directors Report should not be relied upon by any other party for any other purpose.
The Corporate In 2009, to supplement this strategy, the board set the group a profit Governance Report forms part of this Directors Report.
target of 100 million to be achieved by 2013 against a base of 62.3 million in 2009.
At the companys 2010 AGM, shareholders approved a new long-term incentive scheme, the Capital Appreciation Plan 2010 1.
Principal activities CAP 2010, with performance criteria linked to the groups 100 million Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed on the London Stock profit target.
The profit target was achieved this year, adjusted pre-tax Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 share index.
It is a leading profits were 101.3 million, a significant achievement and two years international business-to-business media group focused primarily on the earlier than expected.
However, the internal rules of the plan prevent international finance, metals and commodities sectors.
It publishes more the awards vesting more than one year early so although the target has than 70 titles in both print and on-line format, including Euromoney, been achieved the award pool will be allocated between the holders of Institutional Investor and Metal Bulletin, and is a leading provider of outstanding awards by reference to their contribution to the growth in electronic research and data under the BCA Research, Ned Davis Research profits of the group from the 2009 base year to the profits achieved in and ISI Emerging Markets brands.
It also runs an extensive portfolio of financial year 2012.
The board are firmly of the view that this incentive conferences, seminars and training courses for financial markets.
The scheme is an essential element of the groups strategy to drive above groups main offices are in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong average long-term profit growth.
Further details of CAP 2010 are set out and more than a third of its revenues are derived from emerging markets.
in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Details of the groups legal entities can be found in note 14.
Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, CAP 2010 element of long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, profits from significant acquisitions, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements as set out in the Income Statement, note 5, 6 and note 8.
07 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report continued 3. Business review 3.1 Group results and dividends The group profit for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to 45.6 million 2010: 58.1 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 12.5 pence per ordinary share 2010: 11.75 pence, payable on February 9 2012 to shareholders on the register on November 18 2011.
This, together with the interim dividend of 6.25 pence per ordinary share 2010: 6.25 pence which was declared on May 19 2011 and paid on July 21 2011, brings the total dividend for the year to 18.75 pence per ordinary share 2010: 18.0 pence.
3.2 Key performance indicators The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators.
Gross margin: gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Gross profit and revenue are both as per note 4 in the financial statements.
Adjusted operating margin: operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive plan expense, exceptional items and associates as a percentage of revenue.
Operating profit and revenue are both as per the Group Income Statement in the financial statements.
Like-for-like growth in profits: proportion of operating profit growth that relates to organic growth, rather than acquisitions.
Operating profit is from continuing operations and excludes closed businesses, acquired intangible amortisation and exceptional items and is adjusted for significant timing differences.
Headcount: number of permanent people employed at the end of the period including people employed in associates.
Net debt to EBITDA: the amount of the groups net debt converted at the groups weighted average exchange rate for the rolling 12 month period to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and also before exceptional items and the accelerated long-term incentive plan expense, but after the normal long-term incentive plan expense.
CAP profit: profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive plan expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements as set out in the Group Income Statement, note 5 and note 8.
Adjusted PBT: CAP profit after the deduction of long-term incentive expense and the exclusion of redundancy costs as set out on page 6.
3.3 KPIs explained The key performance indicators are all within the boards expectations and support its successful strategy.
These indicators are discussed in detail in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, and in section 3.4 below.
3.4 Development of the business of the group 3.4.
1 Trading review Total revenue increased by 10% to 363.1 million.
After a 13% increase in the first half, the headline rate of revenue growth dropped to 7% in the second, largely due to the impact of exchange rates.
At constant currency, the underlying rate of revenue growth was 12% in the second half, against 13% in the first, with growth across all revenue streams.
Change at constant exchange Headline change 2011 2010 rates Revenues m m H1 H2 Year Year Subscriptions 171.0 153.7 13% 10% 11% 14% Advertising 62.7 57.6 15% 5% 9% 11% Sponsorship 48.8 40.6 34% 12% 20% 25% Delegates 75.0 70.8 3% 9% 6% 8% Other closed 9.4 11.5 12% 24% 18% 18% Foreign exchange losses on forward currency contracts 3.8 4.2 Total revenue 363.1 330.0 13% 7% 10% 12% Subscriptions account for nearly half the groups revenue and the group has maintained double digit growth throughout financial year 2011, despite comparisons with 2010 becoming tougher as the year progressed.
More than 70% of subscription revenues are derived in US dollars and currency movements have had a negative impact on growth rates in the second half.
After removing the effect of exchange rates and the acquisition of NDR, underlying subscription revenues increased at a rate of 11%.
This subscription growth continues to be generated by the groups premium online research and data services such as BCA Research and CEIC Data, contrasting with the lower growth rates of the traditional print publishing businesses.
The acquisition of NDR and the groups investment in online publishing is expected to continue to support subscription revenue growth in the first half of financial year 2012.
09 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report continued As reported in the pre-close trading update in September, the volatility and Business Publishing: the groups activities outside finance cover a number uncertainty in markets over the summer was followed by a slowing in the of sectors including metals, commodities, energy, telecoms and law, with rate of growth of advertising and, to a lesser degree, event sponsorship only 35% of revenues derived from advertising.
As a result, Septembers advertising revenues were lower than to 59.5 million and the adjusted operating margin dropped from 41% to expected although the impact of this advertising slow-down is more likely 39% due to the impact of investment in digital publishing, particularly in to be felt in the first quarter of financial year 2012. businesses such as Metal Bulletin and legal publishing.
The event businesses have been a key driver of the groups strong recovery Training: the groups training division predominantly serves the global over the two years since the global credit crisis.
Revenues broadly comprise financial sector with a strong focus on emerging markets.
After a slow start an equal mix of both sponsorship and paying delegates, and the growth to the calendar year, due partly to the political unrest in the Middle East, in the second half reflects the success of the groups strategy of building delegate bookings improved from June and the division finished the year large, must-attend annual events in niche markets, and continually strongly with a 16% increase in Q4 revenues.
Training revenues for the year investing to grow these events while adding new, smaller events as increased by 9% to 32.5 million and adjusted operating profits by 10% to markets improve.
The recent market uncertainty has had limited impact 7.9 million at a consistent adjusted operating margin of 24%.
on the groups event businesses, while delegate bookings for training courses have held up well.
Conferences and Seminars: revenues comprise both sponsorship and paying delegates and increased by 12% to 86.2 million.
Adjusted The group derives nearly two thirds of its total revenue in US dollars and operating profit increased by 13% to 26.6 million and the adjusted movements in the sterling-US dollar rate can have a significant impact on operating margin was unchanged at 31%.
Growth has come across all reported revenues.
This was not the case in the first half but in the second sectors but in particular from those outside finance such as metals, coal the average US dollar rate increased to $1.63 2010: $1.51 which means and telecoms which have a higher emerging market exposure.
that headline revenue growth rates are lower than underlying growth rates at constant currency by several percentage points see table above.
Research and Data: revenues are predominantly derived from subscriptions and increased by 16% to 104.3 million.
Adjusted operating The groups adjusted operating margin was 30.0% against 30.3% in profit increased by 12% to 42.5 million and the adjusted operating 2010.
The continued investment in digital publishing and the lag effect margin fell by one percentage point to 41% reflecting the investment of increases in headcount at the end of 2010 was expected to have a programme at BCA research and CEIC Data.
NDR contributed subscription negative impact on margins in 2011.
This was the case in the first half revenues of 4.6 million and an adjusted operating profit of 1.2 million when the adjusted operating margin fell by one percentage point, but this for the two months since acquisition.
trend was reversed in the second half as revenue growth was derived from the groups higher margin research and data businesses and headcount was tightly controlled in expectation of a more challenging trading environment.
Permanent headcount at September 30 was 2,111 against 2,011 at March 31 and the increase in headcount in the second half was entirely due to the acquisition of NDR.
The average permanent headcount for the year increased by 9% to 2,032.
2 Business division review Financial Publishing: revenues, approximately 50% of which are advertising-related, increased by 5% to 83.8 million and adjusted operating profit by 3% to 28.2 million.
Advertising revenues came under pressure towards the end of the year but the increased investment in digital publishing has contributed to an increasing proportion of advertising revenues from online rather than print, and a strong performance from products less dependent on advertising such as EuroWeek and Institutional Investor Research.
10 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com profits by approximately 2.5 million, most of it in the second half when 3.4.
3 Financial review the rate was $1.63 against $1.51 for the same period in 2010.
The adjusted profit before tax of 92.7 million compares to a statutory profit before tax of 68.2 million.
A detailed reconciliation of the groups 3.4.
4 Net debt, cash flow and dividend adjusted and statutory results is set out in the appendix to the Chairmans Net debt at September 30 was 119.2 million compared with 102.7 Statement.
The statutory profit is generally lower than the adjusted profit million at March 31, following the acquisition of NDR in August for a net before tax because of the impact of acquired intangible amortisation.
In cash consideration of 64.8 million.
Excluding acquisitions, net debt has addition, the earlier than expected achievement of the CAP profit target has fallen by approximately 50 million since March 31, reflecting the groups triggered an additional accelerated CAP expense of 6.6 million which has strong cash flows which are traditionally weighted to the second half.
Cash further reduced the groups statutory profit.
generated from operations increased by 17.2 million to 118.0 million and the operating cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated Adjusted net finance costs for the groups committed borrowing facility from operations covers adjusted operating profit was 108% 2010: 101%.
fell by 2.1 million to 7.2 million, reflecting the rapid reduction in net debt prior to the acquisition of NDR.
The average cost of funds for the The acquisition of an 85% interest in NDR was funded from the groups year increased to 5.7% 2010: 5.2% as the groups cheaper floating rate existing borrowing facility.
The remaining 15% will be acquired under an debt comprised a smaller portion of the total debt for most of the year.
earn-out agreement, in two equal instalments, based on the profits of NDR Following the acquisition of NDR, this position is expected to reverse in for the years to December 31 2012 and 2013.
At September 30, the expected 2012 when the average cost of debt should be less than 5%.
Statutory net discounted consideration payable under the earn-out was 10.1 million.
finance costs of 9.6 million 2010: 10.7 million include a 1.8 million charge for the increase in deferred consideration paid on the acquisition The groups debt is provided through a $400 million 258 million multiof Arete in 2010. currency committed facility from its parent company, Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
The three year facility 65 million is due to The adjusted effective tax rate for the year was 26% against 27% in 2010. expire in December 2011 and will not be renewed.
The five year facility The tax rate depends on the geographic mix of profits and the group has 193 million expires in December 2013 and will be used to fund the benefited this year from reductions in UK and Canadian corporate tax groups borrowing requirements for the next two years.
In addition, DMGT rates, which are expected to lower the adjusted effective tax rate again in has recently renewed its bank facilities for a five year period to April 2016, 2012.
After utilising tax losses to reduce cash taxes paid in 2010, the group under which a facility of $300 million 193 million will be available to the returned to a tax paying position in 2011 and cash taxes paid in the year group on expiry of its five year facility should it be required.
were 27.0 million against an adjusted tax expense of 24.2 million.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio on the groups committed facility was 1.0 The group continues to generate nearly two thirds of its revenues in times at year end, well within the groups internal covenant of three US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKtimes.
There are no significant capital or acquisition commitments based businesses, and more than half its operating profits are US dollarcurrently expected for financial year 2012, leaving the group with plenty denominated.
The group hedges its exposure to the US dollar revenues in of headroom to pursue its selective acquisition strategy.
its UK businesses by using forward contracts to sell surplus US dollars.
This delays the impact of movements in exchange rates for at least a year.
As The companys policy is to distribute a third of its aftertax earnings by way a result of this hedging policy, the group benefited from a 0.4 million of dividends each year.
Accordingly, the board recommends a final dividend reduction in currency hedging losses compared to last year.
The adjusted diluted earnings a share figure 56.1p The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk, primarily from used to calculate the final dividend excludes the additional accelerated CAP the US dollar, on the translation of overseas profits.
It does, however, longterm incentive scheme expense of 6.6 million because the board endeavour to match foreign currency borrowings with investments and believes this gives a better indication of the underlying earnings of the the related foreign currency finance costs provide a partial hedge against group.
The final dividend will be paid on February 9 2012 to shareholders the translation of overseas profits.
The translation impact of a one cent on the register at November 18 2011.
A scrip dividend alternative will again movement in the average sterling-US dollar exchange rate on overseas be available to shareholders and the groups majority shareholder, DMGT, profits is approximately 0.4 million on an annualised basis.
The average has indicated its intention to accept the scrip alternative.
sterling-US dollar rate for the year was $1.61 2010: $1.55 which reduced 11 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
6 Capital Appreciation Plan CAP The net assets of the group were 225.6 million compared to 169.5 The CAP is the groups long-term incentive scheme designed to retain and million in 2010.
The main movements in the balance sheet items were reward those who drive profit growth and is an integral part of the groups intangible assets increased by 67.3 million, reflecting the recognition successful growth and investment strategy.
of 34.8 million of goodwill and 37.7 million of acquired intangible assets following the acquisition of NDR, foreign exchange gains of 7.0 The terms of CAP 2010 broadly require an adjusted profit before tax and million, and amortisation costs of 12.5 million: property, plant and before CAP expense of 100 million to be achieved, from a base profit equipment increased by 0.9 million to 20.4 million, largely as a result of 62.3 million in financial year 2009, within the four year performance of the acquired assets of NDR, 1.4 million, regular capital expenditure period ending in September 2013.
The better than expected financial across the group of 2.1 million offset by depreciation of 2.7 million: performance of the group in the last two years means the CAP profit trade and other receivables increased by 8.6 million to 71.4 million target has been achieved in financial year 2011, two years earlier than due to an 8.5 million increase in trade debtors primarily reflecting the expected.
increased revenues of the group and partly from the acquisition of NDR, a 0.2 million increase in other receivables and a 0.3 million reduction The total cost of CAP 2010 can be no more than 30 million.
This cost was in the debtors provision: net derivative financial instrument due less being expensed over the expected life of the plan, starting from March than one year and more than one year, fell from a liability of 13.6 million 2010, on the assumption that the profit performance test would first be to a liability of 6.9 million following maturity of several forward currency satisfied in the financial year ending in September 2012, one year earlier and interest rate swap contracts during the year coupled with a reduction than originally expected.
The profit performance has now been satisfied in the mark to market loss of the groups future interest rate swaps: total two years earlier than expected and, under IFRS 2, the earlier achievement acquisition option commitments increased from 1.1 million to 11.0 of the CAP profit target triggers an additional accelerated CAP expense million reflecting the new commitment to purchase the remaining equity of 6.6 million in this financial year, with a corresponding reduction in the shareholding in NDR: accruals increased by 10.8 million to 56.2 million expected CAP expense for financial years 2012, 2013 and 2014 of 1.1 due in part to the early payment of the UK profit shares last year to take million, 3.8 million and 1.7 million respectively.
The board believes that advantage of the lower tax rates and foreign exchange: deferred income this additional accelerated CAP expense distorts the underlying earnings increased by 11.8 million to 105.5 million reflecting the increase in the of the group and has excluded this cost from its reported adjusted profit groups forward sold subscription and event revenues: other non-current before tax and the adjusted diluted earnings a share figure used for liabilities increased from 0.9 million to 11.0 million reflecting the setting the final dividend.
liability for the cash element of the CAP 2010, including the portion that relates to the accelerated charge see note 6 : committed loan facility fell 7.8 million to 130.1 million, net cash generated by the group from operations of 118.0 million offset by 66.4 million used in investing activities mainly the acquisition of NDR, 23.3 million spent on financing activities and 27.0 million on tax: net pension deficit increased from a deficit of 1.5 million to a deficit of 1.9 million reflecting a 0.5 million increase in the pension obligation offset by a 0.1 million increased in the asset value: the net deferred tax liability has increased by 5.7 million to 9.0 million, the asset decreasing due to the use of tax losses and the unwinding of deferred tax on intangible assets and goodwill impairment.
12 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Rewards under CAP 2010 will be satisfied by the issue of approximately Increase in equity holdings 3.5 million new ordinary shares and 15 million cash, with 50% of During the year the group spent 50,000 on an additional 0.08% interest the reward deferred for a further 12 months and subject to additional in Internet Securities Inc. the emerging market content aggregator and performance tests.
The rules of the CAP were modified this year such data business, taking its holding to 98.8%.
that individual awards could not vest more than one year ahead of the original performance period.
This means that although the CAP profit 3.4.
8 Headcount target has been reached in financial year 2011, individual CAP awards will The number of people employed is monitored monthly to ensure that there be based on profits for financial year 2012 and the first 50% tranche of are sufficient resources to meet the forthcoming demands of each business CAP awards will not vest until February 2013. and also to make sure that the businesses continue to deliver sufficient profits to support the people they employ.
During the second half of 2010 the The second 50% tranche of CAP 2010 awards will only vest if the CAP group stepped up its investment in new businesses and increased headcount profit target is again achieved in financial year 2012 or later.
Following the accordingly ending 2010 with 1,988 people.
This investment continued in the acquisition of NDR, the profit target for the second 50% vesting of CAP first quarter of financial year 2011 and headcount peaked at 2,048 people.
awards has been increased by 5 million to 105 million.
However, following the subsequent restructuring of some underperforming businesses the group reduced headcount by approximately 120 people.
7 Acquisitions and disposals was offset, in headcount terms, by the additional people from the acquisition Acquisitions remain an important part of the groups growth strategy.
The group's headcount at the end of 2011 was 2,111. particular the board believes that acquisitions are valuable for taking the group into new sectors, for bringing new technologies into the group and 3.4.
9 Marketing and digital development for increasing the groups revenues by buying into rapidly growing niche In 2011 the groups marketing strategy has focused on growing online businesses.
The group continues to look for strategic acquisitions in the areas of revenue through online product development and online marketing, international finance and commodities, and in emerging markets.
combined with increased automation and outsourcing efficiencies.
Acquisition The directors have striven to provide users with more choice in how to On July 29 2011, the group acquired 84.99% of the equity share capital of access content while on the move, launching a number of iPhone and Ned Davis Research NDR, the US-based provider of independent financial iPad apps throughout 2011.
One of the groups key apps, EuroWeek, research to institutional and retail investors, for a cash consideration was chosen as an Apple iTunes staff pick and became a top performer of US$112 million 68.2 million.
The remaining interest in NDR will be for premium financial news whilst BCAs iPad and iPhone apps have now acquired under an earn-out agreement, in two equal instalments, based been used by 35% of the groups client organisations.
on the profits of NDR for the years to December 31 2012 and 2013 for approximately US$15.8 million 10.1 million.
Further details are set out The group has also continued to invest in online with a 7.85 million in note 15. investment.
This investment was used to spearhead 24 new or redeveloped products across the portfolio.
It also enabled the start of the roll-out of a new Deferred consideration payments campaign management system and a two-year investment in enterprise-wide In August 2010 the group acquired 100% of the equity of Arete website analytics Webtrends, providing detailed insights into user activity Consulting Limited, the market leading database of retail structured and website performance and ROI measurement.
Across all our subscription investment products, for an initial cash consideration of 6.1 million websites the average number of unique visits has increased 11%.
with a further payment in 2011 calculated using a pre-determined multiple of the February 2011 audited profits of the Arete group.
This The groups customer-focus is reflecting in the subscriber feedback for payment was initially estimated as approximately 0.6 million.
Due to the example 88% subscribers of the recently launched Industrial Minerals strong performance of Arete since acquisition, the amount of deferred rated the publication in an independent survey October 2011 as Good consideration paid under this mechanism increased to 2.4 million.
Excellent which makes it a leading industry publication.
13 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report continued In 2011 marketing's cost efficiency has continued, with Manila-based New secure multi-functional device technology was rolled out in London telesales making up 47% 12 million of total UK and Asia delegate enabling employees to collect prints, make copies or scan documents revenues.
In addition, efficiencies have continued with data research directly to email, from any device, on any floor, in any building.
Planning and cleansing operations, resulting in 100% of contacts research and is underway to expand the solution to other offices.
cleansing now performed by our Mumbaibased outsource company.
The group has invested in resilient and high capacity telecom infrastructure.
10 Systems and information technology VoIP networks provide a scalable and feature-rich telephony network across the The group continues to invest across all technology areas.
Least cost routing helps source the best value tariffs across worldwide regions.
The group is continuing to develop a unified communications The group launched a new technology initiative in 2011, the Campus platform, providing businesses with a single interface for accessing email, programme, to improve how company systems and data are accessed voicemail, instant messaging and fax communications, for both office-based and managed outside of the office.
The programme is also introducing a employees and remote workers.
The group has invested in high resolution video Bring Your Own Device BYOD environment to enable employees to use conferencing technology between the offices in London, New York, Montreal their own personal laptops, tablets and devices more effectively for work.
and Hong Kong, improving communication and reducing global travel costs.
The group is adding new hot desk areas during 2012 to provide better The technology is being extended during 2012 to employee desktops and optimisation of office space and reduce business overheads.
other office locations including outsourcing sites.
Telecom suppliers and services are reviewed annually to ensure costs are managed tightly.
New CRM technology has been integrated with the companys telecom, marketing and online systems to streamline processes, generate new sales Investment in technology to support online businesses continues.
The roll out to sales teams across the group will group has invested significantly in new utility computing and cloudcontinue through 2012. based hosting technology to ensure its websites maintain the very highest performance.
The new platform is expected to go live early next year.
A The group has implemented cutting edge event management and new content management system is being rolled out across the group registration technology, integrating systems with the conference business during 2012 to optimise publishing to web, print and the rapidly increasing websites.
The group continues to implement the central advertising billing number of mobile platforms including iPad, Android and Blackberry.
Investment in e-commerce infrastructure continued throughout 2011.
New online store technology is in development to provide a flexible and optimised platform to promote better cross-selling of products across the group.
We are also continuing to invest in technology that can help protect online and offline content.
The group is in the process of implementing a new online advertising system to optimise usage of advertising inventory and improve management reporting across the group.
The group is also introducing new online reporting software during the year to improve analysis of web application and social network activity across sites.
Many sites were re-launched during 2011 with fresh designs and updated technologies.
There was a full review of the groups information security policy in 2011.
All company laptops are encrypted and new software was introduced across the networks to track and control access to corporate data.
Security and penetration tests are run against networks and systems annually.
14 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com The group has established a recovery site to support the business in In order to hedge its exposure to US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, the event of the London office being unavailable.
Disaster recovery and a series of forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US business continuity plans for all businesses were updated during the year dollars.
The group hedges 80% of forecast US dollar revenues for the and the group has an active programme for testing these disaster recovery coming 12 months and up to 50% for a further 6 months.
plans for all business units.
The group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk on the translation 3.4.
11 Tax and treasury of overseas profits, although it does endeavour to match foreign currency Committee borrowings with investments and the related foreign currency finance The groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and costs provide a partial hedge against the translation of overseas profits.
As is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The committee a result of this hedging strategy, any profit or loss from the strengthening members are the chairman, managing director and finance director of or weakening of the US dollar will largely be delayed until the following the company, and the finance director and the deputy finance director of financial year and beyond.
The chairman of the audit committee is also invited to attend tax and treasury meetings.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 20 to the greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group accounts.
has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
Tax The underlying effective tax rate based on adjusted profit before tax and Treasury excluding deferred tax movements on intangible assets, prior year items and The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it exceptionals is 26% 2010: 27%.
The groups reported effective tax rate undertake any speculative trading activity, and it operates within policies increased to an expense of 33% compared to an expense of 18% in 2010.
A and procedures approved by the board.
reconciliation to the underlying effective rate is set out in note 9 in the accounts.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations The total net deferred tax balance held is a liability of 9.0 million 2010: in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of 3.3 million and relates primarily to capitalised intangible assets and rolled these derivatives is matched with the expected future debt profile of the over capital gains, net of deferred tax assets held in respect of US and UK group.
The groups policy is to fix the interest rates on approximately 80% tax losses and short-term timing differences and the future deductions of its term debt looking forward over five years.
The maturity dates are available for the CAP.
spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to mitigate shortterm changes in interest rates.
Principal risks and uncertainties At September 30 2011, the group had 62% of its gross debt fixed by the The group has continued to develop its processes for risk management.
use of interest rate hedges.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone of and other senior management meetings.
achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from changes Specific risk areas that potentially could have a material impact on the in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest charge against groups long-term performance include: sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
4.1 Commercial risks Downturn in economy or market sector The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US The group generates significant income from certain key geographical dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based regions and market sectors for both its publishing and events businesses.
businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollarUncertainty in global financial markets increases the risk of a downturn denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on or potential collapse in one of these areas, and should this occur, the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, and on the translation of the income is likely to be adversely affected and for events businesses some results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
abandonment costs may also be incurred.
15 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report continued However, the group has a diverse product mix and operates in multiple aim to protect the businesses from unnecessary disruption.
The group has geographical locations which reduces dependency on any one sector or professional indemnity insurance in place.
Management has shown a proven ability to switch the groups focus to new or unaffected markets e. g. following the SARS outbreak in London, New York, Montreal or Hong Kong wide disaster Asia and terrorist attacks in New York.
The group has its main offices located in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong.
An area-wide disaster could have serious consequences with Travel risk office space potentially becoming unusable for several months and a lack The conference, seminars and training businesses account for 33% of of suitable alternative accommodation, loss of key clients and staff in an the groups revenues and 30% of the groups profits.
The success of affected area and difficult communications with both customers and staff.
As these events and courses relies heavily on the confidence in and ability of a consequence of the above, the group could suffer a loss of revenue.
delegates and speakers to travel internationally.
Significant disruptions to or reductions in international travel for any reason could lead to events To mitigate this risk the group has detailed disaster recovery DR plans for and courses being postponed or cancelled and could have a significant all businesses.
All employees can work remotely.
The group regularly tests impact on the groups performance.
It has robust systems in place with key locations including the UK, US, Canada and Asia benefiting from dual location of back ups, dual Past incidents such as transport strikes, extreme weather including loading of live back ups for key systems and third-party 24-hour support.
hurricanes, terrorist attacks, fears over SARS and swine flu, and more recently the disruption from volcanic ash in Europe, have all had a negative Publishing content risk incorrect information published impact on the groups results, although none materially.
or results of reader polls or awards successfully challenged The group generates a significant amount of its revenue from publishing Where possible, contingency plans are in place to minimise the disruption from and hence has an inherent libel risk.
A successful libel claim could affect travel restrictions.
Events can be postponed or moved to another location, the groups reputation in the market where the libel claim arose and where or increasingly can be attended remotely using new online technologies.
As a consequence the group could suffer a Cancellation and abandonment insurance is also in place for the groups largest loss of advertising and other revenue streams and incur costs in defending events.
4.2 Operational risks There is the potential for errors in data collection, processing and accuracy, Data risk loss, theft, integrity and availability of data particularly in the groups database businesses.
Reliance on inaccurate including customer, employee and commercial data information could result in losses and could significantly damage the Euromoney holds and publishes large quantities of data including: groups reputation.
customer, subscriber, attendee, exhibitor data: employee data: The group runs over 100 reader polls and awards each year.
Any challenge commercial data financial information, forecasts and business plans: to the integrity of polls and awards could damage the reputation of the and product challenged and the whole group resulting in legal costs and published information see published content risk below.
The loss, theft, corruption or unavailability of this information could result To mitigate this risk the group runs mandatory annual libel courses for in operational and regulatory challenges, costs to the group, reputational all journalists and editors.
Polls and awards are regularly audited and a damage to the businesses and the permanent loss of revenue.
Chinese wall approach is adopted between the commercial arm of the business and the editors involved in the polls and awards.
Key staff are The group has comprehensive information security standards and practices aware of the significant nature of publishing content risk and strong in place which are reviewed on a regular basis.
Access to key systems internal controls are in place for reporting to senior management if a and data is restricted, monitored, and logged with auditable data trails.
The group also has libel insurance cover.
Restrictions are in place to prevent unauthorised data downloads.
The group is subject to regular internal security audits, supplemented by expert external resource.
Business continuity plans are in place in each business and include comprehensive back up plans for IT infrastructure, with the 16 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com All key staff are engaged in long-term incentive plans to encourage Incorrect circulation claims retention.
In addition the directors remain committed to recruitment The group publishes over 70 titles and publications and sells advertising and retention of high quality management and talent, and provide a based partly on circulation figures.
An incorrect claim for circulation could programme of career opportunity and progression for employees including adversely affect the groups reputation in the applicable market place with extensive training and international transfer opportunities.
a potential knock-on effect for other titles within the group.
This could lead to the permanent loss of advertisers and other revenue streams.
Failure of the back-office project The business is undertaking a project to replace its back-office system, To mitigate this risk the group runs rolling annual internal audits and the groups web user and product management platform.
The back-office regularly monitors internal controls designed to cover circulation.
Detailed system is critical to the successful functioning of the business and hence guidance is provided to all relevant employees and their understanding the project carries a significant amount of risk.
Any delays or problems of the rules is regularly monitored.
There are a large number of mutually with the project could result in a loss of access to systems and data which exclusive titles and it is unlikely that an incorrect circulation claim, should could in turn lead to a loss of revenues.
Additionally, if the project overruns it arise, would affect the circulation of other titles within the wider group.
or cannot be delivered in line with budget there is a risk that additional Similar controls are applied to claims for electronic publishing activities.
Loss of key staff The project is being managed, planned and run by dedicated, skilled The group is reliant on key management and staff across many of its resource and its progress is closely monitored by the executive committee businesses, and many of its products are reliant on the technological and and the board.
specialist expertise provided by a number of talented staff.
If key staff leave or retire, there is a risk that knowledge or competitive advantage is lost.
4.3 Strategic risks Acquisition and disposal risk Part of the groups strategy is to make strategic acquisitions.
Management review a number of potential acquisitions each year with only a small proportion of these going through to due diligence stage and possible subsequent purchase.
There is a risk that an opportunity could be missed.
The group could suffer an impairment loss if an acquired business does not generate the expected returns or fails to operate or grow in its markets and products areas.
Additionally, there is a risk that a newly acquired business is not integrated into the group successfully or that the expected risks of a newly acquired entity may be misunderstood.
As a consequence a significant amount of management time could be diverted from other operational matters.
The group is also subject to disposal risk, possibly failing to achieve optimal value from disposed businesses, failing to identify at the right time which businesses should be disposed or underestimating the impact on the remaining group businesses from such a disposal.
To mitigate this risk experienced senior management perform detailed inhouse due diligence and call on expert external advisers where deemed necessary.
Acquisition agreements are usually structured so as to retain key employees in the acquired company and there is close monitoring of performance at board level of the entity concerned post acquisition.
The board regularly reviews the groups existing portfolio of businesses to identify under-performing businesses or businesses that no longer fit with the groups strategy and puts in place divestment plans accordingly.
17 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report continued The group is already embracing these challenges, and overall sees the Failure of online strategy internet and other technological advances as an opportunity not a Technology changes will result in changing customer behaviour which will threat.
Significant investment in the groups online strategy has already in turn, be disruptive to the groups publishing businesses.
The strategy of been made and will continue for as long as necessary see 3.4.
10 of the transitioning published products from hard copy to an online environment Directors Report.
Many of the groups businesses already produce soft has been pursued for a number of years.
There are several potential areas copies of publications to supplement the hard copies as well as provide of risk in executing this strategy: information and content via apps.
The groups acquisition strategy has been interlinked with the opportunity to increase the groups mix of 1 Pricing and competing with free content from the internet: online information providers.
While the internet is an important tool for 2 Migration of subscribers to online products: generating additional revenue the groups product mix provides protection 3 Back office and technical support for online products: for any potential unforeseen problems.
For example, the groups share of 4 Changing editorial practices, moving to continuous publishing from profit from event businesses is significant, with face-to-face meetings of traditional monthly cycle: increasing importance.
5 Maintaining advertising revenue for online as hard copy circulation falls: 4.4 Financial risks 6 Changing competitive landscape lower barriers to entry and Liquidity risk proliferation of free on-line content: The group is an approved borrower under a Daily Mail and General Trust plc 7 Further changes in technology, e. g. mobile devices tablets, impact of DMGT $400 million dedicated multi-currency facility.
The facility is divided social media such as Facebook and Twitter: into four quantums of US dollar and sterling funds with three and five year terms with a total maximum borrowing capacity as follows: Failure to succeed in any of these areas could result in lower than expected results and a permanent loss of revenue.
3 year tranche 5 year tranche US dollar $60 million $250 million Sterling 26 million 33 million The three year quantums of the facility expire in December 2011 and the five year quantums in December 2013.
The facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitor the covenants and prepare detailed cashflow forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2011, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.01 times.
The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to pay down its debt.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated from operations covers operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense, and exceptional items of over 100% due to much of its subscription, sponsorship and delegate revenue being paid in advance.
For the year to September 30 2011 the groups cash conversion rate was 108% compared to 101% last year.
18 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2011, the group had 127.9 Foreign currency risk million of undrawn but committed facilities available.
The group intends The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US to allow its three year facility 64.5 million to expire when it comes up dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKbased for renewal in December 2011.
Any remaining funds drawn under this businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollarfacility at this date will be rolled into the unused portion of the five year denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on facility 193.4 million and, in the absence of any significant acquisitions, the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, and on the translation of the the group has no pressing requirement to arrange new finance before results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
this five year facility expires in December 2013.
In addition, the group has agreed terms with DMGT that provide it with access to additional The group does not hedge the translation of the results of its US dollarfunding should the group require it during the period from December denominated businesses.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of 2013 through April 2016.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the sterling versus the US dollar could materially affect the translation of facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn their results in the consolidated financial statements.
However, the group if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
However, if DMGT endeavours to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the group, the directors to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas are confident that the group would be in a position to secure adequate subsidiaries with the related foreign currency interest cost arising from external facilities, although probably at a higher cost of funding.
these borrowings providing a part natural hedge against the translation of foreign currency profits.
Market price risk Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value of the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level, a the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
The series of US dollar and Euro denominated forward contracts are put in place groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and exchange to sell forward surplus US dollars and Euros between 12 and 18 months to rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of hedge 80% of revenues for the first 12 months and 50% for the following interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless 6 months.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk managements estimate of its future US dollar and Euro denominated are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The revenues over a 18 month period.
If management materially underestimate fair values of interest rate swaps, currency options and forward exchange the groups future US dollar and Euro denominated revenues this would contracts set out in note 20 represent the replacement costs calculated lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the group being using the market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2011. more exposed to swings in US dollar and Euro to sterling exchange rates.
The group has no other material market price risks.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar and Euro denominated revenues would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
Interest rate risk At September 30 2011, the fair value of the groups forward contracts was The groups borrowings are in both pounds sterling and US dollars with a liability of 4.3 million 2010: liability of 7.8 million.
the related interest tied to GBP and US dollar LIBOR.
This results in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is Credit risk the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate above by the use of financial instruments and as a result has a credit risk swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predictability of instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest by monitoring the amounts outstanding, with and the credit quality of, charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents these are benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
Details of the groups interest rate principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong swaps are given in note 20. long-term credit ratings, and for derivative financial instruments DMGT 19 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report continued who have treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of 6.
Directors and their interests risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
The companys Articles of Association give power to the board to appoint directors from time to time.
In addition to the statutory rights of shareholders The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, to remove a director by ordinary resolution, the board may also remove a prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from director where 75% of the board give written notice to such director.
The trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer Articles of Association themselves may be amended by a special resolution of base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units the shareholders.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account The directors who served during the year are listed on page 46.
The directors the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
interests are given on page 51.
SM Brady resigned as an executive director on November 15 2010.
There were no other changes in the executive or nonThe maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying executive directors during the year.
amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, recorded in the balance sheet.
Following best practice under the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code and in accordance with the companys Articles of Association, Tax all directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all The group operates within many tax jurisdictions and earnings are therefore executive directors will retire at the forthcoming annual general meeting subject to taxation at differing rates across these jurisdictions.
The directors and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Also, as required endeavour to manage the tax affairs of the group in an efficient manner, by best practice under the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code, however, due to an ever more complex international tax environment there all non-executive directors will submit themselves for re-election on an will always be a level of uncertainty when provisioning for tax liabilities.
In addition, in accordance with the June 2010 UK Combined There is also a risk of tax laws being amended by authorities in the different Code on Corporate Governance, before the re-election of a non-executive jurisdictions in which the group operates which could have an adverse effect director, the chairman is required to confirm to shareholders that, following on the financial results.
External tax experts and inhouse tax specialists, formal performance evaluation, the non-executive directors performance reporting to the tax and treasury committee, work together to review all continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
tax arrangements within the group and keep abreast of changes in global Accordingly, the non-executive directors will retire at the forthcoming tax legislation.
annual general meeting and, being eligible following a formal performance evaluation by the chairman, offer themselves for re-election.
Future development in the business Details of the interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the An indication of the trading outlook for the group is given in the Chairmans company and of options held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary Statement on page 5.
In 2012 the directors will manage the business shares in the company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report to facilitate growth and to continue to shape the business to remain on pages 38 to 52. competitive in the economic environments in which it operates.
The group is well placed to diversify its product and geographical base and remains Going concern, debt covenants and 7. committed to its strategy set out on page 7. liquidity The board will continue to review the portfolio of businesses, disposing, The results of the groups business activities, together with the factors closing or restructuring any under-performing businesses to allow the likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position group to have the necessary resources and skills to remain acquisitive.
The are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5. group will invest in technology and new businesses, particularly electronic information products, as well as in its internal systems.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows and liquidity position are set out in detail in this annual report.
The group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its $400 million dedicated multicurrency borrowing facility with Daily Mail and General Trust plc group DMGT.
The facility is divided into four quantums of sterling and US dollar 20 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com funds with three and five year terms with a total maximum borrowing 9.
EU Takeovers Directive capacity of $310 million 199 million and 59 million respectively.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than four times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
At September 30 2011, Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the EU the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.01 times and the committed Takeovers Directive, the company is required to disclose certain additional undrawn facility available to the group was 127.9 million.
The three year information which is not covered elsewhere in this annual report.
Such quantums of the facility are due for renewal in December 2011 and the five disclosures are as follows: year quantums in December 2013 see note 19 for further details.
there are no restrictions on the transfer of securities shares or loan The group intends to allow its three year facility 65 million to expire notes in the company, including: i limitations on the holding of when it comes up for renewal in December 2011.
Any remaining funds securities: and ii requirements to obtain the approval of the company, drawn under this facility at this date will be rolled into the unused portion or of other holders or securities in the company, for a transfer of of the five year facility 193 million and, in the absence of any significant securities: acquisitions, the group has no pressing requirement to arrange new there are no people who hold securities carrying special rights with finance before this five year facility expires in December 2013.
In addition, regard to control of the company: the group has agreed terms with DMGT that provide it with access to the companys employee share schemes do not give rights with regard additional funding should the group require it during the period from to control of the company that are not exercisable directly by employes: December 2013 through April 2016. there are no restrictions on voting rights: the directors are not aware of any agreements between holders or The groups forecasts and projections, looking out to September 2014 and securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show on voting rights: and that the group should be able to operate within the level and covenants of its the company has a number of agreements that take effect, alter current borrowing facility.
or terminate upon a change of control of the company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that property lease arrangements, directors service agreements and the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for employee share plans.
None of these agreements are deemed to be the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the going concern basis in preparing this annual report.
details of the directors entitlement to compensation for loss of office following a takeover or contract termination are given in the Directors' Capital structure and significant 8.
shareholdings Details of the companys share capital are given in note 24.
The companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each.
Each share entitles its holder to one vote at shareholders meetings and the right to receive one share of the companys dividends.
Nature of Number of % of voting Name of holder holding shares rights DMG Charles Limited Direct 80,382,470 66.30 21 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Directors Report continued Authority to purchase and 10.
Disclosure of information to auditor allot own shares In the case of each of the persons who is a director of the company at The companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its own shares November 9 2011: expires at the conclusion of the companys next annual general meeting.
A resolution to renew this authority for a further period will be put to so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit shareholders at this meeting.
information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the companys auditor is unaware: and At the annual general meeting of the company on January 20 2011, the each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have shareholders authorised the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant nominal amount of 88,948 expiring at the conclusion of the annual audit information as defined and to establish that the companys general meeting to be held in 2012.
A resolution to renew this authority auditor is aware of the information.
for a further period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Political and charitable contributions During the year the group raised charitable contributions of 1,108,000 By order of the board 2010: 445,000.
There were no political contributions in either year.
See pages 32 to 35 for details of the groups charitable projects.
Directors indemnities The company has directors and officers liability and corporate reimbursement insurance for the benefit of the companys directors and Colin Jones those of other associated companies.
This insurance has been in place Company Secretary throughout the year and remains in force at the date of this report.
Annual general meeting The companys next annual general meeting will be held on January 26 2012.
Auditor A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditor is expected to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
