Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 EVRAZ KGOK continued research and In 2011 to meet EVRAZ ZSMK requirements Mining: Russia engineering works for construction of a new Evrazruda upgraded ore-benefication EVRAZ iron ore assets include EVRAZ KGOK tailings facility, to be completed by 2017. technology and the lime-treatment line at the and EVRAZ VGOK in the Urals, and Evrazruda Utilising the worlds best concentration Abagur benefication plant, which resulted in a in Siberia.
EVRAZs coal asset Yuzhkuzbassugol technologies, the facility will provide for the 0.5% increase of metal content and reduction is located in Siberia.
improved storage and containment of waste of humidity down to 4.0% in the final ore material at a new area thus minimising the concentrate.
This secured regular delay-free Overall 2011 performance of EVRAZ iron ore environmental impact.
supplies to its EVRAZ customers especially assets in Russia demonstrated robust positive in winter.
dynamics: total production of saleable iron ore EVRAZ KGOK completed modernisation of products amounted to 16.8 million tonnes its pellet-indurating kiln #3, decreasing gas Over the year Evrazruda continued to develop 3 9% over 2010, average labour productivity consumption by 1.0 m per tonne of pellets.
scheduled for completion in 2014-2015, In 2011, KGOK successfully completed the is expected to double annual iron ore EVRAZ KGOK project aimed at improving quality of pellets production capacity of the mine.
Following the EVRAZ KGOK is one of the top five largest and sinter supplied to EVRAZ NTMKs blast revisions to the project design, the timeframe ore mining enterprises in Russia.
The result was increased durability will be reduced by two years with the approximately 140 kilometers from EVRAZ of pellets and sinter as well as enhanced run-of-mine production capacity now projected NTMK, in the Sverdlovsk region.
At present EVRAZ NTMKs efficiency.
to reach 3.7million tonnes per year by 2014.
EVRAZ KGOK conducts mining operations at the Gusevogorskoye deposit of titanium Key Targets 2012 Significant progress was made in modernising magnetite ores that contain a vanadium alloy r Approval of the feasibility study and the Abakan underground mine to increase its component, allowing production of high-tensile the resource statement on Sobstvennoannual mining capacity from two million tonnes alloyed steel products.
In 2011, EVRAZ KGOK Kachkanarskoye ore deposit by appropriate up to 4-6 million tonnes in the next five years.
extracted 54.4 million tonnes of ore, its total state authorities.
In 2011 design and engineering works at the output of saleable products was 9.4 million r Completion of  project, which were previously assigned to tonnes, including 5.9 million tonnes of pellets ore deposit design and engineering project Giprotsvetmet, were awarded to Australian and 3.5 million tonnes of sinter.
documentation to be certified by the State D&E companies of Worley Parsons and Expertise Agency, aiming to begin detailed Mining Plus.
EVRAZ KGOK continued with the programme design works and contracting key to increase the production of raw iron ore in equipment suppliers to commence mine At the Tashtagol mine a major project of line with the Groups core aim to secure raw production in 2015. back-fill technology application was finished materials for steelmaking.
The programme will r Finalisation of the project to increase with works, and back-fill mining BFM starting be finalised in 2012 providing for substantial the annual capacity of EVRAZ KGOK to in an operational testing mode.
The essence upgrades in mining, transportation and 55million tonnes of raw ore in order to of BFM technology is to fill up the mined-out processing equipment and practices.
space with hardening material, which will allow The following new equipment was put into the mine to use up to 63 million tonnes of operation: five electric locomotives, five Evrazruda higher-grade ore previously preserved in large-capacity dump trucks, two heavy-duty Evrazruda comprises nine ore mining and ore surface supporting pillars.
Implementation of electrical drilling rigs, 40 rail dump cars.
beneficiating branches: in Kemerovo region this project will also increase the production This allowed it to reach production capacity Tashtagol, Kaz, Sheregesh and Gurievsk capacity of the mine, improve the quality of of 55 million tonnes of mined ore per year mining branches, Abagur and Moundybash the ore mined and will lead to a better 10% compared to 2010. ore benefication plants, in the Khakassia operational efficiency of the Tashtagol branch.
region Abakan and Tyoya mining branches Commissioning of the BMT system was In 2011 EVRAZ KGOK finalised geological and in the south of Krasnoyarsk region Irba fully commissioned in March 2012. exploration at  mining branch.
In 2011 Evrazruda mined 11.7 ore deposit and submitted a recourse million tonnes of ore resulting in a production Evrazruda obtained a licence for the Izykhsky statement Russian standard for approval to of 4.9 million tonnes of ore concentrate iron ore deposit.
In 2011 geological exploration the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources.
delivered to its only corporate customer works began at the deposit aiming to complete As part of the project to explore the EVRAZ ZSMK 15% compared to 2010. a resource statement and prefeasibility study  ore deposit the by the end of 2012. design and engineering companies of Worley Parsons Australia and St. Petersburg Mining Project and Engineering Company Russia developed a 3D model of the deposit and basic engineering solutions to open up and start production in line with the highest international technological standards.
The engineering solutions include a state of the art conveying system of ore transportation to the benefication plant.
36 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review Continued Key Targets 2012 In 2011 the key investment project of VGOK EVRAZ Business System r Further implementation of the investment was the development and construction of the The introduction of Lean technology to projects aimed at maintaining and Tsentralny open-pit mine.
Its realisation will improve efficiency and productivity began at increasing the production capacity of the allow it to produce an additional 6.8 million the Companys iron ore mining and enrichment Sheregesh and Kaz underground mines tonnes of ore in the next eight years.
More than 300 specialists and and development of the Izykhsky deposit design and engineering works were finalised senior managers studied Lean and in Irba.
and in 2012 the ore extraction works will participated in workshop sessions focused r The ongoing Abakan mine modernisation commence.
on establishing a series of initiatives to be project design and engineering works, implemented as part of a 90-day action plan.
contracting mine construction companies This project is in line with a project to increase Implementation of 6S principles began at all and key equipment suppliers.
the capacity of the Vysokogorsky benefication of the production sites in the Miningsegment.
plant via modernisation of its ore-feeding EVRAZ VGOK facilities.
During 2011 the Companys Mining segment EVRAZ Vysokogorsky Ore Mining and implemented a range of programmes to Processing Company EVRAZ VGOK As part of operational expense optimisation reduce safety and environmental risk, operates three ore mines, sintering and VGOK initiated an upgrade of the heating including the use of third party consultants benefication workshops.
Its assets are located system of its Yuzhnaya mine.
Being to conduct environmental and operational approximately 10 kilometres from EVRAZ implemented in mid-2012 this initiative safety audits.
In addition, the Company itself NTMK in Nizhny Tagil.
EVRAZ VGOK mines will result in a 60% decrease of energy carried out extensive inspection and testing from Vysokogorskoye, Lebyazhinskoye, consumption used to ventilate the mine.
programmes relating to technical equipment Yestyuninskoye and Goroblagodatskoye iron for fire and radiation control.
It also buys feedstock from In 2011, VGOK, supported by mining the market.
It is one of the major ore-mining consultants from Ernst & Young, drew up a At the Abagurskaya plant of the Companys enterprises in the Urals.
EVRAZ VGOK mid-term production optimisation programme Evrazruda operation a number of measures produces iron ore concentrate, several types that provides for 10-15% higher capacity for the mitigation and prevention of accidents of sinter, limestone, natural stone and other utilisation in the next two years and a at the tailings dump have been completed.
products for the steelmaking and construction decrease in operational costs.
The plant has also completed modernisation industries.
It supplies finished products to of the gas treatment system which has led EVRAZ steel mills NTMK and ZSMK, as well Key Targets 2012 to a reduction of dust emissions into the as to third parties mostly in the Ural region.
EVRAZ VGOK will continue implementing the environment by a factor of 30 times.
In 2011 EVRAZ VGOK mined and purchased Tsentralny open-pit development project, 4.4 million tonnes of iron ore and produced as well as modernisation of its benefication Yuzhkuzbassugol 2.4 million tonnes of saleable iron ore plants feedstock and water supply systems.
In 2011 Yuzhkuzbassugol, EVRAZ Siberian products and 1.6 million tonnes of lime-stone coal mining subsidiary, mined 6.3 million and crushed stone for construction.
In 2012-2013, EVRAZ VGOK will carry out a tonnes of coking coal and 3.0 million tonnes project to build up its production of iron flux of steam coal.
During the year the Company a special product for EVRAZ NTMK of up to focused on building up reliability of its coal 1.0 million tonnes by 2014, in line with the mining operations, as well as continued EVRAZ programme to provide additional restructuring of its mining assets.
feedstock for EVRAZ NTMKs BOF facilities.
Below Top: Blasting at EVRAZ KGOK Iron Ore Open Pit Below Bottom: Yuzhkuzbassugols Coal
