Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In 2011, due to further consolidation within the EVRAZ Highveld demonstrated significant Steel and Mining: Ukrainian metallurgical market and reduced improvements in other areas of performance iron production in the region, we focused our and established a solid foundation for future South Africa efforts on securing sales and stabilising coking performance improvement in 2012.
The continued strength of the Rand for the first plant capacity usage to enhance efficiency and three quarters of 2011, and relatively weak prolong coke battery life.
Key Targets 2012 domestic demand created significant pressure In 2012 EVRAZ Highveld plans to implement on prices, while energy price increases, trade EVRAZ Sukha Balka ore mining plant is one of the first phase of developments designed to union actions and persistently high levels of the leading Ukrainian enterprises specialising increase steel output by 15% and improve inflation contributed to steeply rising costs.
in iron ore underground mining.
In 2011, efficiency as well as to reduce costs in order Despite government aspirations, the economy EVRAZ Sukha Balka mined 2.86 million tonnes to improve overall profitability.
did not show robust growth in 2011. of iron ore and sold 2.91 million tonnes of sintering ore. Mapochs Mine EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium In order to increase the reliability of iron ore EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium At EVRAZ Sukha Balka a key task has been supplies to the steel plant we continued to EVRAZ Highveld is a vertically integrated to improve the work safety environment at the mine the Uitvlugt deposit during 2011 and steel and vanadium slag as a by-product mines and reduce injury risks.
We undertook early 2012 which has enabled us to secure of steelmaking producer.
Its operations an in-depth safety audit covering all aspects several million tonnes of material using our comprise the steelworks at Emalahleni, of risk management and safe working practice existing infrastructure.
Significant geological Mpumalanga and Mapochs Mine at in order to identify and develop a priority action work to update our iron ore reserves has Roossenekal, Limpopo.
As a result of the findings, we partially continued at the Mapochs Mine with the second-largest steel maker and the countrys removed the electricity network and changed drilling of 400 boreholes over a licenced strike primary producer of medium and heavy the transportation system in order to exclude distance of 25 kilometres.
The identified structural sections and thick plate.
In 2011, the risk of electric hazard: we also carried out reserves are currently under evaluation in it produced 170,000 tonnes of plate, 117,000 maintenance on shafts, railway tracks and order to assess their economic viability.
tonnes of coil, 225,000 tonnes of sections mining equipment to make for and 61,000 tonnes of vanadium slag.
Key Targets 2012 A new washing and screening improvement EVRAZ Highveld worked intensively during the Key Targets 2012 project is underway with completion scheduled year to improve diversity at all levels across In 2012, the focus for EVRAZ Ukraine will for June 2012.
Once commissioned, the the Company.
As a result, the Company be on driving growth and improving its HSE project will improve availability of the primary secured a higher than expected Level 5 performance.
We will be progressively crushing plant, to over 90 per cent, and Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment introducing new safety equipment for our staff provide greater control of the product B-BBEE contributor rating from the South and safer transportation in our mines during specification.
African government, in recognition of the the year.
We also plan new environmental significant internal transformation that has initiatives including installing an environmental taken place at the Company.
impact monitoring system at our coking plants Steel: Europe and water recycling projects at EVRAZ DMZP EVRAZ European steel assets, comprising In 2011, a ten-year strategic plan, that paves and EVRAZ Sukha Balka.
EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel and EVRAZ Palini e the way for greater profitability and increased Bertoli, delivered on all its key operational efficiency, was signed off by the boards of Improving growth and productivity is the other priorities during 2011, reorganising EVRAZ and EVRAZ Highveld.
At EVRAZ Sukha Balka we will maintenance procedures, renegotiating be investing in new equipment at both mines energy procurement needs and optimising Furnace No 7 at the iron plant was to improve iron ore extraction productivity transportation needs.
successfully upgraded from SAF to OSB whilst at the same time putting in place technology leading to a safer and more process improvements designed to reduce The overall steel sales volumes of EVRAZ efficient operation and also the ability to operational bottlenecks.
Europe for 2011 were 1.3 million tonnes.
work with cheaper coal and reduced energy consumption whilst also producing higher The priority at EVRAZ DMZP will be the blast Towards the end of the year, EVRAZ vanadium output.
During the upgrade furnace operation enhancement to improve announced its intention to consolidate all its period, with reduced iron production, all productivity and usage rates and to better European assets including EVRAZ Vitkovice operations including the steel plant and manage the waste products.
EVRAZ DMZP Steel and EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli into a single all three rolling mills, were gradually shut also aims to increase sales within the company, EVRAZ Europe that will manage down for intensive maintenance aimed high margin Ukrainian operation through both assets which will remain independent at improving equipment availability and warehousing and logistics improvements.
entities, as part of the Companys strategy predictability.
As a result both improved to develop a more profitable and efficient significantly and reached annual targets pan-European business.
without any additional capital expenditure.
In December 2010, EVRAZ launched project at EVRAZ KGOK to increase iron ore extraction and production to 55 million tonnes per annum from the end of 2012 For information, please refer to page 16 of the report.
