04 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Who We Are Our Mission We are a global steel and mining company delivering value to our infrastructure customers.
We make the world Stronger, Safer and Cleaner!
Our principal activities are: Manufacturing and sale of steel and steel products Iron ore mining and enrichment Coal mining and processing Manufacturing and sale of vanadium products Trading operations and logistics In 2011 EVRAZ produced 16.8 million tonnes of crude steel.
EVRAZ is: 1. one of the most vertically integrated global steelmakers: 2. one of the lowest cost global steel producers: 3. the market leader in construction steel products: 4. the leading global supplier of steel rails: and 5. globally diversified across a range of geographies.
More information about the Company can be found on pages 5 to 17, 23 to 77.
Our History nrichment Through EVRAZ is a global, , steel, mining The Groups history dates ECollaboration and vanadium business with operations in the Russian back to 1992 when Evrazmetall, Working together as one team, Federation, Ukraine, the USA, Canada, the Czech Republic, a small Russian metal trading we achieve the best results.
The Group is listed on the London firm, was founded.
In the space Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 of almost 20 years this company, alue Created for index.
The Group employs approximately 112,000 people the forerunner of EVRAZ, has V Our Customer been transformed, via a programme Continually improving our products and is among the top 20 largest steel companies in the of domestic and cross-border and services, we strengthen world by crude steel production volumes.
acquisitions, into a multinational our long-term partnerships steelmaking and mining corporation with ourcustomers.
with a US$17.0 billion asset base.
espect for People Our Values R Safe working conditions, EVRAZ is a distinctive Company development of our people and with distinctive values.
We believe local communities are integral that our responsibilities encompass parts of the EVRAZ business.
all our stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, ccountability for employees and communities, A Actions and Results in the areas where we operate.
We persistently aspire to achieve We endeavour to deliver ongoing our goals and are responsible growth and value while, at for the results.
the same time, pursuing environmentally responsible eal for Continuous policies within a framework Z Improvement of sustainability.
By developing and implementing new ideas, we facilitate the sustainable growth of our company.
59% Operating cash ow increased by 59% to US$2,647 million in 2011
