40 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review Continued EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli Key Targets 2012 The key focus of the management in 2011 was EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli is a plate rolling mill In 2012 EVRAZ plans to consolidate its to improve health, safety and environmental located in San Giorgio di Nogaro, in the Udine European business in order to further improve factors.
In order to develop the culture of province of Italy.
EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli efficiency and achieve optimisation of the safe working conditions and philosophy of supplies its products to a wide range of supply chain.
continuous improvements EVRAZ introduced customers located in Europe and North EVRAZ Business Systems at all facilities.
In 2011, EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli A number of cost-cutting initiatives at EVRAZ more information on Lean and 6S activities rolled about 425,000 tonnes of plate.
Vitkovice Steel are aimed at achieving please refer to page 33. significant decreases in conversion costs In 2011 EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli benefited from and ensure profitability even in adverse EVRAZ Vanady Tula various initiatives including optimisation of marketconditions.
Improvements in EVRAZ Vanady Tulas transportation and increases in slab weight.
management performance in 2010-2011 Despite very challenging markets, its In addition to our other targets, in 2012 we led to the achievement of sustainable high performance was above internal forecasts.
are focusing on improving yields, reducing production levels and an increase in V O 2 5 Antidumping procedure initiated in 2008 was transportation costs, headcount optimisation production capacity of 7% compared to 2010. finally dismissed as unsubstantiated in 2011 and maintenance efficiency.
reopening US markets, which had retained Another priority of EVRAZ Vanady Tula in robust plate prices throughout theyear.
2011 was the development of the tailings Vanadium dump material utilisation process through EVRAZs Vanadium division achieved good EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel EVRAZ sintering plants in order to maximise results in 2011 due to strong demand for EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel is a leading European intercompany synergies.
As a result, in 2011 vanadium products supported by a growing manufacturer of rolled steel products located EVRAZ Vanady Tula utilised all tailings that steel market that allowed all facilities in the in Ostrava, the Czech Republic.
It is one of were produced and did not increase its EVRAZ Vanadium division to operate at 100% Europes top producers of heavy plates and tailings deposits.
Strong competition led the only producer in the Czech Republic.
London Metal Bulletin LMB quotes to During 2011, EVRAZ Vanady Tulas HSE and decrease from approximately US$30 kgV in In 2011, EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel produced social activities included the implementation FeV in the beginning of the year to US$24 kgV about 762,000 tonnes of steel and 802,000 of a Clean-up project, in addition to 6S in FeV by the end of the year.
Despite this tonnes of steel products.
The project has resulted in improved EVRAZ continued to increase its share of the performance for the last three years, working conditions and decrease of production world vanadium market capitalising on its contributing an operating profit after two years safety risks.
low-cost competitive position and ability to of losses, albeit lower than budgeted for, accelerate production by debottlenecking because strong first half gains mainly due to Completion of the rotary kiln seal installation initiatives at EVRAZ Vanady Tula and EVRAZ the ArcelorMittal pig iron contract were offset project and start up of the pulp filtration area Vametco, inventories depletion in response to during the second half of the year when plate reconstruction project initiated in 2011 will customers requirements.
As a result EVRAZ prices in Europe fell on the back of lower allow EVRAZ Vanady Tula to improve the European demand.
Vanadium division has managed to increase working conditions at the plant and to raise sales by approximately 35% compared to 2010 pentoxide production volumes.
and decrease inventories accumulated during crisis years.
In 2012, EVRAZ Vanady Tula will continue expanding its Lean tools implementation Implementation of debottlenecking and and deploy the optimisation project aimed production optimisation initiatives allowed at improving the maintenance management Below Top: EVRAZ Stratcor Products the division to increase productivity by 5%.
Below Bottom: A picture of jet engine fan Reflecting the continuous drive to reduce blades that require high quality vanadium expenses and increase efficiency utilising products in their production intra-group synergies, EVRAZ remains one of the lowest-cost producers of vanadium in theworld.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 EVRAZ Nikom EVRAZ Vametco r Maximisation of vanadium output at all One of EVRAZ Nikoms main aims in 2011 In 2011 EVRAZ Vametcos primary efforts of the Companys plants.
Plans for 2012 was to improve product quality and labour were directed at the improvement to operational provide for further increases in production productivity in addition to successfully culture, productivity increases and efforts of oxide at EVRAZ Vanady Tula by 3%, FeV introducing the new improved technological to reduce detrimental ecological impacts.
and Nitrovan production at EVRAZ Nikom methods which allowed an increase in and EVRAZ Vametco by 11% and 13% ferrovanadium production by 36%.
Several projects designed at reducing respectively.
atmospheric emissions and the treatment of r Sales strategy will include contract EVRAZ Nikom successfully developed the ground water have already been implemented, portfolio optimization to improve margins technology of FeV50 production based on or are currently in the planning stage.
by reallocating available Vanadium aluminothermy which appeared as a new products across the markets.
project and proved the ability to produce Operational improvements carried out in 2011 r Review of the Vanadium business growth FeV50 with high quality and yield that allowed EVRAZ Vametco to increase vanadium strategy in order to link it to the EVRAZ facilitated expansion of the product line oxide V O production by 5%.
A review of NTMK slag production expansion plans.
2 5 and increased sales volumes to European the Nitrovan production process allowed the r Enhance and extend marketing of EVRAZ and Asian markets.
successful upgrading of finished goods quality value added Nitrovan product directed to ensure customer satisfaction.
at the global steel industry.
In 2012 EVRAZ Nikom will continue to focus r Ongoing cost optimisation and on customers requests for high quality The implementation of Lean as part of EVRAZ improvements in efficiency at all facilities.
A capacity increase in 2012 Business System, 6S activities and training by an additional 10% is targeted via the at the plant have resulted in a substantial EVRAZ is confident that the advantages of optimisation of the input raw materials mix, improvement in production culture and constant supplies of vanadium slag from by using more V O from Vametco, and operational safety.
EVRAZ Highveld and EVRAZ NTMK, a low cost 2 3 maximising technological recovery rates.
and efficient operational base and focused Key Targets 2012 marketing expertise will enable the Company EVRAZ Stratcor During 2012 the Company will seek to fully to offer its enhanced range of vanadium The main goal of EVRAZ Stratcor in 2011 was capitalise on its competitive advantages products at highly competitive prices to reduce costs and to find additional sources in order to further expand its presence in goingforward.
of feedstock to satisfy EVRAZ Stratcors the world vanadium market.
Several alternative solutions will include: for the feedstock shortage were defined by r Ongoing focus on health, safety and the end of 2011.
Should the investment be environmental issues at all facilities.
approved construction of the facility will source HSE initiatives in 2012 will include the outside oxides and non-traditional feeds to implementation of standard personal allow continued operations.
protective equipment at all assets and a pilot health improvement project at One of EVRAZ Stratcor 2011s achievements EVRAZ Vanady Tula.
was development of a new specialty product, r The implementation of EVRAZ Business an electrolyte for vanadium redox batteries.
System tools throughout the division, i. e. the finalisation of the 6S roll out at all In 2012 EVRAZ Stratcors focus will be on facilities, to create model Lean cells and finalisation and implementation of the solution start implementation of the total preventive to utilise EVRAZ NTMK slag to alleviate maintenance at all sites.
feedstock shortages while also acquiring all available feedstock from the market.
Implementation of debottlenecking and production optimisation initiatives allowed the division to increase productivity by 5%.
42 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Pulverised Coal Injection at EVRAZ ZSMK In July 2010 EVRAZ began implementation of a PCI technology for the blast furnace at EVRAZ ZSMK to generate savings compared to the use of natural gas, improving revenues due to the sale of surplus coke and lowering hot metal production costs.
The project scope includes coal handling and preparation for PCI fuel production as well as coal transportation facilities.
Construction is underway and most of the equipment is on site.
The plant commissioning phase is scheduled to start in November 2012, and the plant will be fully operational by the beginning of 2013.
EVRAZ ZSMK Asset Location in Russia Moscow EVRAZ ZSMK 20% More than 20% expected reduction in coke consumption Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 43 43 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2011 t and Accounts 2011 Sustainability
