38 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review Continued A challenging year in our pipe operations We have increased our steelmaking Steel and Mining: driven by lack of activities in construction of capabilities at EVRAZ Pueblo without transmission lines, was successfully mitigated significant capital expenditure by embracing Ukraine by success in our Flat business.
Our Flat EVRAZ Business Systems, which is driven by In 2011 a new management company, EVRAZ business operations improved productivity the Lean manufacturing approach and culture.
Ukraine, was formed to unify management and up-time performance on both east and activities, to better co-ordinate EVRAZs west coasts.
In December 2011, we approved over different businesses in Ukraine and improve US$32 million investments in our rail profitability.
EVRAZ Ukraine manages EVRAZ We have successfully completed three of our operations in EVRAZ Pueblo, focused on DMZ named after Petrovsky EVRAZ DMZP four strategically important capital projects quality improvement, productivity and capacity including Dneprokoks coking plant, coking in our Tubular operations in Calgary and Red increases.
As a result, the EVRAZ Pueblo plants EVRAZ Bagliykoks and EVRAZ Deer, which began in 2011 and were focused development will enhance our leading position Dneprodzerzhinsk Coke and Chemical Plant on productivity increases and heat-treat in the rail business in North America.
EVRAZ DKHZ, EVRAZ Sukha Balka ore capability expansions.
A heat-treat project mining plant and trading facility.
We remain a leader Our Company-wide initiative in improving our in West Alberta in the small diameter pipe working capital position, in both inventory level EVRAZ DMZP, located in the city of business and we aim to develop this management and accounts receivable, further Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine, is an integrated relationship beyond our usual markets.
supported our competitive advantage and will steel mill specialising in the manufacture and continue in 2012. sale of pig iron, steel and rolled products.
The major capital project underway at In 2011 EVRAZ DMZ Petrovskogo produced Claymont to ensure the mills compliance Key Targets 2012 860,000 tonnes of crude steel and 737,000 with environmental standards progressed Through our EVRAZ Business System strategy, tonnes of steel products.
well throughout 2011, and is expected to we will be focusing on improving our Tubular be completed in 2013. business.
Our efforts will go into increasing EVRAZs Ukrainian operations also comprise productivity and first pass yield, which is very three coking plants: EVRAZ Bagliykoks, 2011 was a record year for our Long Division critical for operations profitability and working Dneprokoks from 1 April 2011 integrated with following a noteworthy achievement by our capital management.
EVRAZ DMZP and EVRAZ Dneprodzerzhinsky steelmaking operation in Pueblo, Colorado, Coke and Chemical Plant EVRAZ DKHZ, coupled with a record year for our rail Long Division will focus on delivering approved and EVRAZ Sukha Balka iron ore mine.
operations in terms of volume and product mix.
capital projects as it targets what is critical for our customers: rail quality strengthening The Ukrainian coking plants purchase coal and of surface etc and volume as we plan to reach process it into metallurgical coke, for onward 580,000 tonnes capacity in 2013. sale to steelmakers.
The total annual capacity of the three plants is estimated at 3 million As a Company our key strategic steps are tonnes of metallurgical coke.
In 2011, to continue improving our health and safety Dneprokoks, EVRAZ Bagliykoks and EVRAZ performance, focus on our customers through Dneprodzerzhinsk Coke and Chemical Plant order delivery and product quality, apply the produced 559,000 tonnes, 545,000 tonnes EVRAZ Business Systems and implement and 497,000 tonnes, respectively, of growth initiatives at our East coast operations.
Below Top: Steel Worker Below Bottom: Plate Production
