74 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report Principal Activities EVRAZ plc is a global, , steel, mining and vanadium business with operations in the Russian Federation, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Italy, the USA, Canada and South Africa.
EVRAZ plc has a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Additional information on the Groups operations during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review is provided in the Business Overview, Strategy, Operating Review, Sustainability, Financial Review and Governance sections of this document, which are deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Group Reorganisation In 2011 EVRAZ plc became a new parent company of the Group.
EVRAZ plc, registered in the United Kingdom, is a public company limited by shares.
The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities and included in the FTSE 100 Index.
The listing of GDRs of Evraz Group S. A. on the London Stock Exchange was cancelled in February 2012.
More details on the Group reorganisation are provided in Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 129.
Sustainable Development The Sustainability section of this report focuses on the health and safety, environmental and employment performance of the Companys operations, and outlines the Companys core values and commitment to the principles of sustainable development and development of community relations programmes.
Going Concern The financial position and performance of the Group and its cash flows are set out in the Financial Review section of the report on pages 52 to 55.
The Directors have considered the Groups debt maturity and cash flow projections and an analysis of projected debt covenants compliance for the period to the end of 30 June 2013.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and has neither the intention nor the need to liquidate or materially curtail the scale of its operations.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
More details are provided in Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 91 including further information regarding certain risks related to projected debt covenant compliance.
Results and Dividends On 10 October 2011, the EVRAZ Board approved a new dividend policy.
Under the revised dividend policy, EVRAZ is targeting a long-term average dividend payout ratio of at least 25% of the consolidated net profit calculated in accordance with IFRS and adjusted for non-recurring items.
Dividends are expected to be paid semi-annually.
In addition to the regular dividend payments, the Company may also employ special dividends from time to time at the discretion of the EVRAZ Board to return surplus capital to shareholders.
On the back of our strong financial results, during 2011 Evraz Group S. A. made its first dividend payment since 2008, paying an interim dividend of US$0.60 per share US$0.20 per GDR and a special dividend of US$2.70 per share US$0.90 per GDR.
EVRAZ plc has also declared a cash final dividend of US$0.17 per share.
This gives a total ordinary dividend for 2011 of US$317 million, which is approximately 50% of net profit adjusted for non-recurring items.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the dividend at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 June 2012 for payment on 9 July 2012 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 8 June 2012.
Fixed Assets The Groups property, plant and equipment is stated at purchase or construction cost, excluding the costs of day-to-day servicing, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The last valuation of land was determined as at 31 March 2010 by an independent professionally qualified valuer.
At that time, the market value of land was 1.7 times higher than its carrying value.
At 31 December 2011, the carrying value of land amounted to US$187 million.
In the opinion of the directors, the total market value of land has not decreased significantly since the last valuation.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of buildings and mineral reserves as at 31 December 2011.
Overseas Branches EVRAZ does not have any branches.
The Company does, however, have a controlling interest in Evraz Group S. A. which owns steel production, mining and trading companies.
Information about the indirect subsidiaries of EVRAZ is provided in the Business Review Production and Trading Subsidiaries section of this report on page 6.
Future Developments Information on the Group and its subsidiaries future developments is provided in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Report, Strategy, Operational Review and Financial Review sections of this report.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management and internal control processes and policies and details of hedging policy and exposure to the risks associated with financial instruments can be found in the Strategy section on page 28, the Financial Review on page 54, the Corporate Governance on pages 68 to 69 sections of this report and in Note 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Political and Charitable Donations No political donations were made in 2011.
The Companys corporate social expenditures support initiatives that benefit the communities local to the Groups operations in the areas of sports, education, charity funds, and infrastructure.
In 2011, the Company set aside US$49 million for such initiatives.
No donations were made to UK registered charities in 2011.
Events Since the Reporting Date The major events after 31 December 2011 are disclosed in Note 33 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 151.
Directors and Their Interests Biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 58 to 59.
As of 31 December 2011, the following directors and senior managers had beneficial interests in EVRAZ shares: Number of % of Issued Directors Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Alexander Abramov 329,622,798 24.64% Alexander Frolov 164,811,399 12.32% Eugene Shvidler 46,825,407 3.50% So far as the Company is aware, since 31 December 2011 to 24 April 2012 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this document, there has been no increase or decrease in the underlying number of beneficial interests held by each of Mr. Abramov, Mr. Frolov and Mr. Shvidler.
Members of EVRAZ plc Board do not receive share-based compensation.
Powers of Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles of Association contain specific provisions concerning the Company power to borrow money and also provide the power to make purchases of any of its own shares.
The directors have no existing authority to allot and issue ordinary shares or to purchase the Companys own shares, though the Company will be seeking to obtain such authorities at the next AGM.
Further details of the proposed authorities are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Director Appointment and Re-election The Group by ordinary resolution and the directors have the power at any time to elect any person to be a director, but the number of directors must not exceed the maximum number fixed by the Articles of Association of the Company.
Any person so appointed by the directors will retire at the next Annual General Meeting and then be eligible for re-election.
Under the Articles of Association each director shall retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the fourth calendar year following the year in which he she was elected or at such earlier Annual General Meeting as the directors may decide.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors intend to be subject to annual reelections from 2012.
Directors Liabilities Directors Indemnities The Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to each of its directors against any liability that attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act.
In addition, directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by directors and officers liability insurance.
Substantial Shareholdings As of 31 December 2011, the following significant holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
Number of % of Issued Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Lanebrook Ltd. 967,561,578 72.34% Lanebrook Ltd. Affiliates 37,499,997 2.80% Igor Kolomoyskiy 59,865,435 4.48% Lanebrook Ltd. the Major Shareholder is a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Cyprus on 16 March 2006.
It was established for the purpose of holding a majority interest in the Group.
Lanebrook Ltd. is controlled by i Mr. Abramovich, who holds a beneficial interest in 463,801,971 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 34.68%, ii Mr. Abramov, who holds a beneficial interest in 329,622,798 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 24.64%, iii Mr. Frolov, who holds a beneficial interest in 164,811,399 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 12.32% and iv Mr. Shvidler, who holds a beneficial interest in 46,825,407 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 3.50%.
So far as the Company is aware, since 31 December 2011 to 24 April 2012 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this document, there has been no increase or decrease in the underlying number of beneficial interests held by each of Mr. Abramov, Mr. Frolov, Mr. Kolomoysky and Mr. Shvidler.
significant Contractual Arrangements The Major Shareholder and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement which regulates the ongoing relationship between them, ensures that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Major Shareholder and ensures that any transactions and relationships between the Company and the Major Shareholder are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
This agreement terminates if the Major Shareholder ceases to own or control directly or indirectly at least 30% of the ordinary shares in the Company or if the Major Shareholder ceases to have a larger interest in the Company than the interest of any other shareholder of the Company.
76 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report Continued Under the relationship agreement, the Major Shareholder and the Company agree that: a the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint the maximum number of non-executive directors that may be appointed whilst ensuring that the composition of the Board remains compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code for so long as it holds an interest in 30% or more of the Company each appointee a Shareholder Director: b the Major Shareholder shall, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so that each of its affiliates excluding the Company and its subsidiary undertakings the Major Shareholder Group shall, save to the extent required by law, exercise its powers so far as it is able so that the Company is managed in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: c transactions, relationships and agreements between the Company and or its subsidiaries on the one hand and the Major Shareholder or a member of the Major Shareholder Group on the other shall be entered into and conducted on an arms length and normal commercial basis, unless otherwise agreed by a committee comprising the non-executive directors of the Company whom the Board considers to be independent in accordance with paragraph B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Independent Committee : d the Major Shareholder shall not, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so, that each member of the Major Shareholder Group shall not, take any action which precludes or inhibits the Company and or its subsidiaries from carrying on its business independently of the Major Shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group: e the quorum for any Board meeting of the Company shall be two, of which at least one must be a Director other than a Shareholder Director and or a Director who is or has, in the 12 months prior to the relevant date any business or other relationship with the Major Shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group which could materially interfere with the exercise of his or her independent judgement in matters concerning the Company Lanebrook Director : f the Major Shareholder shall not, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so, that each member of the Major Shareholder Group shall not, subject to specified exceptions, take any action or omit to take any action to prejudice the Companys status as a listed company or its suitability for listing or its ongoing compliance with the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules: g the Major Shareholder shall not, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so, that each member of the Major Shareholder Group shall not, exercise any of its voting or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to the Articles which would be inconsistent with, undermine or breach any of the provisions of the Relationship Agreement, and will abstain from voting on, and will procure that the Lanebrook Directors abstain from voting on, any resolution to approve a transaction with a related party as defined in the Listing Rules involving the Major Shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group: h if any matter which, in the opinion of an independent director, gives rise to a potential conflict of interest between the Company and or its subsidiaries on the one hand and the Lanebrook Directors, the Major Shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group on the other, such matter must be approved at a duly convened meeting of the Independent Committee or in writing by a majority of the Independent Committee: and i for so long as the Major Shareholder holds an interest in 50% or more in the Company, the Major Shareholder undertakes that it will not and will use its reasonable endeavours to procure that no other member of the Controlling Shareholder Group becomes involved in any competing business subject to certain exceptions in Russia, the Ukraine or the CIS without giving the Company the opportunity to participate in the relevant competing business.
The Board is satisfied that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Major Shareholder and makes its decisions in a manner consistent with its duties to the Company and stakeholders of EVRAZ plc.
8.875% notes due 2013 and 9.50% notes due 2018, issued by EVRAZ Group S. A. as well as a structured credit facility agreement for a syndicated loan of US$950 million contain change of control provisions.
If a change of control occurs under the terms of these notes, noteholders will have the option to require Evraz Group S. A. to redeem notes together with interest accrued, if any.
Under the structured credit facility terms, in the event of a change of control over Evraz Group S. A. any lender will have the right to cancel its commitments and declare that amounts relating to that lenders participation in the loan become immediately payable.
At 31 December 2011, the principal amount of these borrowings amounted to US$1,993 million, accrued interest was US$21 million.
Supplier Payment Policy and Practice The Group does not follow any specific published code or standard on payment practice.
It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payments with suppliers when entering into contracts, though standard payment periods are adopted where possible and the Group monitors the timeliness of payments.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to pay suppliers in accordance with applicable contract terms.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2011 were US$ 1,147 million.
Annual General Meeting AGM An Annual General Meeting shall be held in each period of twelve months beginning with the day following the Companys annual accounting reference date, at such place or places, date and time as may be decided by the Directors.
A live webcast will be provided of the AGM through EVRAZs website www.
A telephone dial-in facility will also be provided on a listen-only basis.
Further details of the dial-in facility and webcast will be available from EVRAZs website www.
com at least one week in advance of the meeting.
The 2012 AGM will be held on 18 June 2012 in London.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board, including the chairmen of the Board committees.
Full details of the AGM, including explanatory notes, are contained in the Notice of AGM which will be distributed at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Companys website at www.
com Electronic Communications A copy of the 2011 Annual Report, the Notice of the AGM and other corporate publications, reports and announcements are available on the Companys website at www.
Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the availability of the annual report on the Companys website instead of receiving paper copies.
Purchase of Own Shares Details of transactions with treasury shares are provided in Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 129. Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Share Capital As of 31 December 2011 EVRAZ plc the Company subscribed share capital is represented by 1,337,560,713 ordinary shares with a nominal value of US$1 each.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital ranks pari passu in all respects and carries the right to receive all dividends and distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of the ordinary shares.
There are currently no redeemable non-voting preference shares or subscriber shares of the Company in issue.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association have been adopted with effect from Admission on 7 November 2011 and contain, among others, provisions on the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares, including the redeemable non-voting preference shares and the subscriber shares.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Share Rights Without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company may issue shares with rights or restrictions as determined by either the Company by ordinary resolution or, if the Company passes a resolution, the Directors.
The Company may also issue shares which are, or are liable to be, redeemed at the option of the Company or the holder and the directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of any such shares.
Voting Rights There are no other restrictions on Voting rights or Transfers of shares in the Articles other than those described in these paragraphs.
At a general meeting, subject to any special rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by him.
A proxy is not be entitled to vote where the member appointing the proxy would not have been entitled to vote on the resolution had he been present in person.
Unless the directors decide otherwise, no member shall be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation to general meetings if any sum due from him to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
The trustee of the Companys Employee Share Trust is entitled, under the terms of the trust deed, to vote as it sees fit in respect of the shares held on trust.
Transfer of Shares The Companys Articles provide that transfers of certificated shares must be effected in writing, and duly signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Register of Members in respect of those shares.
As of the date hereof, the Company does not have certificated shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares may be effected by means of CREST unless the CREST Regulations provide otherwise.
The directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Auditors Ernst & Young is the Companys auditor and will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Alexander Frolov Chief Executive officer EVRAZ plc 24 April 2012
