58 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board of Directors Alexander Abramov, Alexander Frolov, Olga Pokrovskaya, Eugene Shvidler, Eugene Tenenbaum, Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director born 1959 born 1964 born 1969 born 1964 born 1964 Founded EvrazMetall company, Joined EvrazMetall in 1994 Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Member of the Board of a predecessor of the Group and served as EvrazMetalls Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A. in 1992.
CEO of EVRAZ Group Chief Financial Officer from since August 2006.
Appointed until 1January 2006, Chairman 2002 to 2004 and as Senior to the Board of EVRAZ plc on to the Board of EVRAZ plc on to the Board of EVRAZ plc on of the Board until 1 May 2006.
Executive Vice President of 14 October 2011.
Appointed Chairman of EVRAZ Evraz Group S. A. from 2004 plc on 14 October 2011. to April 2006.
Chairman of the Board of Directors of Evraz Group S. A. from May 2006 until December 2008 and appointed CEO with effect from January 2007.
Elected CEO of EVRAZ plc on 14October 2011.
Alexander Abramov served Alexander Frolov has held Olga Pokrovskaya is head of Eugene Shvidler currently Eugene Tenenbaum is as non-executive director various positions at corporate finance at Millhouse serves as Chairman of currently Managing Director from May 2006 until his EvrazMetall and other LLC and a member of the Millhouse LLC and is a of MHC Services Ltd. and re-appointment as Chairman companies, predecessors Board of Directors of Highland member of the Board of serves on the Board of of the Board on 1December of Evraz Group S. A. since Gold Mining Ltd.
Since 1997, Directors of Highland Gold Chelsea FC Plc and Highland 2008.
A director of OAO joining in 1994 and has been Ms. Pokrovskaya has held Mining Ltd. Mr. Shvidler Gold Mining.
He served as Raspadskaya, a member a member of the Board of several key finance positions served as President of Head of Corporate Finance for of the Bureau of the Board Directors of Evraz Group S. A. with Sibneft, including head Sibneft from 1998 to 2005.
Sibneft in Moscow from 1998 of Directors and a member since 2005.
Prior to joining of corporate finance.
Mr. Tenenbaum of the Board of Directors of the EVRAZ, Mr. Frolov worked 1991 to 1997, she worked joined Salomon Brothers in Russian Union of Industrialists as a research fellow at the as a senior audit manager 1994 as Director for Corporate and Entrepreneurs an I. V. Kurchatov Institute of at the accounting firm Finance where he worked until independent non-governmental Atomic Energy.
Prior to that, he spent organization, director of five years in Corporate Finance OJSC Bank International with KPMG in Toronto, Moscow Financial Club.
and London, including three years 1990-1993 as National Director at KPMG International in Moscow.
Mr. Tenenbaum was an accountant in the Business Advisory Group at Price Waterhouse in Toronto from 1987 until 1989.
Member of the Remuneration Member of the Health, Safety Member of the Audit Member of the Nominations Member of the Remuneration Committee and Nominations and Environment Committee.
Committee Membership Skills and Experience Appointment Member of the Board Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Sir Michael Peat, Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber, Alexander Izosimov, Terry Robinson, Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director born 1949 born 1952 born 1952 born 1964 born 1944 Appointed to the Board of Elected as independent Member of the Board of Appointed to the Board of Member of the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October director of Evraz Group S. A.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A. EVRAZ plc on 28 February Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Appointed the Board of EVRAZ plc to the Board of EVRAZ plc to the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011. on 14 October 2011. on 14October 2011.
Sir Michael Peat is a qualified Duncan Baxter, resident in Karl Gruber has extensive Alexander Izosimov has Terry Robinson is a qualified chartered accountant with Jersey, has had many years experience in the international extensive managerial and chartered accountant and over 40 years experience.
experience of international metallurgical mill business.
From 2003 has 40 years international He served as Principal Private banking.
He began his career He held various management to 2011, he was President and business experience.
He Secretary to HRH The Prince in banking with Barclays positions, including eight years CEO of VimpelCom, a leading spent 20 years at Lonrho PLC, of Wales from 2002 until International Bank in as a member of the Managing emerging market the international mining and 2011.
Prior to this, he spent Zimbabwe before joining RAL Board of VOEST-Alpine telecommunications operator.
trading group, the last nine years as the Royal Merchant Bank in 1978.
In Industrieanlagenbau VAI, first From 1996 to 2003 he held tenyears of which he served Households Director of 1985, he became a director of as Executive Vice President of various managerial positions as a main board director.
Finance and Property Commercial Bank Jersey Ltd, VAI and then as Vice Chairman at Mars Inc. and was Regional Since 1998, he has been Services, Keeper of the Privy which was subsequently of the Managing Board of President for CIS, Central variously occupied with Purse and Treasurer to the acquired by Swiss Bank Siemens VAI.
He also served Europe and Nordics, and a international business Queen and Receiver General Corporation SBC.
In 1988, as Chairman on the Boards of member of the executive recovery engagements and of the Duchy of Lancaster.
he became managing director Metals Technologies MT board.
Prior to Mars Inc, investment projects including SirMichael Peat was at KPMG of SBC Jersey Branch.
Since Germany and MT Italy.
MrIzosimov was a consultant natural resources in the UK, from 1972 and became a leaving SBC in 1998 after its with McKinsey & Co. Russia, the CIS and Brazil.
He left KPMG merger with UBS AG, he has Stockholm, London is independent director and in 1993 to devote himself to undertaken a number of 1991-1996 and was involved Deputy Chairman of Katanga his public roles.
Sir Michael consultancy projects for in numerous projects in Mining Limited and is also Peat is a senior advisor international banks and transportation, mining, an independent and senior at Barclays Wealth and investment management manufacturing and oil non-executive director of Investment Management and companies.
Mr. Izosimov Highland Gold Mining Ltd. CQS, and is an independent Executive Chairman of currently serves on the boards He is a Fellow of the Institute non-executive on the Board Highland Gold Mining Ltd and of MTG AB, East Capital AB of Chartered Accountants of of Deloitte LLP.
He is an MA, also holds other non-executive and Dynasty Foundation.
MBA and Fellow of the directorships.
Mr. Baxter is previously served as director Institute of Chartered a Fellow of the Institute of and Chairman of the GSMA Accountants.
Chartered Secretaries and Global association of mobile Administrators, the Securities operators board of directors, Institute, the Chartered and was also previously a Institute of Bankers, the director of Baltika Breweries, Institute of Management and confectionery company Sladko, the Institute of Directors.
and IT company Teleopti AB.
Chairman of the Nominations Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Health, Safety Member of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Committee and member of the and Environment Committee Committee and the Committee and member of Audit Committee.
and member of the Nominations Committee.
the Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee.
and of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Chairman of the Groups Risk Committee, which is an Executive Committee.
60 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Vice Presidents of EVRAZ plc Leonid Kachur Oleg Kuzmin Senior Vice President Vice President Business Support and Interregional Relations Corporate Communications Pavel Tatyanin Alexander Kuznetsov Senior Vice President Vice President Head of International Business Strategic and Operational Planning Marat Atnashev Konstantin Lagutin Vice President Vice President Major Projects Mining Division Giacomo Baizini Artem Natrusov Vice President Vice President Corporate Affairs Information Technologies Chief Financial officer Yury Pavlov Scott Baus Vice President Vice President Procurement EVRAZ Business System 1 Ilya Shirokobrod Grigory Botvinovsky Vice President Vice President Sales Vanadium Division Timur Yanbukhtin Natalia Ionova Vice President Vice President Development of International Business Human Resources Elena Zhavoronkova Aleksey Ivanov Vice President Vice President Legal Affairs Steel Division Alexander Kruchinin Vice President Health, Safety and Environment 1 On 23 April 2012 Ilya Shirokobrod was appointed Vice President, Head of Division of Railway Products.
