Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Model EVRAZ creates value by converting its own mineral resources into high-end steel products for its large scale global infrastructure clients.
efficient operations, constant pursuit of economically attractive asset developments and search for value-adding M&A transactions are each fundamental features of EVRAZs approach.
Focused efforts are put into hiring and EVRAZ is also in the process of developing the developing the best workforce as this is the Yerunakovskaya-VIII mine in Kuzbass, which is Our Strategy backbone of EVRAZs operations.
The health anticipated to start producing high quality hard and safety of employees is at the forefront coking coal in 2013 and provide EVRAZ with EVRAZ intends to pursue its strategy by of decision making at EVRAZ.
This additional expanding its mining operations, strengthening production will allow EVRAZ to meet all of its its position in existing markets and reducing Vertical integration in raw material is a key own coking coal requirements based upon costs while maintaining its focus on safety.
competitive advantage of EVRAZs business current production levels and would also allow which supports attractive margins, throughout EVRAZ to sell additional amounts to third Increase Vertical Integration and Enhance the iron ore and coking coal pricing cycle.
Raw Materials Base EVRAZ is significantly self-covered in terms The favourable location of EVRAZs production As a first step towards delivering this of raw material production and believes that, sites in terms of proximity to raw materials expansion strategy, after acquisition of the in 2011, it ranked by volume in the top three and key global growth markets CIS, Asia Mezhegey and Vostochny licences EVRAZ has largest iron ore producers and top five largest and South Africa, combined with continuous begun a feasibility study to develop coking coal coal producers in Russia.
modernisation of its operations, helps to deposits in the Republic of Tyva, Russia.
The reinforce its market leading position and total reserves and resources of these deposits In 2011, approximately 102% of EVRAZs iron increases the quality of higher-end products, are estimated by the Russian State Mineral ore requirements and 56% of its steel segment such as rails, wheels and tubes.
Resources Agency Rosnedra to be over coking coal requirements were produced by 700 million tonnes.
EVRAZ anticipates that its own mining subsidiaries.
EVRAZ sells a At an operational level, EVRAZ continues to the Tyva mine could produce 7 million tonnes proportion of its iron ore and coal production refine an improved management structure of coking coal per annum by 2019. to third parties and purchases a proportion that is focused on enhancing accountability of its iron ore and coal requirements from third and decision-making processes.
EVRAZs EVRAZ also aims to further develop its own parties due to grade, processing requirements top management has significant relevant already substantial Russian iron ore division, and transportation considerations.
international experience and proven skills to both provide feed for EVRAZs own steel mills in consistently improving operations.
EVRAZ and to take advantage of favourable iron ore prices.
EVRAZ seeks to enhance its profitability plcs Board of Directors combines executive The KGOK asset in 2011 reached its highest and the security of supply of raw materials experience from EVRAZs business, with output in five years, achieving a production rate by increasing vertical integration.
Further experienced independent non-executive of 9.5 million tonnes per annum of saleable iron expansion of the EVRAZ mining division will directors, to promote transparency and ore product through efficiency initiatives and allow increased volumes of raw materials to be sound governance.
sold to EVRAZs subsidiaries and third parties.
Competitive Advantage EVRAZ may explore opportunities to develop One of the most vertically integrated global additional greenfield projects as they arise.
steel producers: r Low cost producer.
r Geographically diversified over four continents.
r Leading market position in long products in Russia.
r World leader in the rail and wheel markets.
r Largest producer of vanadium products globally.
r Dynamic and experienced management team.
EVRAZ is signicantly self-covered in terms of raw material production and believes that, in 2011, it ranked by volume in the top three largest iron ore producers and top five largest coal producers in Russia.
24 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our Strategy Continued Strengthen Competitive Position in Its EVRAZ is a leading producer of OCTG pipes The construction of a new coal terminal is Existing Markets in Western Canada.
Given the potential for currently underway at EVRAZ NTMP the port EVRAZ plans to strengthen its current market increased shale gas drilling in North America, in the far east of Russia.
This new terminal position by enhancing the quality of its which requires high quality products, EVRAZ will increase the handling capacities of the products, broadening its product portfolio is looking to enhance its product mix to port to 5 million tonnes per annum of coal.
and developing its distribution network.
match these new requirements and take full advantage of this recent market trend.
In late 2011 EVRAZ completed the conversion EVRAZ believes that in 2011 it was among As a first step, in mid-2012, the structural of EVRAZ Highvelds furnace into an open slag the 20 largest steel producers globally by tubing facility in Portland, Oregon, will add bath with the objective of decreasing energy crude steel volume and the largest producer the production of API tubes to its portfolio.
EVRAZ believes that This will bring the mills total capacity from in 2011 it was the leading producer of railway 110,000 to 225,000 tonnes per annum.
Finally all EVRAZs assets are currently steel products in Russia with an estimated Other quality enhancing projects are in undergoing a transformation towards market share of 87% in rails and seconddevelopment to ensure EVRAZ, not only superior efficiency practices through the largest in the countrys rail wheel market.
maintains, but also increases its market implementation of the EVRAZ Business In the Russian construction sector, EVRAZ share in the North American tubular market.
This initiative is a global programme estimates that it had a market share, by of Lean practices which aims to decrease volume, of 85% in H-beams and 61% in Enhance Cost Leadership Position cash costs including maintenance CAPEX, channels during 2011.
EVRAZ holds a strong Management believes that Russia is one of inventory turnover and production losses at competitive position as a diversified producer the lowest cost regions for steel production every single plant in the Group.
of a full range of products in the domestic in the world, enabling EVRAZ to benefit from construction steel market.
lower production costs compared to some of Enhance Global Leadership Position its competitors elsewhere in the world.
EVRAZ in Vanadium Business In order to maintain its leading position in benefits through both the export of low-cost EVRAZ is the only large-scale producer the Russian and global rail market in 2012 Russian slab to global markets and the of vanadium-rich iron ore in Russia and it EVRAZ expects to complete the reconstruction synergies created by being able to supply believes that, during 2011, it was among the projects at EVRAZ ZSMK and EVRAZ NTMK feedstock to certain of its non-Russian largest producers of vanadium slag globally.
At EVRAZ NTMK and EVRAZ Based on World Steels global steel production projects will allow both plants to produce higher ZSMK new pulverised coal injection technology forecasts and an expected increase in grade products to match Russian Railways is in the final stage of implementation and vanadium used per tonne of steel, EVRAZs requirements for high speed rails, increase will be commissioned during 2012.
This new management believes that global vanadium capacity to 1.6 million tonnes per annum technology will significantly lower production consumption will increase by up to 33% by and export high-end rails to more developed costs by allowing the two plants to reduce 2015 with strong demand growth expected markets.
EVRAZ has also undertaken a rail coking coal consumption by 20% and eliminate in China, India and the Middle East.
EVRAZ production expansion project in order to achieve the need for natural gas.
is a global leader in vanadium production production levels of up to 0.6 million tonnes per and aims to increase its production volumes annum at its Rocky Mountain facility in the USA.
In 2011, EVRAZ KGOK bought an adjacent of final vanadium goods during 2012 by power plant and EVRAZ ZSMK is currently expanding its vanadium slag processing EVRAZ is looking to expand its position within developing its own power plant, in order to capacities to match its slag production levels.
potential CIS growth regions, where demand increase self-sufficiency in electricity, and for steel products is anticipated to experience reduce the effect of the expected increases superior future growth.
In order to achieve this in electricity prices.
goal, EVRAZ is investing in two new rolling mills, one in the Rostov Region of Southern In 2011, EVRAZ bought a further 24% stake Russia and another in Northern Kazakhstan.
in Evraztrans, increasing its ownership to EVRAZ anticipates that these new facilities 100%, with the aim of optimising logistics will permit EVRAZ to diversify its product mix, and better controlling all transportation costs, produce specific products that are in demand which are crucial factors in the success of in these regions e. g. new rebar grades and EVRAZs operations.
offer its customers better quality products.
In 2011, EVRAZ has continued to develop EVRAZ Metall Inprom, its key distribution channel in Russia which sold almost 1.7 million tonnes of steel products during the year.
