Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In 2011, Tagaryshkaya and Yubileinaya-1 Significant modernisation was conducted at Steel: North America mines were shut down, as having low strategic Yuzhkuzbassugols two coal washing plants EVRAZ North America and economic value for the Company.
At the helping to maintain productivity and quality of EVRAZ North America organises its business same time the Company launched a full-scale coal concentrate at levels set by customers.
into three primary product groups: Flat project to construct the Yerunakovskaya-VIII Products, Tubular Products and Long Products.
The required documentation equivalent In Q4 2011, the implementation of EVRAZ r Flat Products The Flat Products Group to a detailed feasibility study was developed Business System was initiated with extensive manufactures steel plate, coil and and approved by Russian state expertise training for Yuzhkuzbassugol employees to structural tubing used in the construction agency Glavgosexpertiza.
Currently detailed familiarise them with the Lean tools and of liquid storage tanks, vessels, bridges, construction drawings have been issued, practices.
Full-time Lean managers were rail cars, armour and in the manufacture mining equipment is acquired, underground selected and appointed, over 100 of pipes.
These products are manufactured advancement and surface construction improvements were initiated to enhance at facilities in Portland, Oregon: Claymont, works are underway.
The mine is expected safety and efficiency of day-to-day operations.
Delaware: Regina, Saskatchewan: and to be commissioned in Q3 2013.
In 2012 the Yuzhkuzbassugol assets will be Surrey, British Columbia.
The Flat Products thoroughly assessed for their technical and Group also produces coil and plate used In respect of the Alardinskaya mine, in autumn economic potential and ranked in line with by the Tubular Products Group.
2011 Yuzhkuzbassugol applied for a licence to the EVRAZ strategic priorities.
r Tubular Products The Tubular Products develop the Alardinsky-Eastern-2 deposit with Group produces steel pipe used in energy reserves of 32 million tonnes of coking coal.
Key Targets 2012 applications: large-diameter American The licence was awarded in March 2012. r Further implementation of the programme Petroleum Institute API grade pipe to significantly improve production used for oil and gas pipelines and In November 2011, Yuzhkuzbassugols reliability and safety, with a focus on small-diameter API grade welded and Gramoteinskaya mine applied for a licence degassing and ventilation, technical seamless pipe for use in down-hole drilling to develop Mencherepsky-Northen deposit availability of key equipment, longwall and in the collection of oil and gas.
These 215 million tonnes of steam coal reserves.
changeover procedures and personnel: products are manufactured at facilities in The licence was issued in January 2012, r Launch of a strategic programme to Portland, Oregon: Calgary, Alberta, Red securing the mine with a resource base introduce at the mines the worlds most Deer and Camrose, Alberta: Regina, that can last for decades.
reliable and efficient technologies of Saskatchewan: and Pueblo, Colorado.
directional drilling, highly effective r Long Products The Long Products Group Pre-feasibility studies for the construction of degassing and ventilation, high-speed produces railroad rail and rod and bar the Tomskaya-Glubokaya mine were completed tunnelling, automated roof-bolting, quick 1 used to make wire products for use in in 2011, and a decision on further final changeovers and others : and infrastructure e. g. bridges and power approvals will be made during 2012. r Development of detailed feasibility transmission towers at the EVRAZ Rocky studies to other key mines according Mountain Steel facility in Pueblo, Colorado.
Following the programme of upgrading to re-evaluated strategic priorities.
In addition, the LPG produces round billets reliability and safety of coal mining operations used in the production of both other long Yuzhkuzbassugol mines performed major products and tubular products.
modernisation, repair and replacement activities, including: new longwall mining In 2011, EVRAZ moved its North American set at the Ulyanovskaya mine: capital repair Headquarters from Portland, Oregon to and replacement of the main conveyor line at Chicago, Illinois to reposition its business the Abashevskaya mine: major modernisation closer to its customers and business partners of roof supports at the Abashevskaya and and improve internal communication in the US Osinnikovskaya mines: reconstruction and Canada.
of mainstream conveyor system at Kusheyakovskaya mine: and reconstruction of insulating dams at the Alardinskaya, Osinnikovskaya and the Gramoteinskaya mines.
Two mobile units of nitrogen injections were purchased and put into operation as a preventive measure against oxidation of coal in abandoned parts of mines.
The Flexcom mine radio system was commissioned at all the Yuzhkuzbassugol mines, and all the mines were equipped with automatic access control systems.
1 The programme is to be developed, initiated and implemented in co-operation with international experts and technological companies who specialize in those particular areas of coal mining technologies.
