34 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review Continued Key Targets 2012 Improvements in the blast furnace shop and Steel: Russia Key targets in 2012 include: the coke and chemical shops helped achieve EVRAZ ZSMK r Completion of the rail mill modernisation record production efficiency at the EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron and Steel and launch of 100-metre head-hardened blastfurnaces.
Plant EVRAZ ZSMK, located in the city of rail production.
Novokuznetsk, the Kemerovo region, is the r Completion of the PCI technology project The launch of new ladle furnace #4 in 2011, largest steel mill in the Siberian region and beginning of 2013. allows an increase in the converter shop the eastern-most steel mill in the Russian r Launch of the project to increase the capacity and expands the number of high Federation.
It was formed in 2011 via a capacity of West-Siberian Heat and quality steel products in the product line.
merger of two EVRAZs steel mills, ZSMK Power Plant Zapsib Power Plant and NKMK, in order to optimise production, to 3,750 million kw per hour.
In 2011, the equipment was bought and procurement and logistics, capacity utilisation, r Product range expansion.
construction of a PCI installation began with to unify managerial processes and standards completion of the project expected in 2012. in the areas of health, safety and environment, EVRAZ NTMK human resources management and social EVRAZ NTMK is one of the largest integrated A programme aimed at by-product waste policy.
steel production plants in Russia with a full recycling was launched, which is aimed at cycle.
It is also the worlds biggest processor improving the ecological profile of the In 2011, EVRAZ ZSMK produced 7.9 million of vanadium-enriched titaniferous ores with operations as well as benefiting from the tonnes of steel and more than 7.0 million succeeding vanadium recovery in blast oxygen separation of iron and other elements.
furnaces and in oxygen converters using proprietary technologies.
In 2011, EVRAZ Key Targets 2012 EVRAZ ZSMK continued to implement the key NTMK produced 4.3 million tonnes of steel Key targets in 2012 include: investment projects during the year including: and 4.1 million tonnes of steel products.
r Completion of the PCI technology project.
r The rail mill modernisation project that EVRAZ NTMK is located approximately 150 km r Completion of the first stage of the rail entered its second stage see page 30. from the Russian city of Yekaterinburg.
mill modernisation aimed at enhancing In2011, a non-destructive inspection line rail wear resistance and increasing was installed at the rail mill to ensure Measures aimed at cost reduction and production volumes.
consistent premium quality of rails.
improving health and safety as well as r Expansion of the mechanical treatment r The PCI technology Pulverised Coal programmes to improve working conditions area of the wheel shop to increase shops Injection implementation project continued during 2011. capacity up to 520,000-580,000 wheels see page42.
r Finalisation of the slitting project aimed at In 2011, new drawings at continuous casting r Further expansion of product mix reducing idle time at the small sections mill machine #3 were developed to enable production of new types of wheels #1 which will allow it to increase production production of large beams 40k, 60sh, 70sh and beams.
that will enhance EVRAZs market positions r Environmental protection programmes due to the unique character of these new including recycling of sludge, changes There was a considerable focus on labour products.
In 2011, a straightening machine, in recycling of vanadium convertor slag.
protection and safety measures to be a press line and a cutting line were installed compliant with recommendations of at the rail mill as part of the rail mill Rostekhnadzor Russias Federal Service modernisation project.
Installation of automatic for Ecological, Technological and Nuclear lines for wheel mechanical treatment carried Supervision including provision of new out at the wheel shop, enhances quality and safety clothing supplies.
Launch of production of new steel grades, Some of the ecological programmes launched in particular API grade steel for slabs, in 2011 will be continued in 2012: helps increase the Companys presence r Water protection circulating water supply.
in international markets and international r Air protection modernisation of gas integration of the Group, primarily with cleaners.
the Groups North American assets.
r Recycling of waste recycling of slag.
r Replacement of equipment that contains polychlorinated biphenyl.
For more on HSE please refer to page 44.
Measures aimed at cost reduction and improving health and safety as well as programmes to improve working conditions continued during 2011.
