Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 EVRAZ Business System The practical expression of EVRAZs people The first step in setting up the new Business MCR and customer-oriented philosophy takes form System was the introduction of the EVRAZ The introduction of Mission Control Rooms as the Evraz Business System EBS.
This Way in 2010 the Mission, Strategies and to manage the business was another step is not a rigid company-imposed procedure Values of our Company, focused on achieving towards simplifying and optimising EVRAZs but a set of principles that have been proven results by inspiring our employees to perfect business processes.
MCRs integrate and in the day-to-day practice of excellent our processes and bring greater value to make visual all the business processes of companies over many years.
an organisation, such as its goals, KPIs, activities and initiatives, financial tracking and Then, to help spread the new philosophy In order to preserve our competitive advantage countermeasure planning.
Throughout 2011, throughout the Group and involve our and compete effectively in the global market, most of EVRAZs facilities have put up their employees in the improvement process, we need to create more value for our customers site-level MCRs and many have also begun we focused on implementing the following and to do so more efficiently through an using Divisionand shop-level Mission Control four simple tools which are established engaged workforce.
To achieve these goals will Rooms and Production Control Boards.
In standards for most Lean-oriented companies: require a radical transformation in the way our November 2011, the Moscow-based senior organisation conducts its business, which is management of the Company had also started 6S why we have introduced EBS.
EBS incorporates building and utilising segment-level MCRs to 2011 was kicked off with the implementation Lean business principles and tools to create manage the business.
of 6S, a six-step system Sort, Set in Order, a culture of continuous improvement.
Our Scrub, Safety, Standardise, Sustain used goal is not just to identify possibilities of cost Having started on its new path of long-term for improving the organisation of a workplace.
reductions, but to change the way our entire health, EVRAZ has begun instilling the organisation thinks and acts.
elements of Lean philosophy in its processes A3 and employees throughout the entire Group.
To analyse EVRAZs projects and initiatives, EBS has three desired outcomes: during 2011 many of our employees were r To provide the customer with the highest Key Targets 2012 trained in A3 Thinking a simple and logical quality product, at lowest possible cost, in The following sections of the report provide a method of problem solving which helps identify a timely manner with the shortest possible detailed breakdown of our individual operations the reasons behind any planned activity and lead times.
achievements in 2011 and objectives for 2012. link it to the companys overall Strategy.
r To provide members with a safe work In general for the year ahead, EVRAZ will A3 Thinking uses a systematic approach to environment, work satisfaction and fair continue incorporating Lean principles across facilitate the understanding of the current and treatment.
the Group in order to reduce cost, increase target states of a problem, the gaps which need r To give the Company flexibility to respond quality and delivery, and further drive the to be resolved and the exact steps which need to the market, increase profit through cost philosophy of continuous improvement.
The to be taken to achieve success.
Our goal for reduction activities and achieve long-term focus will be on continued implementation 2012 is to have 100% of EVRAZs employees prosperity.
of EVRAZ Business System throughout across the world trained in the use of A3s.
the Group with a view to setting the EBS strives for the absolute elimination of foundations for: VSA waste in all areas to allow members to work r 100% employee involvement in In 2011 EVRAZ started using Value Stream smoothly and efficiently.
The foundations of improvement efforts through training Analyses to map out processes and identify EBS are built on standardisation, to ensure in the use of EBS tools and 6S.
sources of waste, unevenness and overburdens a safe method of operation and a consistent r Setting up an efficient Maintenance contained within the process mentioned before, approach to improving cost and quality.
System to increase machine longevity, as well as see opportunities for improvement.
EVRAZ members are encouraged to lower maintenance time and costs.
By understanding the Current State of a process continually improve their standard processes r Building a Quality Management System and imagining an Ideal State the simplest way and procedures in order to ensure maximum to drive yield improvement and increase with zero defects and no resource constraints, quality, improve efficiency and eliminate customer satisfaction.
we are able to set up a plan to achieve a waste.
This is known as Continuous r Building an Inventory Management System Future State.
Improvement and with time it should be applied to decrease working capital.
to every sphere of the Companys activities.
With this in mind, in 2011 we introduced several Lean instruments into our operations, with the aim of improving the quality of our processes and I am pleased to report that it has resulted in tangible improvements.
Step 5: Step 6: Step 4: Safety Standardise Sustain r Resolve all safety issues r A place for everything and everything in its place r Define the 6S standards r Change things likely to cause injury, stress r Re-paint and repair r Innovate to make it impossible to slip back or overburden r Make abnormal conditions obvious at-a-glance r Assign responsibilities r Check existing safety equipment r Label and mark out r Allocate time at the end of each day shift for reset r Improve and innovate to avoid anti-work thinking r Use standard health and safety OSHA colours r Audit regularly r Manage by walking about
