Exillon Energy Directors report Appointment and Replacement of Directors Directors may be appointed by the company the year ending 31 December 2011, all directors by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A submit themselves to re-appointment at the Director appointed by the Board holds office forthcoming AgM.
only until the next AgM and is then eligible for appointment by the shareholders.
in order Details of the Directors service agreements, to conform to the requirements of the new UK including the arrangements for compensation for corporate governance code governance loss of office, are contained in the Remuneration Code which is applicable for the first time for report on pages 21 to 28.
Powers of the Directors Subject to our Articles of Association, the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, our business is managed by the Board who may exercise all company powers.
Share Capital and Shareholders Restrictions We have one class of share capital that is The rights and obligations attached to these shares divided into 161,510,911 ordinary shares are governed by isle of Man law and the companys 2010:138,072,911 of US$0.0000125 each Articles of Association.
Further details of the share are entitled to receive notice and to attend and capital together with the specific movements in speak at any of our general meetings.
There are no share capital during the year are included in note 26 restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary Shares to the financial statements on pages 40 to 74. other than as set out in the Articles of Association and: certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and our employees require company approval to deal in the ordinary Shares.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached no shareholder holds shares carrying special rights to any shares, on a show of hands every as to the control of the company.
There are no shareholder present in person or by proxy or limitations on the holding of shares.
We do not being a corporation present by a duly authorised know of any agreements between holders of shares, representative shall have one vote, and on a poll which may result in restrictions on the transfer or on every shareholder who is present in person or by voting rights.
proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
Any of the rights attached to any class of share may be varied by consent in writing of not less than three The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for quarters in par value of the issued shares of the class exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or by special resolution passed at a separate meeting or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be of the holders of shares of the class.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AgM and published on our website after the meeting.
