Directors report Exillon WS DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors of Exillon Energy plc David Herbert non-Executive chairman Dr. Herbert has more than 20 years experience in investment banking, including most recently as Managing Director and Head of international corporate Finance at ing Bank n. V. Dr. Herbert also has considerable experience in the oil and gas industry, having worked for more than 10 years at Bp, where he served in a variety of senior management positions.
He has also held various non-executive director and advisory roles with significant resource and advisory businesses in Russia and the CIS.
After receiving his first degree in economics from the University of Dublin, Dr. Herbert went on to complete his doctorate at Brunel University, where he taught for eight years.
Mark Martin Chief Executive Officer Mr. Martin has worked in investment banking for more than 20 years, most recently as Head of Equity Capital Markets ECM at ING Bank N. V. He has substantial transaction experience, having led on more than a hundred transactions, including numerous highprofile and successful M&A and capital raising initiatives on behalf of oil and gas clients from central and Eastern Europe and russia.
Mr. Martin has also held various other EcM and corporate finance positions at Baring Securities and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He has a degree in Economics and politics from cambridge University.
12 Exillon Energy Directors report Outlook L. Stuard Detmer Senior independent non-Executive Director Mr. Detmer is cEo of Aminex plc, an Africa focused E&p company.
prior to Aminex he was cEo of Sibir Energy plc, where he led the company out of crisis and concluded its successful sale to gazprom in 2009.
Mr. Detmer also worked with Mobil oil corporation in russia, latin America and the United States and has over 16 years of experience in emerging markets.
Mr. Detmer holds an MBA from the University of Virginia, a BA from Vanderbilt University and attended Leningrad State University.
He is fluent in Russian and speaks Spanish and French.
Ezio Bracco independent non-Executive Director Mr. Bracco is the President, founder and major shareholder of Expertise srl.
Expertise is an oil and gas engineering company that provides services to major onshore and offshore projects in Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, the Middle East, Africa and russia for clients such as Agip Kco, Kpo-Karachaganak petroleum operating, ADnoc and Eni.
Mr. Bracco founded Expertise srl.
Mr. Bracco graduated in chemical Engineering from the University of genoa.
Anne Belvze independent non-Executive Director Ms. Belvze is the Managing Partner of the Russian office of accounting firm Mazars, which she joined in 2005 as its head of outsourcing.
She is a Knight of the Legion of Honour and also a senior external trade advisor to the French government, a position she has held since July 2009.
Prior to this Ms. Belvze held the following positions: General Manager of Sansha: Zone Finance Director with Castel Group in Moscow: Regional Financial Controller of the Barents group in Almaty: professor of Mathematics of Finance and Financial Statements Analysis at the European University of Brussels.
Ms. Belvze has a BBA and a degree in information Systems from the European University of Brussels, and a degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Nantes.
She is fluent in Russian and French.
