1 0 Experian Annual Report 2011 Experians performance over the past year again demonstrates its global leadership, ability to drive growth and attractive financial qualities.
The Groups key objective is to extend its global lead by driving profitable growth through geographic expansion, product innovation and further penetration of new customer segments.
Group strategy and objectives Strategic framework Focus on data and analytics Drive profitable growth Growth Strategic goals drivers Extend global Create successful Expanding lead in credit businesses in geographically information and new customer analytics segments Product innovation New customer segments Introduction Group strategy and objectives 11 Drive profitable growth Optimise capital efficiency Build large-scale Become the Become the most operations in global leader in trusted consumer major emerging digital marketing brand for credit consumer services information and economies identity protection services 1 2 Experian Annual Report 2011 Experian is investing in a range of initiatives designed to protect and grow the business in a profitable and value-accreting way.
Expanding geographically In Brazil, regulatory changes have Another key initiative has been the created the opportunity to provide continuing roll-out of Marketing Experian continues to take its capabilities clients with positive consumer payment Services products globally, including into new geographies.
information and to significantly expand consumer insight and online Experians product offering.
Positive competitive intelligence products into The new credit bureau development in data has been shown to lower the risk Brazil, France and India.
All banks that of new customer acquisition, help have been approached have indicated A total of 29% of Experians global reduce application fraud and facilitate a willingness to become members of revenue is now from outside North increased automation of decision the bureau and to share their data.
America and the UK and this is making.
Experian already holds Experians competitive database will use expected to increase to 30 to 40% by positive data on 70 million consumers superior matching technology and be 2014.
This diversification is one of the in Brazil and will continue to expand supported by a range of complementary 20 Groups key performance indicators.
this database, with the expectation of products, including tools for preventing financial benefits starting to accrue in fraud at the point of application.
Product innovation the sophistication of the US, UK and - Freecreditscore.
com is an entry point Brazilian credit bureaux into new for consumers wanting friendly, easy Product innovation is integral to markets more quickly and at lower cost.
access to their credit scores.
Experians strategy, helping the Group to It is also being used for the upgrading - The recently acquired CreditReport.
sustain and grow client relationships and of legacy platforms.
com brand provides consumers with to realise new business opportunities.
- The new suite of Decision Analytics comprehensive information on their Key to this is the continuing investment software provides clients with a wide credit history.
in new predictive data, which this year range of modular-style products that - ProtectMyID.
com helps bring peace included rental payment history in the are both scalable and easily deployable of mind with its focus on identity US, and current account and payday into new markets.
They enable clients protection and insurance.
Such data sources to standardise on Experian software help Experian to provide clients with a Consumer Direct is also making its quickly and cost-efficiently.
more complete view of their customers products more accessible with the first - At Marketing Services, Experian is throughout economic cycles, enabling ever mobile phone application for credit enhancing and upgrading its email them to assess lending risk more scores and identity theft alerts.
marketing and contact management accurately.
platforms to provide clients with Overall, more than 10% of Experians Experian has also been rolling out the improved features and functionality.
global revenue comes from new next generation of technology platforms: products developed in the past five years In the US, Consumer Direct continues and the Group invests to maintain this - The new global credit bureau to refresh its product brands to meet the rate of innovation.
platform enables Experian to bring evolving needs of consumers: New customer segments specific needs of the new customer.
for replicating this success in other Many of Experians products can be regions.
Experian continues to extend its tailored and repurposed in this way.
In the UK, Experian is well established capabilities beyond the traditional In Brazil, for example, Experian is in the public sector and is now areas of financial services and creating demand for credit reference replicating the model in the US, retail.
It has successfully expanded products in the large and rapidly building a specialist sales team to into the small and medium growing SME segment.
It has raised focus on federal and state government.
enterprise SME sector, healthcare awareness of the value of good payments, insurance, public sector, This year, 67% of global revenue credit risk management in acquiring telecommunications and utilities.
came from outside financial services, profitable new customers, reducing consistent with Experians aim to Experian invests in industry-specific delinquency rates and preventing generate more than 65% of revenue sales teams that understand the fraud.
As a result, Experians SME from new segments.
This is one of the unique requirements of the segment.
It business in Brazil has expanded 20 Groups key performance indicators.
then adapts core products to meet the rapidly and there are opportunities
