Introduction Key resources 13 Experians people, data and technology are the foundation of its global business.
To date, approximately 300 Experian employs approximately: People employees have been or are currently Effectively managing and deploying the 15,000 people globally part of the EBN, with analysis showing talents of employees on a Group-wide that over a quarter of participants have 5,550 in North America basis is key to the successful execution gained a role promotion while part of Experians global growth strategy.
This promotion rate is 2,550 in Latin America The objective is to build strong and over double that of the all-employee sustainable bench strength across population.
Additionally, retention rates 3,600 in the UK and Ireland the short, medium and longer term, within the EBN are over twice that seen recognising that future developments 3,300 across EMEA and across the company, indicating that in the business may well mean changes Asia Pacific the forum is achieving its objectives to the skills, experiences and market in terms of both the promotion and knowledge required from its leaders.
Diversity expanding our talent pool CEO Forum This development forum is designed Employees are drawn from as diverse Cost profile - global % of cost to expose potential senior leaders to a pool as possible.
Where Experian the Experian executive team.
It has can legally obtain employee diversity been running since 2008 and has data, it can be shown that the Experian continued to select talent from as employee base broadly reflects that of diverse a pool as possible.
Of the 60 the country in which it operates.
participants to date, approximately 25% have been female and another Approximately 45% of Experian 25% have brought ethnic or cultural employees are female and 55% male.
Around 36% are classified as white and 20% as non-white, with the FTSE 100 Cross-Company Mentoring remainder choosing not to disclose this Labour 50% Programme information or the information being Experian continues to participate in IT 7% unavailable to report.
this mentoring programme, which Data 10% pairs high-potential female executives The overall objective is to ensure that Marketing 19% with CEO or Chairman mentors Experians future senior leadership Other 12% from other non-competing FTSE 100 team better reflects the client, investor companies.
Central Activities 2% and general employee base.
The table overleaf outlines the current picture Senior hiring and highlights the progress being There is ongoing commitment from made.
the Experian executive team to promote diversity when hiring senior The following are some of the initiatives leaders.
Candidate shortlists would be designed to drive sustainable change: expected to offer a range of diversity, provided that each individual met the Experian Business Network EBN role criteria and deserved their place This development forum for high on the list by merit, not by reason of potential and diverse emerging their diversity.
talent was successfully launched in October 2008 and now runs in all major geographies, making it a truly global 1 4 Experian Annual Report 2011 Key resources continued Diversity profile of the senior leadership team September 2007 September 2008 September 2009 September 2010 External External Total population Total population Total population Total population benchmark benchmark 69 87 87 89 FTSE 100 Fortune 500 Gender 13% 9 13% 16% 14 18% 16 18.1% 15.2% % females Ethnic origin 10% 7 7% 6 5% 4 7% 6 5% Data % non White unavailable Caucasian Employee engagement The question I believe that action A pulse survey was undertaken for listening to our people has been taken on areas identified for the first time during May 2011 to test the improvement in the last 2009 survey effectiveness of the action plans.
This Experians global people survey, carried was a top five scoring item globally and consisted of 14 questions aimed at a out every 18 months, provides valuable was one of the explicit targets set random sample of employees globally.
insights into the views of employees to measure success in 2010.
Experian and their level of engagement with the also scored seven percentage points Activity is also underway to plan for business.
higher on this item when compared to the fourth global people survey, which the external benchmark of Global High will run in November 2011.
The focus for Experians third global people survey Performing Organisations.
this survey will be to continue closing in 2010 achieved 88% employee the gap between Experians scores participation, up from 84% in the Overall results from the 2010 survey and those of global high performing previous survey.
This response level is showed a positive trend since the first organisations.
In addition, there will now considered to be high performing 2007 survey, although the operational again be a strong focus on whether and is therefore unlikely to increase pressures on the business resulting action has been taken on areas further.
from the financial downturn manifested identified for improvement in the last in slightly reduced scores in related survey results, indicating how well the The strongest results globally in categories such as Resources when Group addresses specific employee 2010 were found in those areas that compared with 2009. feedback.
employees identified as a priority for improvement in the previous survey Global and regional action plans More information on employee particularly Senior Leadership and relating to the 2010 survey are now engagement scores in Experians global Talent Management.
These were the complete and demonstrate the strong people surveys can be found in this focus of action plans at a global and commitment from executive and senior 20 annual report in the key performance regional level.
leadership to addressing issues raised indicators section.
Plans are in place for a quarterly review of regional and global progress against the action plans and the first progress review has been conducted.
Introduction Key resources 15 Succession planning building bench strength Succession planning ensures that Developing the talent within appropriate senior leadership resources are in place to achieve Experians Experians diverse workforce strategic objectives.
The plans are Recognising and developing talent within Experians diverse employee regularly reviewed by the Boards population is vital to the Groups successful growth.
The Experian Business Nomination and Corporate Governance Network is one of the ways in which the Group helps to ensure that individuals Committee.
This development forum focuses on emerging talent by bringing together employees who have been identified as having high For the broader leadership, plans are potential so that they can develop their skills and network with peers and senior reviewed twice-yearly by the Experian management.
Participants are invited to join the forum for 12 months, during executive team.
The most recent review which time they are personally mentored by a senior business leader.
highlighted the following: Izabella Jagiello-Marks, who works for Experian in Nottingham, UK, participated 70% of senior leadership appointments in the Experian Business Network during 2010.
She said: It was an opportunity are internal promotions.
This ratio is in to step back and review my career under expert guidance.
The relationship with line with best practice and corporate my mentor was invaluable, helping me to make an important career move during governance guidelines.
the period and to develop my business network.
I came away from this experience on a real high, with even greater motivation and a desire to build a career with 11% of the senior leadership team are Experian for the long term.
occupying developmental roles outside their home market and geography.
This mobility of talent continues to be a key focus, especially across Experians biggest markets.
Approximately 80% of senior leadership roles within Experian have successors ready to cover these roles in the short, medium and long-term.
In order to achieve increasingly strong levels of bench strength for all key senior leadership roles, Experian is planning to further develop its Employer Brand proposition.
This will define and differentiate the attractions of working for the organisation, in order to support the recruitment and retention of talented individuals.
Talent development investing in high potential employees the global mobility and talent agendas to introduce a globally consistent Experian remains committed to checking to identify individuals who will develop development programme.
A leadership and challenging its assessments of personally and professionally from development framework has been people, in order to ensure that it is created to align existing programmes international experience.
investing in the development of the right and this will be piloted with leaders from individuals.
Actions taken this year the Global Product and Technology To date, approximately 800 leaders include expansion of the global talent Services function during early 2012. have been through Experians regional forums for high-potential employees, leadership development programmes, a continued focus on career planning implemented during 2009 and 2010. as part of the performance review These have now evolved into a plan discussion and the active alignment of 1 6 Experian Annual Report 2011 Key resources continued Experian holds: Data in Credit Services includes: Data Consumer credit data in 16 countries.
credit application and payment At the core of Experians strategy, are Data includes account level payment comprehensive databases of credit and history data on more than 600 history, consumer credit accounts, marketing information on consumers and million consumers and 60 million property records, public records, businesses.
The Group strives for market businesses globally telephone data, credit card payment leadership in the breadth, depth and history and mortgage loan data.
demographic data on over 260 Experian is adding new data to million households worldwide, as its consumer file, such as rental Experian continues to add new data well as online behaviour data for information and current account sources to bring fresh perspectives to its information, and is extending into new 25 million internet users across clients, to drive new product innovation geographies by building databases in more than five million websites and to enter new geographies.
and globally has: Experian also invests continually to Commercial credit data in 12 countries.
ensure that its data is fresh and is Data varies by country, but typically classified more than 2.3 billion provided to clients on a timely basis.
includes histories of financial consumers in 30 countries performance, accounts receivable, company registration and ownership Credit Services data details, trading addresses and county Data to help manage credit risk, court judgments.
reduce exposure to bad debt and to Automotive data in six countries.
prevent fraud Examples include vehicle title and Experian holds a wide breadth of data registration, vehicle history, auto assets across its Credit Services accidents, manufacturer recall and business line.
The data is provided repair records.
to organisations to help them lend profitably to their customers and to Marketing Services data manage the risks associated with lending money.
Other purposes for the Data to help customers to market data include fraud prevention, identity effectively across multiple channels verification and to help clients retain and on a global basis expand their customer relationships.
Experian is a leader in the provision Experian also helps consumers to of data for marketing purposes.
understand the risk associated with Experians data helps clients to profile purchasing used vehicles.
their customers and to segment offers so that marketers can target their marketing spend efficiently.
Examples of data supplied by Experian include contact data, such as name, address and email, demographic information, such as age, marital status or income, and lifestyle information such as entertainment, car or holiday destination preferences.
In addition, Experian has classified over 2.3 billion consumers in over 30 countries.
Introduction Key resources 17 Data security As a trusted steward of data, Experian Giving renters the credit needs to protect data sources and maintain strict standards of data they deserve security.
Experian maintains a comprehensive information security Experian has become the first and only major credit reporting agency in programme that contains safeguards North America to include residential rental payment information in credit appropriate to the sensitivity of the reports.
It follows the acquisition in June 2010 of RentBureau, an aggregator information.
Such safeguards are of rental payment history data for the property management industry.
designed to: Rental payments are one of the biggest monthly obligations for the third of the US population that rents, but individuals who pay on time have previously Ensure the security and confidentiality seen no benefit to their credit status.
By including rental payment data in of information.
credit reports, Experian is providing lenders with a more comprehensive Protect against threats or hazards understanding of a consumers total monthly obligations and the ability to to the information.
reach many new emerging credit customers.
Protect against unauthorised For the first time, paying rent responsibly will enable renters to qualify for access or use of information that could the credit they deserve, says Brannan Johnston, Managing Director of result in harm.
Data is protected through the entire lifecycle, from creation, transformation and use, storage and destruction.
Experian also continually reassesses its data security strategy to anticipate new threats and mitigate exposures.
Experian strives to ensure the utmost in information protection through: Security policies and standards Experian bases its security polices and practices on the ISO27002 international standard.
People Experian has a Global Chief Information Security Officer and a team of information protection specialists.
Network security and intrusion detection Firewalls and intrusion detection devices protect entrance to Experians network.
1 8 Experian Annual Report 2011 Key resources continued Virus protection 24x365 operation Technology Experian deploys, implements, With three Global Operation Centres, Experians information technology IT and maintains the most current in Nottingham UK, Dallas, Texas systems are used to store, process commercially available computer virus US and So Paulo Brazil, Experian and deliver the data that forms the detection and scanning solutions.
monitors and manages the delivery of foundation of the business.
IT is also Access control service 24x365.
Experians processes fundamental to the development and Experian implements the latest and procedures ensure consistent innovation of Experians products and measures to restrict electronic access service delivery and also ensure rapid services.
to its systems to only authorised response to the incidents, man-made personnel who are subject to and natural, that come with running a IT Experians channel for service non-disclosure agreements.
delivery Data integrity Experians IT platform delivers a Global network Experian safeguards the confidentiality comprehensive suite of information and integrity of all customer data being Experians global data network connects services globally.
From email marketing transmitted over the data network.
the Group to its clients, enabling the campaigns through to complex credit business to distribute its products Separation of duties algorithms, the IT infrastructure enables globally.
This network combines data, Experian ensures that adequate Experian to build and distribute these voice and video and maximises the separation of duties exist among its services 24 hours a day, 365 days a year opportunities offered by the internet.
staff including access to systems and 24x365.
The network means Experian can link networks.
its globally dispersed workforce and Experians global IT capability serves the Vulnerability and threat management focus them on the needs of a particular needs of all products and all geographic Experian has deployed a vulnerability product or market.
This improves regions and provides the Group with the management programme that seeks to Experians agility and helps Experian to flexibility to make the most efficient use identify and remediate vulnerabilities drive scale benefits.
of its people and technology globally.
on its networks and systems, including carrying out periodic external reviews Committed to service quality of our information security.
Experian is committed to provide the Business continuity and disaster highest quality of service to its clients.
recovery As an example, its investment strategy Experian currently has extensive plans and commitment to continual process in place for business continuation improvement enabled it to achieve 100 issues caused by natural and manpercent availability, 24x365, for its North made disasters.
This plan outlines American Credit Services products.
Experians ability to sustain normal business operations with its own power People capabilities, water, and supplies.
Experians workforce is global, which Physical security is key to its success.
With people on Experian data centres are protected by five continents Experian has created a 24-hour manned security operation.
an organisation that can move at the Security officers patrol the sites speed of business, helping to ensure and ensure that all appropriate and consistency and driving efficiency established security measures are globally.
It is Experians people who followed.
ensure that clients receive the service they expect.
Introduction Key resources 19 New technology platform supports global expansion Experians ability to enhance the value of credit bureau data across the customer lifecycle is a key differentiator in its markets around the world.
The range of value-added products helps clients in acquiring new customers, managing those relationships successfully and reducing bad debt and fraud.
Until recently, the constraints of time and cost have been significant factors in establishing Experians full capabilities in new markets.
Thats all changing though with the development of a major new technology platform for global value-added products.
Now product implementation times are counted in days rather than months and at a fraction of the cost.
The new platform was introduced last year to India and Russia, and will soon be supporting the rollout of Experian products across many other markets in order to serve clients more effectively.
Developing technology architecture Driving new product and used to build new bureaux, most service development recently for example, in Morocco and Experian is committed to developing and India.
providing market leading, high quality solutions to its clients and customers.
Innovation in new platform and database technologies, enabling Advancements in technology Experian to enhance its Marketing infrastructure help Experian identify Services platforms and introduce new business opportunities and bring ones, for example to enable digital products to market quickly and more advertising services platforms.
