28 Experian Annual Report 2011 North America delivered good growth, reflecting modest market recovery and good progress on a number of strategic initiatives.
Total revenue from continuing activities was US$2,254m, up 9%, with organic revenue growth of 7%.
The difference related to the acquisition of Mighty Net acquired September 2010.
North America Decision Analytics Total and organic revenue declined 3%.
Growth in scoring, consulting and fraud prevention was partially offset by softness in demand for major software installations.
Pipelines conversion improved as the year progressed as capital expenditure constraints within the financial services sector started to loosen.
Marketing Services Experian North America returned to growth this year with organic Total and organic revenue growth was revenue up 7%.
Marketing Services performed strongly, following its successful from a slow recovery in the economy realignment to focus primarily on and a strong performance from targeted, digital marketing.
Market Marketing Services as it focused on conditions also improved during the year, the growing demand for targeted as clients expanded marketing budgets, digital campaigns.
As we look with spending increasingly directed forward, there are a number of key towards digital channels.
There was particular strength across email drivers of our sustained growth.
marketing and contact data, reflecting First, we introduced more than strong volumes, new business wins 30 new products during the year and high renewals, as well as increased Credit Services as we drove innovation.
Second, traction in the development area of digital we diversified into new vertical Total and organic revenue growth for the advertising services.
Consumer markets, including healthcare, information benefited from slow, gradual Interactive telecommunications and recovery in prospecting and origination government.
Third, we focused Total growth was 15% and organic volumes, as well as successful new sharply on improving sales revenue growth was 8%.
Consumer product introductions, for example in Direct delivered growth in organic effectiveness.
Fourth, we reinvested income estimation.
Performance at revenue, reflecting good progress in the savings from operating efficiency automotive was excellent, helped by some strategy to transition to new consumer pick-up in loan underwriting activity and improvements.
Our success is brands, including the successful launch good demand for new sources of data.
the result of our team members of freecreditscore.
The transition Business information performed well, efforts, expertise and unwavering has been aided by the rapid integration reflecting new business wins and a strong commitment, and our fifth and of the Mighty Net acquisition, which market reception for recent product and performed to plan.
There was also good most important driver is continuous technology introductions, as well as for progress in the protection channel, investment in their development.
Victor Nichols, Chief Executive Officer North America Business review North America 29 Providing one-stop access to commercial credit services Total revenue growth Managing commercial credit in todays economy can be a real challenge, 15% for large and small businesses alike.
It requires constant access to the best possible intelligence in order to reduce risk and improve profitability.
BusinessIQ was launched by Experian last year to provide an integrated set of 9% web-based tools for managing credit throughout the customer lifecycle.
The emphasis was on ease of use and providing a single view of the commercial credit customer across a range of information, analysis and event-driven alerts.
4% Prior research amongst groups of clients and prospects has enabled Experian to address key demands such as faster searches, the delivery of real-time 1% 0% information and a choice of best practice policy options to suit different types of user.
07 08 09 10 11 Businesses of all sizes, from global automotive manufacturers to small retailers, are now using BusinessIQ to gain vital insights into their commercial customers, helping them to reduce risk and stay competitive.
Organic revenue growth 8% 7% 3% 1% 0% 07 08 09 10 11 2011 Revenue by activity Credit Services 32% as membership revenue continued to Financial review Decision Analytics 5% ramp up.
There was very strong growth For North America, EBIT from Marketing Services 16% across the lead generation business, continuing activities was US$610m, an Interactive 47% including an exceptionally strong increase of 7% in the year.
EBIT margin performance in the education vertical.
As expected, Good growth at comparison shopping margin was impacted by reinstatement was driven by successful execution of of certain employee benefits suspended the co-brand partnership strategy.
during the downturn, negative business mix and one-off items in the prior-year comparative.
3 0 Experian Annual Report 2011 North America continued Delivering new insights Total Organic into the US 1 2 2 2011 2010 growth growth Year ended 31 March US$m US$m % % mortgage Revenue Credit Services 716 693 3 3 market Decision Analytics 113 116 3 3 In a major initiative aimed at avoiding Marketing Services 367 329 11 11 a recurrence of the housing market Interactive 1,058 922 15 8 crash of 2007, Freddie Mac and Total continuing activities 2,254 2,060 9 7 members of the Federal Reserve 3 Discontinuing activities 8 n a have partnered with Experian to pilot Total North America 2,254 2,068 9 the Mortgage Borrower Database.
EBIT Freddie Mac was formed by the US government in 1970 and works with Continuing activities 610 572 7 3 lenders in the secondary mortgage Discontinuing activities 5 n a market to help people get better Total North America 610 567 8 access to home financing.
The goal 4 of the Mortgage Borrower Database EBIT margin 27.1% 27.8% is to provide a definitive, publicly- 1.
2010 restated to exclude FARES, which is now classified as a discontinued operation available source of information to 2.
Growth at constant exchange rates 3.
Discontinuing activities include an online data survey business and the National Business Database answer a broad array of housing 4.
EBIT margin is for continuing business only and mortgage finance questions.
It will reveal, for example, how well informed borrowers are about their choice of mortgage products and what percentage of new mortgages are both affordable and sustainable.
Social, ethical and environmental EBIT US$m and margin The new database will draw performance on Experians extensive credit, 27.1% The year was marked by the 27.9% 27.8% 26.9% demographic and mortgage 610 25.8% generosity of employees, particularly 575 572 554 information.
Experian will also assist 512 in their fundraising for the victims in surveying consumers to provide of the earthquake in Japan and their additional data and ensure that volunteering.
The North America information from the database is regions strong focus on financial interpreted correctly.
education included support for educators, newsletters for employees and a consumer-focused programme that allows individuals to obtain 07 08 09 10 11 advice on how to live credit-smart.
The establishment of a Credit Council EBIT excludes discontinuing activities enabled the business to engage with a EBIT margin is for continuing activities only wide range of stakeholders in developing 2007 to 2010 EBIT restated to exclude FARES some of these initiatives.
The regions now classified as a discontinued operation carbon footprint was reduced through a combination of data centre energy saving measures and employee vigilance.
