4 xx Experian Annual Report 2011 Experians vision is for its people, data and technology to become a necessary part of every major consumer economy.
The Group provides data and analytical tools to a wide range of organisations and consumers across the world.
Its businesses are characterised by market-leading positions, high barriers to entry, global reach and potential for long-term growth.
Business and market overview Experian provides services Credit Services Decision Analytics in North America, Latin Credit Services provides information Decision Analytics provides America, UK and Ireland to organisations to help them organisations, such as banks, and EMEA Asia Pacific, manage the risks associated with utility companies and public service lending money.
Experian helps providers, with predictive tools and and reports its financial clients find new customers, predict sophisticated software to help them performance across those and manage credit risk and reduce manage and automate huge volumes regions.
Activities in these exposure to bad debt and fraud.
regions are grouped into four principal activities.
Revenue by region Revenue by region North North America America 40% 26% Latin Latin America America 38% 3% UK and UK and Ireland Ireland 12% 40% EMEA EMEA Asia Pacific Asia Pacific 10% 31% Experian has a unique and sustainable business model that is focused on generating Business model and preserving value for shareholders.
Experian is the global leader in its industry, with strong market positions.
It is more Competitive environment than twice the size of its nearest peer and considerably broader in its capabilities and global reach.
This diversity enables Experian to support clients across many countries, providing competitive advantage, and creating many opportunities to grow in markets across the world.
There is no single competitor that operates across all of Experians four principal activities, although the Group has a number of competitors within each.
Globally, there are a number of strong market influences that are driving long-term Market influences growth across Experians business activities: Credit Services, Decision Analytics, Marketing Services and Interactive.
Introduction Business and market overview xx 5 Revenue by region North America 54% Latin America 17% UK and Ireland 17% EMEA Asia Pacific 12% Marketing Services Interactive Revenue by activity Marketing Services helps Interactive helps individuals to Credit organisations understand their understand and manage their Services customers more completely, personal credit files online and 43% communicate with them on an to protect their personal identity.
Decision individual level and measure the Analytics impact of marketing campaigns.
10% Experian enables marketers to Marketing Services target the right message to the right 19% individual through the right channel Interactive at the right time.
28% Revenue by region Revenue by region North North America America 46% 90% Revenue by client Latin UK and America Ireland Top 10 3% 10% clients 10% UK and Ireland Top 50 28% clients 23% EMEA Asia Pacific All other 23% 77% Competitive position International Global revenue US$m Revenue by industry North America Financial Source: Latest full-year revenue, services 33% 1 4,214 company SEC filings Direct-to- 1 46% Year ended 31 March 2011 consumer 20% 2 Year ended 31 December 2010 3 Retail 15% Year ended 31 March 2010 4 Year ended 30 September 2010 Public sector US only and education 6% 2 54 54% % 1,860 2 Automotive 1,677 20% 3 5% 1,099 2 25% 966 14% Insurance 4% 20% 4 606 75% 80% 35% 86 Telecoms and 86% utilities 4% 65% Other 13% Experian Equifax Dun & Bradstreet Acxiom TransUnion Fair Isaac 6 xx Experian Annual Report 2011 Credit Contribution to Services Group revenue 43% Business model At the core of Credit Services are the Credit reports vary by country, but typically such as that included in an application databases that Experian builds and include identification information, past form or any previous agreements with manages, the credit bureaux.
They are and present credit obligations, court the applicant, to help decide whether very comprehensive databases and hold judgments, bankruptcy information, to lend or not.
the credit application and repayment suspected fraudulent applications, In developed credit markets, such as the histories of millions of consumers and collections data and previous addresses.
US and UK, a credit report includes businesses.
Globally, Experian holds Consumer credit reports help lenders make information on credit obligations, both credit payment data on more than better informed and faster credit decisions positive and negative.
Positive data includes 600 million consumers and 60 million through access to detailed historical accounts that have been paid on time, while businesses.
In total, Experian operates 16 information about how consumers have negative information includes past-due consumer credit bureaux and 12 business managed their credit obligations.
payments, collection accounts and public credit bureaux around the world.
records information such as bankruptcies.
Business credit reports are used by In less mature credit markets, bureaux Description clients to set the credit terms for new often contain only negative data.
A credit bureau is a database of accounts and to manage existing information supplied by lenders and account relationships.
Clients public record data sourced from third To check a consumers or business credit Clients include any organisation parties.
history and store information with a credit that is extending or offering credit, Lenders and other subscribing members bureau, a company must have a legitimate for example, financial institutions, submit credit application and repayment need for accessing the data and usually telecommunications, utilities, insurance data on consumers and businesses.
must notify the applicant of their intention companies and automotive dealers.
The laws of Financial characteristics Experian augments that data with each country vary in respect of the hosting publicly available information.
It Credit reports are sold on a of such data and access to it.
is then aggregated, cleansed and transactional basis, priced per credit Experian does not make lending sorted to form a credit report which report delivered.
Pricing is typically decisions or offer any comment or comprehensively shows how consumer tiered, varying according to the volume advice on particular applications, but and business credit obligations have of reports delivered to the client.
been fulfilled in the past, forming a Typically, revenue for Credit Services complete picture of indebtedness Clients then use that information, often recurs habitually.
in conjunction with other information Experian is the primary provider of In business information, Experian is the Competitive environment consumer credit information to many market-leading provider in the UK and Credit Services financial institutions in the US: the Brazil, and in a number of other markets.
other credit bureaux are Equifax and In the US, Experian is second to Dun TransUnion.
In the UK and Brazil, & Bradstreet, which is the only global Experian is the clear market leader and competitor in this field.
has leading positions in many other countries.
Many of Experians clients are subject relationships.
Clients will require Market influences to heightened regulatory requirements more data, more segmentation, more Credit Services and and greater compliance oversight.
consultancy and more execution This is driving a need for greater support.
Decision Analytics insight into the status of their customer Introduction Business and market overview xx 7 Decision Contribution to Analytics Group revenue 10% Business model Decision Analytics unlocks the value Application processing systems Clients of Experians vast databases of credit enable organisations to balance Multinational clients often standardise and marketing information, as well the requirement for speed and their lending operations on Experians as clients data, by applying scoring, competitiveness with the need tools and software, helping to improve expert consulting, analytical tools and for careful risk assessment when strategic control and operating software to convert data into valuable considering an applicant for credit.
effectiveness as well as helping to business decisions for organisations.
Customer management systems are satisfy regulatory obligations.
Description used to automate huge volumes of Financial characteristics day-to-day decisions.
Its about making Experian enables lending organisations Credit scores and fraud checks are the right decision for each customer, in to make accurate and relevant sold on a transactional volumea consistent and cost-efficient manner.
decisions at every stage of the tiered basis, whilst revenue from customer relationship: helping to Fraud solutions are used to software and systems consists partly identify potentially profitable new authenticate that people are who they of implementation fees and partly of customers, to segment their existing say they are and that the information contractually recurring licence fees.
customers according to risk and being provided is correct.
opportunity, to manage loan portfolios Collections analytics and software and to undertake effective collections play an important part in helping actions.
Decision Analytics products organisations establish an accurate are also used in the detection and picture of a customers propensity to prevention of fraud.
pay, and therefore the amount likely to Experian employs over one thousand be recovered.
statisticians, mathematicians and analysts globally creating both bespoke and industry solutions.
Experian builds application processing, customer management, fraud solutions and collections software and systems.
Experian is a market leading provider Competitive environment of Decision Analytics in all its major Decision Analytics geographies excluding the US, where Fair Isaac Corporation is the market leader.
Competition in individual markets comes from smaller, local players.
The addressable market for Experians and customer segmentation tools.
Market influences data and analytics is expanding in Globally, adoption of best practices Credit Services and emerging markets and new customer for risk management creates new segments.
There is greater demand opportunities, as is evident today Decision Analytics for risk management, fraud prevention in India and Brazil.
8 xx Experian Annual Report 2011 Marketing Contribution to Services Group revenue 19% Business model Marketing Services uses data-driven Consumers are segmented according Clients predictive insights about consumer to their geographic location, Experian has a Marketing Services behaviour and channel preferences to demographics, purchasing behaviours presence in some of the largest help organisations increase customer and media preferences.
Data is economies around the world, revenue and loyalty.
collected from numerous third party including Australia, Brazil, China, sources and aggregated according France, Germany, Japan, the UK Description to the needs of the client.
Experian and the US, allowing it to service Experian is a global leader in targeted also helps clients manage their own large regional and multinational marketing, providing Marketing marketing data.
Experian Globally, Experian holds demographic helps clients to develop effective Financial characteristics data on more than 500 million marketing campaigns to identify their individuals in 260 million households Revenue from Marketing Services is best customers, understand their and online behaviour data on 25 million derived in a variety of ways, including motivations and to find new, similar internet users across five million transactional volume-tiered charges, customers and then engage them.
websites, and has segmented more data licence and subscription fees.
Experian accomplishes this by helping than 2.3 billion consumers in over 30 marketers to profile, segment and countries.
target consumers and to deliver their marketing messages through various Experian helps clients to execute channels.
their marketing campaigns via traditional channels like direct mail, Marketing Services has developed and or increasingly via newer channels maintains one of the worlds largest such as email marketing, television, databases of marketing information.
internet and mobile devices, or using a This rich source of information combination of these.
provides marketers with exceptional insight into customers and prospects by classifying consumers according to their circumstances and preferences.
In the US, large marketing competitors Competitive environment for traditional direct marketing services Marketing Services include Acxiom, Harte-Hanks and specialist providers such as Alliance Data.
Competition elsewhere tends to be fragmented and specialised.
The shift from traditional to targeted portable and global campaigns, where Market influences digital marketing is accelerating the marketing message is personalised Marketing Services and this is driving a greater need for to individuals, using online, real-time real-time data and analytics.
companies are requiring customised, Introduction Business and market overview xx 9 Interactive Contribution to Group revenue 28% Business model Interactive provides credit monitoring credit report and score.
com connects and other information services is a life change, such as getting married consumers looking for a home directly to millions of consumers via or moving city and they need to take a loan, credit card or insurance with the internet.
It enables consumers to more in-depth look at their financial companies best suited to their needs.
monitor the accuracy of their credit situation through their credit report.
com provides report, to check their credit score and Email or text alerts keep consumers professional adults with access to to protect against identity theft.
informed about any significant changes online educational opportunities, with to their credit report.
Subscribers also more than five million people visiting its Price comparison services help receive information that helps them website each month.
consumers to make more informed manage their credit commitments.
decisions when purchasing products PriceGrabber.
com in the US and and services online.
Experians identity protection service PriceGrabber.
co. uk in the UK is a Consumer Direct in the US and the UK, ProtectMyID, leader in online comparison shopping, provides identity theft detection, providing consumers with unbiased Experian provides consumers with protection and fraud resolution to information on products, services and secure, online, unlimited access to their consumers.
This includes internet merchants to help them make the right complete credit history in return for a scanning of subscribers debit or credit choice.
It has 25 million active users regular monthly subscription fee.
card numbers and the monitoring worldwide.
In the US, access is via the websites of address change notifications.
com and the event of fraud, Experian provides Consumer credit reports, scores and CreditReport.
com, and in the UK via access to a dedicated fraud resolution identity protection are provided to CreditExpert.
The service allows service together with insurance against consumers for a monthly subscription consumers to see the same information financial loss.
fee, whilst revenue for lead generation that lenders use when deciding to offer Lead generation and PriceGrabber is generated on a per lead or referral a loan or credit card and may include a Experian is a trusted intermediary on provided to businesses.
the internet, helping consumers to find Typically a consumer will subscribe the most appropriate financial services to Experian when they have a major life provider, or online education provider, event, such as when obtaining a loan, together with the best deal on millions and they want to feel more confident of consumer products.
about their situation by looking at their Experians direct-to-consumer, credit is more than four times the size of Competitive environment information business is the clear any of those competitors.
In the UK, Interactive market leader in both the US and UK.
competition is provided by Equifax and In the US, competition is provided by smaller niche players.
Equifax, TransUnion, Fair Isaac and other smaller specialists, but Experian Consumers are becoming increasingly history is employed by lenders, and Market influences aware of the need to control and are more focused on managing their Interactive manage their financial circumstances.
Consumers They are more conscious of how also want to minimise the risk of personal information and credit identity theft.
