58 Experian Annual Report 2011 Directors report The directors present their report and interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend Insurance and third party indemnification the audited financial statements for the of 19 US cents per ordinary share 2010: year ended 31 March 2011.
The corporate 16 US cents to be paid on 22 July 2011 to During the year and up to the date of governance statement which follows forms shareholders on the register of members on approval of this annual report, the Company part of this report.
An interim dividend of maintained liability insurance and third 9 US cents per ordinary share was paid on party indemnification provisions for its Principal activities 28 January 2011 giving a total dividend for directors.
and business review the year of 28 US cents per ordinary share 2010: 23 US cents.
Experian provides data and analytical tools Acquisitions to organisations in North America, Latin Information in respect of acquisitions Directors America, UK and Ireland, EMEA and Asia made during the year are contained in the Pacific.
Clients use these to manage credit The names and biographical details of the business review and in note 40 to the Group risk, prevent fraud, target marketing offers directors at the date of this report are shown financial statements.
Experian on the immediately preceding pages.
Judith also helps individuals to manage their Sprieser and Paul Walker were appointed as Post balance sheet events credit relationships and protect against directors of the Company on 1 June 2010.
Details of events occurring after the end of identity theft.
Activities in the regions the reporting period are contained in note 46 in which Experian operates are grouped Particulars of directors remuneration, to the Group financial statements.
into four business lines: Credit Services, service contracts and interests in the Decision Analytics, Marketing Services and ordinary shares of the Company are shown Interactive.
Share capital 74 in the report on directors remuneration.
There have been no changes in the Details of the authorised and issued share The introduction and business review directors interests in such ordinary shares capital of the Company and changes to the sections are incorporated into this report between the end of the financial year and Companys share capital during the year by reference.
They contain details of the 17 May 2011. ended 31 March 2011 are set out in note O to development and performance of the the parent company financial statements.
Groups businesses during the year, an The rights and obligations attaching to the In accordance with the new UK Corporate indication of the key performance indicators ordinary and deferred shares are also set Governance Code, all directors will retire 20 and information regarding principal risks out in note O and the articles of association at the annual general meeting in July 2011 38 and uncertainties, together with information of the Company, a copy of which can be and, being eligible, will offer themselves equivalent to that required for a business obtained from the Experian website at for re-election.
An external evaluation of review.
Board performance and the performance of individual directors, as well as an evaluation Research and development Substantial shareholdings of the performance of the principal Board committees, was carried out during the Research and development plays a key role Substantial shareholders are required to year ended 31 March 2011 and the Board in supporting Experians activities.
Details notify their interests in accordance with the is satisfied that all directors contribute of such activities are given in the business Companys articles of association, which effectively and demonstrate commitment review section.
obliges shareholders to comply with the to their roles.
Further details regarding the notification obligations to the Company evaluation process are contained in the Results and dividends contained in the UK Disclosure and 66 corporate governance statement.
As at 17 May 2011, the The Group income statement shows a profit Company had been notified of the interests for the financial year ended 31 March 2011 below in its issued ordinary share capital or of US$623m 2010: US$636m.
have announced the payment of a second Substantial shareholdings Percentage of Number of issued Direct indirect ordinary shares share capital Date of notification Shareholder interest voting rights voting rights 14 October 2009 Legal & General Group plc Direct 40,756,800 3.97% 4 March 2010 Artisan Partners Limited Partnership Indirect 51,639,960 5.03% Governance Directors report 59 ADR programme No member shall, unless the directors All shares purchased have been retained as otherwise determine, be entitled in treasury shares.
As at the date of approval The Company has a Level 1 American respect of any share held by him her to of this annual report, the Company had Depositary Receipt ADR programme in vote either personally or by proxy at a an unexpired authority to purchase up to the USA for which the Bank of New York shareholders meeting or to exercise any 72,495,132 of its own shares.
The ADRs are other right conferred by membership in traded on the US over-the-counter market, relation to shareholders meetings if any Details of the new authority being requested where each ADR represents one Experian call or other sum presently payable by at the 2011 annual general meeting are plc ordinary share.
Further details are given him her to the Company in respect of that contained in the circular to shareholders, 159 in the shareholder information section.
which accompanies this annual report or is During the year, the Company moved the available on the Companys website at trading of its ADRs to the highest tier of the No member shall, unless the directors www.
otherwise determine, be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy at a Details of the shares in the Company Restrictions on transfers of shares shareholders meeting or to exercise any and or voting rights purchased by and held under The Experian other right conferred by membership in plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian relation to shareholders meetings if he The Company is not aware of any UK Approved All Employee Share Plan are she fails within the prescribed period to agreements between shareholders that set out in note P to the parent companys provide the Company with information may result in restrictions on the transfer financial statements.
concerning interests in those shares of securities and or voting rights and, required to be provided after being duly apart from those matters described below, Significant agreements change of served with a notice pursuant to the there are no restrictions on the transfer control articles of association of the Company.
of ordinary shares in the capital of the There are a number of agreements to which Company and or voting rights: In accordance with the articles of the Group is party that take effect, alter or association of the Company and save Certain restrictions on transfers of shares terminate, or have the potential to do so, for certain limited circumstances, if may from time to time be imposed by, for upon a change of control of the Company the number of shares in the Company example, insider dealing regulations.
Details of the beneficially owned by residents of the accordance with the Listing Rules of the agreements of this nature are: USA exceeds a defined permitted UK Financial Services Authority, directors maximum and the directors give notice to The Groups banking facilities contain and certain employees are required to the holder s of such shares, such shares provisions which, in the event of a change seek the approval of the Company to deal shall not confer on the holder s thereof of control of the Company, could result in its shares.
the right to receive notice of, attend or in a renegotiation or withdrawal of such Some of Experians share-based vote at general meetings of the Company.
employee incentive plans include Details of deadlines in respect of voting The 334m 5.625% Euronotes due 2013, restrictions on transfer of shares while the for the 2011 annual general meeting are the 400m 4.75% Euronotes due 2018 and shares are subject to the plan.
contained in the notice of meeting that the 500m 4.75% Euronotes due 2020, 83 As described in the report on directors has been circulated to shareholders issued by the Group, provide that holders remuneration, non-executive directors and which can also be viewed at the may require repayment of the notes in the receive a proportion of fees in shares until Companys website.
event that a rating agency re-rates the their shareholding reaches one times their notes to below investment grade following Own shares annual fee.
These shares may not normally a change of control of the Company.
be transferred during their period of office.
The existing authority for the Company to All of Experians share-based employee purchase its own shares, which expires Where, under a share-based employee incentive plans contain provisions relating at the end of this years annual general incentive plan operated by Experian, to a change of control.
Outstanding meeting, was given at the annual general participants are the beneficial owners of awards and options would normally vest meeting held on 21 July 2010 and permitted the shares but not the registered owner, and become exercisable on a change of the Company to purchase, in the market, the voting rights are normally exercised control, subject to the satisfaction of any 102,490,734 of its own shares.
by the registered owner at the direction of performance conditions at that time.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Shares held in treasury carry no voting Company purchased 29,995,602 of its own rights for as long as they are held as shares at a cost of US$334m.
have been purchased since 31 March 2011.
60 Experian Annual Report 2011 Directors report continued The Group is party to a limited number of 42 are set out in the financial review within the factors affecting the Groups performance operational arrangements which can be business review section of the annual report through management channels, terminated or altered upon a change of and also in note 8 to the Group financial conferences, meetings, publications and control of the Company, but these are not statements.
More detail on employee considered to be individually significant to engagement, together with information the business of the Group as a whole or, Charitable donations on diversity, succession planning and in certain cases, it is considered that their talent development, can be found in the key During the year, the Group donated disclosure would be seriously prejudicial 13 resources section of this annual report.
details can be found in the corporate Experian continues to support employee The provisions relating to a change of responsibility section of the business share ownership through the provision of control of the Company in directors 54 review.
save as you earn and other employee share service contracts are described in the plan arrangements which are intended to report on directors remuneration.
In addition to cash contributions, the align the interests of employees with those Groups employees are encouraged to give Contractual arrangements of shareholders.
their time and skills for the benefit of a The licences granted to Group companies variety of charitable causes.
Creditor payment by governmental entities in respect of the operation of its credit bureaux in key Political donations For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: jurisdictions are essential to the Groups Experian did not make any EU political Agree and confirm the terms of payment business.
The Group also has several donations during the year ended 31 March at the commencement of business with key agreements with its technology and 2011. that supplier: data providers.
Although the Group has numerous other third party contractual Pay in accordance with any contract Employment of people with disabilities arrangements, none of these is considered agreed with the supplier or as required by essential to its business.
People with disabilities have equal law: and opportunities when applying for vacancies.
Continually review payment procedures Appointment and removal of directors In addition to complying with legislative and liaise with suppliers as a means of requirements, procedures are in place Both the Company by ordinary resolution eliminating difficulties and maintaining to ensure that disabled employees are and the directors may elect any person to be good working relationships.
fairly treated and that their training and a director, but the number of directors shall career development needs are carefully Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March not exceed the maximum number fixed by managed.
The policies are considered to 2011 were 23 days based on the ratio of the articles of association of the Company.
For those employees Group trade creditors at the end of the year Any person appointed by the directors becoming disabled during the course of to the amounts invoiced during the year by shall only hold office until the next annual their employment, the Group is supportive, trade creditors.
The Company has, and in general meeting and shall then be eligible whether through re-training or rerespect of the year ended 31 March 2010 had, for election.
The office of a director shall deployment, so as to provide an opportunity no trade creditors.
be vacated on the occurrence of any of the for them to remain with the Group whenever events listed in article 92 of the articles of possible.
The Company Going concern may, in accordance with its articles of Details of the adoption by the Group and Employee involvement association, remove any director from the Company of the going concern basis Experian is committed to employee office and elect another person in place of a in preparing the financial statements involvement throughout the business director so removed.
46 are set out in the financial review within and is intent on motivating and keeping the business review section and are staff informed on matters that concern Articles of association incorporated into this report by reference.
them in the context of their employment The articles of association of the Company and involving them through local Relevant audit information may be amended by the passing of a special consultative procedures.
are recognition agreements with trade As at 17 May 2011, so far as each director is unions, the consultation process is aware, there is no relevant audit information, Financial risk management, objectives established through national and local being information needed by the auditors and policies trade union representatives and through in connection with preparing their report, of Descriptions of the use of financial joint consultation committees.
Employees which the auditors are unaware and each instruments and Experians treasury and are kept well informed on matters of director has taken all steps that he she risk management objectives and policies concern and the financial and economic ought to have taken as a director in order to Governance Directors report 61 make himself herself aware of any relevant keeping proper accounting records which The directors confirm that, to the best of audit information and to establish that the disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at their knowledge, the financial statements auditors are aware of that information.
any time the financial position of the are prepared in accordance with the Group and the Company and enable applicable set of accounting standards, give Annual general meeting them to ensure that the Group financial a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements comply with applicable financial position and profit of the Company The 2011 annual general meeting of the law and Article 4 of the International and the Group taken as a whole: and this Company will be held at The Merrion Hotel, Accounting Standards Regulation and directors report contains a fair review of Upper Merrion Street, Dublin 2, Ireland the parent company financial statements the development and performance of the at 9.30am on Wednesday 20 July 2011. and the report on directors remuneration business and the position of the Company Shareholders who are unable to attend in comply with the Companies Jersey Law and the Group taken as a whole, together person may submit questions beforehand via 1991 as applicable: with a description of the principal risks and email to agmquestions@experianplc.
com uncertainties that they face.
or on the prepaid card sent to shareholders taking such steps as are reasonably open with the notice of meeting.
T he questions will be to them to safeguard the assets of the By order of the Board addressed at the meeting, via the Companys Company and the Group, and to prevent website at www.
com or individually and detect fraud and other irregularities: Charles Brown as appropriate.
The notice of meeting has and Company Secretary been circulated to shareholders and can the maintenance and integrity of the 17 May 2011 also be viewed on the Companys website.
statutory and audited information on the Companys website Jersey legislation Auditors and United Kingdom regulation governing Corporate headquarters: The auditors,  LLP, the preparation and dissemination of Newenham House have indicated their willingness to continue financial statements may differ from Northern Cross in office and a resolution that they be rerequirements in other jurisdictions.
Malahide Road appointed as auditors of the Company will Dublin 17 In addition, the directors consider that, in be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Ireland preparing the financial statements: Statements of directors responsibilities suitable accounting policies have been Registered office: The directors are responsible for: selected and applied consistently: 22 Grenville Street St Helier judgements and estimates made have preparing the annual report, the Group Jersey been reasonable and prudent: and parent company financial statements JE4 8PX and the report on directors remuneration the Group financial statements comply in accordance with applicable law and with IFRSs as adopted for use in the regulations: European Union: preparing financial statements which give all accounting standards which they a true and fair view of the state of affairs consider applicable have been followed at the balance sheet date, and the profit in preparing the parent company financial or loss for the period then ended of a statements: and the Group in accordance with IFRSs as it is appropriate that the Group and parent adopted for use in the European Union, company financial statements have been and b the Company in accordance with prepared on a going concern basis.
