Directors Report Other Statutory Information OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Chairman Mark Abrahams The directors submit their management report and the audited Group financial Substantial shareholdings statements for the financial year ended As of 9 November 2011, the following interests in shares have been notified to the Company: 31 August 2011.
Number of % of issued Principal activities Interested party shares share capital Fenner PLC is a holding company which is a public limited company listed on the London Standard Life Investments Limited 20,727,138 10.75 Stock Exchange and is incorporated and Blackrock, Inc 11,145,797 5.78 domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Limited 10,817,813 5.61 of the registered office is Hesslewood Country Lloyds Banking Group plc 9,209,186 4.78 Office Park, Ferriby Road, Hessle, East Legal & General Group Plc 8,579,070 4.45 Invesco Limited 6,314,001 3.28 Yorkshire, HU13 0PW.
The principal activities of the Group are detailed Save as disclosed in the Board Remuneration in the Business Review on pages 5 to 19.
Donations Report: During the year, the Group donated 151,172 Results and dividends no director has any interest beneficial or 2010: 84,171 to charitable, social and non-beneficial in any share or loan capital community-related organisations.
It is the 2011 2010 of the Company or any of its subsidiaries: m m Groups policy that no donations are made to political parties.
no change in the interests of directors has Group profit for the year 49.4 26.5 occurred between the end of the financial Directors and their interests year and 9 November 2011: and The directors of the Company who served Dividends: there were no contracts of significance during any part of the year are shown in the Interim 2.65p per share subsisting during or at the end of the Board Remuneration Report on page 36.
2010 2.40p payable 5.1 4.6 financial year in which a director of the Company was materially interested.
Details of the directors beneficial interests in Final 5.35p per share the ordinary shares of the Company, in share In accordance with the recommendation in the 2010 4.80p proposed 10.3 9.2 options over the ordinary share capital of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors Company and in the Performance Share Plan will be offering themselves up for re-election are given in the Board Remuneration Report on an annual basis.
Nicholas Hobson was 15.4 13.8 on pages 33 to 39. appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011 and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 29 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration offers himself up for election, this being his issues, both internal and external, that Business Review on page 17 and note 20 to the first opportunity to do so since his influence the Groups business performance Group financial statements on pages 69 to 71. appointment to the Board.
The performance and to improve performance and productivity.
Formal and informal meetings are used to Other statutory information of each of the directors continues to be effective and they continue to demonstrate consult employees and to keep them informed Set out below is a summary of certain commitment to the role and the Company.
about the performance of the Group.
The provisions of the Companys current Articles of practices of consultation and involvement vary Association the Articles and the Companies Directors indemnities and from country to country according to local Act 2006 Companies Act.
If further customs, legal considerations and the size of information is required, the relevant provisions insurance cover the operation.
The regular worldwide issue of of the Articles and the Companies Act should A qualifying third party indemnity has been a Group magazine assists the process of be consulted.
granted by the Company to each of the communication, as do briefing meetings, directors, to the extent permitted by the Share capital information bulletins and meetings with Articles of Association and the Companies Act The Companys issued share capital as at 31 employee representatives.
2006, against claims from third parties in August 2011, together with details of shares The Group continues to recognise its social and respect of certain liabilities excluding criminal issued during the year, is set out in note 9 to statutory duty to employ disabled persons and and regulatory penalties arising out of, or in the Company financial statements on page 92. does all that is practicable to meet this connection with, the execution of their powers, Each ordinary share of the Company carries responsibility.
Full and fair consideration is duties and responsibilities as directors of the one vote.
The Company has a single class of given to the recruitment, training, career Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Group share capital which is divided into ordinary development and promotion of disabled also holds appropriate Directors and Officers shares of 25p each.
persons, bearing in mind the aptitude and Liability Insurance.
ability of the individual concerned.
If an Dividends and distributions employee becomes disabled whilst employed Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, Supplier payment policy by the Group, wherever possible, he or she will the Company may, by ordinary resolution, from Given the international nature of the Groups continue to be employed in the same job.
If this time to time declare dividends not exceeding the operations, the Group does not operate a action is not practicable or possible then every amount recommended by the Board.
The Board standard code in respect of payments to effort will be made to find suitable alternative may pay interim dividends, including fixed rate suppliers.
Individual operating units are employment.
In these circumstances, dividends, whenever the financial position of the responsible for agreeing the terms and retraining would be made available using Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies conditions under which transactions with their Group resources as well as by contact with the such payment.
Dividends will be paid pro-rata to suppliers are conducted, including the terms of local disabilities employment adviser.
the amounts paid up on the shares.
It is the Groups policy that payments and scrip dividends can be authorised at a to suppliers are made in accordance with these Further details of the Groups employment General Meeting at the Boards terms.
The average creditor days for the Group policy are given in the Business Review on recommendation.
during the year ended 31 August 2011 was 55 pages 10 and 11 and in the Corporate days 2010: 54 days.
The Company does not Responsibility report on pages 41 and 42.
Voting rights have any trade creditors.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching Environmental policy to any shares by or in accordance with the Employment policy The Group recognises and accepts that Articles, at a General Meeting, every member The Group operates worldwide and its concern for the environment is an integral who is present in person or by proxy shall have employment policies are designed to meet and fundamental part of the Groups one vote and, on a poll, every member present local conditions and requirements but are corporate business strategy.
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for established on the basis of the best practices each share.
In the case of joint holders of a Details of the Groups environmental policy in each country and support the principles of share, the vote of the senior holder who are given in the Business Review on pages 11 the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, and 12 and in the Corporate Responsibility Wherever the Group operates, it encourages shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes report on pages 43 and 44.
The Group the provision of equal employment of the other joint holders.
Environmental Policy is also on the Fenner opportunities thereby ensuring a competent website.
For this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names of the holders Financial risk management The Groups policy is to secure good relations stand in the register.
between management and all employees, to Details of the Groups financial risk promote a better understanding of all the management policies are given in the Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 30 Directors Report Other Statutory Information continued Restrictions on voting if stampable at the office or at another place The Board may exercise all the powers of the Unless the Board determine otherwise, no appointed by the Board, accompanied by the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or member shall be entitled to vote at a General certificate for the share to which it relates and charge all or any part of its undertaking, Meeting, either in person or by proxy, in such other evidence as the Board may property, assets present or future and respect of any share held unless all moneys uncalled capital and to issue debentures and reasonably require to show the right of the are fully paid up on that share.
In addition, no other securities whether outright or as transferor to make the transfer and, if the member shall be entitled to vote if he has been collateral security for any debt, liability or instrument of transfer is executed by some served with a notice after failure to provide the other person on his behalf, the authority of that obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Company with information concerning person to do so : is in respect of only one class Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act interests in those shares required to be of shares: and is in favour of not more than and Articles, at a General Meeting, the Board provided under the Companies Act.
may request authority to allot shares and the Deadline for exercising voting rights power to disapply the statutory pre-emption If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a Voting rights may be exercised in person, by rights and the authority to buy the Company's share, it shall send the transferee notice of its proxy, or by a Corporate Representative.
The own ordinary shares in the market.
Currently refusal together with reasons for the refusal deadline for submission of proxy forms is not the Board request such consent at each AGM.
within two months after the date on which the less than 48 hours before the time appointed The details of requested authorities and instrument of transfer was lodged with the for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
powers in connection with the AGM to be held Company.
on 11 January 2012 are set out in the Notice of Variation of rights Appointment and replacement of directors Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of legislation, the Unless varied by ordinary resolution, the Articles specify that rights attaching to any Significant agreements: change of control number of directors other than alternate class of shares may be varied or abrogated, All of the Companys current share plans directors shall be not less than two nor more either with the consent in writing of the holders contain provisions relating to a change of than 15 in number.
of three-quarters in nominal value of the control.
Outstanding awards and options would issued shares of the class being varied or with At each AGM, all those directors who have normally vest and become exercisable on a the sanction of a special resolution passed at a been in office for three years or more since change of control, subject to the satisfaction of separate General Meeting of the holders of the their last re-election shall retire from office any performance conditions at that time.
and be eligible for re-election.
A non-executive Amendment to articles of association director who has held office for a continuous Transfer of shares Any amendments to the Articles may be made period of nine years or more at the date of the All transfers of certificated shares may be in in accordance with the provisions of the AGM shall retire from office and be eligible for any usual form or in any other form which the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
re-election, in line with best corporate practice.
The instrument of transfer There will be a resolution at the AGM on 11 shall be signed by or on behalf of the Independent auditors January 2012 to propose new Articles which, if transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by A resolution to re-appoint approved, will mean all directors will retire or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of  LLP as independent annually.
transfer need not be under seal.
Transfers of auditors to the Company will be proposed at shares which are in uncertificated form are The Board may appoint a director either to fill a the AGM.
effected by means of the CREST system.
casual vacancy or as an additional director As far as each director is aware, there is no provided that the appointment does not cause The Board may refuse to register the transfer relevant audit information of which the the number of directors to exceed the of a share which is not fully paid, provided that Companys auditors are unaware.
Each maximum prescribed by the Articles.
A director the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares director has taken all the steps that they ought so appointed shall hold office only until the in the Company from taking place on an open to have taken as a director in order to make next following AGM.
If not re-elected at such and proper basis.
In the case of uncertificated themselves aware of any relevant audit AGM, he shall vacate office at its conclusion.
shares, the Board may exercise its discretion to information and to establish that the refuse to register a transfer of a share to the Powers of directors Companys auditors are aware of that extent permitted by the regulations and the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act information.
facilities and requirements of the relevant and Articles and to any directions given by system.
Annual General Meeting special resolution, the business of the The Board may also refuse to register the Company shall be managed by the Board As special business at the forthcoming AGM, transfer of a certificated share unless the which may exercise all the powers of the resolutions will be proposed to renew the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped Company.
directors authority to allot shares, to disapply Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 31 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration the statutory pre-emption rights to a limited extent and to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the Company subject to defined limits.
Resolutions will also be proposed to hold General Meetings on 14 days notice and to adopt new Articles.
The proposed resolutions and further details regarding these proposals are set out in the Chairmans explanatory letter accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Mark Abrahams Chairman 9 November 2011 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 32
