Directors Report Business Review Definition of Key Performance Indicators Coal prices, production and demand and notional interest on defined benefit As published by IHS Global Limited, the post-retirement schemes and the unwinding McCloskey Report is the coal industrys of discount on provisions.
recognised market analysis and trade journal.
Interest cover These bi-weekly prices reflect the delivered to This measure provides an indication of port price of coal from two major coal whether the Groups profit is sufficient to exporting markets.
It is calculated World coal production, defined as commercial by dividing the underlying operating profit by solid fuels only, i. e. bituminous coal and net interest payable on bank overdrafts and anthracite hard coal and lignite and brown loans, other loans and bank deposits.
sub-bituminous, is taken from the BP Net debt to EBITDA Statistical Review of World Energy June 2011.
This is a measure of the Groups ability to Coal production and demand are presented as service its debt obligations.
It is calculated million tonnes of raw coal extracted.
The by dividing net debt defined as short and International Energy Agency uses an energy long-term borrowings less cash and cash adjusted measure: Mtce, which has been equivalents by the profit for the year after converted at 1 Mtce 1.4515 million tonnes adding back net finance costs, taxation, of raw coal.
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
Sales per employee Total annual third party revenue at constant Return on gross capital employed exchange rates divided by the average This is a measure of performance relative to number of employees derived from a simple amounts invested.
It is calculated by dividing total head count with no distinction between underlying operating profit by gross capital full time, part time, temporary or casual employed.
Gross capital employed is defined employees.
Where employees are employed as the average of the opening and closing for part of a year, the average number is non-current assets excluding deferred tax, calculated on a pro-rata basis.
inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
Lost time incidents The number of incidents connected with work which results in an injured person being away from work or unable to do the full range of their normal duties, not including the day of the incident.
Lost time incident frequency rate The number of lost time incidents per 200,000 hours worked.
Underlying operating profit This is operating profit stated before amortisation of intangible assets acquired.
Underlying earnings per share This is a measure of performance and growth.
It is calculated by dividing the underlying profit for the year by the basic weighted average number of shares in issue and ranking for dividend.
Underlying profit for the year is profit for the year stated before amortisation of intangible assets acquired Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 19
