Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review DELIVERING ON COMMITMENTS Chief Executive Officer STRONG DEMAND, COMBINED WITH THE BENEFITS OF OUR Nicholas Hobson ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS, PRODUCED GROWING MARGINS AND RECORD EARNINGS.
utilisation of our organic investments.
A As a diversified group, Fenner uses a wide Introduction continued recovery was experienced in many range of materials, from thousands of tonnes Since assuming the role of Chief Executive bulk handling segments which added plant of rubber compound to a few hundred Officer on 1 March 2011, I have visited and throughput although the construction sector grammes of biomaterials.
We work closely familiarised myself with those parts of the with selected suppliers to ensure that our remains depressed in North America and Group which were outside my previous direct customers benefit from the latest technical Europe.
responsibilities, instituted a process to set a developments in materials and processes.
strategic vision for the future and met The Advanced Engineered Products Division The majority of these relationships are in the customers, investors and other stakeholders has made excellent progress.
There has been normal course of business, ensuring quality, in the business.
I have been continually high demand for our niche, performance continuity of supply and reasonable impressed by the quality and dedication of critical products.
Increased market penetration commercial terms.
Where appropriate, and Fenner employees worldwide.
I therefore see it and expansion of both our geographical spread usually relating to technical developments, as essential to secure continuity of our unique and breadth of products offered, together with relationships are formally documented.
During culture and to ensure that safe, effective and a general improvement in market conditions, the year under review, many Fenner profitable business practices developed in one have provided a favourable trading operations had to manage significant material part of the Group are shared amongst all those environment.
Within this Division, our seals price increases, short-term volatility, operations to which they are applicable.
operations have enjoyed strong demand from shortages and allocations.
Constant vigilance, the hydraulic and oil and gas sectors.
The close cooperation with established suppliers Performance drivers for our precision polymer operations and active development of new sources Our investment in the development of our remain favourable and our medical operations ensured, and continues to ensure, continuity conveyor belting business has established a are flourishing following recent investments.
global division which is unparalleled in both Growth in the development and manufacture of geographical coverage and the scope of value implantable biomedical textile components for Strategy added products.
It is befitting that as our medical devices is encouraging.
During the year, the Executive Committee, strategic milestones are achieved, our with the support of the Board, has begun a Customer satisfaction is of importance to all business is characterised by a brand which process to develop a vision for Fenner for the operating units, who ensure they are meeting defines how we fulfil our customers next 10 years and, building on our success customer expectations in each market.
Consequently, the conveyor to date, demonstrate how we will drive longExperienced sales teams maintain close belting business has been rebranded as term value for our customers, employees and contact with customers, providing feedback on Fenner Dunlop Engineered Conveyor Solutions.
These During the year, demand from the mining qualitative indicators are complemented by Ahead of completing this review, our strategy sectors has been sufficiently strong to leverage quantitative measurements including customer continues to be to increase market share and our operating base, allowing more efficient surveys and on time in full performance.
target new value added product areas.
We will Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 5
