Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48 Board of Directors 1 2 3 5 6 7 1.
Christopher Mawe, FCA 50 of Taj Investment Limited with responsibility Non-executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer for its Indian public and private investment Michael Abrahams joined the Board on 14 Chris Mawe joined the Board on 7 January portfolio.
Prior to that, he held a number of June 2007.
He is chairman of the London Clinic 2008.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant positions with Glencore International, including and the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme.
He with Coopers and Lybrand in 1991, having senior member of the Copper Division, CEO of was deputy chairman of Prudential plc until gained a First Class Honours degree in CIS Operations, manager of the Moscow office May 2000, and has served as chairman and Engineering.
He has held senior financial and trader in the Ferrous Division.
He is a as a director of a number of quoted and positions for the past 16 years, first with IMI Chartered Accountant South Africa.
plc in both the UK and Europe, and then with Carclo plc as finance director.
Kostyantin Zhevago 38 he was finance director of UK Coal plc.
Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Wolfram Kuoni joined the Board on 14 June Kostyantin Zhevago joined the Board as a 4.
He is the founder and senior partner of Non-executive Director on 14 June 2007 and Senior Independent Kuoni Attorneys-at-Law, Zurich, Switzerland, was appointed Chief Executive on 1 November Non-executive Director and serves on a number of boards of directors.
He is ultimately the controlling Oliver Baring joined the Board on 1 December He has over 12 years of experience in investment banking.
Prior to 2005, he held a shareholder of Ferrexpo.
He has been chairman of Mwana Africa number of positions within UBS Investment member of the Ukrainian Parliament since plc since its reverse takeover of African Gold Banking Zurich and New York, including head 1998.
He is currently a member of the plc in September 2005.
He retired from UBS of the European Export and Project Finance Parliamentary Committee on Law Policy and Warburg in 2001, having led the International Team.
He also originated and structured Chairman of the Parliamentary Group for Mining Group with responsibility for Africa and cross-border acquisitions and equity capital Inter-Parliamentary Relations with Japan.
Previously he had been head of the markets transactions.
He graduated with a law 2002, he has been a member of the UBS Warburg mining equity sales team and degree from the University of Berne, and holds permanent delegation of the Ukrainian was responsible for its respected coverage a doctorate in law from the University of Zurich Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of and sales capability.
He was a partner in Rowe and an MBA from INSEAD in France.
He is a the European Council and a member of the and Pitman before its merger with SG member of the Zurich Bar.
Ukrainian faction of the Committee for Warburg.
He is non-executive chairman of First Parliamentary Cooperation between Ukraine Africa Holdings Limited, and is a non-executive 7.
Ihor Mitiukov 59 and the European Union.
He has previously director of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc, Independent Non-executive Director served as chairman of the management board and a member of the Advisory Council of Ihor Mitiukov joined the Board on 14 June 2007. and deputy chairman of the supervisory board Sentient Resources Fund.
He is the managing director and head of of CJSC Commercial Bank Finance and Credit country for Ukraine, Morgan Stanley.
He was Bank F&C and as a member of the 5.
Raffaele Lucio Genovese 50 the general director of the Financial Policy supervisory board of JSC Ukrnafta.
Between Independent Non-executive Director Institute until March 2008.
From 2002 to 2005 1993 and 1996, he was financial director of Lucio Genovese joined the Board on 14 June he served as Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary F&C Group of companies.
He is the chief executive officer of Nage Ambassador of Ukraine in the United Kingdom.
executive director of New World Resources Capital Management, a Swiss-based advisory He also represented Ukraine in the International plc, a subsidiary of BXR Group Limited.
He and proprietary company specialising in the Maritime Organisation.
From 1997 to 2001 he graduated from the Kyiv State Economic metals and mining sector.
He is the nonserved as Minister of Finance of Ukraine and, University in 1996, specialising in international executive Chairman of Firestone Diamonds from 1995 to 1997, as Ukraines Special economics.
plc and serves on a number of other boards Representative to the European Union in of directors.
He has previously served as Brussels.
In 1994, he was deputy governor of investment officer and a member of the board overview Business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Executive Committee 4 8 5 2 3 1 7 4 6 the National Bank of Ukraine and then 1.
Viktor Lotous 47 Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for Banking and Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer, FPM Finance.
Prior to that, he held various positions See profile under Board of Directors Viktor Lotous joined FPM in 1986.
He became at Agrarian-Industrial Bank Ukraine, and was chief engineer in 1997, and General Director appointed as its deputy governor in 1992.
Christopher Mawe, FCA and Chief Operating Officer in April 2007.
He graduated from the Cybernetics Department, Chief Financial Officer is a graduate of Kryvyi Rih Mining and Ore Kyiv State University and has a PhD in See profile under Board of Directors Institute, and of the Kyiv State Economic Economics 1985 from the Institute of Economy, University, specialising in Finance.
Nikolay Goroshko 52 Chief Financial Officer, FYM 7.
Miklos Salamon 57 Nikolay Goroshko joined Ferrexpo in 1984.
Group Chief Operating Officer Non-executive Director He was Acting Group Chief Financial Officer Brian Maynard joined the Group in January Mike Salamon joined the Board on 27 March in April 2007 and Chief Commercial Officer 2011.
He spent 30 years with Vale Inco & Vale 2009.
He is executive chairman of New World in charge of the Groups Growth Projects in Australia in their nickel and coal operations Resources plc, a subsidiary of BXR Group December 2007 prior to his current role.
He respectively, working in technical, operations Limited.
He is also a non-executive member is a graduate of the Kyiv Institute of National management, and executive roles.
In 2007 of the board of directors of the New World Economics, specialising in Industrial Planning.
he was appointed Vice President, Mining Resources subsidiary OKD, and a nonin the Vale Inco Ontario, Canada operations.
executive director of Central Rand Gold, Gem 4.
Jason Keys 40 He moved to the Presidents role in the Diamonds and Minera las Cenizas.
With a Chief Marketing Officer Manitoba, Canada operations in 2008 and career spanning more than 30 years, recently Jason Keys joined Ferrexpo in July 2011.
He was accountable for the fully integrated with BHP Billiton, he has extensive knowledge held sales and marketing posts at Rio Tinto mining, milling, smelting and refining complex.
of the international mining and extractive Coal and Iron Ore and at BHP Billiton Coal for Most recently he was the Global Coal Director industries.
Between 2003 and 2006, he served 12 years, and then led BHP Billitons Iron Ore Technical & Administrative Support as an executive director of BHP Billiton with commercial marketing team for five years including finance, sustainability, logistics, responsibilities for the aluminium, copper and before joining Ferrexpo.
He holds a Bachelor technical services in the Brisbane head office nickel businesses.
From 2001 to 2006, he also of Commerce degree from the University of of the Vale Australia operations.
He graduated chaired BHP Billitons Operating Committee, Western Australia and is a Certified in 1981 from the University of Manitoba, which was accountable for inter alia the BHP Professional Accountant.
Canada with a BSc in Geological Engineering.
Billiton groups health, safety and environment, projects, purchasing and operating excellence.
Nikolay Kladiev 39 In 2001 he oversaw the merger integration of Chief Financial Officer, FPM Billiton plc and BHP Limited.
He was a Nikolay Kladiev joined FPM in June 2005. co-founding director of Billiton plc in 1997, Over the course of his career Nikolay Kladiev and oversaw the companys listing on the spent several years as an audit manager with London Stock Exchange in 1997.
Before 1997 Ernst & Young and CFO of a large Russian he held a number of positions, first at Anglo factory.
He holds a Masters in International American and later in the coal divisions of Shell Economic Relations from the Kyiv National and Gencor Ltd.
He graduated in 1975 from The University of Economics.
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg with a degree in Mining Engineering Cum Laude and obtained an MBA from the London Business School, University of London in 1981.
