overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63 Directors Report The Directors present their report to shareholders for the financial year In compliance with the 2010 Code all of the Directors will retire at the ending 31 December 2011. forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as a public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
Ferrexpo plc listed Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group are on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and is a member of the given in the Directors biographies on pages 48 and 49.
Details of the FTSE 250 index.
remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and their service contracts are contained in the Remuneration Report Business review on pages 56 to 62.
A review of the business, its principal activities and likely future developments can be found in the sections listed below which are Appointment and replacement of Directors incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The pages Directors may be elected by the shareholders by ordinary resolution referred to incorporate all requirements of section 417 Companies or appointed by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds Act 2006 the Act, including details of the principal risks and office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible for election uncertainties facing the Group and analysis using Key Performance by the shareholders.
Indicators as set out in the Business Review.
The Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement on Powers of the Directors pages 8 to 11 Subject to the Companys Articles, the Act and any directions given The Review of Operations on pages 20 to 28 by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed The Financial Review on pages 29 to 33 by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Risks section on pages 34 to 37 The Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 40 to 47 Directors and Officers insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Directors duties in respect of legal action that may be brought against its Directors The duties of Directors are set out in sections 170 to 177 of the Act.
The duties that are specifically referred to in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 55 include the duties under Directors indemnity provision section 172 to promote the success of the Company, section 175 to During the period under review, the Group had in force a qualifying avoid conflicts of interest, section 176 not to accept benefits from third-party indemnity provision in favour of one or more of the third parties, and section 177 to declare any interests in existing or Directors of Ferrexpo plc against liability in respect of proceedings proposed transactions or arrangements with the Company.
brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Act.
Results and dividends Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement The Company has a single class of Ordinary Shares of 10 pence on page 69. each.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3 US cents per Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares Ordinary Share.
Subject to shareholders approving this may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may recommendation at the AGM, the dividend will be paid in UK pounds by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so sterling on 1 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Shareholders may receive UK pounds At each AGM, the Board proposes to put in place annual shareholder sterling dividends by direct bank transfer, provided that they have authority for the Companys Directors to allot new shares in notified the Companys registrars in advance.
Shareholders may also accordance with the Institutional Investor Guidelines.
elect to receive dividends in US Dollars the procedure for this is set out in the Notice of the AGM.
Details of the issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 28 of the financial statements.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: Michael Abrahams Oliver Baring Lucio Genovese Wolfram Kuoni Chris Mawe Ihor Mitiukov Mike Salamon Kostyantin Zhevago Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 64 Directors Report continued Variation of rights Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to a class of Subject to the provisions of the Act, the shareholders may by shares may be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal amount of the the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as may pay interim dividends and also any fixed rate dividends treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at whenever the financial position of the Group, in the opinion a separate meeting of the holders of the issued shares of that class of the Board, justifies their payment.
validly held in accordance with the Articles.
Under the Companys Articles, the Board may withhold payment of all Transfer of shares or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater interest as subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a notice by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer of an under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed within uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in 14 days to provide the Company with information concerning interests the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and where, in the case in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his a show of hands and on a poll, one vote for each share held.
Under certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in the Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may decline all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting.
to register a transfer of a certificated share if it is not in the approved A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals form.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer of any share to act on its behalf at a general meeting as a corporate representative.
which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with Restrictions on voting a 0.25% or greater interest if such a person has been served with a No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any notice and has failed within 14 days to provide the Company with shares held by him if any call or other sum outstanding in respect of information concerning interests in those shares required to be that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In provided under the Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board addition, subject to the Articles no member shall be entitled to vote if to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
he has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust EBT purchase its own shares in accordance with the Act.
Any shares The trustees of the Companys EBT may vote or abstain from voting which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or on shares held in the EBT as they think fit and in doing so may take cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
into account both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
The Company was given authority to make market purchases of up to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a Deadline for voting rights resolution passed on 26 May 2011.
This authority will expire at the The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not conclusion of the Companys 2012 AGM.
A special resolution to less than 48 hours before the meeting.
The Directors will also specify renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details in the notice of any general meeting a time, being not more that 48 of the resolution renewing the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares hours before the meeting, by which a person must be entered in the are set out in the notice of AGM enclosed with this report.
register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting The Directors may decide, at their discretion, that no account The Company did not make use of the authority mentioned above should be taken of any day that is not a working day when calculating during 2011. the 48 hour period.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65 Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been advised in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable interests in its voting rights.
There were no changes in these interests between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report.
% of the Companys total voting Number of voting rights at date of Name of shareholder Ordinary Shares rights notification 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. 300,198,313 300,198,313 51.00% 2 Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd 76,656,035 76,656,035 13.02% 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Minco Trust of which Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary.
2 BXR Group Ltd is the ultimate parent undertaking and indirect controller of Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd, which holds 76,656,035 shares through its nominee Lynchwood Nominees Ltd.
In addition, Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd is interested in total return swaps covering 70,500,000 shares.
Free float On 14 December 2011 the FTSE Group announced that the FTSE Policy Group had approved a change to the Ground Rules of the FTSE UK Index Series, increasing to 25% the minimum free float as calculated by FTSE for a company to be eligible for inclusion.
The FTSE Group also indicated that Ferrexpo does not currently satisfy this requirement as it calculates that Ferrexpos free float is approximately 24%.
Companies not currently satisfying this requirement have been given a time frame of 24 months from 1 January 2012 to reach this free float level if they are to continue to be included in the UK Index Series.
Ferrexpo is considering with its advisers the options available to it.
Significant agreements change of control The Company does not have any agreements with Directors or employees that would provide for compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
There are no circumstances connected with any other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, except those referred to below: LTIP The rules of the Companys LTIP set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employee rights under the plan.
Generally, such rights will vest on a change of control to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time pro-rated basis, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company, or in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent basis.
Bank loan facility Under the US$420 million revolving pre-export finance facility with ING Bank N. V. Uni Credit Bank AG, Socit Gnrale and other banks entered into in September 2011, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted share capital of the Company, or any person other than Kostyantin Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of the shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting, then the lenders are not obliged to fund a drawdown.
Corporate Bond due 2016 Under the conditions of the Notes issued in April 2011, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted share capital of the Company, or any person other that Kostyantin Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting, then any Noteholder will have the right to require the repurchase of its Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Relationship Agreement Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Kostyantin Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company can be found in the Corporate Governance Report page 51.
The Relationship Agreement ceases to apply if the holding of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust or Mr Zhevago individually or collectively falls below 25% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Events since the balance sheet date Information on events since the balance sheet date is provided in note 41 to the financial statements on page 123.
Market value of land and buildings Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from a valuation undertaken on 1 January 2003 as part of the Groups transition to reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
Policy on derivatives and financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Group policy on financial instruments is set out in note 37 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 112 to 119.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 66 Directors Report continued Creditor payment policy and practice Statement on disclosure of information to auditors It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading terms audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that and conditions have been complied with.
The average creditor each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of payment period for the period ended 31 December 2011 for the any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups Company was 24 days 2010: 20 days.
auditors are aware of that information.
Charitable and political donations A Statement of the Responsibilities of the Directors for preparing the The Group made no political donations during the year.
Group Group and Company financial statements is set out on page 67. donations to charities worldwide were nil 2010: nil, with UK charities receiving nil 2010: nil.
For community support donations, please see Amendments to Articles of Association note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance with the Act.
Risk management policies Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainty and an AGM overview of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on Thursday 24 are set out in note 37 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial May 2012 at the Intercontinental Hotel, 1 Hamilton Place, Park Lane, Information on pages 112 to 119.
Further references to risk are made London W1J 7QY.
A separate letter from the Chairman summarising in the Risks section on pages 34 to 37 and in the Internal Control the business of the meeting and the Notice convening the AGM have section of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 53 to 54 which been sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
provides a summary of the internal control procedures put in place by the Board to identify key risks and review risk management and its Auditors effectiveness.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing Going concern auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
Ernst & Young LLP have The Groups business activities, together with the risk factors likely to indicated their willingness to continue in office, and an ordinary affect its future development, performance and position are set out in resolution reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors the Business Review on pages 29 to 37.
The financial position of the to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 29 to 33.
In addition, note This report was approved by the Board on 13 March 2012.
37 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 112 to 119 sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for David Leonard managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives and Company Secretary details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk, liquidity risk as well as currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Ferrexpo plc Directors are of the opinion that the Company will continue to operate and, as such, the accounts have been prepared using the Going Registered office: Concern principle.
24 King Street London SW1Y 6QL Corporate governance statement Registered number: 5432915 The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement set Headquarters: out in a companys Directors Report.
In common with many Bahnhofstrasse 13 companies, Ferrexpo has an existing practice of issuing, within its CH6340 Baar Annual Report, a Corporate Governance Report that is separate from Switzerland its Directors Report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of DTR 7.2 is located in Ferrexpos Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 55 and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference, with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
