Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In addition to the foregoing, the growth in 2012, this growth is likely Fidessa will continue primary risk and uncertainty related to be at levels which are lower than to play an important to the Groups performance for 2012 those seen during 2011. role in providing the is the challenging macroeconomic solutions that the environment caused by the global Looking further ahead, Fidessa industry needs.
financial crisis and its impact on believes that it will see stability Fidessas customers, which could returning to the markets and that have a material impact on the Groups reduced headwinds will enable it performance over the year and could to return to more historic growth their expenditure and increased levels cause actual results to differ materially levels as its new initiatives gain of consolidation and corporate failure.
from expected and historical results.
Fidessa will continue to As expected, the pressure was most A continued downturn in buy-side play an important role in providing keenly felt by the smaller firms whilst trading or in company market the solutions that the industry needs larger firms have generally been able valuations, or an increase in discount and will maintain its position as an to maintain their position, although rates, could result in an impairment important participant within the there is clearly a strong focus on cost to the carrying value of goodwill from financial community.
Fidessa expects within this segment as well.
that there will be a long-term, ongoing this backdrop Fidessa has continued focus on efficiency within the market to make good progress through a Outlook resulting in further significant growth programme of helping its customers Fidessa expects that, in the shortopportunities, and will maintain its reduce their costs, extending the term, conditions will remain difficult strategy of investment in the business range of asset classes it supports, for some time to come given the to bring the right solutions to its extending its regional coverage and stress that is still apparent within the customers across all the regions in providing increasingly sophisticated financial markets.
However, it believes which it operates.
there will still be good opportunities This has been demonstrated by the 1 for growth, particularly through Market review continued strength of the consultancy extending its derivatives presence Introduction revenue and contracts for 81 new and leveraging its infrastructure to Conditions in the financial markets buy-side or sell-side platforms across deliver greater value to its larger during 2011 were generally more the regions.
In order to develop these difficult than many of our customers significant sales in North America and opportunities Fidessa is increasing were anticipating, with a widely Europe as well as Asia, Latin America, its development spend, both in terms expected uptick in the second half the Nordics and Australia.
During of actual product development and failing to materialise as the Eurozone 2011 almost the entire headwind also in terms of investment in the crisis deepened.
Trading volumes experienced by Fidessa has been due infrastructure and expertise required across most of the main equity to market conditions and Fidessa has to support these initiatives.
As a result markets in 2011 were at their lowest continued to win market share from its of this investment and the ongoing levels for many years and there were competitors, whilst losses of existing market conditions, Fidessa believes also high levels of volatility.
These customers to competitors remained that whilst it can continue to deliver conditions had an inevitable impact negligible.
Overall new customer on Fidessas customer base, with more companies looking at reducing 1 The Market Review addresses the structure of the marketplace and therefore differs from the IFRS segment reporting which reflects the structure of the business operations focused on the method of delivery to the marketplace.
Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued wins have offset the losses due to Over the year Fidessa has continued Over 25% of existing consolidation and business failures to evolve its buy-side business such buy-side clients signed so that the number of customers that it has now become a high quality, up for significantly using Fidessa services has remained strategic partner for its clients, with expanded levels of stable, although the overall number a robust delivery methodology to service from Fidessa.
of users has reduced slightly to just match its heritage and pedigree on over 26,000. the sell-side.
Fidessa has now forged long-term relationships with its larger Buy-side trading buy-side clients that broaden the Despite the challenging economic scope of its activities and allow it to conditions experienced by many take increased ongoing responsibilities.
buy-side firms, Fidessas buy-side In 2011, over 25% of existing clients business delivered good growth signed up for significantly expanded during 2011.
Economic conditions, levels of service from Fidessa, covering along with an increasing regulatory a range of services including software, burden, meant that market sentiment consultancy, connectivity and within the buy-side remained mixed hosting activities.
This included one and continued cost controls at many of the largest global asset managers, firms meant that moving ahead with State Street Global Advisors SSgA, new, large investment management who have extended their use of deployments remained difficult.
Fidessas buy-side investment However, firms did look to leverage solution to cover fixed income and their existing investments for further compliance.
In one of SSgAs largest asset classes, regions or users in upgrades to its front office systems, a cost-effective manner and this the firm now benefits from a single presented a number of opportunities platform covering connectivity, to expand the usage of Fidessa trading workflow and pre-trade software and to extend service based compliance for all asset classes.
Compliance and regulation also remained key areas of opportunity, Market execution capabilities were and compliance systems spearheaded a key area of growth in the buy-side Fidessas new sales to larger buy-side segment and Fidessas Buy-side firms including the Companys first Workstation, with its software as a roll out to a domestic Japanese service SaaS based delivery model buy-side institution.
Fidessa also won and broad coverage of trading venues, Buy-side Technologys Best Buy-side brokers and asset classes, proved Compliance Product award for popular.
A number of new customers the fourth year running, cementing signed globally, including a deal Fidessas position as the vendor covering users in London and Hong that sets the standard in this space.
Kong and providing connections to over 40 remote brokers.
The Buy-side Workstations integrated transaction Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 cost analysis TCA tools were an connectivity network to send, receive, The increased usage has come from important element of this sale and trade and service order flow.
With the expansion of the community of brokers these, combined with its basket increasing globalisation of markets, using the network, particularly from trading functionality and handling of the growing desire of many firms the emerging regions, increased allocations, made it the compelling to play on the global stage and the use by buy-side firms as they adopt choice in this competitive market ever more complex trading strategies Fidessa as their network of choice segment.
During the year the employed, resilient high-performance for their connectivity, as well as capabilities and breadth of coverage connectivity to the worlds financial from more broker to broker flow.
of the Buy-side Workstation were markets is now a vital necessity.
This broker to broker flow is created extended still further, including the when smaller niche players leverage addition of FX trading functionality the capabilities of their larger Increased usage has and access to FX trading venues.
counterparts, in terms of reach, come from expansion scale and advanced trading tools, Fidessas portfolio of buy-side thus enabling them to offer new of the community products and services is now firmly services to their clients in a highly of brokers using the established within the industry and cost-effective and efficient manner.
Fidessa is recognised as a market Another important feature of the leader in this space.
Going forward, Fidessa network is its multi-asset Fidessa plans to continue to evolve Fidessas multi-asset network operates capability and as Fidessa builds on its buy-side business model and build across the globe and now connects its success in the derivatives space, on the success it has had with its around 2,900 investment firms to this positions it well for further existing clients to grow the business 700 brokers facilitating trading on expansion of the supporting further.
Investment in the product set over 200 exchanges and other trading connectivity solutions.
will continue, particularly with regard venues.
As well as handling order and to leveraging its hosting, delivery trade flow, it also supports a broad During 2011, Fidessa has continued and connectivity capabilities, and range of other functions, including to build the breadth and depth of its expanding further the range of services pre-trade indications of interest data coverage with around 20 new it can offer on a SaaS basis.
This work, IOIs and trade adverts, post-trade markets added.
This growth is driven along with its close partnerships with confirmations and allocations, and primarily by the need to provide high key clients, positions Fidessa well to comprehensive real-time market quality market data to Fidessas trading build on the sound foundations that prices and reference data as well.
platform clients and, as part of this, have been established and leverage Fidessa has already extended its the opportunities that will arise as With the challenging economic coverage to include many of the market conditions improve.
conditions that prevailed during derivatives markets around the 2011, the financial markets remained world.
This expansion has meant Global connectivity and volatile with reduced trading volumes that Fidessas capability to offer high market data across most markets.
Usage of quality market data has become an The Fidessa community not only Fidessas global network continued increasingly valuable asset for the includes clients that use its trading to increase over the year, but the business in its own right.
As a result, software solutions, but also the broad value of transactions handled by the Fidessa is now able to offer pure range of buy-sides, sell-sides, venues network was broadly flat at around data-feed services whether this is to and partners that connect to its global US$800 billion per month, reflecting the conditions in the marketplace.
Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued trading system clients or other types Sell-side trading Further expansion of user.
In 2011 ten such deals were Fidessas sell-side customers of Fidessas footprint signed and, because data from this continued to face challenging market with systems now type of service is often used across conditions during 2011.
Fidessa has live across the a large number of users, third party responded by supporting its clients Nordics, Brazil, systems or in-house services within aspirations as they diversify their Mexico, Australia an organisation, the size of these operations across more regions and deals tends to be larger than would asset classes, and look for a supplier and a number of normally be seen with a typical with the scale and integrated global Asian countries.
This has resulted in further expansion Fidessa believes the trading landscape of Fidessas footprint with systems will continue to change, fuelled by now live across the Nordics, Brazil, new regulations, new technology Mexico, Australia and a number and the drive for competitive edge.
The expansion This will result in the emergence of of Fidessas footprint has also been more new trading venues as well as accompanied by an expansion new interfaces at existing trading of Fidessas global infrastructure destinations.
These, coupled with capability adding new regional data the ever-increasing levels of data centres, increased network capacity and the drive for faster and faster and new facilities in So Paulo and performance, mean that Fidessa Sydney.
In total over 20 new trading will continue to invest in the network venues were added to Fidessas infrastructure and the development platform during the year.
These of connectivity software as a key investments are enabling Fidessa element of its business.
During to offer all its customers, regardless 2011, Fidessa continued to enhance of size, a greater breadth of services its offering with new data centre which help them to rationalise their locations, the launch of a new, highinfrastructure and reduce their performance market data collection overall operating costs and maintain and dissemination architecture, Fidessas position as a class leader.
and upgraded technology within its network infrastructure providing Fidessa has continued to work hard higher capacity with lower levels on the development of its multi-asset of latency.
During 2012 Fidessa will sell-side strategy focusing on the continue these investments ensuring addition of support for the derivatives that it remains at the forefront of markets.
Increasing market coverage this key area of trading infrastructure, and building better execution tools and creating new opportunities for combined with industrial strength Fidessa to deliver new services to workflow remain the cornerstones the financial community.
During 2011 this initiative has been rapidly gaining Fidessa group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Over 40 customers now using elements of Fidessas derivative offering within their workflow.
momentum, with over 40 customers multi-market, opening the market to enable customers to provide a better now using elements of Fidessas competition in a similar way to that service to their clients and gain a derivative offering within their seen in the US, Canada and Europe.
better understanding of the profitability workflow.
This progress was underlined In 2011 Fidessa signed a deal with of each client.
In a cost conscious in October when Fidessa signed an the Australian Stock Exchange ASX market, Fidessa expects the use agreement with Citi to provide it with to provide a new breed of smart of these services will continue to a class leading workflow and trading workstation which provides smart expand during 2012 and plans platform for the banks global listed order routing and enables the ASXs further investment in the offering.
This partnership customers to trade efficiently in the will see Citi leverage Fidessas scale newly fragmented market.
Fidessa As expected, the new regulation that and distribution to deliver a fully has now established data centres and was proposed following the financial managed service that satisfies its office facilities in Australia to support crisis in 2008 has not materialised listed derivatives needs around the its growing presence in this market within the published timelines.
As part of this solution Fidessa and expects to extend its Australian proposals for both US and European will be providing Citi with a global customer base during 2012. regulation are running significantly order management and distributed behind plan, with the proposals for low latency execution platform along During 2011 Fidessa has been MiFID II, which had already been with Fidessas integrated algorithmic expanding its range of Fidessa pushed back to Q4 2011, now slated trading engine.
The Fidessa solution Intelligence services.
These services for Q1 2012 at the earliest.
The rule will also deliver next-generation are designed to help customers making on OTC derivatives in the risk management functionality, understand and analyse trading US resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act comprehensive market data and performance, identify and leverage has been delayed until Q2 Q3 2012: a global order routing service.
As trading opportunities, provide better however there remains a commitment Fidessa maintains its investment and timelier information to their made at the recent G-20 meeting that in this area it is continuing to work clients and to better understand all standardised OTC derivatives with some of the leading firms in the cost and revenue dynamics.
A range contracts should be traded on derivatives markets and expects to of consistent tools enables firms to exchanges or electronic platforms, further expand its franchise in this leverage the wealth of information where appropriate, and cleared important area.
within Fidessa to identify client through central counterparties by opportunities and then flow seamlessly end 2012 at the latest.
It therefore With trading becoming more into their best execution policies.
remains unclear, at this time, the global and cost pressures increasing, Comprehensive post trade analysis extent to which tangible progress fragmentation of liquidity has remained and industry standard analytics then will be made in implementing new a universal issue and, despite lower support their actions enabling them regulatory compliance rules during volumes, Fidessa has continued to see to tangibly demonstrate to their 2012: however Fidessa expects that an increase in the level of fragmentation clients the quality of service provided.
the regulatory environment should as liquidity venues have set up regional These services bring together many gradually start to get clearer and operations.
This included Australia, of the disparate elements that are that this will create opportunities.
where regulatory changes have already being used in the industry allowed trading of equities to become including TCA, execution cost analysis ECA and fragmentation analysis, as well as some additional services which
