Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Corporate information The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2011.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 24th April 2012.
1 Directors The Board comprises a Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the three non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 52, Chairman John Hamer joined the Group in January 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and July 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman of the Group in July 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to July 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to July 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Chris Aspinwall age 48, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined the Group in August 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In July 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Andy Malpass age 50, Finance Director Andy Malpass joined the Group in 1995 as Finance Director and has over 25 years experience in the software industry, with both private and public companies.
in Accounting and Finance from Lancaster University and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Ron Mackintosh age 63, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in June 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was chief executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He is also the former chairman of each of Smartstream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc and Differentis Limited and a former director of Gemplus SA.
He is currently Chairman of AlertMe.
Philip Hardaker age 64, Independent Non-Executive Director Philip Hardaker joined the Board as a non-executive director in February 2005.
Philip is an experienced Chartered Accountant who previously served for 20 years as a partner in KPMG UK.
As a partner he led teams providing audit, advisory and transaction due diligence services to a broad portfolio of clients.
In addition, he held a series of managerial and leadership positions in KPMG, both in the UK and overseas.
Philip is a Trustee of Charities Aid Foundation, chairing the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and is a director of CAF Bank Limited.
He is also Chairman of The St. John of Jerusalem Eye Hospital.
Elizabeth Lake age 69, Independent Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2008.
Until June 2009, Elizabeth was a director and president of Securities Processing Solutions International, a subsidiary of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc Broadridge, a global provider of technology based outsourcing solutions to the financial services industry.
She continues as a strategic adviser to Broadridge.
She was a partner in the consultancy practice of KPMG and has also held Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 senior executive positions at CSC Index consultancy within the financial services sector and at Ziff Davis Technical Information Company, where she was responsible for software products and services for the financial services industry.
Elizabeth is currently the UK representative for the Tokushukai Group.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The biographies of the directors are set out above.
Following formal performance evaluation of Chris Aspinwall, Andy Malpass, Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and Philip Hardaker, the Chairman confirms that the performance of each of them continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to the Company: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The senior independent director, Ron Mackintosh, confirms that following formal performance evaluation of John Hamer by himself and the other non-executive directors, the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is accordingly recommended.
Directors interests in shares and share incentives in the Company are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the date of this Directors Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising in their capacity as officer of the Company or of any member of the Group.
In addition, the Group has purchased and maintained throughout the financial period, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
2 Principal activities Fidessa is a global business with scale, resilience, ambition and expertise.
It is recognised as the thought leader in its space.
Fidessa sets the benchmark with its unrivalled set of mission-critical products and services and, uniquely, serves both the buy-side and sell-side communities.
Ongoing investment in its leading-edge, integrated solutions ensures it remains the industrys number one choice.
Trade Improving productivity Fidessas advanced products and services cover the whole life cycle of the trading process for both the buy-side and sell-side, from low latency trading tools to settlement, compliance and risk management.
By automating the entire workflow, Fidessa can improve a customers productivity, competitiveness and efficiency, while at the same time reducing both costs and risk.
Fidessa offers a seamless, resilient and integrated approach that can help smaller operators punch above their weight and yet still be effortlessly scaled up to match even the highest volumes and the most sophisticated needs.
Comprehensive connectivity to an unrivalled global community of buy-side institutions, brokers and trading venues comes as standard.
Invest Setting new standards From the decision to buy or sell, through executing the order, to clearing and settling the trade, Fidessa has the tools that can make the whole process simpler, smarter and more efficient.
Wherever you are in the investment cycle, Fidessa has the leading-edge systems to help do the job better.
Fidessa can automate all preand post-trade compliance checks, make portfolio analysis sharper and asset allocation more robust.
Fidessa also helps your trading desk identify and execute the best possible deal.
Fidessas trading systems have always been a benchmark for the best: its investment tools are now setting the standard for the rest.
Inform A clearer view Fidessas systems are a rich source of real-time market news and prices which will help you make the right decisions Fidessa group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued at the right time, but for Fidessa there is a lot more to information than that.
Fidessa inform means harnessing the latest technology to turn raw numbers into expert knowledge.
It means providing navigation and analysis tools that can interpret data and allow you to measure your performance and costs on a like-for-like basis.
It means using new social media tools to add value by sharing the unique market insight Fidessa gains from having tens of thousands of users all over the world.
When it comes to value-added information, no one has a broader perspective or a clearer view.
3 Business review The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December 2011 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year along with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, constituting the business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in this Directors Report in the Corporate Information, Overview, Market Review and the Finance Review sections.
Details of the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
4 Risk factors This Directors Report contains certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Identification and management of risk is an integral part of the day-to-day activities of the Group: please refer to the paragraph headed Internal Control in the Corporate Governance section of this Directors Report for more detail on the Groups risk management systems.
There are a number of potential risk factors which could have a material, adverse financial effect on the business as well as on the value and liquidity of the Companys securities, some of which have been identified below although the list may not be exhaustive.
There may also be risks that we do not currently consider to be serious or which are currently unknown to us.
Where reasonably possible, the Company or the Group as applicable has taken steps to mitigate the risks or potential risks of which the Company or the Group are aware but they cannot entirely safeguard against all of them.
The Groups products are dependent on the rapid transmission of data either over the internet or using dedicated communications lines in order to provide financial information to its customer base and to enable customers to effect trades in financial instruments.
A major power outage, network failure or network interruption whether caused by failure of the network provider, network infrastructure, power provider or power infrastructure, interference with, inappropriate access to or destruction of one of the Groups data centres or errors in or lack of sufficient protection of its software, IT viruses, terrorist attack or sabotage could result in the failure of data transmission or lack of access to its hosted service.
Such issues could have an adverse impact on the Groups customers, on the Group financially or on its reputation in its markets.
The Group takes these issues very seriously and takes appropriate measures to manage the risk: it has a business continuity plan under which it invests heavily in multiple secure, highly resilient data centre facilities.
It takes steps to ensure it has sufficient power supplies in the premises in which it operates and that its systems have reasonable protection against sabotage.
The Groups products are fully integrated, complex software solutions that automate the workflow for trading financial assets domestically and internationally.
As software cannot be guaranteed to be bug free, and due to the complexity of the solutions, there is a risk of failure in the software.
This could manifest itself in the failure for an individual customer during implementation or across multiple customers when upgrades are being installed.
Such failure could result in an inability to operate or access the system, the incorrect processing of trades or the inaccurate display of market data or positions.
Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Under the Groups software testing protocols, it takes steps to prevent test trades from being executed live and to limit the impact of such an eventuality by using a separate test site and imposing conditions on the testing, such as limiting the size of test trades.
However, it is possible that such an event could take place and prove costly to the Group.
The nature of financial market data is such that it needs to be constantly updated which may mean that the Groups network capacity could at some point become saturated and as a consequence adversely affect its product and network performance.
While the Group has implemented measures to mitigate this risk by contracting for sufficient network capacity using market leading providers of network services, there can be no guarantees that the Group and its communications network providers will be able to accommodate rapid growth in traffic volumes or avoid network failures, bottlenecks or interruptions.
The Groups products include tools that support investment decisions, from asset allocations through what-if scenarios to implementation.
The tools are high performance but have to operate in a fast moving environment which creates timing risk.
There is also some risk to the Group and its product and services in the event that implementations or deployments were to be delayed or fail.
The Group mitigates this risk by employing appropriate project management processes and conducting internal audits and rigorous testing procedures.
The Group is exposed to contractual risk under its contracts with its customers and suppliers but it endeavours to ensure that it has processes in place to reduce these risks.
Templates and contracts are carefully prepared, reviewed, negotiated and approved in line with internal processes.
However, the Group has signed agreements with overseas exchanges for the provision of financial data where the suppliers have a monopoly position and refuse to provide their data on terms other than their standard terms which can contain onerous provisions which the Group would not accept under normal circumstances, including, but not limited to, unlimited liability, liability for consequential loss and the application of local law.
The Groups employees are vital to the success of the business.
If the Group were unable to attract adequate skilled staff to meet its requirements or were to lose key managerial, sales, professional or technical staff this could seriously affect its business.
Succession planning is taken seriously by the Board and it is believed that long-term incentives under the share plans have aided staff retention.
The Group endeavours to ensure that employees are motivated by the nature of the business of the Group and the work that they carry out in their roles as employees.
They are regularly appraised and encouraged to develop their skills and where appropriate are promoted in line with their potential.
Although careful steps are taken to minimise the risks posed by disaffected employees, such as protecting the Groups systems and trying to resolve any potentially volatile human resource issues, disaffected employees with access to sensitive information could be inclined to harm the Group.
It is possible that they could do significant damage to the business and the reputation of the Group by impairing its systems, misappropriating the Groups intellectual property by attempting to reveal its source codes or trade secrets or allocating passwords or access to its systems to third parties for financial gain or to cause financial loss or reputational damage to the Group.
As a software group, infringement of the Groups intellectual property rights by third parties or the Groups failure to defend infringement claims from third parties could cause damage to the business although it has taken reasonable steps to ensure that its intellectual property rights are appropriately protected by law and that it does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others.
Being a provider of software products and services the Group is office-based and therefore dependent on its office facilities.
A continued inability to access an office location would cause disruption to the business including the support of customers, development of software and other key operations.
The Group mitigates this risk through having separate office locations in several countries, having the infrastructure established to allow employees to work from home and being able to support customers internationally.
Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued The Group invests its cash deposits with highly rated financial institutions and spreads its risk.
Credit limits are set for each financial institution that the Group deposits funds with.
However, in the event that one of the institutions holding the Groups deposits were to collapse, there is a risk of the Group being unable to access some of its cash deposits or losing that part altogether.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency and on the translation of the balance sheet and income statement of foreign operations into Sterling.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen.
The Group has both cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a natural hedge.
In managing currency risks, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Groups cash inflows and outflows in a foreign currency.
The Group has not entered into hedging contracts for either cash or net investment positions denominated in foreign currencies.
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
The Groups suite of products is limited in range in so far as all its products are financial software related.
It could fail to retain existing customers or attract a new client base, which would impact the growth rate and potentially profits.
Factors beyond its control such as instability of the financial system, a material downturn in financial markets, recession, reduced stock market valuations, market disruptions or suspensions, or factors such as the insolvency, consolidation or nationalisation of parts of its customer base could adversely affect the sales of the Groups products due to the consequential reduction in the budgets of financial institutions for expenditure on technology products and their reduced ability to pay for, or requirement for, such products.
In the event of turmoil in financial markets or adverse regulation change, there could be a reduction in the types of financial instrument traded or a reduction in trading volumes of financial instruments globally.
These could negatively affect Group profits because it could reduce sums billed under the Groups contracts with its customers.
The Group invests heavily in research and development of new products yet it is possible that at a future date the Group may not have the resources to respond rapidly enough to market changes or to changes in customer requirements.
The strategy it adopts in developing new products may not be on target and resource may be channelled into products that are ineffective or surplus to market requirements.
The cost of compliance by the Group with changes in laws or regulations by governments and other regulatory authorities in the countries in which it does business, such as for example anti-bribery and corruption, employment, environmental or data protection legislation, could have an adverse financial effect on the business, as could prosecution of the Group for any alleged breaches of such laws or regulations due to the potential resulting defence costs and penalties involved.
The Group endeavours to comply with any such changes with the help of its financial and legal advisers where necessary.
In the future the Group may decide to acquire new businesses or companies and or dispose of companies or businesses.
Any given acquisition or disposal will entail costs whilst also having the potential to increase the profitability of the Group.
Although in depth due diligence would be carried out by the Group and its advisers prior to undertaking such a transaction, an acquisition could have a negative effect on the profits of the Group in the event that a target acquired could not be successfully integrated into the Group, were unable to adapt to the Groups culture, if disaffected staff from the acquired company were to leave the Group or if the acquisition did not prove as valuable to the Group as anticipated.
Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 Results and dividends The financial results and position are shown in the financial statements.
A fuller explanation of the results and position is provided in the Overview, the Finance Review and the Market Review sections of this Directors Report.
An interim dividend of 12p per ordinary share was paid on 26th September 2011.
The directors propose a final dividend of 24.5p per ordinary share, 9,007,000, and a special dividend of 45.0p per ordinary share, 16,543,000.
These will be payable on 28th May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 27th April 2012, with an ex-dividend date of 25th April 2012.
These dividends are subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
6 Research and development The Group has continued its commitment to research and development and places a high priority on maintaining and improving the functionality, quality and competitive position of its business software products.
During the year the total expenditure on research and product development was 29,584,000 2010: 26,279,000.
This is measured on a direct cost only basis with no overheads allocated.
7 Employment and health and safety policies The Group is a service provider with our employees as key stakeholders in our business.
We therefore aim to maintain an attractive place to work, where employees can develop successful careers for themselves.
This year, our employee engagement survey was further extended and included employees working in Europe, Hong Kong and, for the first time, the US and Canada.
The response rate was 60% in Europe, 46% in Hong Kong and 71% in the US and Canada.
The results show a significant increase to the overall staff engagement levels for those regions surveyed in previous years and positive engagement levels for regions that took part for the first time.
Effective employee communications and openness with staff are vital and the Group promotes the understanding and involvement of all employees in its business aims and performance.
The policy of providing employees with information about new products, operations and the performance and development of the Group has continued through the Groups intranet site, product seminars and regular staff meetings at which progress updates on the Group are given by the directors and senior management.
Further director question and answer opportunities were provided to all employees globally during 2011.
This provides the opportunity for employees to email business related questions which are then distributed to the appropriate senior manager to provide a response.
All answers are posted on the intranet for employees to view.
In 2010, the Group introduced into the UK a learning and career development portal, Fidessa Endeavour.
During 2011, the portal was extended to include the online performance appraisal process that is also linked to personal development planning.
The Fidessa Career Framework, which was launched within the UK, saw the introduction of four business competency streams: business support, professional, client facing and managerial.
All employees have been allocated a level within one of the streams depending on skills, knowledge and experience in their role.
The underlying competencies and indicators within the framework were developed internally with managers and employees to ensure it met the needs of both the business and employees going forward.
During 2012, the goal is to implement the portal for staff in all our offices worldwide.
Global mobility between our regional offices, including new countries, has increased during 2011 further supporting our aim to provide broad career development opportunities to employees.
With business opportunities expanding into new territories, it is expected that this will continue through 2012 and beyond.
Earlier in 2011 our shareholders approved a new set of share plans with a view to expanding employee share participation and allowing employees a greater involvement in the growth and success of the Group.
These share plans are now being launched and operation of them is expected in 2012.
Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued The Group is committed to continuing to be a diverse and inclusive place to work and its employment policies, including the commitment to equal opportunity, are designed to attract, retain and motivate the very best staff regardless of colour, nationality, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, age, religion, disability or any other characteristic protected by law.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Wherever possible the employment of employees who become disabled will be continued and appropriate training and career development will be offered.
The health and safety of the Groups employees, customers and visitors is of primary importance.
Therefore, the Group is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment by managing its activities so as to avoid unnecessary or unacceptable risks.
Health and safety audits and risk assessments, including fire risk assessments, are carried out regularly along with workstation assessments.
Any employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination, behaviour or practice in the Group are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of their manager.
These concerns will be investigated promptly, appropriate action taken and feedback given to the employee concerned.
Any attempt to deter employees from raising proper concerns will be treated as a serious disciplinary offence.
The Group has implemented an anonymous reporting box on its intranet where employees can raise any such concerns which will be copied to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and dealt with promptly.
8 Environmental policy The Group recognises the importance of meeting globally recognised corporate responsibility standards as illustrated by Fidessa group plc being a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
It is important to our staff, our customers and our suppliers that we act in an environmentally responsible manner and the Group has endeavoured to manage the effect that it has on the environment and to support sustainability.
The Groups environmental policy is regularly reviewed and is published on its website and intranet.
The intranet is just one of several ways through which staff are encouraged to make suggestions on how we can improve our environmental practices.
The Groups business requires no manufacturing facilities and no freight transportation.
As a software product and services office-based provider it has no activities that pose major environmental issues.
Usage of energy to facilitate the computing requirements of our data centres and our staff, as well as international travel, are considered to be the greatest environmental impacts associated with daily operations in the Group.
Other factors include the use of electrical and electronic equipment, the use of paper and the disposal of waste.
In order to reduce the Groups environmental impact in line with its business needs the following are some of the measures that have been implemented: a move from traditional air conditioning to evaporative cooling for a major computer and network installation to reduce the carbon dioxide impact and hydrofluorocarbons HFCs dependency: making available, where practical in our worldwide offices, receptacles for recycling various materials, such as paper, tins and printer cartridges.
In the UK, we also donate surplus older models of computer equipment to Computer Aid International and encourage staff to bring redundant mobile phones to work to recycle them for charity: gradually replacing personal computers where practical for terminals that only require 12 volts in comparison to personal computer which run off 220-240 volts: powering down unused facilities outside working hours where practical and personal computers shutting down automatically to conserve energy: encouraging responsible use of energy and water and encouraging staff to report promptly any unnecessary wastage.
Air conditioning in most of our offices automatically switches off at the end of the day: Fidessa group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 encouraging black and white and duplex printing where practical as well as greater use of email rather than paper-based correspondence.
This includes the use of email for customer Christmas greetings in the UK with money being donated to charity rather than sending paper cards: providing bicycle storage facilities, showers and changing facilities to encourage cycling to work: reducing the need for overseas travel by the use of video conferencing where appropriate: and decommissioning old, inefficient servers and replacing them with new servers each of which uses half the electricity of the old ones and can run several virtual servers thus reducing the air conditioning requirements.
The Operations Director produces an environmental report on the Groups activities each year.
The report for 2011 records environmental initiatives taken during the year and identifies further items to be considered during 2012.
9 Corporate social responsibility Employees are encouraged to follow good principles of social behaviour which are reflected in the Groups social and ethics policy.
This policy is regularly updated and communicated to staff via the intranet.
The Board believes the Group has a relatively low social impact but nevertheless sees the value that can be added through corporate social responsibility.
Participation in activities with local communities where it carries out its business helps to integrate the Group with local communities.
Employees are encouraged to nominate charities they would like to raise funds for and to participate actively in raising money for these charities through internal fundraising events, several of which are typically held each year.
In addition, the Group sponsors charity events, such as for example charity runs or bicycle rides, and also gives sponsorship to individual staff who undertake activities for charity.
10 Customers as stakeholders Our customers are important and valued stakeholders because the business has been built on their support for our products and services.
We endeavour to provide excellent levels of service and to work closely with our customers to assist them in developing their businesses.
Although they comprise almost exclusively financial institutions on both the buy-side and the sell-side, they vary greatly in their business models, structures and size.
We have worked closely with them to endeavour to ensure we meet their immediate business needs and support them where practical, by being adaptable in finding solutions that fit their businesses, as their needs change from time to time.
11 The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of the Groups employees.
It has an independent, professional trustee, RBC cees Trustee Limited, and the trust has been financed by advances from the Company.
The shares held by the trust rank pari passu with all the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The rights to dividends and to vote the shares have been waived by the trust.
The costs of administering the trust are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The trust acquired its shares in the Company for use in connection with the Companys Performance Related Share Plan at the time of the placing for the flotation in June 1997.
The trust can also satisfy awards and grants from the Company Share Option Plan 2006, Performance Share Plan, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Monthly Share Purchase Plan.
Please see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details of these plans.
12 The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan.
It has an independent, professional trustee, Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, and is currently financed by advances from the Company.
All rights to dividends and voting the shares have been waived by the trust.
The trust purchased shares to match and provide a National Insurance Contribution hedge against purchases of ordinary shares by participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan at the same time as the participants acquired their participating shares.
Please see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
Fidessa group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued 13 Donations The total amount of charitable donations made by the Group during 2011 was 44,000 2010: 29,000.
Donations were made to various charities and there were no political donations.
14 Payments to creditors It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree terms and conditions for business transactions with their suppliers.
The Company and the Group value their suppliers and recognise the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with them.
They therefore seek to abide by the payment terms agreed whenever satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
As at 31st December 2011 the number of days of annual purchases represented by the year-end creditors for the Company amounted to 30 days 2010: 19 days and for the Group amounted to 26 days 2010: 12 days.
15 Off-balance sheet arrangements The Group does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
16 Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
17 Auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Andy Malpass Director 10th February 2012
