Fidessa group plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report that they are related to specific Overview Good growth issues at these firms and are not Fidessa has continued delivering throughout 2011 representative of a general market good growth throughout 2011 despite despite the trend among larger firms.
the challenging conditions that have challenging persisted within the markets.
These conditions that In the short-term, given the stress that challenges included low volumes have persisted is still apparent within the financial of trading across the equity markets, markets, we believe that conditions within the markets.
uncertainty around the stability of will remain difficult for some time to the Eurozone, uncertainty with regard come.
However, we believe there will to regulation, high levels of volatility, the earthquake in Japan as well as still be good opportunities for growth, particularly through extending our continued structural pressure on many market participants.
Despite this, we derivatives presence and leveraging our infrastructure to deliver greater have continued to make progress across the regions, particularly with value to our larger customers.
In order to develop these opportunities we are our larger customers as they seek increasing our development spend, strategic partners with the scale, both in terms of actual product vision and resource to support their development and also in terms of broadening needs.
The investment we investment in the infrastructure and have been making in our multi-asset expertise required to support these offering has started to come to fruition, initiatives.
As a result of this investment with Citi selecting Fidessa to provide and the ongoing market conditions, a workflow and trading platform to support their global listed derivatives we believe that whilst we can continue to deliver growth in 2012, this growth business.
This deal confirms the strength of our proposition for the is likely to be at levels which are lower than we have seen during 2011. derivatives markets and positions us well for significant revenue growth Looking further ahead, we believe in this area of the business.
The that we will see stability returning pressure our smaller customers have to the markets and that reduced been experiencing in recent years headwinds will enable us to return has continued and we believe that to more historic growth levels as this has further to go, with more of our new initiatives gain momentum.
these firms expected to consolidate Fidessa will continue to play an or leave the market during 2012. important role in providing the Within our larger customer base we solutions that the industry needs have also seen some instability with and we will maintain our position as the demise of MF Global and the RBS announcement that it is exiting its an important participant within the financial community.
We expect that equities business.
Whilst the situations at MF Global and RBS clearly indicate the difficulties being experienced by some of our customers, we believe Fidessa group plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Citi has selected Fidessa to provide a workflow and trading platform to support their global listed derivatives business.
there will be a long-term, ongoing of recurring revenue generated by operating profit would have been 9%.
focus on efficiency within the market market sector is 139 million 2010: This represents an operating margin of resulting in further significant growth 133 million from sell-side trading, 15.4% for the year, up slightly from the opportunities, and we will maintain 15 million 2010: 14 million from 15.2% achieved in 2010.
The adjusted our strategy of investment in the buy-side trading, 50 million 2010: operating profit has been measured business to bring the right solutions 43 million from connectivity and before the amortisation of acquired to our customers across all the regions 24 million 2010: 23 million from intangibles.
The unadjusted operating in which we operate.
Staff numbers Results On a regional basis, the Americas have increased in the period and the In 2011, Fidessa delivered growth in showed the strongest growth with average headcount for the year was revenue of 6% to 278.3 million 2010: an increase of 12% and accounted for up 10% at 1,681 2010: 1,532.
The growth rate has 36% of total revenue, whilst Asia grew been constrained by the relative by 8% and accounted for 15% of total The underlying tax rate has improved strength of Sterling and at constant revenue and Europe grew by 2% and to 29.5% 2010: 31.9%, benefiting from currencies the revenue growth would accounted for 49% of total revenue.
the lower UK tax rates and the mix have been 7%.
There continues to The tragic events in Japan have of earnings from overseas operations.
be an impact on revenue growth impacted the growth rate for Asia.
This measure excludes from the 2010 from insolvencies, consolidation and They resulted in an immediate loss of calculation the effect of the majority restructuring across the sector and fee-earning days that reduced revenue of the Touchpaper gains being in the absence of these events the by 0.5 million.
There has been an non-taxable.
The effective tax rate growth rate could have been more ongoing consequential effect through including these gains is 29.5% for 2011 than six percentage points higher.
the year resulting in the revenue from compared to 30.1% for 2010.
The cash There was a step up in the level of Japan declining 8% in the year.
tax rate continues to be lower than the these events in the latter part of charge in the income statement and 2011, with the largest individual item The deferred revenue in the balance was 26.2% 2010: 27.9%.
being the closure of MF Global, which sheet at the end of the year was represented 1.3% of total revenue.
The Diluted earnings per share, adjusted to The turbulence has continued into deferred revenue balance represents exclude the amortisation of acquisition 2012 and the impact on the revenue 17% of revenue and can be recognised intangibles and Touchpaper gains, growth rate in the current year from as such in the forthcoming months.
was up 11% to 82.4 pence 2010: events that have already occurred is 74.4 pence.
The directors believe expected to be at a similar level to Growth in EBITDA earnings before this measure of earnings per share that seen in 2011. interest, tax, depreciation and provides a better indication of the amortisation and operating profit underlying performance of the The growth achieved in the year has also been achieved.
The unadjusted diluted has been in both recurring and nonincreased by 6% to 52.7 million 2010: earnings per share was up 7% at recurring revenue with the recurring 49.6 million.
The adjusted operating 81.0 pence 2010: 75.6 pence.
revenue now representing 82% of profit was up 8% to 42.9 million total revenue, being 228.7 million 2010: 39.8 million.
The growth rate The business continues to be strongly 2010: 213.5 million.
The breakdown has been constrained by the relative cash generative, closing the period strength of Sterling and at constant with a cash balance of 70.9 million currencies the growth in adjusted Fidessa group plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued and no debt.
During the year dividends offerings, provided solutions allowing of 28.8 million 2010: 25.3 million its customers to participate within the were paid, which included the payment more fragmented liquidity environment, of a special dividend of 16.4 million expanded its data services, provided 45p 2010: 14.2 million.
The net cash increased connectivity to electronic special dividend generated from operating activities trading flows and extended its support proposed.
was 70.5 million, representing an within new regions.
operating cash conversion rate of 166%.
Other important events are as noted The ordinary dividend for the full year elsewhere in this Annual Report.
is being increased by 11% to 36.5 pence 2010: 33.0 pence.
The final dividend, Risk factors if approved by shareholders, will be As with all businesses, the Group is 24.5 pence, to be paid on 28th May affected by certain risks, not wholly 2012 to shareholders on the register on within its control, which could have 27th April 2012, with an ex-dividend a material impact on the Groups date of 25th April 2012.
In addition, performance and could cause actual a special dividend of 45.0 pence results to differ materially from 2010: 45.0 pence is proposed and, if forecast and historic results.
approved by shareholders, will be paid at the same time as the final dividend.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group include: the current 2011 important events state of the worlds financial markets, During 2011 the key event in the regulatory issues affecting Fidessa Groups development has been and or its customers, customers the implementation of the Groups financial stability and ability to pay, business plan against the background M&A activity within the customer of challenging markets and an base and within the technology unstable macroeconomic environment.
sector, dependence on Fidessas The unpredictable nature of the core technology, competition, levels markets has increased the level of risk of operational spending versus faced by the Group compared to prior revenue, other economic and market years.
Despite this environment, the conditions, volatile exchange rates, Group has continued to deliver good continued service of executive growth through focus on market directors and senior managers, hiring requirements, delivering lower cost and retention of qualified personnel, of ownership whilst still allowing product errors or defects, lawsuits customers to maintain their position and intellectual property claims.
In particular, the Group has expanded its multi-asset class
