Market overview: UK Rail The market increases or subsidy decreases over the UK rail franchises and rail operators from Market features Publication of Reforming Rail Franchising: Our UK Rail division Privatised in the mid-1990s it is a duration of the franchise and in some other countries, principally from within the Passenger journeys at historic highs Government Response to Consultation operates passenger competitive environment between transport franchises the level of premium or subsidy European Union.
For example, in March & Policy Statement future franchises Increasing customer satisfaction services in the UK.
operators for the award of passenger rail is constant.
2011 four bidders pre-qualified for the will be longer: specifications will be less Operational performance improving franchises contracts with the Department InterCity West Coast franchise competition: prescriptive and there will be greater We have a strong balanced Operators are responsible for the day to Investment in passenger benefits.
for Transport and other franchising two from the UK, one from France and one incentives for operators to act efficiently portfolio of intercity, regional day management of train services.
Many authorities for the provision of services from the Netherlands.
and invest in the improvements elements of the service provided to and commuter franchises.
Changes in market during 2010 11 and between rail services and other modes.
passengers want passengers are mandated as part of the The main competitor to rail services is the Passenger revenue growth as a result Passenger rail franchises consist Revenue comes directly from fare paying Start of InterCity West Coast and Greater contract, other features are left to the car but on some passenger flows there is of volume growth, marketing initiatives passengers or from franchising authorities.
of First Capital Connect, First Anglia refranchising competitions commercial judgment of operators.
competition from other rail services and, and additional services in some franchises Total franchised passenger revenues are Great Western, First ScotRail to a lesser extent, long distance coach and Announcement of electrification of the and exogenous factors including economic over 6 billion per annum.
Train operators Our market share budget airlines.
Great Western Main Line to Didcot, and First TransPennine Express recovery and employment growth, share revenue risk with franchising We are the UKs largest rail operator Newbury, Oxford, Bristol and Cardiff and particularly in central London and one open access operator, authorities this is referred to as revenue Our customers also key routes in north west England and O ur operations are diversified by sector support or revenue share but bear cost Comprehensive Spending Review First Hull Trains.
We also operate Our customers are diversified by journey go ahead for InterCity Express Programme and by customer and journey purpose risk.
Net cost contracts of variable length confirms increase to cap on regulated purpose.
For our franchises in London and to replace High Speed Trains the London Tramlink network often seven years plus possible three year W e operate First Hull Trains, an open fares to RPI 3% for three years from the South East of England, the majority of Government starts consultation on High on behalf of Transport for extension depending on a range of criteria, access passenger rail service January 2012, and Government funding our passengers are commuters to and from Speed Two proposals.
often related to performance targets.
for key infrastructure projects including London carrying some 28 million T hrough our joint venture with Danish London.
First Great Western also has a the Thameslink Programme and Crossrail State Railways we operate passenger passengers annually.
We are Rail markets vary but are often grouped into large proportion of long distance and rail services in and between Denmark Publication of the interim report of the three sectors London and South East leisure travellers.
First ScotRail and First the UKs largest rail operator and Sweden.
McNulty review of value for money in the commuter services, regional and long TransPennine Express also carry a large carrying over 290 million rail industry distance.
Some passenger rail franchises number of commuters into the major towns passengers a year.
Competitors pay a premium to the franchising authority.
and cities on their networks but also serve Competition for new rail franchises is Some receive a subsidy from the franchising a significant leisure market.
We bid against operators of current authority.
In some franchises the premium Where we operate Passenger rail Revenue Share of UK rail market franchises FirstGroup 24% Stagecoach 21% 2,269.8m First Capital Connect Govia 19% First Great Western National Express 9% First Hull Trains DB Arriva 9% Four First ScotRail DfT 9% Virgin Rail 6% First TransPennine Express Serco NedRail 3% MTR and other 1% Figures do not add up to 100% due to rounding UK Rail franchises PPM MAA Market share Operating profit 94 108.7m % 92 24 90 88 86 84 82 Passengers Employees 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 per year 13,000 First Capital Connect First ScotRail First Great Western First TransPennine Express Public Performance Measure PPM on a Moving Annual Average MAA basis 290m Find out more at www.
com uktrain 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 1.0 0.8 PPM MAA Operating and financial review Chief Executives operating review Since I joined the Group Ive visited locations across the UK and The Groups operations are fundamentally Overview First Student North America and have been privileged to meet many of our robust and, during the year, four out of five employees who are working very hard to deliver a safe, high quality 2011 2010 During my first six months as Chief Executive I have taken confidence of our operating divisions performed in line service every day.
from the breadth and strength of our diverse portfolio of operations Revenue 1,594.4m 1,605.9m or significantly better than our expectations.
which, against an economic backdrop that remains challenging, has I am proud to join a business with safety at the heart of its Operating profit 128.3m 180.9m enabled us to achieve our overall targets with increased net cash operations.
The safety of our customers and staff is our highest supporting a dividend increase of 7%, a reduction of 332.1m in net priority.
We remain resolutely focused on eradicating unsafe acts debt and targeted capital investment.
The Groups operations are and practices and continue to develop ways to actively engage Results fundamentally robust and, during the year, four out of five of our employees.
Injury Prevention, our industry leading programme, US Dollar revenue reduced by 2.5% to $2,480.2m or 1,594.4m operating divisions performed in line or significantly better than promotes increased awareness and encourages open and 2010: $2,544.7m or 1,605.9m.
Operating profit was $200.2m or our expectations.
Our ultimate ambition is to 128.3m 2010: $281.1m or 180.9m representing a significantly achieve zero injuries and during the year we made further progress lower operating margin of 8.1% 2010: 11.0%.
As a result of decisive action to address specific issues and with a reduction in Lost Time Injuries of 11%.
strengthen the business we have taken the following one-off charges: The environment for our First Student business remained challenging throughout the year with a particularly disappointing trading 59.9m contract provision principally related to accelerated Our highest priority is the safety of performance during the fourth quarter of our financial year, which depreciation for First Great Western following our commercial our passengers and staff.
This year was exacerbated by severe weather conditions across the US in decision not to take up option to extend franchise for a further we achieved a 11% reduction in February.
As school boards reduced their overall transportation three years.
We intend to bid for the new long-term Greater Lost Time Injuries across the Group.
Tim OToole Based on feedback from staff we costs as a result of budgetary constraints, we were not able to flex Western franchise reflecting the changed environment including refreshed the internal communications our costs and achieve sufficient operating efficiencies to offset the significant Government investment in the region.
programme surrounding Injury pressure on operating margin.
Prevention to ensure everyone plays 39.5m charge to address First Students underperformance their part in staying safe and injury free.
Against the backdrop of significant pricing pressure and a particularly with a recovery plan to strengthen the business model and create high percentage of contract churn within our business our retention a sustainable competitive advantage for the future.
rate fell below 90% during the year.
We strengthened our commercial 16.6m goodwill impairment and contract provision for future losses development team ahead of the current bid season and focused on in relation to a First Support Services contract in Diego Garcia.
delivering our contract retention strategy in respect of the new school year commencing autumn 2011.
Group results We have decided not to take up the option to extend First Great Group revenue increased by 2.7% to 6,429.2m 2010: 6,261.9m Western beyond the original franchise term which expires at the While we anticipate the pressure on margins will continue into and included 98.0m of favourable foreign exchange movements.
The Government has committed significant 2011 12 we are taking action with the implementation of a business At constant exchange rates the increase was 1.1%.
Adjusted investment to transform rail services in the region and we believe that recovery plan that will create a more flexible and robust business.
Statutory through our unrivalled expertise and experience we are best placed operating profit was 309.3m 2010: 364.2m reflecting higher net As part of our clear plan to address First Student we are to manage these projects and we intend to bid for the new Greater restructuring the business to create a more agile, sustainable non-recurring charges in the year including the recovery programme Western franchise.
to create a stronger business model in First Student.
Adjusted basic operating model and stabilise the operating margin.
This will create We remain focused on retaining our leadership position in rail and a business model better placed to withstand changing economic EPS was 41.2p 2010: 38.9p representing an increase of 5.9%.
are in discussion with the Department for Transport DfT on a EBITDA increased to 778.2m 2010: 763.9m.
conditions and will also allow for the full potential of the business proposal to extend the First TransPennine Express franchise.
The streamlined organisation structure will reduce were pleased to pre-qualify for the InterCity West Coast franchise overhead costs and simplify reporting layers to provide greater and intend to offer compelling and innovative proposals to deliver visibility and accountability.
We are also right sizing our fleet with high quality and attractive services for customers and improved respect to a number of vehicles held for sale or as surplus fleet, value for taxpayers.
addressing underperforming contracts within the portfolio and maximising the contract portfolio value.
Our First Student business in North America performed significantly below our expectations during the year as we were not able to flex We delivered a good operating performance in respect of the our costs sufficiently to offset the pressure on margins driven by start-up of the new school year in September 2010, including the impact of constraints on school board budgets.
Our detailed commencement of a number of large contracts together with plan will recover performance and create a stronger business model several conversion contracts from the public sector following to deliver a sustainable competitive advantage in the longer-term.
the decision by their school boards to outsource the provision of school transportation.
We have provided for the loss making First Support Services contract at Diego Garcia.
We remain focused on increasing our share of the fast growing paratransit and shuttle businesses within First Transits First Student acquired Star Shuttle portfolio and will reduce our exposure to less attractive markets.
Company, a leading provider of school and charter transportation services in Looking ahead, I am very clear about our priorities.
We will improve East Orange, New Jersey.
First Student the performance of our First Student business, retain our leadership began operating the companys 70 buses under the Star Shuttle name in October.
position in UK Rail and develop the growth potential of our UK Bus, First Transit and Greyhound businesses.
18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Operating and financial review
