Market overview: Greyhound Greyhound has three operating subsidiaries The market Our market share Our customers Market features Greyhound is the only in the United States: Valley Transit Company, The majority of revenue is generated from We are the only national provider of Greyhound serves a diverse, value-oriented Passenger revenues national provider of serving the Texas-Mexico border: Crucero passenger services but Greyhound also scheduled intercity coach transportation customer base by offering scheduled Highly flexible operating model ability scheduled intercity USA, serving southern California and Arizona provides package express services, charter services in the US and Canada passenger services with an unrivalled to match services to changing passenger into Mexico: and Americanos USA, serving services and, in many terminals, food network and route coverage.
Our customers coach transportation services We carry approximately 20 million demand, particularly in the US points in Mexico from Texas and New Mexico.
Greyhound has partnerships with primary journey purpose is to visit friends in North America.
Greyhound passengers per annum Value for money a number of independent bus lines across and family.
Traditionally, Greyhound BoltBus, a joint venture, operates between We have a fleet of approximately 2,100 provides scheduled passenger Main reason for travel is to see family the US.
These bus companies provide customers bought walk up tickets, primarily key city pair destinations in the north east of vehicles.
The average age of the active and friends.
services to 3,800 destinations complementary service to Greyhounds with cash but increasingly customers are the US.
This year we launched Greyhound fleet is 9.4 years.
existing schedules and link to many of the buying tickets in advance through throughout the US and Canada Express, combining features of BoltBus with Changes in market during 2010 11 smaller towns in Greyhounds national route Greyhound.
carrying approximately 20 million the strength of the Greyhound brand, with Competitors Passenger revenue affected by weak system.
In addition, Amtrak passengers use non-stop services from Chicago to several Intercity coach transportation competes with BoltBus and our new Greyhound Express passengers annually.
economy and unemployment Greyhound to make connections to cities not cities in the Midwest.
many other modes of mid to long distance brand attract a different customer served by rail on Amtrak Thruway service, by Network changes in response to reduced travel, including a number of other coach demographic with yield managed fares, purchasing a ticket for the bus connection passenger demand operators as well as budget airlines.
The online reservation and a range of features from Amtrak in conjunction with the purchase Start of programme to refurbish fleet to north east of the US is the most dense including free wireless internet on all buses.
improve service quality and performance travel corridor in the country and is a highly competitive intercity coach market.
In 2008 Labour Launch of Greyhound Express to markets Greyhound launched BoltBus, a low cost, The majority of our Greyhound employees in the Midwest premium, curbside operation in this market.
are represented by a trade union, principally Expansion of BoltBus to create a new hub the Amalgamated Transit Union.
A number in New Jersey providing services between of other unions also represent employees.
Newark, Washington and Baltimore Further agreements with Canadian Provinces to reduce mileage or receive financial support to run certain, low-utilised services in specific areas.
Where we operate Passengers Revenue Approximate revenue per year by type 634.6m Passenger 82% Package Express 9% Food Service 2% Charter 2% 20m Other 5% Number of Operating profit Approximate revenue destinations USA vs Canada 40.2m USA 75% Canada 25% 3,800 Number of Employees Approximate distribution vehicles of sales and passengers 8,000 by mileage band 1-200 miles 46% Greyhound network 201-450 miles 32% in Canada 451-1000 miles 15% 2,100 Greyhound network 1001 miles 7% in the US Afliated carriers in Mexico Find out more at www.
ca 12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Operating and financial review Market overview: UK Bus The majority of our operations are in urban The market London Competitors Market features We are the largest bus Outside London areas where the bus is the most effective Bus services in London are operated Our main competition in UK Bus is the High customer satisfaction operator in the UK Local bus services in the UK, outside means of tackling traffic congestion.
We on behalf of Transport for London TfL.
In addition, the UK Bus market is Investment in new vehicles with a fleet of 8,000 London, were deregulated in the mid-1980s.
are working with local authorities and Contracts are gross cost and typically five deregulated and very competitive.
In total, Innovation in ticketing, marketing and The market is highly competitive between other stakeholders to provide punctual and years in length.
TfL specifies fares, routes, there are some 1,250 bus operators in the buses and a market share of information.
commercial bus operators large and small reliable services for our customers and we timetables and vehicles, takes the revenue UK and in all markets in which we operate approximately 23%.
We carry and between the bus and the private car.
continue to develop and promote effective risk and pays operators for running services we face competition.
During the year, a Changes in market during 2010 11 some 2.5 million passengers Revenue principally comes directly from fare partnerships.
We also operate Greyhound with a bonus and penalty regime linked to number of international transport operators Lower passenger revenue growth as a every day.
paying passengers and indirectly from UK providing regular intercity coach services service quality.
have either entered the market or significantly result of economic weakness and higher reimbursement by local authorities for on routes between London and the south increased their presence.
Bus operators coast, between Cardiff and Swansea Our market share regional operators have increased market take revenue and cost risk.
Bus markets are Mileage reduced in response to lower and, most recently, between London We are the UKs largest bus operator share through acquisition and a number of passenger demand local and are affected by local issues from and Glasgow.
local bus operators have both entered and We operate one in five of all local bus demographics to politics to topography.
Continuation of the Competition services Local bus services in the UK operate Local bus services operate on a flexible Commissions market study into local on two very different models.
Outside Our operations are diversified by model with bus operators setting fares, Our customers bus services in Great Britain London the market is deregulated and geography 40 major towns and cities frequencies and routes on a commercial Our UK Bus customers are diversified by DfT consultation on reimbursement for within London the market is regulated and by customer and journey purpose basis to meet customer demand and also journey purpose with significant proportions concessionary bus travel and changes and competitively tendered.
Average fleet age is 8.4 years providing socially necessary local bus using bus services for commuting to work, to regulations from 1 April 2011 services under contract to local authorities.
school, college or university for food and We also operate Greyhound intercity Comprehensive Spending Review non-food shopping and for leisure.
announced a 20% reduction in Bus Service Operators Grant from April 2012 Labour and set out reductions in funding for local Around 90% of UK Bus employees are authorities from April 2011 leading to members of a union, predominately Unite pressure on budgets for socially necessary but with significant representation by other bus services.
unions including the RMT and Unison.
Where we operate Share of deregulated Revenue Share of deregulated market market outside London UK Bus operations 1,137.5m FirstGroup 24% % Stagecoach 20% DB Arriva 12% National Express 7% London depots 24 Go-Ahead 5% Northumberland Park Others 32% Aberdeen Uxbridge Willesden Junction Source: Research note Liberum Capital December 2010 Others includes independent operators, 11 local authority owned bus operators Alperton Hackney and companies owned by overseas operators Westbourne Greenford Dagenham Park Edinburgh Glasgow Hayes Passengers per day Operating profit Share of London market 148.8m FirstGroup 12% Go-Ahead 21.5% DB Arriva 21% York Stagecoach 15% 2.5m Bradford Leeds ComfortDelGro 12.5% Halifax Manchester Shefeld RATP 9.5% Chester Abellio 5.5% Stoke-on-Trent Other 3% Norwich Leicester Birmingham Source: TfL website Worcester Northampton Ipswich Swansea Chelmsford Bristol Cardiff Slough Number of buses Employees UK Bus revenue Bath Concessionary fares 21% Barnstaple Southampton Portsmouth London tenders 18% 23,000 Exeter Weymouth Non-London tenders 10% Plymouth Passenger 51%, Penzance 8 000 Find out more at www.
com ukbus 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Operating and financial review
