Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill Loans and receivables At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market have not been designated as indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost.
Gains and losses are recognised in in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired as well as through amortisation.
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite The most significant financial assets under this category are trade receivables and bank deposits.
useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Trade receivables are measured at fair value, i. e. original invoice amount, less an allowance for uncollectable amounts.
Appropriate Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Bank deposits are included within cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts.
In the consolidated balance sheet cash and cash equivalents exclude bank overdrafts.
is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
All are carried on the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents includes ring-fenced cash.
The most significant ring-fenced cash Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its balances are held by the Groups UK Rail subsidiaries.
Under the terms of the Rail franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined by the train operating companies up to the lower of the amount of retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income The ring-fenced cash represents that which is not available for distribution or the amount required to satisfy the contractual liquidity ratio immediately except in the case of goodwill, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the at the balance sheet date.
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Available for sale financial assets Inventories Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified in any of the other Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all categories.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Financial liabilities and equity provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments Financial assets issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
The Group measures financial assets on initial recognition at fair value, and determines the classification of such assets at initial recognition and on any subsequent reclassification event.
Financial liabilities Bank borrowings Where there is no active market for a financial asset, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
transactions and discounted cash flows.
Otherwise financial assets are carried at amortised cost.
Financial assets are classified into one of four primary categories: Sterling bonds and loan notes These are measured either on an amortised cost basis or at fair value, if adopted.
Fair value through profit and loss This covers any financial asset designated on initial recognition to be measured at fair value with fair value changes to go through the profit Trade payables and loss, and financial assets acquired principally for the purpose of trading in the short term.
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Held to maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified here when the Group has the intention Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting and ability to hold to maturity.
These financial assets are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks, foreign currency risks and fuel price risks.
Use of such financial recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired as well as through amortisation.
instruments is governed by policies and delegated authorities approved by the Board.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The main derivative financial instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps, fuel swaps, and cross currency interest rate swaps.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value at the reported balance sheet date.
The fair values are calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end, and supported by counter-party confirmations.
The interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges for interest rate risk on certain floating rate debt, and fair value hedges for fair value risk relating to the LIBOR element of a fixed rate financial liability.
The fuel swaps are designated as cash flow hedges of fuel price risks or otherwise used as economic hedges of such risks.
The cross currency swaps are designated as hedges of the foreign exchange risk relating to part of the Groups net investment in US Dollar assets.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges or foreign currency hedges of a foreign net investment are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
64 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies which are described above, management has made the following judgements forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Impairment of intangible assets including goodwill Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated.
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains The value in use requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order or losses reported in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 1,608.0m 2010: 1,754.9m: 2009: 1,820.0m as set out in note 13 and the carrying amount of other intangible assets at the balance sheet date was 348.6m 2010: 415.9m: 2009: Provisions 456.7m as set out in note 14.
The sensitivities on the key assumptions used in the goodwill impairment testing are also set out in note 13.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation Contract and franchise accounting at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Amounts due within 12 months of the balance Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regards to the recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets sheet date are considered to be reliably measured and are therefore included within accruals and deferred income.
and liabilities arising from long-term service contracts and franchises.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these types of contracts and franchises, which require assessments and judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and costs and, in cases Insurance where options exist, the life of the contract or franchise.
The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency, low value claims within the businesses.
To provide protection above these types of losses, cover is obtained through third-party insurance policies.
Provision is made under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Defined benefit pension arrangements Contingent Assets for the estimated cost of settling uninsured claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of a suitable discount rate, the expected return on scheme assets, expected rate of inflation of future salary and pension costs along with assumptions about mortality rates.
The most significant of these are Share-based payments the discount rate and inflation rate assumptions.
A 0.1% movement in the discount rate would impact operating profit and the balance sheet The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair position by approximately 1m and 24m respectively.
A 0.1% movement in the inflation rate would impact operating profit and the balance value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of sheet position by approximately 3m and 14m respectively.
The net pension deficit as at the balance sheet date was 243.2m 2010: shares that will eventually vest and is adjusted for the effects of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Self-insurance Provision is made for all known incidents for which there is self-insurance using managements best estimate of the likely settlement of Dividend distribution these incidents.
The estimated settlement is reviewed on a regular basis with independent actuarial advice and the amount provided is Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which adjusted as required.
The Groups total self-insurance provisions, including those classified within accruals and deferred income, as at the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
2011 2010 New standards and interpretations not applied 3 Revenue m m The International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued the Continuing operations following standards and interpretations for annual periods beginning on or after the effective dates as noted below: Services rendered 5,870.2 5,724.1 Effective for accounting UK Rail franchise subsidy receipts 390.8 365.0 IAS IFRS standards periods starting on or after UK Rail revenue support 168.2 172.8 Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 1 July 2010 6,429.2 6,261.9 Disclosures for First-time Adopters Finance income 1.9 1.8 IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures 1 January 2011 Total revenue from continuing operations as defined by IAS 18 6,431.1 6,263.7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures 1 July 2011 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2013 not yet endorsed by EU Discontinued operations Improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2011 Services rendered 9.5 54.6 UK Rail franchise subsidy receipts 0.4 2.8 Effective for accounting Total revenue from discontinued operations as defined by IAS 18 9.9 57.4 Interpretations periods starting on or after Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement 1 January 2011 Total revenue as defined by IAS 18 6,441.0 6,321.1 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the Groups accounts in the period of initial application.
66 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67 Financial statements
