Chief Executives operating review continued We launched our new Glasgow Shuttle route between Glasgow continues to deliver growth with a 22% increase in sales compared We continue to work with the DfT, NR and other TOCs to deliver the UK Rail Airport and the city centre on 1 January 2011.
We invested 1.5m in to the previous promotion in autumn winter 2009.
We continue to Thameslink Programme.
Scheduled to complete in December 2018, ten new high specification buses with leather seats, on bus screens promote internet sales and are pleased with the continued growth, the programme will deliver a service with new, longer trains operating 2011 2010 and WiFi.
The route is performing ahead of expectations.
an increase of nearly a third year on year.
at up to 24 services per hour across London in the morning and Revenue 2,269.8m 2,131.0m evening peaks.
During the year ahead, we will see the introduction In December 2010 we successfully launched a new early morning Operating profit 108.7m 88.3m The Comprehensive Spending Review CSR and the of the first 12 car services in December 2011, with an additional service from London Paddington to Exeter and Torbay.
The new train Competition Commission 2,000 seats on services on the Thameslink route and the has been welcomed by local business leaders and stakeholders.
The CSR in October announced significant reductions in grant Results completion of major station upgrades at Blackfriars, Farringdon funding for local authorities and a 20% reduction in Bus Service Revenue increased by 6.5% to 2,269.8m 2010: 2,131.0m.
Over Christmas and the New Year, NR successfully completed the and West Hampstead.
Operators Grant BSOG from April 2012.
With adequate time to plan Passenger revenue, on a like-for-like basis, increased by 5.3% first stage of its major improvement programme in and around and prepare, we expect to manage the impact of the reduction in reflecting strong volume growth across all of our Train Operating Reading station.
This long-term project will ultimately include the The Governments Comprehensive BSOG through mitigating actions including increased efficiencies.
Operating profit increased by 23.1% to 108.7m construction of a new track layout and four new platforms at the Spending Review confirmed 6bn of Pressure on local authority budgets, together with the impact of 2010: 88.3m, despite a reduction in net subsidy premium, and station, allowing more trains to pass through the area, improve funding for the Thameslink Programme.
the DfTs revised guidance on concessionary fares reimbursement, This will ease overcrowding on First was supported by management actions to reduce the addressable punctuality and provide a bigger and more easily accessible station.
Capital Connects Great Northern has reduced the funding available in some areas.
We continue to cost base and lower hedged fuel costs.
During the major engineering works, which significantly affected and Thameslink routes with 1,200 progress negotiations with local authorities on reimbursement and all First Great Western routes, we demonstrated our expertise new carriages.
The electrification We have decided that we will not take up the option to extend First have successfully secured agreements for up to three years with in operational management working in partnership with NR to of First Great Westerns routes to Great Western for a further three years beyond the initial franchise some authorities.
Funding for tendered services has also reduced Oxford, Newbury and Bristol and effectively manage longer journey times and bus and rail interchanges term to 2013.
The Government has announced a new franchising the remodelling of Reading station in a number of areas and authorities are reviewing the criteria for at key stations.
policy and major investment in the region including electrification of were also confirmed.
supporting routes and journeys not operated commercially.
the Great Western Main Line and the Intercity Express Programme.
We are investing 8m to improve our Turbo Class 16x fleet, which The provisional findings of the Competition Commissions local bus We intend to bid for the new Greater Western franchise reflecting operates in London and the Thames Valley and carries more than services market inquiry were published in May 2011.
We are pleased the changed environment.
We will continue to operate First Great 36 million passengers every year.
The improvement programme that the Competition Commission recognises that the tools exist We continue to invest in our First Capital Connect franchise to deliver Western until March 2013 and will meet all of our obligations under includes a GPS-linked public address and Customer Information within the current legislative framework to improve bus services a range of improvements.
In addition to capacity increases on the the Franchise Agreement.
We remain committed to delivering further System to improve the accuracy and clarity of journey information for for passengers and therefore its possible remedies do not propose Great Northern route and better customer information, we also improvements for customers in the region.
customers, as well as upgrading toilets and air conditioning systems.
any major policy or regulatory changes.
We remain actively engaged introduced gateline schemes at Finsbury Park, Harpenden and As the UKs largest rail operator we have unrivalled experience in the inquiry and will continue to work with the Competition Leagrave stations, completed refresh and reliability improvements of every type of passenger rail operation including intercity long Commission ahead of its final report later in the year.
First Capital Connect recently on our Class 319 trains and made improvements to stations, distance, commuter, regional and open access.
We also have a welcomed 30 new train drivers onto including cycle facilities, accessibility works and security.
strong track record of innovation, investment and of working in the roster.
The arrivals are the first Greyhound UK was proud to be selected batch of new drivers going through partnership to deliver improved services and increased capacity First ScotRail as the official transport provider for the largest ever driver training for customers.
Despite a record PPM of 95% in August and a strong operational the recent Harlem Globetrotters tour.
We provided a Greyhound coach for The remainder will qualify by the performance over the summer months, First ScotRails PPM MAA We remain focused on retaining our leadership position in UK Rail the teams whistle stop tour of 12 UK end of the year, increasing the total reduced to 90%.
The prolonged impact of severe weather affecting and will continue to leverage our unrivalled expertise and experience.
venues in 12 days during March.
complement of drivers to over 600. transport networks in Scotland during November and December had We were pleased to be shortlisted for the InterCity West Coast a significant impact on our performance and targets.
franchise and we are in discussion with the DfT on a proposal to extend our First TransPennine Express franchise.
First ScotRail developed innovative During the first half of the year we completed the sale of GBRf to solutions to minimise the impact of Eurotunnel for a gross consideration of 31.0m.
This disposal is First Capital Connect severe winter weather conditions on services including fitting special skirts consistent with our strategy to focus on the Groups core businesses We are focused on improving operational performance at First to its trains in a bid to remove snow in the UK and North America.
Our driver recruitment and training programme is and compacted ice from undercarriages progressing well and we continue to work closely with NR to address more quickly.
Powerful pumps were First Great Western infrastructure issues on the network, which remain challenging.
used to blow hot air under the skirts The reliability of infrastructure, particularly in the Thames Valley area, to warm up the underside of trains.
Despite our efforts, the PPM, on a MAA basis, has remained at has had a significant impact on operational performance during the around 89% throughout the year, partly as a result of significant year.
As a result the Public Performance Measure PPM on a Moving disruption due to a poor autumn and severe winter weather in Annual Average MAA basis has reduced to 90.3%.
We have been November and December.
Performance on our Thameslink route working closely with Network Rail NR and the new Route Director has improved significantly year on year.
to address the infrastructure issues and improve performance.
Whilst For the second consecutive year First ScotRail was named UK Rail We invested over 1m in a package of measures to improve we are pleased to report increased punctuality and reliability trends Operator of the Year at the National Transport Awards.
This is a great information to customers and to staff on the front line, principally in February and March there remains more to do.
However we must continue to improve our service through an upgrade to our Customer Information System, issuing We are continuing discussions with the DfT about how to increase quality.
We are taking action to address the issues raised, particularly BlackBerry devices to our revenue protection and station staff teams capacity on our services to address issues of overcrowding, customer information, through the National Passenger Survey and the installation of gateline computers for our station-based particularly in the London and Thames Valley and Greater Bristol Autumn 2010 which contributed to our overall satisfaction score of revenue protection teams.
We also redeveloped our website to focus areas.
Overall satisfaction remained stable at 82% in the National 86%.
We are delivering a significant programme of investment to on real time information to customers.
Passenger Survey Autumn 2010. refresh the interiors of our fleet.
Work on the Class 314 fleet is In December 2010, we introduced our new More Seats for You underway and enhancements to our Class 334 and Class 170 trains We continue to see strong growth on branch lines in Devon and timetable on our Great Northern route to deliver a significant capacity will begin later in the year.
Cornwall as a result of improved services and local marketing improvement and created over 6,500 extra seats on peak time campaigns.
Our successful Club 55 promotion, delivered in services connecting Moorgate and Kings Cross.
partnership with other FirstGroup TOCs for the first time this year, 24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Operating and financial review Chief Executives operating review continued We are also introducing our new fleet of Class 380 electric trains into There was also a significant improvement in the score for managing and develop these relationships to deliver a better service as we Outlook service with the roll out to continue through 2011.
This investment by delays and disruption to train services.
Investment in information continue to grow and develop our customer base.
We will also the Scottish Government will offer more seats and improved comfort technology and providing better quality information to staff on trains continue to work with our industry partners to support the Looking ahead the economic outlook remains uncertain.
We are to passengers including accessible toilets, air conditioning, CCTV, and at stations has helped them to provide better information and development of policy changes at both national and local level encouraged by improving trends in UK Rail and Greyhound and a power sockets and enhanced provision for cycles, luggage and assistance to customers.
First TransPennine Express also launched that will support these objectives.
continued steady performance in our UK Bus and First Transit wheelchair users.
Our Shields Depot, expanded to accommodate its mobile website allowing customers to check real time arrival and operations.
We expect that our North American First Student business the new trains, opened in February 2011. departure information from their station as they travel.
will continue to see pressure on margins during 2011 12.
Across the In the past four years we have donated 4m to our charity partner, Save the Group we will continue to focus our efforts on improving our operations The Glasgow-Edinburgh via Airdrie and Bathgate line opened In February 2011 we achieved Investors in People accreditation with Children, through corporate donations, to drive further efficiencies to maintain and develop margins.
Funded by Transport Scotland and built learning and development marked as a particular strength, including gifts in kind and fundraising.
In North by NR, the 300m link includes three new stations serving the the provision of NVQs in Customer Service and other professional America our staff contributed over Building on our strong cash performance this year, we will continue $195,000 for our charity partner, The communities of Armadale, Blackridge and Caldercruix.
A recent staff survey highlighted that more than four to progress the opportunities to increase cash generation within the Childrens Miracle Network, this year.
Bathgate station was relocated, Drumgelloch station rebuilt and out of five employees enjoyed their job and more than three-quarters Group and we are targeting a net cash inflow of 150m in 2011 12.
Livingston North and Uphall stations upgraded.
of employees who started with First TransPennine Express in 2004 The Board is committed to its key priorities of increased cash are still with the business.
generation to support capital investment, debt reduction and First ScotRail continues to focus on leisure advertising, sales dividend growth of at least 7% per annum.
promotion and improved digital and online activity.
Our Summer First TransPennine Express continues to promote its Great Value Leisure campaign and Kids Go Free ticket both performed very Fares campaign and at the start of the year launched a January sale The Group is well placed with market leading positions in a sector well.
Our autumn Club 55 promotion and our offer with Sainsburys with 25% off the price of one million Advance tickets.
Last year, we that is a key enabler of economic growth.
With diverse operations Safety remains our core value and our businesses have continued again proved successful in attracting new passengers to the ran a major marketing campaign using TV, press, radio and online that are fundamentally robust and a team with a clear focus on their relentless delivery of improved safety results.
Since 2006 railways, with combined revenue increasing by over 13% on the media.
During the period the TV adverts were being shown visits to creating a stronger business, the Group has good prospects in all of Lost Time Injuries are down by approximately 50%.
Nonetheless, equivalent promotions last year.
The campaign led to a its key markets to continue to deliver long-term value for shareholders.
during the year, four of our employees were tragically killed as a significant boost in sales of Advance purchase tickets.
We successfully completed the trial of smartcard ticketing on the result of accidents at work.
Our thoughts are with their families, Tim OToole Glasgow-Edinburgh route via Falkirk High.
The technology has been friends and colleagues.
These terrible tragedies serve to remind us First Hull Trains Chief Executive proven and we now have more than 500 registered users.
that there is nothing more important than the safety of our staff and An increasing number of passengers are choosing to use our 11 May 2011 our customers.
We remain relentless in the pursuit of achieving our services and this year we carried over 750,000 passengers, the Operational excellence, high customer goal to eliminate accidents and injuries in the workplace.
highest in our ten year history.
We were pleased to achieve a satisfaction scores and a proven score of 93% in the National Passenger Survey Autumn 2010.
In the last two years the economic climate has presented challenges.
commitment to developing and investing We completed the refresh programme of our Class 180 fleet and in rail travel in the north of England In parts of the business we have had to adjust local networks to feedback from passengers has been encouraging.
We are launching contributed to First TransPennine Express meet passenger demand which we recognise has impacted on being named Passenger Train Operator a new timetable in May 2011 offering faster journey times and a more some of our customers.
However, going forward our focus is on of the Year at the National Rail Awards.
We will continue to develop and improve our services through, for example, improvements to Customer Information Systems and communication and investment in new vehicles and Corporate Social Responsibility CSR infrastructure.
We recently announced a 160m order for over 950 new vehicles for our UK Bus division a demonstration of this commitment.
First TransPennine Express In the coming year we will be reinvigorating our vision and values We were delighted to win the Passenger Operator of the Year title to promote improved employee engagement.
We will also align at the National Rail Awards in September.
Since the start of the CSR more closely with our business strategy to support the delivery franchise in February 2004 punctuality and reliability has increased of the highest quality customer service and help drive growth in all from 85% to over 91%, customer satisfaction has increased from of our businesses.
74% to 87% and passenger numbers have increased by 85% to some 24 million a year.
In addition, First TransPennine Express has Employee engagement is vital in introduced a 260m fleet of new trains, invested 12m in station ensuring the continued improvement improvements and expanded its network with the transfer of routes and development of the Group.
This A strong CSR culture should be important to any business.
I believe year we completed our first ever global from Manchester Airport to Scotland.
We are in discussions with the it drives us to improve performance resulting in better employee employee survey and the insights and DfT to extend the franchise.
engagement, improved customer service and higher business experiences of our front line staff will help to create real and lasting change First TransPennine Express scored 87% overall satisfaction in the efficiency.
CSR is also about ensuring we help tackle some of and position the Group for the future.
National Passenger Survey Autumn 2010 with improvements in the wider challenges we face as a society including congestion, 12 of the 13 station categories.
Customers were particularly pleased resource use and climate change.
with both the upkeep and cleanliness of the station environments We are fully committed to playing our part in meeting these and the attitude and helpfulness of staff.
challenges by ensuring that public transport provides an attractive, low emission alternative to other forms of travel.
Partnerships will A detailed review of our performance is available in our be essential to make this happen.
Although we have many good CSR Report.
The full report is available on our website at examples of effective partnerships we will be looking to build www.
We also publish a summary of our objectives and how we have performed against our targets.
26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 Operating and financial review
