Chairmans statement Against the backdrop of continued economic uncertainty we Tim joins the Group at a significant stage in its development.
The inherent strength of the Group comes from Dividend per share pence remained firmly focused on our key priorities including the dynamic I am delighted to have attracted a leader of his calibre who has the the scope and diversity of its portfolio of Progressive dividend growth since 2004. management of our networks, continued cost control and further experience, track record and vision to lead the Group on to further operations which enabled us to achieve our efficiencies to develop and improve margins.
His extensive knowledge of transport 22.12 20.65 from our UK Rail operations offset a disappointing result from markets in the UK and North America will be invaluable, not only in overall targets for the year with increased net 18.75 our First Student business which continues to face pressure on steering the immediate course ahead but also in ensuring that the cash supporting dividend growth, a reduction 17.05 operating margin as a result of constraints on school board budgets.
Group is well placed to maximise future growth opportunities and 15.50 in net debt and increased capital investment 14.10 We are taking decisive action to address First Student with a detailed extend its leadership position.
plan to recover performance and create a stronger business model I would like to offer my sincere thanks and gratitude to all of our that will deliver a sustainable advantage in the longer-term.
employees for their hard work and continued commitment during I am pleased by the further advances we made in reducing net the year.
In particular, I would like to acknowledge the extraordinary debt.
We delivered our target ratio of 2.5 times net debt to EBITDA efforts made by our employees to assist passengers during at 31 March 2011 demonstrating good progress over the year.
the widespread disruption caused by the severe winter weather We also strengthened our financial foundation in December 2010 conditions.
We recognise that, as the face of our business, their 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 with the signing of $1.4bn of five year committed bank facilities to ongoing dedication to providing safe and high quality services to replace existing revolving bank facilities that were due to mature in customers is vital to our continued success.
This proactive management supports the maturity With operations that are fundamentally strong and new leadership of our debt portfolio and prudent levels of liquidity over the with a clear focus on creating a stronger business and developing medium-term.
We are delighted by the continued strong support opportunities for growth, the Board is confident that the Group has from our relationship banks demonstrating the confidence in the good prospects in all of its core markets and will continue to deliver Groups underlying strength and resilience.
Martin Gilbert The Board has proposed a final dividend per share, subject to approval by shareholders, of 15.0p, an increase of 7% making Martin Gilbert a full year payment of 22.12p.
The final dividend will be paid on Chairman 19 August 2011 to shareholders on the register at 15 July 2011.
We 11 May 2011 recognise that dividend growth is a key component of the investment decision for many shareholders.
We remain committed to delivering Operating profit referred to throughout this report refers to operating profit before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness on financial derivatives, non-recurring items, loss on disposal of sustained real growth in dividends, despite challenges as a result of properties and discontinued operations.
EBITDA is adjusted operating profit plus depreciation.
This is a priority for the Group and is adequately supported by continued strong cash flows.
This was a year of significant change within the Group.
Tim OToole became Chief Executive on 1 November 2010, as Sir Moir Lockhead handed over his executive responsibilities ahead of his retirement on 31 March 2011.
During his long and successful career Sir Moir made an outstanding contribution to the Group and to the transport industry as a whole.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to recognise the pivotal role he played in transforming the Group into one of the worlds leading transport operators.
2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 Operating and financial review
