Market overview: First Transit The market Our market share: Transit Competitors Our customers Labour First Transit is one of The transit contracting and management W e operate in approximately 230 locations The transit market is fragmented with the First Transit manages, operates, maintains The majority of First Transits employees the largest private sector services market includes fixed route bus in 37 US States, Puerto Rico, US Virgin three largest private sector companies and organises transportation services under are represented by trade unions.
The providers of transit services, paratransit bus services, airport, Islands and four Canadian Provinces operating less than 35% of the total contract to customers including transit proportion of unionised staff is higher in university and private shuttle services.
First Transits largest authorities, Departments of Transportation, heavy transit our fixed route and paratransit management and contracting, W e have approximately 250 contracts The North American transit market is competitors are MV Transportation and Federal, State and local agencies, as well contracts than in other segments of the managing public transport W e operate and manage 11,600 buses estimated to be worth $21 billion per annum Veolia Transdev Transportation.
Less than 10% of First Services systems on behalf of city transit O ur strategy is to deliver further growth with approximately 30% in the private Disabilities Act requires public authorities employees are represented by a union.
The outsourced fleet maintenance market in the light transit market authorities.
It is one of the outsourced sector.
operating fixed route transit to provide is highly competitive.
We estimate that First complementary paratransit services for Market features W e are one of the largest providers of largest providers of shuttle bus We estimate the vehicle maintenance market Vehicles Services is the third largest in the eligible citizens.
Contracts are typically Contracted revenue airport shuttle services in the US.
services in the US and also to be worth $2.9 billion per annum in total market behind Penske and Ryder, however for three to five years.
High level of customer service and with approximately 38% contracted out to there are a number of small and medium manages call centres, Our market share: Services retention private sector providers.
sized companies that represent nearly a First Vehicle Services provides fleet vehicle paratransit operations and W e operate in over 90 locations in 24 quarter of the outsourced market.
maintenance services under contract to Typically low capital investment.
US States and four international locations other light transit activities.
private and public sector clients including W e have approximately 90 contracts the Federal Government, cities and Fire Changes in market during 2010 11 First Services is the largest and Police Departments.
Pressure on public spending budgets W e maintain over 43,000 vehicles as a result of economic weakness.
private sector provider of vehicle W e provide fleet maintenance services First Support Services provides operations maintenance and ancillary for public and private sector customers and maintenance services, including facilities management and warehousing and supply support services in the US.
W e provide support services including to agencies of Federal, State and local logistics support and facilities management governments as well as to businesses in the to public and private sector clients including private sector.
Where we operate Revenue for Revenue Approximate revenue the year by type 771.5m Fixed route 33% Paratransit 26% Shuttle 14% Transit management 6% $1.2bn Vehicle Services 11% Support Services 10% Seattle Share of Operating profit Total market $21bn total market Outsourced 30% Detroit 57.2m In-house 70% Chicago % New York Washington San Francisco 4 Cincinnati Los Angeles Miami Passengers First Transit Employees Share of outsourced market per year Puerto Rico 19,000 FirstGroup 14% Other companies 86% 300m Find out more at www.
com north america 10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Operating and financial review
