Our business A portfolio of businesses Diverse markets Key risks and opportunities Key stakeholders FirstGroup plc is the leading Our portfolio of businesses is diversified Our businesses in the UK and North America There are a number of potential risks and geographic spread competing with several We work with a range of bodies in each of transport operator in the UK and by geography and customer base and operate in local markets with different uncertainties that could, without effective large companies as well as a substantial our markets.
Understanding and managing North America with revenues of structured into five main operating divisions: commercial and regulatory features.
Pages management, impact Group performance.
number of smaller, locally owned or our stakeholders expectations is pivotal 8 to 17 provide an overview of the markets Full details of these, together with the government owned operators.
Our Greyhound to our success and therefore continual over 6 billion a year.
We employ First Student in which we operate, their scale and mitigating actions, are set out in detail in coach operations face competition from a engagement is vital.
approximately 125,000 staff First Transit characteristics together with our position in the Report of the Directors.
number of other coach operators in North Some of our key stakeholder groups are: throughout the UK and North Greyhound each one.
Our position in the local bus and America as well as from budget airlines.
The challenging economic environment of E mployees America and transport over rail markets in the UK and in the student In UK Bus and UK Rail, our main competitor UK Bus recent years has demonstrated the impact transportation, transit and intercity coach is the car.
To a lesser extent, long distance Government and local authorities 2.5 billion passengers a year.
that economic activity has on both our markets in the US and Canada provides us coaches and budget airlines are also a Customers passenger demand and contract businesses.
with unrivalled knowledge and experience competitor to our UK Rail businesses.
We This balanced portfolio provides a mix of For example, the level of economic activity Supply chain of the many different commercial and believe that the increasing cost of motoring, contract-backed and passenger revenues.
affects the number of bus and rail journeys Investors regulatory frameworks in place and also principally rising fuel costs, is an opportunity During these challenging economic times taken by passengers in the UK and North puts us at the forefront in developing new to attract more passengers to our services.
this mix of operations has provided America and also creates budgetary and future opportunities.
strength and resilience against a changing pressure for school boards and transit For further details on how the Group assesses trading backdrop.
and manages the key risks and uncertainties please refer to the Corporate Governance All of our businesses compete in the areas section of the report on page 40. of pricing, quality and service and face competition from a number of sources.
In North America, our businesses cover a wide Revenue for Revenue 6,429.2m First Student the year First Student 25% The largest provider of student transportation in North America with a fleet of approximately 57,000 yellow school buses, First Transit 12% carrying some 6 million students every day across the US and Canada.
Greyhound 10% UK Bus 18% UK Rail 35% 6.4bn First Transit One of the largest private sector providers of transit management and contracting in North America.
First Services, a division of First Transit, is the largest private sector provider of vehicle maintenance and ancillary support services in the US.
Greyhound Number of Employees 125,000 The only national provider of scheduled intercity coach services in the US and Canada.
Greyhound provides scheduled staff we First Student 50% passenger services to some 3,800 destinations carrying approximately 20 million passengers a year.
employ First Transit 15% in the UK Greyhound 7% and North UK Bus 18%, America UK Rail 10% 125 000 UK Bus The Group is Britains largest bus operator running more than one in five of all local bus services.
A fleet of some 8,000 buses carries approximately 2.5 million passengers a day in more than 40 major towns and cities.
UK Rail Passengers Operating profit The Group operates approximately one quarter of the UK passenger rail network, with a balanced portfolio of intercity, per year 457.4m commuter and regional services, carrying over 290 million passengers a year.
First Student 27% First Transit 12% Greyhound 8% UK Bus 31% In mainland Europe we operate some 150 buses in south west Germany and, with our partner DSB, we operate passenger rail services on 2.5bn UK Rail 22% routes in and between Denmark and Sweden.
4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 Operating and financial review Our strategy Key performance indicators Revenue m Description Performance Our strategy is to provide The strength of the Group lies is not dependent on any one safe, reliable, innovative and in the breadth and diversity of market and also offsetting a 6,429.2 6,261.9 Revenue is principally from train passenger Revenue increased by 2.7% including 6,131.8 sustainable transport delivering its operations.
During the year weaker performance in one area services, road passenger transport, and favourable foreign exchange movements of 4,659.3 certain management and maintenance 98.0m, representing an increase of 1.1% high quality and attractive different parts of our business with stronger performances in 3,673.5 services in the UK and North America.
services for passengers and continued to move through the other parts of the portfolio.
long-term value for our economic cycle at a different shareholders.
pace, ensuring that the Group 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Adjusted operating profit m 494.3 457.4 449.6 Adjusted operating profit is intended to Adjusted operating profit increased by 1.7% 356.9 highlight the recurring results of the Group to 457.4m.
before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness 257.1 on financial derivatives, non-recurring items, loss on disposal of properties and discontinued operations.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Adjusted EBITDA m 778.2 767.5 763.9 Adjusted EBITDA is defined as adjusted Adjusted EBITDA increased by 1.9% 556.5 operating profit plus depreciation.
to 778.2m and EBITDA margin was maintained at over 12%.
Priorities 396.2 Throughout the year we retained a clear focus on achieving our priorities.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Delivering high quality services for customers Increasing cash generation Adjusted basic EPS pence Customers want high quality services that are reliable and punctual.
We retained a strong focus on increasing net cash within the Group 48.1 Across the Group we constantly review operational performance and were pleased to exceed our target for the year.
This performance Adjusted basic EPS is calculated by dividing Adjusted basic EPS was 41.2p 2010: 38.9p 41.2 40.4 to ensure we deliver the services that meet the needs of our existing was driven by a sustained focus and discipline across our operations 38.9 the adjusted profit attributable to equity representing an increase of 5.9%.
33.3 passengers and attract new customers to public transport.
Overall including good progress made in implementing initiatives to deliver shareholders by the weighted average our performance and customer satisfaction showed a steady improvements in working capital.
The highly cash generative nature number of ordinary shares.
or improving trend during the year.
Our employees deliver an of the Group enables us to increase capital expenditure and exceptional service to our customers every day and this year supports the Boards policy to increase dividends by at least 7% we embarked on our first global staff survey.
We recognise that per annum as well as deliver our net debt reduction programme.
employee engagement is vital in order to continue to improve and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 develop the Group.
The insights and front line experiences of our staff will create real and lasting change and help to position our Reduction in Lost Time Injuries business for the future.
Lost Time Injuries refer to work-related injuries or illness that result in one of our employees % being unable to work on a subsequent scheduled work day or shift.
We achieved an 11% Managing our networks Strengthening our financial foundation reduction in Lost Time Injuries across the Group.
We continued to maximise the flexibility that exists within our Net debt reduction is a key priority for the Group.
During the year 11 networks to ensure that we respond quickly to any changing we made good progress, despite the subdued growth environment, demand.
Where we saw tough trading conditions in the towns and in reducing leverage.
We achieved our target ratio of 2.5 times net cities in which we operate we continued to manage supply through debt to EBITDA at 31 March 2011 from 3.0 times at 31 March targeted mileage reduction and frequency adjustments.
These 2010 and we continue to target further improvement in 2011 12. actions, coupled with rigorous cost control, have been appropriate We also strengthened our financial position during the year with the North American contract businesses for the environment, however we retain the capability to restore ongoing proactive management of debt.
In December, $1.4bn of capacity and service levels as economic growth recovers and five year committed bank facilities were signed to replace revolving In our North American contract businesses we retained approximately 90% of the fleet demand returns.
As we look to the future, our focus is to retain bank facilities due to mature in 2012.
Achieving attractive pricing, % that came up for tender during the year.
This reflects a continued strong performance in our strong cost discipline while renewing our focus on growth terms and conditions we were pleased by the continued strong First Transit and a weaker performance in First Student as a result of the particularly high and promoting modal shift.
contract churn during the year and continued constraints on school board budgets.
c. 90 6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Operating and financial review
