Chief Executives operating review continued During the year, FOCUS, our industry leading GPS-based technology We are reducing our exposure to less attractive markets and have We continue to progress our Network Transformation Project with Greyhound system, which provides enhanced operational data by linking taken a charge of 16.6m in relation to a First Support Services over 20% of Greyhounds properties now right sized or right on-board with back office information and systems, was rolled out contract in Diego Garcia, including a goodwill impairment charge of located to more accessible and convenient sites.
We are upgrading 2011 2010 to a further 117 locations.
By the start of the 2011 12 school year 5.0m and provision for projected losses of 11.6m until this contract the customer experience at the point of sale at each location, during Revenue 634.6m 603.3m we expect to have installed FOCUS into the vast majority of our ends in 2017. boarding and onboard.
In February we introduced new and enhanced Operating profit 40.2m 23.9m US school bus fleet providing the platform for greater efficiencies ticket kiosks into the north east market and we are working with through enhanced data and processes.
7-Eleven, a major convenience store chain, to establish a ticket The contract to operate campus bus selling joint venture.
We are also installing WiFi and arrival departure services at Rutgers University was We were pleased to show improved performance in the results of Results awarded to First Transit in October.
screens in major terminals to improve our offering and to provide our our annual customer survey.
We achieved higher scores across all We continue to make good progress in transforming Greyhound.
The service is the second largest bus customers with better, timely information.
categories demonstrating that our customers recognise and value system in New Jersey, transporting During the year, passenger revenue, on a like-for-like basis, more than six million passengers the strong commitment to excellent service at every level throughout increased by 0.8% with growth accelerating in the fourth quarter of Operational performance is also a key focus.
We are utilising new annually and is due to start in July.
technology to enable real time monitoring and enhanced tracking our financial year.
This was particularly encouraging against the ongoing difficult trading backdrop, as high unemployment and a slow by location and by route to improve On Time Performance.
This information has enabled Greyhound to re-evaluate turnaround times economic recovery continued to impact consumer confidence and Strong relationships are the discretionary spending.
at each location and identify the root cause of delays so that action foundation ofour business at First Student.
This year our plans can be implemented to address specific issues.
US Dollar revenue increased by 2.2% to $985.0m or 634.6m 2010: customers in the US and Canada told us that we are on the right BoltBus continues to grow in the highly competitive markets in $963.4m or 603.3m and operating profit increased to $62.3m or track with improved scores and the north east of the US with strong increases in both passenger 40.2m 2010: $39.6m or 23.9m, an increase of 57.3% and 68.2% Despite the current environment of reduced transit authority budgets increased overall satisfaction in volumes and revenue.
Passenger loadings per bus continue to respectively.
The margin improvement represents the progress made and subsequent increased competition we were pleased that our customer-wide annual survey.
improve and during the fourth quarter we created a new hub in by the team at Greyhound to substantially improve the operational contract retention was 90%, a good result, albeit slightly lower than New Jersey providing services between Newark and Baltimore, leverage in the business.
We are encouraged by recent trends in in prior years.
We were pleased to retain a number of significant Washington DC, Boston and Philadelphia.
passenger volumes, reflecting increased fuel prices which has led contracts including paratransit business in Hartford, Connecticut, to higher costs for car drivers and airline passengers.
San Bernardino and San Diego, California and a long-term university In December we successfully launched Greyhound Express, a new shuttle contract in Atlanta, Georgia.
We also retained fixed route Our Greyhound management team remains focused on rigorous service combining features of BoltBus with the strength of the contracts in Denver, Colorado and Austin, Texas and commenced a Greyhound brand, with non-stop services from Chicago to several management of the network and cost base.
Greyhounds highly First Student is a fundamentally strong business which, as the major conversion contract, previously operated in the public sector, flexible operating model has enabled targeted mileage reductions cities in the Midwest.
In April 2011 we expanded Greyhound Express market leader, is uniquely placed to leverage its scale.
We believe on behalf of North County Transit District in San Diego, California.
further with the launch of new services between Boston and of 2.5% and ensured that revenue per mile is ahead of last year.
that the business is not currently harnessing its full potential and In addition, we continue to take action to make the fundamental New York.
therefore are implementing actions that will create a more efficient During the year, First Vehicle Services won significant new business changes to the business model necessary to achieve further business model with significantly increased operational leverage including contracts to start in March and April 2011.
Our new contract sustainable growth.
which, as the market stabilises, will enable us to extend our in Summit County, Colorado is a conversion with fleet maintenance We launched our Greyhound Express service offering faster trips with direct leadership position and ensure that First Student continues to previously performed in-house.
Our new contracts with transit As we continue to modernise Greyhound we maintain a measured and one-stop service between provide long-term, sustainable growth.
authorities in Williamsburg, Virginia and Brownsville, Texas are based and highly disciplined approach to capital investment.
During the Greyhounds Chicago hub and cities on our transit contracting experience and, in particular, on our year, we focused our investment on a cost-effective refurbishment such as Milwaukee, Wisconsin and experience in maintaining vehicles for the authorities.
As the market Lafayette, Indiana.
The Greyhound programme of our mid life coaches that will significantly enhance the Express service features brand new leader, we continue to leverage our reputation and good relationships First Transit customer experience, improve operational performance and extend buses with reserved seating, extra with our customers in one segment of First Transits portfolio to win the life of the vehicles.
We have refurbished over 100 coaches this legroom and power outlets.
2011 2010 year and plan to refurbish a further 200 next year.
This programme, together with targeted investment in new coaches, is delivering a Revenue 771.5m 727.8m Our customer survey showed improved results, with significant step change in service quality.
By April 2012 over 50% of increases in the key areas of continuous efficiency and cost savings, Operating profit 57.2m 53.0m Greyhounds fleet will be new or like new.
as we continue to work closely with our customers to deliver a cost effective and high quality service.
First Transits reputation In the first half of the year we relaunched greyhound.
The In Canada, we continue to work through our ongoing plans to has undoubtedly enhanced our ability to leverage existing business Results redesigned site has an expanded Print at Home ticketing capacity match service provision to customer demand or receive a subsidy relationships to win new contracts.
During the year, we extended Our First Transit business has developed in line with our and, together with our discounted online fares strategy, is helping to operate certain routes.
We have reached agreement with the our relationships in Fort McMurray, Alberta, the City of Durham, expectations.
During the period US Dollar revenue increased by to reduce the cost of sales.
Internet sales continue to increase with government of Manitoba to continue a subsidy for rural bus services North Carolina and Jacksonville, Florida to either win new contracts 3.4% to $1,199.0m or 771.5m 2010: $1,160.1m or 727.8m.
some 25% of all sales now made through greyhound.
In Alberta and British Columbia we continue in complementary services or add significant service under our Operating profit was $89.5m or 57.2m 2010: $84.4m or 53.0m.
to work towards a modernised regulatory framework and expect existing contracts.
the results to be realised in 2011 12.
First Transit delivered an operating margin of 7.5%.
We remain As part of our drive to improve our customer service offering we launched We are working with our customers across both sides of the Atlantic encouraged by the good returns from low or no capital investment a new Greyhound website where to deliver initiatives to reduce carbon emissions from transport.
and continue to develop opportunities for further growth in this passengers can buy tickets, check We are building on our reputation for innovation and leadership fragmented and diverse market.
Our strategy remains to focus on schedules and keep up to date on the in new technologies.
Through our partnerships with the State of the faster growing paratransit and shuttle bus contracting segments latest deals.
Since the launch sales from Connecticut and with Transport for London TfL we are building this channel have increased by 25% with new contracts won during the year, including a five year contract compared to prior year.
unique experience as an operator at the cutting edge of new for paratransit services in Reno, Nevada, with annualised revenues technologies.
We also operate and maintain a fleet of state of the of more than $40m.
art zero emission, battery powered vehicles in southern California.
20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Operating and financial review Chief Executives operating review continued accessible and easier to use.
In addition, changes to the road In March we started to introduce hybrid vehicles into Leeds UK Bus Our DriveGreen initiative is designed network have reduced off peak journey times.
We have supported for services operating on the Scott Hall Road guided busway.
to enhance safety, improve customer the GBBN programme with an investment of 20m in new buses, We worked in partnership with Metro and Leeds City Council a 2011 2010 comfort and reduce our impact on fare promotions and increased marketing.
On one of the other generation ago to pioneer guided busways delivering significant the environment by using the latest Revenue 1,137.5m 1,170.6m GPS and motion sensing technology.
route corridors, Bath to Midsomer Norton, we negotiated a Quality improvements to journey times and reliability on the route.
Operating profit 148.8m 124.6m Now installed across our UK Bus fleet Partnership Scheme which sets out service standards including This delivered substantial passenger growth and we believe DriveGreen has saved 8.7 million litres maximum fares and minimum frequencies.
there are further growth opportunities through strong marketing of fuel since the launch in 2009. and investment, supported by funding from Metro, to upgrade We continue to make progress with the three PTEs in Yorkshire Results passenger facilities on the route.
Our UK Bus division delivered a steady performance this year, and Greater Manchester on partnership and investment proposals which focus on passenger growth and modal shift.
With local despite the challenging economic environment.
Total revenue We are the leading operator of reduced by 2.8% to 1,137.5m 2010: 1,170.6m as a result of authorities facing a range of challenges in the year ahead we believe hydrogen fuel cell buses on both that closer partnership working will ensure these challenges are met.
targeted mileage reductions in response to trading conditions.
Working in Revenue growth through network developments, However, we are encouraged that like-for-like passenger revenues In West Yorkshire, all operators have formed the West Yorkshire partnership with TfL, we introduced simplified fares and marketing Bus Operators Association to progress partnership plans.
eight new hydrogen-powered buses We are focusing on developing our networks through a range of into service in London this year.
arrangement already exists in Greater Manchester which has Operating profit increased by 19.4% to 148.8m 2010: 124.6m due First Transit also operates four of initiatives.
For example, in Greater Manchester we consolidated two delivered a number of benefits including a new Code of Conduct the zero emissions buses on behalf to lower hedged fuel costs, operating efficiencies and the actions we routes into our high frequency Overground network to increase the launched in October.
of the State of Connecticut.
took to manage our network where we saw lower levels of customer number of peak services between Middleton and Manchester with In Chester we signed a Voluntary Partnership Agreement with demand due to higher unemployment and lower levels of retail coordinated links now providing a bus every five minutes.
We believe Cheshire West and Chester Council to cover the Blacon area.
activity in many of the towns and cities where we operate.
that on corridors linking the key towns in the region with Manchester Our investment in upgraded vehicles has helped deliver strong city centre, our investment in quality vehicles and focus on We have a market leading position with established networks in high passenger growth.
We are also working with Merseytravel on its operational performance will deliver passenger growth.
density, urban areas which provide opportunities for growth.
We are In January we started operating hydrogen fuel cell buses on route upcoming Quality Partnership Scheme.
responding to signs of increased economic activity and are focused RV1 in London.
The vehicles run from a purpose built facility at In June we launched Simple Fares in Leeds.
This city-wide initiative on achieving the optimum combination of frequency, price and cost Lea Interchange Depot.
This project is in partnership with TfL.
consolidated a complex range of single fares to just four prices to Active assessment and management of our portfolio discipline.
We are the only company in the world operating hydrogen fuel cell make it easier for customers and potential customers to understand In April 2011 we sold our Kings Lynn network to a local bus operator.
buses in both the UK and the US.
Our engineering and operations and to remove an obstacle to using our services.
The initiative has This enables us to further develop our flagship interurban service Giles Fearnley joined the Group as Managing Director, UK Bus in teams are at the forefront of the industry and the institutional expertise been backed by a significant marketing campaign and we believe operating across the region.
We continue to modernise and right size February.
His track record of achievement together with considerable we are developing will stand us in good stead for the future.
fares simplification will be an important building block for passenger our facilities through investment in new and redeveloped depots in experience in the industry will bring a strong focus on delivering growth, not only in Leeds but across our networks generally.
Aberdeen, Braintree, London, Norwich, Southampton and Wigan improved service quality and growth.
We are actively examining new technologies to improve our ticketing and the closure of one of our depots in Bristol.
and fares offerings which will support our plans for growth.
We have In Glasgow we launched a Price BUSter campaign in January to promote reduced price FirstWeek tickets.
In Bristol we reduced a wide ranging experience with smartcards, in particular in Scotland As part of our ongoing commitment to learning and development we created and Wales.
During the year, First Cymru completed the introduction the price of our FirstDay tickets in February, which has increased As part of a 6.4m investment in 22 a Passenger Carrying Vehicle driver passenger volumes and revenue.
At the beginning of April we of new smartcard enabled ticket machines, supported with funding new buses for the city, six new hybrid apprenticeship in collaboration with from the Welsh Assembly Government.
We are also working with reduced the price of five of our most popular season tickets across double deck buses have been launched GoSkills and TfL.
The 2.5 million passengers Bristol, Somerset and Avon.
Strathclyde Partnership for Transport on a smartcard, multi-operator elements such as safety and customer who travel on the key corridor each service the programme has now ticket for the Greater Glasgow bus network.
year will experience an improved, more We support the concept of multi-operator tickets in urban areas received accreditation.
and in January were pleased to be able to participate in the launch Contracts of Fusion, a day ticket offering unlimited travel on buses in the Contracted services continue to complement our passenger Norwich area.
During the year, we were awarded a number of important contracts by London Buses, part of TfL, including The university market is an important one and during the year we the route between Ilford and Oxford Circus requiring a fleet of 65 improved our offer to students in the towns and cities where we vehicles.
The tender market in London is however increasingly Developing best in class operational standards operate.
For example, in Norwich we launched a new, direct service We continue to focus on improving our punctuality and reliability.
competitive, particularly in the east with operators seeking to between the city centre and the University of East Anglia and in Bath Investing for growth utilise spare capacity at depots in the area.
We are increasingly We continually review our performance and monitor the effects of we launched dedicated services for the two universities.
We also In March we announced our plans to order 160m of new vehicles congestion and other factors and, where necessary, amend our successful in winning contracts from TfL for both Underground relaunched the Unilink service between the University of Stirling and over the next two years from UK bus manufacturers.
The order for and Overground rail replacement services utilising buses that services.
This delivers a punctuality dividend with customers the city centre with new vehicles to increase capacity.
In Sheffield 955 vehicles is one of the largest the British bus industry has ever responding favourably to the improvements, leading to an increase would otherwise be idle outside peak operating hours.
We are we introduced a 50p student ticket which has helped increase seen.
Our new bus order includes 40 hybrid buses, part funded by well advanced in our preparations to deliver our commitments to in passenger numbers and a significant reduction in customer passenger numbers and we continue to promote the successful the DfTs Green Bus Fund, as we continue to invest in low carbon complaints.
We are encouraged by our operational performance transport spectators by bus and coach during the London 2012 UniCard for students and staff at the University of Essex.
vehicles which will significantly lower emissions.
In partnership with Olympic Games.
in London and we are better than network average and near the Bath and North East Somerset Council as part of the EU Civitas top of the TfL league tables on most measures.
Effective long-term partnerships project, we launched a hybrid vehicle on Park & Ride services We were delighted to retain the high profile Metroshuttle contract We continue to be at the forefront of partnerships with local in Bath during the year.
in Manchester during the year.
Originally introduced in 2002, DriveGreen, our industry leading programme, has given our drivers authorities and Passenger Transport Executives PTEs.
We have Metroshuttle now operates three routes, which together provide the technology to make adjustments to reduce heavy braking and been working closely with the West of England Partnership to passengers with a free bus service to all the main city centre areas.
Ever higher driving standards improve our deliver the Greater Bristol Bus Network GBBN programme which The service was successfully relaunched in November with a customers journey experiences and, as a consequence, complaints will improve ten route corridors and benefit some 60 bus routes.
new fleet of 20 hybrid vehicles funded by Transport for Greater across our operating companies are at an all time low.
DriveGreen We were delighted that the first completed route corridor, between Manchester, again with support from the DfTs Green Bus Fund.
has also helped to deliver a like-for-like fuel consumption Weston-super-Mare and Bristol, was launched in March.
A number improvement of 4.9% across the division.
of infrastructure improvements will make bus services more 22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Operating and financial review
