Our Business Model Where we sit in the precious metals Fresnillo plc is a silver and gold mining valuechain company operating in Mexico.
We currently Our business spans the exploration, development and construction, operate five mines with a sixth to be extraction and beneficiation phases of the precious metals value chain.
We focus on high potential projects that can be developed commissioned in 2012, and have an extensive into low-cost, world-class mines or clusters of mines.
portfolio of high-quality exploration projects and prospects underpinning our organic Our business model growth pipeline.
Our business model spans the full mining value chain from exploration, development and construction, to mining operations, which are supported by strategic resources essential to the effective execution of the business.
Sustainable development practices uphold our license to operate, while a comprehensive risk management framework ensures that we manage and mitigate therisks that could impact our ability to execute our strategy.
Through this model we seek to create value for our stakeholders across precious metal cycles.
Our goal is to produce 65 million ounces of silver per year and 500,000 ounces of gold per year by2018, with 650 million ounces of silver and 5.0 million ounces ofgold in reserves at that time.
Precious metal value chain Fresnillo plc Development and Exploration for Mineral extraction construction of Smelting andrening Brokers Buyers mineral resources and beneficiation newmines 20 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review k r o w e m a r f t n Our business model This graphic illustration of the business model differs slightly from 2010.
Most notably, sustainable development is now shown as its own component of the business model, with greater strategic signicance.
1 Operate Assets 2 Develop Projects 3 Explore Prospects Strong growth pipeline Value Chain Financial strength Strategic Technology and control relationships Experienced management and skilled personnel Strategic resources 4 Sustainable development 21 e m e g a n a m k s i R Our Business Model continued Business model component Description Strategic focus Value chain The extraction and beneficiation of ore from our operating Maximise operational potential through full Operate mines.
We apply optimal mining methods in accordance capacity utilisation, reserve replacement, Maximise the potential with the changing characteristics of each mine, benefited continuous improvements in productivity ofexisting operations by the skills of our personnel and leading technology andcost controls.
When coupled with high-quality assets selectively See Our Strategy and KPIs pages 2627 added in the exploration and development phase, we remain competitively positioned in cost performance among industry peers.
See Review of Operations pages 4857 1 The development and construction of new operating Deliver growth through the disciplined Develop mines, with disciplined adherence to schedules advancement of exploration projects towards Deliver growth through andbudgets.
Feasibility, engineering, procurement mine development, start-up and production.
development projects andconstruction teams work closely with operating Projects must meet stringent criteria personnel to ensure smooth transition from regarding mineral content and embedded constructionto commissioning.
Economic viability is determined by factors such as metallurgy, mine design, See Review of Operations page 58 investment requirements, sustaining capitalexpenditures and rates of return.
See Our Strategy and KPIs pages 2829 2 The search for and quantication of mineral deposits that Extend the growth pipeline by deploying Explore extend our resource base, with a focus on consolidating expert personnel, allocating sufficient Extend the mining districts in Mexico and Latin America.
Our track investment capital, securing concessions growth pipeline record of new discoveries is bolstered by continuous andsurface land rights, and pursuing investment irrespective of metal prices, significant selective early stage partnerships technical expertise, and partnerships and early-stage andacquisitions.
acquisitions that allow us to share the inherent benets See Our Strategy and KPIs pages 3031 and risks of prospect exploration.
Our project pipeline extends across the multiple stages of exploration prospecting, drilling and resource denition.
3 See Review of Operations pages 5961 Licence to operate The responsible operation of our business to create Reinforce the sustainable development of the Sustainability valuefor and ensure the wellbeing of all stakeholders, Group by implementing and enforcing policies Advance our without compromising future generations, through and procedures and investing in equipment sustainable thecomprehensive management of health, safety, and training that put our people first in terms development environment and community relations programmes of health and safety: support strong fromthe earliest stages of exploration until mine closure.
environmental management practices: benefit the communities where we operate: See Creating Stakeholder Value pages 2425, Sustainability and secure our adherence to best practices.
Report pages 6275 See Our Strategy and KPIs pages 3233, Sustainability Report pages 6275 4 22 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review 1 2 3 4 Business model component Description Strategic focus Strategic resources The strict control of cash, assets, and costs and expenses Maximise value creation by controlling internal Financial strength in order to secure operational continuity and retain our drivers of financial performance using tools andcontrol competitive position as a low cost producer, ensure such as long-term supply and service continuous investment in exploration, and maintain agreements, cost controls: inventory, trade exible capital funding options.
and receivables management: scal planning: and exchange rate hedging.
It continues to See Financial Review pages 7689 bethe Groups policy not to hedge price exposure on silver and gold realisations.
See Financial Review pages 7689 Key suppliers of equipment and services: contractors: Create mutual value by acting with fairness, Strategic relationships customers: equity partners in our mines and projects: integrity and transparency, sharing best authorities and regulators.
Also see Sustainable practices and fostering innovation.
Creating Stakeholder Value pages 2425 See Creating Stakeholder Value pages 2425 Tools and processes that support exploration, Invest in innovation, maintain and continuously Technology increaseproductivity, reinforce sustainability, upgrade technology and training to promote , and support decision-making and productivity and efficiency.
The critical human factor upon which the successful Find, select, train and retain personnel with Experienced execution of our strategy relies.
the requisite knowledge, skills and experience.
management and See Community Relations pages 7273, See Community Relations pages 7273 skilled personnel  95 Risk management framework The assessment, evaluation and mitigation of the At the operational level, to identify, assess Risk management principalrisks that could affect the Companys ability andmitigate risk at mines, development framework toexecute its strategy and deliver on its commitments.
projects and exploration sites: within each major capital project, to analyse and monitor See Our Risk Management Framework pages 3643 project delivery risks: at the Executive Management and Board level, to assess andmitigate strategic and financial risks.
See Our Risk Management Framework pages3643 23 Our Business Model continued development opportunities, competitive wages and compensation Our key inputs and outputs packages and a workplace culture that fosters teamwork.
We are The mineral resources contained within our mining concessions are committed to providing a safe, equitable and fair work environment, the Groups key input.
We allocate significant investment capital in with a Board-level commitment to sustainable development.
acquiring these concessions and exploring for economically viable deposits.
The Groups precious metals concessions in Mexico are We strive to maintain mutually respectful relations with the local the largest in terms of total hectares.
To extract and process the labour unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration, mineral we rely on a number of critical operating materials such including yearly contract negotiations with that part of the workforce assteel for drilling and milling, explosives, sodium cyanide and that is unionised.
Fresnillo plc has never experienced a work otherreagents, lubricants: mining equipment: tyres and spare parts, stoppage or industrial action as a consequence of labour disputes among others, as well as diesel and electricity to fuel our equipment with the Company.
See Community Relations pages 7273 and plants.
See Our Risk Management Framework pages 3643 Communities Our revenues are primarily derived from silver and gold contents, and to a lesser extent from zinc and lead contents, contained in lead Healthy community relations require a deep knowledge of, and and zinc concentrates and dor produced at our mines, which are respect for, their customs, cultures, needs and expectations.
sold to smelting and rening companies.
Revenue is determined Ourcommunity engagement efforts begin in parallel with the bythe volume of metal contained in those concentrates and dor earliest phases of the exploration process, to the advanced atthe market prices of the contained metals sold, net of treatment prospect phase, to development and construction, to operating and rening charges.
Every year we invest directly and through multi-stakeholder partnerships in a range of initiatives that aim toenhance the quality of life and long-term sustainability of Creating stakeholder value thecommunities where we are present.
Focus areas include We believe the successful execution of our strategy is dependent environmental culture, education, health and social integration, oncreating long-term value for stakeholders in a sustainable self-sustaining capacity, and social infrastructure.
Thus value creation is part of the business model rather Relations pages 7475 than an outcome of the business.
To a certain extent this reects our industrys dependence on Suppliers thesocial licence to operate and shareholders appetite to invest We maintain close relations with our suppliers and contractors, inprojects whose timeframes require several years or even decades whom we consider long-term strategic partners, and seek to to deliver returns.
securehigh quality products and services at a fair price.
To align their practices and performance with our strategic objectives, we Key stakeholders and strategic relationships provide them with training on Group safety policies and procedures.
We often sign long-term purchase agreements in order to secure Employees better pricing and ensure timely availability of key equipment and Our ability to select, recruit, train and retain personnel with materials.
Contractors are integrated into the Groups employee knowledge, skills and experience is fundamental to the Groups ability management systems and training programmes.
to achieve its strategic goals.
To ensure that our people are trained and committed, we provide extensive personal and professional Creating stakeholder value Value Job creation Infrastructure Payment for goods Treatment and Dividends Tax revenue andservices reningcharges Wages and benets Education Capital gains GDP contribution healthcare Support for local profit sharing economy Arts sports Professional development Conservation Quality of life Shareholders Employees Communities Suppliers Customers Government Fresnillo plc and Partners Productivity Access Quality Timely intake Capital Concessions and payment Commitment Trust Fair prices Permits Flexibility Respect Technical support Access to capital markets Stakeholder support 24 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review In December 2007 the Fresnillo Group entered into long-term would help it secure sources of finance, should they be required, arrangements with the Peoles Group in relation to the by-product forits strategic development.
The Group maintains a regular silver output from the Peoles-owned Sabinas polymetallic mine in dialogue with its independent investors and the arrangements Zacatecas, Mexico.
Under the Silverstream Contract, we are entitled formaintaining relations with shareholders are described more fully to all of the proceeds before deduction of treatment and rening in the Corporate Governance Report.
charges in respect of the payable silver produced by Sabinas during Partners its mine life.
The Silverstream Contract is accounted for as a derivative financial instrument asset.
See Note 15 of the Financial Under an agreement with Newmont USA Limited, we hold 56% of Statements page 152 Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Minera Penmont.
The Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos mines and the Noche Buena project are held We contract Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SAPSA, within Minera Penmont.
The Group has a 56% interest in the Juanicipio a Peoles subsidiary, to supply administrative services.
The project, while MAG Silver Corporation MAG Silver has a 44% interest.
relationship is regulated by a Services Agreement NSA, or New The agreement with MAG Silver was entered into for the development Services Agreement, ensuring that all services are delivered of the Juanicipio concession.
We also partner with a number of junior atarms length and on normal commercial terms as per the exploration companies to conduct early stage prospecting.
Relationship Agreement with the Peoles Group.
See full details oftheRelationship Agreement in the Directors Report pages 100 Authorities regulators We are required to secure mining concessions from the federal Customers government to explore for and exploit mineral deposits, and to In 2011 substantially all of the primary products from our mines comply with the statutes and regulations that govern all companies, were sold to the Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. Met-Mex rening and those for natural resources and mining companies in particular, and smelting facility in Torren, Coahuila Mexico under a series of that are promulgated by various branches of the government.
supply agreements the Met-Mex Arrangements that enable the Theseinclude environmental and construction permits and use Group to benefit from relatively low transport costs associated with andhandling of explosives, among others.
We are also subject the proximity of their operations.
The terms of the supply agreements tostate and municipal laws and ordinances in the specic localities with Met-Mex are set on an arms length basis based on international where we operate.
As a publicly traded company, we are also benchmarks.
The Group has sold to other reners and smelters in subject to financial and regulatory oversight from securities bodies the past and may do so in the future if conditions warrant.
and the stock exchanges in London and Mexico where Fresnillo plc shares are traded.
Shareholders The major shareholder in Fresnillo plc is Industrias Peoles S. A. fide Economic impact C. V. Peoles which holds approximately 77% of the issued share One way we measure value creation is through our economic capital of the Company.
Peoles has been the principal investor in contribution at the local level.
This includes total wages and salaries, the Fresnillo Group assets for over fty years and is committed to payments to local contractors and suppliers, and payment of the long-term growth and development of the Group.
Peoles is municipal and state taxes.
Employee profit sharing, known as PTU also a significant supplier of services to the Fresnillo Group which participacin fide los trabajadores en las utilidades and included are described more fully in the Supplier section herein.
inthe total wages calculation, is an important mechanism that Approximately 23% of Fresnillo plc shares have been listed on the alignsthe interests of shareholders, management and personnel.
London and Mexican Stock Exchanges since 2008.
The Companys We believe the transparency of our PTU agreements has listing provides visibility to the Groups approach and activities which contributed to healthy labour relations.
Economic impact 4 Economic contribution Direct jobs Indirect jobs Federal taxes monthly average US$ average average monthly average 1 Minera Fresnillo 10.5m 929 671 $9.6m Minera Saucito 3.5m 67 798 $10.0m 2 Minera Penmont 21.0m 1,378 592 $6.2m 3 Minera Mexicana La Cinega 5.7m 452 328 $1.4m Exploraciones Mineras Parrea 4.7m 109 0 $397,128 Minera Bermejal 798,734 0 0 $69,184 Minera Juanicipio 12,763 0 0 $1,619 5 Others SAFSA and Juanicipio 981,704 70 0 $3.7m Total 47.2m 3,005 2,389 $31.3m 1 Includes US$2.1 million in PTU 2 Includes US$1.0 million in PTU 3 Includes US$0.3 million in PTU 4 Includes SAFSA, Comercializadora, Fresnillo plc, Torres: gures include US$0.06 million in PTU 5 Includes federal tax payments, IMSS, INFONAVIT, water rights, mining concessions 25
