Other Statutory Disclosures Principal Activities Articles of Association The Fresnillo Group is a leading precious metals group with Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company significant experience and expertise in all aspects of mining, from may be made by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
exploration through to mine construction and operation.
It is the worlds largest primary silver producer and Mexicos second Share Capital Structure, largestgold producer.
 Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 20 to Results and Dividends theFinancial Statements on page 155.
The Company has two Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income classes of share capital 717,160,159 ordinary shares of US $0.50 Statement on page 123.
Ordinary Shares and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each SterlingDeferred Shares.
The Ordinary Shares are listed on An interim dividend of 21.0 US cents per share was paid on theLondon Stock Exchange and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
13September 2011 to shareholders on the register on 19 August Therights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed 2011.
A second interim dividend of 41.85 US cents per share was byUK law and the Companys Articles of Association.
paidon 30 December 2011 to shareholders on the register on 16December 2011.
The Directors have recommended a final Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 40.0 US cents per and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of Ordinary Share, which will be paid on Wednesday 23 May 2012 to hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a shareholders on the register on Friday 27 April 2012.
The dividend corporation represented by a duly authorised representative shall will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in paid in US dollars.
person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which heis the holder.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting species significant Relationships and Agreements deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy orproxies.
Section 417 5 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Company todisclose information on contractual or other arrangements There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares whichare essential to the business of the Company.
These other than: significant relationships are described in the Our Business Model The standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company set out section on pages 20 to 25.
Details of the agreement between inarticle 32 of the Articles of Association and: Peoles and the Company theRelationship Agreement can be where, from time to time, certain restrictions may become found on page 100 in the Corporate GovernanceReport.
imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Change of Control significant Agreements pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority As required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the whereby certain Directors, ofcers and employees of the following represents the likely effect on significant agreements Company require the approval of the Company to deal withthe Company were it to be subject to a change of control: intheOrdinary Shares.
The Penmont Herradura and MAG Silver Juanicipio agreementseach contain provisions ensuring that the interests No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the ofthe shareholders may be transferred in accordance with control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding theirrespective bye-laws, subject to preferential rights of ofsecurities.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any existingshareholders.
arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, nancialrights carried by securities are held by a person other The New Services Agreement contains a discretionary provision thanthe holder of the securities.
There are no agreements for Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V to terminate the betweenholders of securities that are known to the Company agreement should they so wish if there is a change of control of which may result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights.
There are no formal change of control provisions within the The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment Silverstream Contract or Met-Mex Arrangements.
of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders onwinding up or on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred The Groups mining concessions are held by several of its Sharesdo not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or Mexican subsidiary companies.
As long as the companies holding toreceive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting the mining concessions remain Mexican resident companies, ofthe Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem there are no provisions within the concession agreements which theSterling Deferred Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, would be triggered by a change of control of the Company.
purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the The Company does not have any agreements with any holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
Except at the option Non-executive Director, Executive Director or employee that would of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferable.
provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover.
116 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance Authority to Purchase Own Shares Major Interests in shares The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed As at 5 March 2012, the Company had been advised, in accordance at the annual general meeting held in May 2011 to purchase up to with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have Authority, of the following notiable interests whether directly or been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, indirectly held in its voting rights: must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, Notication received from: Number of voting rights % thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued and Peoles 552,595,191 77.05 authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming BlackRock, Inc 51,399,264 7.16 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds.
Employees Directors Interests Information relating to employees is given in note 8 b to the The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Financial Statements on page 146 and in the section, Community Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2011 and at Relations on pages 72 to 73.
31December 2011 was: 1 January 2011 31 December 2011 Creditor Payment Policy Alberto Baillres 552,595,191 552,595, 191 At 31 December 2011 the Company had no trade creditors see note below see note below 2010:nil.
It is the Companys policy to agree terms of trading, including payment terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers Lord Cairns 15,000 15,000 perform in accordance with the agreed terms, payment will be Fernando Ruiz 30,000 30,000 made in accordance with the terms.
Javier Fernndez Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 Market Value of Land and Buildings Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost.
It is not Arturo Fernndez practical to estimate the market value of land and buildings at each Rafael MacGregor balance sheet date.
However, the Directors are confident that there Fernando Solana is no material difference between the carrying value and the market value of land and buildings.
Jaime Lomeln Alberto Baillres holds an indirect interest in the Company.
MrBaillres Political and Charitable Donations and companies controlled by Mr Baillres hold, in aggregate 61.3 per cent No donations were made to political organisations during the of the issued share capital and voting rights of Peoles.
Peoles holds 552,595,191 ordinary shares 77.1 per cent of the issued share capital in year including in Mexico.
The Company has no intention of making the Company.
political donations anywhere, and, accordingly, the matter will not require consideration at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The Group No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company made charitable donations ofUS$0.5 million 2010: US$0.5 million between 31 December 2011 and 5 March 2012. during the year.
Further information concerning the community initiatives within the FresnilloGroup are included within the section, Directors Indemnities Community Relations set out on pages 74 to 75.
The Company has deeds of indemnity in place with the Directors inrespect of liability arising against them in connection with Financial Risk Management theCompanys and any associated companys activities and The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk ifrelevant where Directors act as pension trustees.
These deeds management including information on the Companys exposures to are in place at the date of this report and operate subject to the foreign currency, credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate conditions set out in the Companies Act2006.
risks can be found in notes 31 and 32 to the Financial Statements.
Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance Going Concern Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance cover is in place at the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to date of this report.
A review of the cover, particularly by reference to affect its future development, performance and position are set out the Companys mining peer group among London-listed companies, in the Strategic Review on pages 9 to 43.
The financial position of the was carried out in July 2011.
The Board remains satisfied that an group, its cash ows and liquidity position are described in the appropriate level of cover is in place and a review of cover will Financial Review on pages 76 to 89.
In addition, notes 31 and 32 to takeplace on an annual basis.
the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
117 Other Statutory Disclosures continued The Group has considerable financial resources, negligible liquidity Approval of Directors Report risk and is operating within a sector that is experiencing increasing The Directors Report of Fresnillo plc for the year ended global demand for its products.
In making this assessment the 31December 2011, which the Directors are required to prepare Directors have considered the Group budget and cash ow bythe Companies Act 2006, is set out in the Overview, Strategic forecasts for the period to December 2013, including exploration Review, Performance and Governance sections on pages 2 and capital expenditure plans.
The cash ow forecasts are most to119.
TheDirectors Report has been approved by the Board of sensitive to movements in metal prices and sensitivities around Directors of Fresnillo plc.
The Directors therefore have a Signed on behalf of the Board.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern Lord Cairns basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Senior Independent Non-executive Director 5 March 2012 Audit Information Fresnillo plc Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report Registered Ofce: confirms that: 28 Grosvenor Street so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information London W1K 4QR ofwhich the Companys auditors are unaware: and United Kingdom he has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have Company No: 6344120 takenas a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the information.
The conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young have indicated their willingness tocontinue in ofce and a resolution seeking to reappoint them willbeproposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ on 18 May 2012 at 11:00am.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed areset out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies theAnnual Report.
