Board of Directors Alberto Baillres Jaime Lomeln Non-executive Chairman 80 Chief Executive officer 77 Chairman, Nominations Committee Member, HSECR Committee Member, Remuneration Committee Perspective and Experience Mr Lomeln spent 36 years at Peoles where he served as Group Vice President of the Perspectives and Experience metals and chemicals division for four years and subsequently held the position of Mr Baillres has been on the board of Industrias Peoles since 1962 and has served as CEO for 21 years.
He brings to the Board an invaluable wealth of senior operational Chairman since 1967.
He has extensive experience and knowledge of both the Group experience in the elds of mining and engineering.
and the Mexican markets in which it operates and has overseen the development of both the Fresnillo Group and its associated companies that provide essential services Appointment to the Group from both the investor and the supervisory perspectives.
Mr Lomeln was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
Appointment Background and External Appointments Mr Baillres became non-independent, Non-executive Chairman on15 April 2008.
Mr Lomeln holds a Bachelor of Science degree in chemical engineering from the Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Mexico UNAM and undertook business Background and External Appointments administration studies at the University of Wisconsin 1958-1959 as well as the AD2 The Baillres family first acquired an interest in Peoles in 1962 and Mr Baillres is program at the Instituto Panamericano fide Alta Direccin fide Empresas IPADE in 1975 currently the controlling shareholder.
In addition to Peoles, as part of the BAL group and also the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University 1984. ofcompanies, Mr Baillres has interests in Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, a chain of department stores mainly located in Mexico City, Grupo Nacional Provincial, a leading Mr Lomeln is a member of the Board of Trustees of ITAM and an alternate director of Mexican insurance company, Grupo Profuturo, a pensions and annuities business, Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa and is andother businesses relating to financial services and agriculture.
also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Chemistry School at the Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Mxico UNAM as well as a member of the Fundacin UNAM.
Mr Baillres holds numerous other board appointments, being the Chairman of the Mr Lomeln is a director of the non-profit organisations, INNOVEC which promotes Board of Directors of Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, Valores Mexicanos theteaching of science, the Mexican Mining Chamber and the Council of Economic Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Aanzador, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, and as a member of the Development of the State of Zacatecas.
Board of Fomento Econmico Mexicano FEMSA, a leading international beverage producer and distributor, Grupo Televisa, Grupo Kuo Dine and BBVA Bancomer.
MrBaillres is also currently President of Grupo BAL and President of the Board of Trustees of Asociacin Mexicana fide Cultura, A. C. and Instituto Tecnolgico Autnomo fide Mxico ITAM.
In addition, Mr Baillres is a member of the Consejo Mexicano fide Hombres fide Negocios, the J. P. Morgan International Council and also of Fundacin para las Letras Mexicanas, A. C. 92 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance Lord Cairns Fernando Ruiz Senior Independent Non-executive Director 72 Non-executive Director 68 Chairman, Remuneration Committee Member, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Perspectives and Experience Perspectives and Experience Lord Cairns brings a macro-economic perspective to the Boards discussions which is Before joining Fresnillo plc, Mr Ruiz was managing partner of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa supplemented by his career as an investment banker in London.
He is able to provide yCia.
S. C. tax advisers and consultants.
He contributes to the Board and Audit an informed view of institutional investor attitudes and issues.
His wide international Committee proceedings thorough experience of audit and international accounting experience and connections enable him to contribute a supra-governmental view frameworks and a specialist knowledge of Mexican tax.
Appointment Appointment Mr Ruiz was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
Lord Cairns was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
Background and External Appointments Background and External Appointments Mr Ruiz graduated from the UNAM with a degree in public accounting.
He is a member Lord Cairns graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge.
Following a career with SG Warburg of the Asociacin Mexicana fide Contadores Pblicos and currently Chairman of the tax where he had been Deputy Chairman and CEO, he held a number of positions, including committee of the Consejo Mexicano fide Hombres fide Negocios.
as Chairman of BAT plc and Chairman of Allied Zurich.
Subsequently, he has served as Mr Ruiz holds numerous board appointments with companies including Kimberly Chairman of the Charities Aid Foundation, Zain Africa B. V. formerly Celtel International Clark fide Mxico, Mexichem, Grupo Cementos fide Chihuahua, Grupo Mxico, B. V., Actis LLP and CDC Group.
GrupoICA and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
Lord Cairns is currently a board member of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation and acts inanadvisory capacity to Satya Capital an African venture capital house.
Javier Fernndez Rafael MacGregor Non-executive Director 56 Non-executive Director 51 Member, Nominations and HSECR Committees Chairman, HSECR Committee Perspectives and Experience Perspectives and Experience Through his wide-ranging commercial experience, both at a Mexican and International Mr MacGregor has wide-ranging commercial experience across a number of sectors, level and across a variety of industrial and services sectors, Mr Fernndez contributes including institutional financial services and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
His knowledge a deep and independent business perspective to the Boards discussions.
of the external investment perspective, coupled with his wider BAL-Group involvement provides an invaluable contribution to the Boards strategic process.
Appointment Mr Fernndez was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
Appointment Mr MacGregor was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008.
Background and External Appointments Mr Fernndez has a degree in Mechanical and Electrical engineering from the Background and External Appointments InstitutoTecnolgico y fide Estudios Superiores fide Monterrey ITESM and an MBA Mr MacGregor holds a bachelor of science in business administration from ITAM fromHarvard Business School.
andattended the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.
Mr Fernndez has previously held senior executive positions at leading Mexican Previous positions held by Mr MacGregor include CEO of Valores Mexicanos Casa fide companies, including 14 years experience in financial services.
He joined Grupo BBvA Bolsa 1994-1999 : various positions, including corporate director, managing director Bancomer, Mexicos largest financial services company in 1991 as Executive Vice and vice president of mutual funds at Grupo Financiero Inverlat 1985-1994, manager President Strategic Planning and successively served as Deputy President for Systems of investment strategies of Operadora fide Bolsa, and investment assistant at Casa fide and Operations and Chief Information officer, Deputy President and Chief Financial Bolsa Banamex 1982-1983.
Since 1999, Mr MacGregor has been a member of the officer, and in 1999 was named President.
Mr Fernndez has been engaged as a Board of the Mexican Stock Exchange and is a former vice Chairman of Mercado consultant for public and private investment transactions and has been an active Mexicano fide Derivados MexDer.
Since March 2007, Mr Fernndez has Mr MacGregor is the Chairman of Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa, and member beenChairman of the Board of Primero Fianzas, a private Mexican surety company.
ofboth the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee of Industrias Peoles, He is a member of the Board of Directors of the following publicly listed companies: GrupoNacional Provincial, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Crdito FEMSA, a leading Latin American beverage company: CEMEX, a multinational Aanzador, Mercardo Mexicano fide Derivados Bal-Ondeo.
He is also a member buildingmaterials and cement manufacturer based in Mexico: VISA, the worlds oftheBoard of Trustees ofITAM.
largestelectronic payments network and ALFA, a Mexican conglomerate with 93 interests in petrochemicals, telecommunications, autoparts and processed foods.
Board of Directors continued Juan Bordes Arturo Fernndez Non-executive Director 64 Non-executive Director 58 Perspectives and Experience Perspectives and Experience Mr Bordes brings to the Board practical and extensive cross-sector business experience, Mr Fernndez economics background, as well as his experience and connections including within financial services.
His involvement with the wider BAL-Group helps within the Mexican public policy arena is coupled with plural external directorships supplement this external context, bringing group perspective to bear in the Board process.
across a number of sectors to provide the Board with commercial input and the macro-economic perspective.
Appointment Mr Bordes was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008.
Background and External Appointments Mr Bordes holds a Bachelor of Science degree in chemical engineering from UNAM Background and External Appointments and attended the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.
He also attended Mr Fernndez holds a bachelor of economics from ITAM as well as a PhD in economics the Business Management Course at the Instituto Panamericano fide Alta Direccin from the University of Chicago.
He has previously served as the head of the tax policy deEmpresas IPADE.
ofce at the Mexican Ministry of Finance and as head of the economic deregulation ofce at the Mexican Ministry of Trade.
Mr Fernndez has been the rector of ITAM, Mr Bordes has been a corporate director of Tcnica Administrativa BAL since 1979. anindependent not-for-profit higher education institution, for 20 years.
Hewas the CEO of Artes Grcas Unidas from 19841986 and CEO of Fbricas dePapel Loreto y Pea Pobre from 19861989.
Mr Fernndez is a member of both the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, Grupo Palacio fide Since 1989, Mr Bordes has been a member of both the Board of Directors and the Hierro, Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa and Crdito Aanzador.
He is also a member Executive Committee of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Palacio of the Board of Directors of Grupo Bimbo, Minera Penmont, Qumica del Rey and fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Valores Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Aanzador, Tecnologa del Agua TECSA and an alternate director of FEMSA and BBvA Bancomer.
Profuturo GNP Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, Mdica Integral, Bal-Ondeo, Albacorand a member of the Board of Trustees of ITAM.
Guy Wilson Fernando Solana Non-executive Director 63 Non-executive Director 81 Chairman, Audit Committee Member, Audit Committee Perspectives and Experience Perspectives and Experience Mr Wilsons distinguished career within a global audit rm and his experience of capital Mr Solanas extensive experience and connections within the political, banking and transactions and corporate actions provide the Board with an important international diplomatic arenas enables him to contribute to these aspects of strategic analysis audit and accountancy perspective: invaluable in the strategic assessment of capital atBoard level.
He is able to provide insight into the domestic political and regulatory opportunities, and the wider fullment of Audit Committee duties, including the framework within Mexico.
interaction with the financial reporting and audit processes.
Appointment Appointment Mr Solana was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2009.
Mr Wilson was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2008.
Background and External Appointments Background and External Appointments Mr Solana studied civil engineering, philosophy, public policy and administration at the Mr Wilson joined the Board following his retirement from Ernst & Young LLP where National University of Mexico.
He has served in the Mexican government as Minister hewas employed from 1967, becoming a partner in 1979.
From 1972, he specialised ofTrade 19761977, Minister of Education 19771982 and Minister of Foreign Affairs incorporate transactions covering IPOs, public fund raisings, acquisitions, 19881993, and as a senator in the Parliament 1994-2000.
Mr Solana was President disposalsand defences against hostile bids.
From 1989 to 1991, he was seconded and CEO of Banco Nacional fide Mxico 1982-1988, and served as Chairman of the toHM Treasury to assist with the privatisations of the UK water and electricity Mexican Banking Association 1986-1987. industries and Scottish electricity.
From 2000 until joining Fresnillo plc, Mr Wilson He is currently President of Solana Consultores and Chairman of the Mexican Fund primarily, but not exclusively, concentrated on transactions in the financial forEducation and Development.
He is also an associate consultant of Analtica servicessector.
Consultores Asociados as well as a member of the Boards of the Euroamerica Foundation in Madrid and the Institute of the Americas at the University of California inSan Diego.
He is a member of the Advisory Board of the Latin-American Parliament.
He is also a member of the boards of several companies as well as philanthropic 94 andcultural organisations.
