Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance Board of directors Alf Duch-Pedersen Nick Buckles Non-executive director Executive director Chairman of the board Chief executive ChairmanNomination Committee Key strengths and specific G4S role: Long experience of the group and its predecessor companies with a background as a commercial manager Key strengths and specific G4S role: Extensive management before taking on line management roles and then divisional and group experience in multinationals based in both Scandinavia and the UK, and executive responsibilities.
In addition to his board role, participates regularly inarange of industries from manufacturing and financial services to food inNomination and Remuneration Committee meetings and chairs the andfood products.
Chairman experience at large listed companies.
Wideinvolvement with G4S at group and regional meetings as well asatinvestor presentations and meetings.
Joined G4S board: May 2004 Joined G4S board: May 2004 Previous experience: Joined Securicor in 1985.
Became managing director of its UK cash solutions business in 1996, chief executive of its Previous experience: President and chief executive of Tryg-Baltica A S: security division in 1999 and was appointed to the board of Securicor plc in president and chief executive of Danisco A S: chairman of the board of 2000 before becoming its chief executive in 2002.
He was the companys Danske Bank A S. deputy chief executive and chief operating officer from its formation in 2004 Current external commitments: None and was appointed chief executive in 2005.
He also served as a nonexecutive director at Arriva Group plc from 2005 until 2010.
Current external commitments: Chairman of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance, the international association of leading securitycompanies.
Trevor Dighton Grahame Gibson Executive director Executive director Chief financial officer Chief operating officer Key strengths and specific G4S role: Wide knowledge of both the Key strengths and specific G4S role: Extensive knowledge of the group and other service businesses, as well as the accountancy profession.
group and its predecessor companies in many different markets and in a Inaddition to his board role, participates regularly in Audit Committee number of executive functions.
In addition to his board role, is also joint meetings as well as sitting on the Executive Committee.
chiefoperating officer and CEO of the Americas region.
Joined G4S board: May 2004 Joined G4S board: April 2005 Previous experience: An accountant, he joined Securicor in 1995 having Previous experience: Joined Group 4 in 1983, starting as finance director previously worked in the accountancy profession and in industry, including UK followed by a number of senior roles, including deputy managing five years in Papua New Guinea, three years in Zambia and seven years director UK, vice president corporate strategy, vice president finance and withBET plc.
After joining Securicors vehicle services division in 1995, was administration, vice president operations central and south eastern Europe appointed finance director of its security division in 1997 and became its and UK and chief operating officer of Group 4 Falck A S. In 2004 he became deputy group finance director in 2001.
Appointed to the board of Securicor the companys divisional president for Americas and New Markets and plc as group finance director in 2002, he became the companys CFO when became chief operating officer in 2005. it was formed in 2004.
Current external commitments: Board member of the Ligue Current external commitments: None Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance, the international association ofleading security companies.
G4S plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Board of directors continued Mark Seligman Lord Condon Mark Elliott Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Deputy chairman Senior independent director Chairman CSR Committee Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Member Nomination and Remuneration Committees Member Remuneration Committee Member Audit and Nomination Committees Key strengths and specific G4S role: Key strengths and specific G4S role: Key strengths and specific G4S role: Extensive international board and executive Extensive financial and management experience Extensive experience of high profile security experience, having held a number of senior having worked in the financial services sector, with issues, the workings of the public sector and law management positions in Europe, the Middle East a particular focus on investment banking.
Has broad involvement with the UK and Africa with responsibility for operations aparticular interest in the financial performance businesses within the group, particularly those inmore than 110 countries.
Has particular ofthe company, including its financing and serving public sector customers.
Has particular involvement with the groups businesses in transactional activity.
focus on the groups involvement with sporting theAmericas region.
Leads the Nomination Committees Joined G4S board: January 2006 exercise for the recruitment of a new chairman Joined G4S board: September 2006 ofthe board.
Previous experience: Qualified as a chartered Previous experience: General manager accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Senior roles Joined G4S board: May 2004 IBMGlobal Solutions: managing director of atSG Warburg & Co Ltd and Barclays fide Zoete IBMEurope, Middle East and Africa: member of Wedd: Head of UK Investment Banking at CSFB: Previous experience: Senior appointments in the board of IBAX, a hospital software company Chairman of UK Investment Banking at Credit the police force, including Chief Constable of Kent jointly owned by IBM and Baxter Healthcare: Suisse: member of the Credit Suisse Global and Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, as chairman of the Deans Advisory council of the Investment Banking Executive Board and senior well as at the British Security Industry Association Kelly School of Business, Indiana University.
advisor to Credit Suisse Europe.
and the International Cricket Councils anticorruption unit.
Current external commitments: NonCurrent external commitments: Alternate executive chairman of QinetiQ Group plc: member of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers: Current external commitments: Cross non-executive director of Reed Elsevier PLC chairman of the Industrial Development Advisory bench member of the House of Lords: advisor andchairman of Reed Elseviers remuneration Board: member of the Regional Growth Fund tointernational sports governing bodies: member committee.
Advisory Panel: non-executive director of of the Advisory Board of Vidient Systems Inc: BGGroup plc and senior independent director andDeputy Lord Lieutenant for Kent.
G4S plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Winnie Kin Wah Fok Bo Lerenius Clare Spottiswoode Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Member Audit and CSR Committees Member Audit and CSR Committees Member CSR and Remuneration Committees Key strengths and specific G4S role: Key strengths and specific G4S role: Key strengths and specific G4S role: International board and senior management Extensive international board and executive Considerable experience in the public sector, the experience with extensive knowledge of Asian management experience.
Has a great deal of energy markets and the financial services sector as markets and strong connection with Scandinavia.
knowledge of the ports sector and of many well as through setting up and managing her own Has particular involvement with the groups European markets.
Has particular involvement with the businesses in Asia.
with the groups businesses in Europe.
groups businesses in the UK and Africa region.
Joined G4S board: October 2010 Joined G4S board: May 2004 Joined G4S board: June 2010 Previous experience: An auditor by training, Previous experience: Chief executive of Previous experience: A mathematician was involved in management positions in finance, Ernstromgruppen AB: a Swedish building materials andeconomist by training, worked for the UK audit and corporate advisory work and a wide company: chief executive and chairman of Stena Treasury, director general of Ofgas, the UK gas range of roles in asset management firms investing Line AB: group chief executive of Associated British regulator: policyholder advocate for Norwich with a focus in Asia.
Senior partner of EQT and Ports Holdings plc: non-executive director of Land Unions with-profits policyholders at Aviva: CEO of EQT Partners Asia Limited: managing Securities Group plc: non-executive director and non-executive director of Tullow Oil plc: and director of CEF New Asia Partners Limited.
chairman of Mouchel Group plc: non-executive amember of the Independent Commission on director of Thomas Cook Group plc.
Banking and the Future of Banking Commission.
Current external commitments: Senior advisor to Investor AB and Husqvarna: nonCurrent external commitments: NonCurrent external commitments: Chairman executive director of Volvo Car Corporation: executive chairman of Knight Infrastructure II: of Gas Strategies Group Limited: non-executive non-executive director of AB SKF and nonchairman of Brunswick Rail Limited: honorary vice director of EnergySolutions Inc. : non-executive executive director of Kemira Oyj.
president of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce director of Ilika plc: independent director of the for the UK and senior advisor to the infrastructure Payments Council and non-executive director fund of Swedish venture capital group EQT.
G4S plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
