Overview Strategic review Performance Overview Business overview Who we are and what we do Our business Our segments G4S is the worlds leading provider of security We have two operating segments: solutions, specialising in outsourced business secure solutions and cash solutions.
processes and facilities in sectors where Secure solutions security and safety risks are considered Non-government a strategic threat, with expertise in the Integrated security solutions for commercial assessment and management of security organisations in areas such as risk consulting, and safety risks for buildings, infrastructure, mannedsecurity and security systems.
Government G4S plays an important role in society.
We A range of services including protection of critical make a difference by helping people to operate national infrastructure, care and justice services, integrated facilities services and border protection.
in safe and secure environments where they can thrive and prosper and we believe this Find out more see page 28 9 rolecan only grow in importance.
Cash solutions G4S is the largest employer on the London Outsourcing of cash cycle management for central Stock Exchange, with operations in more than banks, financial institutions and retailers.
Find out more see page 34 9 Turnover by segment 2011 1 Secure solutions non-government 56% 7.5bn % 2 Secure solutions government 27% Group turnover in 2011 1 3 Cash solutions 17% 2010: 7.2bn 3 531m Group PBITA in 2011 2010: 520m 2 657,000 Employees 2010: 625,000 30% Revenues from developing markets 2010: 28% At constant exchange rates.
G4S plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Where we do it Our broad geographic reach Our key sectors and customers G4S has a unique global footprint with G4S has a broad customer and geographic operations in over 125 countries, including base, with thousands of customers ranging a strong presence in higher growth from small local companies to governments developingmarkets.
We develop long-term strategic partnerships with customers in sectors Find out more see page 12 9 where we can help them deliver their own business objectives either increasing their revenues, reducing costs, managing risks and protecting 1 Turnover by region 2011 1 Europe 47% criticalassets or improving their service delivery.
2 % 2 Developing markets 30% We do this by understanding the environments in which our customers 3 1 3 North America 23% operate, the pressures they face and what matters to them.
By applying our knowledge and expertise derived from delivering security solutions across diverse regulatory environments, we turn our customers security challenges into opportunities.
3 The nature and duration of G4Ss contracts vary, from high-profile annual contracts for securing sporting or entertainment events to 25-year government contracts for the construction and management of prisons.
In practice, many of G4Ss customer relationships are long-term and result in contracts being renewed regularly, resulting in high customer retention rates 2 that are above 90% averaged across the group annually.
1 UK, Ireland and Continental Europe.
Find out more see pages 28 and 34 9 2 Middle East and Gulf States, Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, South Asia and Asia Pacic.
Turnover by sector 2011 1 Government 27% % 2 Major corporates and industrials 26% 9 1 A description of business performance by region during 2011 can be found 8 3 Financial institutions 18% 9 7 onpages28 to 37 4 Retail 8% 6 5 Private energy and utilities 7% 5 6 Ports and airports 5% 7 Consumers 4% 8 Leisure and tourism 3% 4 2 9 Transport and logistics 2% 3 G4S plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Overview Business overview How we do it Our vision Our role in society G4S plays an important role in society.
We make a difference by helping people to Our vision is to be recognised as the global operate in safe and secure environments where they can thrive and prosper and we leader in providing security solutions, to help believe this role can only grow in importance.
customers to achieve their own strategic Furthermore, managing our relationships with customers, employees and communities, goalsand to deliver sustainable growth for and mitigating our impact on the environment is fundamental to our strategy because itreinforces employee loyalty and helps us attract new employees.
It helps us secure G4Sand long-term value for shareholders.
new customers and retain existing ones.
Investors expect high standards of ethics and responsible business practices.
Our strategy Our strategy for enhanced growth consists Our values ofthe following key components.
We are proud of our distinctive culture and strong values See pages 14 to 23 for a more detailed description of each: 9 thatare cascaded through the organisation.
These values guide how we conduct our business and help to develop positive relationships with all stakeholders 1 2 Customer focus We have close, open relationships with our customers that generate trust and we work in partnership for the mutual Drive outsourcing Focus on benefit of our organisations in key markets sectors where security is a key Expertise consideration We develop and demonstrate our expertise through our innovative and leading-edge approach to creating anddelivering the right solution 3 4 Performance We challenge ourselves to improve performance Develop long-term Transfer skills year-on-year and to create long-term sustainability partnerships developed in more with customers mature markets Best people into key developing We always take care to employ the best people, develop markets theircompetence, provide opportunities and inspire them tolive our values 5 Integrity We can always be trusted to do the right thing Acquire businesses Teamwork and collaboration to drive further We collaborate for the benefit of G4S as a whole growth potential Find out more about our values and approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 9 on pages 44 to 48 and in the G4S 2011 CSR report G4S plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our business characteristics Our key strengths Our investment attributes G4S creates shareholder value as a result of a number of core investment attributes: Integrated security solutions Growth G4S is able to design and manage security solutions that bring u Organic revenue growth together itscapabilities in project management, risk consultancy, secure facilities services, physical security, intelligent systems and u Developing markets exposure high quality security-trained personnel to address the security u Major position in UK Government outsourcing challenges faced by a broad rangeof customers around the world.
u A GDP growth business u Disciplined approach to acquisition spend Cash solutions expertise Understanding and managing cash cycles is one of the groups core Resilience skills.
Central banks, commercial banks and retailers outsource their u Well diversified business cash management to G4S as the group has the capability and u Defensive services experience todrivesubstantial efficiencies in the system, whilst u Structural growth through the cycle achieving maximum returnfor its customers over the longer term.
u High customer retention and visibility of earnings Government partnerships Government outsourcing is a strong, long-term source of growth Strong financial disciplines as public sector spending remains under pressure and governments u Operational efficiency and margin expansion turn to the private sector to provide a number of outsourced u Free cash flow generation cash conversion services.
Government contracts, which represented approximately u Disciplined and coherent M&A progressive dividend policy 27% of group revenues for the year ended 31 December 2011, tend to be long-term strategic partnerships, with recurring revenues.
Growth Strong developing markets presence G4S has delivered strong organic growth since its creation in 2004, performing well above G4Ss global presence, market share and experience of working in global GDP growth despite recent pressure on the economic environment.
We are able developing markets constitute key strengths.
Relatively high levels to do this as a result of our significant and increasing exposure to higher growth of GDP growth in certain developing markets, increasing demand developing markets and leading market positions in key growth markets such as the UK for security services and G4Ss ability to export its experience from Government outsourcing sector, where growth is strong and expected to continue.
its operations in more developed markets drive positive revenue Organic growth is supplemented by disciplined re-investment of free cash flow in and margin development for the group indeveloping markets.
acquisitions focused on extending our developing markets presence in key growth countries and adding capability to help address the needs of customers in growing sectors.
Solutions approach Resilience Each individual area of the business is a driver of value for the group, however it iswhen they come together that they truly make a Our business is well diversified across more than 125 countries and numerous customer difference.
Exporting G4Ss government expertise to new countries, sectors, with no over-reliance on any single area.
Security is at the core of our service leveraging its cash solutions model across developing markets and proposition and is one of the areas on which governments and commercial customers using its global risk management and securitycapabilities to protect focus for cost-savings and reductions during economically challenging times, creating some of the worlds best known brands acrossinternational markets, opportunities for outsourcing.
We have a strong and growing number of long-term drive even greater value for the group.
contracts coupled with excellent customer relationships and a customer service culture which result in strong customer retention rates and good earnings visibility.
For a more detailed description of our business 9 model see pages 24 and 25 Strong financial disciplines Our track record of delivery has been achieved within a framework of strong financial discipline focusing on operational efficiency to drive margin expansion and a continual focus on high levels of cash generation.
We look to achieve an appropriate balance in our capital structure between investment in acquisitions and in shareholder returns through a progressive dividend policy.
These attributes, combined with the growing reputation of G4S as the worlds leading security solutions provider, result in superior returns for our investors overthe longer term.
G4S plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
