Overview Strategic review Performance Performance Divisional review Secure solutions The secure solutions business provides a broad range of solutions to commercial and government customers.
Secure solutions uses its risk management, security and sector expertise to encourage greater outsourcing of the security needs of customer facilities in sectors such as ports, airports, retail, financial institutions and oil and gas, and for government departments such as justice, police, health, foreign affairs and border control.
Secure solutions accounted for 83% ofG4Ss revenue and 76% of PBITA in 2011.
Services Contracts and relationships The secure solutions segment covers a wide range of security G4S has a very diverse contract portfolio not dependent on any particular services, including: customer or sector.
The duration of contracts also varies from high profile annual events such as Wimbledon and the Dubai Grand Prix to 25-year u Manned security services trained and screened private prison contracts.
However, even when the contract terms are short, in practice many relationships become long term and result in contracts being security officers renewed year after year.
This is demonstrated in our customer retention u Security systems including access control, CCTV, rateswhich average above 90% across most regions.
intruder alarms, fire detection, video analytics and security and building systems integration technology 1 Government 32% 2011 secure solutions revenue by customer type 2 Major corporates and industrials 29% u Monitoring and response services key holding, % 3 Financial institutions 9% mobile security patrol and response services and 9 1 8 4 Private energy and utilities 8% 7 alarm receiving and monitoring facilities 5 Retail 6% 6 6 Ports and airports 5% u Secure facilities services integrated facilities services 5 7 Consumers 5% for entire sites or estates for commercial customers 8 Transport and logistics 3% and governments 9 Leisure and tourism 3% 4 u Risk management and consultancy services 2 riskmanagement consultancy services including 3 minedetection and clearance services u Electronic monitoring of offenders electronic tagging and monitoring of offenders at home or inthecommunity u Police services back office functions for police forces, support for front-line policing including the provision of custody suite services and forensic medical services u Management of juvenile and adult custody centresthe management of all aspects of the facility.
Similar centres are also used for the detentionof asylum seekers u Prisoner escorting the transportation of prisoners and asylum seekers between courts, police stations and custody centres G4S plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 83% 76% of group turnover in 2011 of group PBITA in 2011 KPIs Strategy Secure solutions continued its strong performance in 2011, with organic We aim to: growth of 5% and margins maintained at 7% overall.
u Use our expertise and geographic presence to Turnover secure solutions differentiate our business m 6,221 u Drive outsourcing and minimise commoditisation 5,892 5,668 oftraditional security services 4,736 u Offer an integrated security solution to customers 3,504 Key operational highlights u Continued strong growth in developing markets 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 u Excellent new contract momentum Organic growth secure solutions u Maintained secure solutions margin in a % difficultenvironment 5.1 2.8 Risks and mitigation 3.5 8.6 A full summary of the key risks and mitigations for thesecure solutions business can be found in the 8.7 group risk assessment and management processes section onpages 42 and 43.
G4S plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Performance Divisional review continued Secure solutions Case study Market growth drivers CATSA Government A sharper global focus on security in the past decade has led to government outsourcing across a number of markets.
A history of successful outsourcing within developed markets has bolstered a belief incompetition and confidence in private sector involvement.
Government contracts accounted for around 32% of secure solutions revenue and 27% of total G4S revenue in 2011 and are split broadly intothree geographic areas UK, US and Rest of World.
We anticipate further government outsourcing opportunities will arise Aviation is a key sector for G4S and during 2011, G4S won various aviation indeveloped markets aspressure on public spending intensifies and contracts in Europe, the Middle East andNorth America.
The largest government departments seek to manage theirbudgets, without wasfor 20 airports in the Pacific region of Canada, including Vancouver compromising on service delivery standards or the integrity of vital front International Airport which started in November.
This expertise, particularly in justice services, canthen toAsia, airports in the Pacific region play a significant role in commerce beexported into developing markets.
G4S will help protect the public by securing critical elements ofthe air transportation system, including passenger, hold baggage and Ports and airports non-passenger screening at Canadian airports.
The five-year contract We ensure the safe passage of travellers, crew and cargo and the withan option to extend for up to an additional five years isvalued efficiencyofthe international transport system through a full range of atmore than CAD$400m over the initial five-year term.
aviationoperations spanning over 100 airports and more than 80 airlines inmore than 40 countries and at20 ports worldwide.
Case study Airport infrastructure is not expected to keep up with passenger growth over HMP Birmingham, UK the next ten years, potentially resulting in a shortfall of capacity in the order ofone billion passengers.
Airports and airlines will be looking to cost-effective, flexible security providers who have consulting capability and new technology integration expertise and who can redesign systems andinterfaces.
In the ports sector, compliance with international security standards and evolving ports legislation is driving customer requirements.
With 480 million containers being moved around the world every year, container and port facility security is an area of growing focus.
Key opportunities for the port sector lie with the large international private government port operators, who have collectively committed more than $180bn of investment in building new green brown field terminals globally to expand their portfolios and capacity, During 2011, G4S took over management of HMP Birmingham, a category including $60bn proposed for India and $40bn across the Middle East.
Bprison located near the centre of Birmingham in the UK.
HMP Birmingham is the first public sector prison to be privatised and the transfer Energy, oil and gas by the mobilisation team went very well.
The prison holds 1,450 remand With ever growing pressure on energy providers to secure supplies foryears and sentenced adult men.
G4S has a Working Prisons : Working People to come through investment in new production plants and theprotection of programme throughout the prisons it manages, believing these prisons vital resources, security has come to the fore in the energy and utilities sector.
The programme helps provide an opportunity for rehabilitation for people who are ready and willing to work, The market for security across much of the energy market has been anddevelops ties with the business community.
ledbyregulation, particularly of nuclear power.
Increased regulation is driving a focus on costefficiency, robust asset protection and onintelligence and risk-led security capabilities, together withexperience of security provision within challenging and unpredictable environments.
Security challenges within the energy and utilitiesarena can be diverse fromprotecting the copper contained within electricity cables tooil ornuclear facility risk assessment and pipeline protection.
G4S plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The pipeline of UK government outsourcing opportunities remains strong, Performance particularly in areas such as prisons, police, health and the Department for Work and Pensions.
Europe The UK commercial business grew strongly and contracts won included a Organic growth in Europe was 4% and margins at 7.3% were higher than number of significant smart meter installation contracts for the major utility the previous year, due mainly to the turnaround of the business in Ireland.
providers and insurance claims investigations for Aviva.
Major contract With a large number of contracts being mobilised in the UK in the first half extensions included manned security for RBS and Virgin Atlantic and G4S of 2012 we would expect the margin in the first six months to be lower became preferred bidder for its first large commercial facilities services compared to the same period in 2011, but to recover for the full year 2012. contract in the UK, for General Dynamics UK sites.
G4S recently completed the acquisition of Chubb Emergency Response, one UK and Ireland of the UKs leading key holding and response services, covering over 7,000 There was good organic growth of 5% in the UK and Ireland and margins customers across 22,000 locations via a network of 28 dedicated offices improved as a result of the continued strong performance of the UK and247 employees.
The acquisition significantly strengthens the strategic commercial and government businesses, and improved performance development plans of G4Ss existing monitoring and response capability.
Trading conditions in Ireland remained challenging in 2011 but underlying The improvement in the UK business performance was a result of a number trading was helped by a cost reduction plan.
G4S Ireland broadened its of major government contract wins and extensions such as: expertise into areas such as safety, security systems, alarm monitoring andpatrol and response through two acquisitions in 2011. u Taking over the national security contract for the Department for Work and Pensions which was mobilised on 1 January 2011 u Strong growth in the level of services provided for the London 2012 Continental Europe Olympic and Paralympic Games.
G4S commenced its security operations The Continental Europe region performed well against an uncertain for The London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic economic backdrop and has continued to gain market share with its Games LOCOG in March 2011 and will provide security services at the solutions strategy outperforming single service providers.
Overall organic majority of the Olympic and Paralympic venues across the country, as well growth was 3% as a result of price increases in some markets and a revised as at many non-competition venues and at LOCOGs test events, in the contract mix which improved margins to 5.5%.
Revenue for the security build up to and during the Games over the coming year systems business, which accounts for around 25% of Continental European u Delivery of welfare-to-work services in three UK regions this contract, secure solutions revenue, was flat.
The group divested its home alarms which was mobilised on 1 June 2011, has performed in line with business in Norway.
expectations There were some notable strong performances in the region in Belgium u Two public to private prisons HMP Birmingham transferred successfully with the winning of the Brussels airport security contract for up tofive years to G4S In October 2011 and the new HMP Oakwood underway to from February 2011 and security for the European Commission building open in April 2012 from April 2011.
In Sweden, G4S won the contract for the Swedish u Facilities services contracts at City Hospitals Sunderland and Liverpool Parliament Administration from March 2011 and Volvo from April2012 Womens Hospital forthree years.
During 2011, G4S was also successful in winning a number of significant In Greece, G4S was awarded the US Embassy contract in Athens.
government outsourcing contracts such as: Thesecure solutions business was affected by the impact of the economic crisis, which was partly offset by a strong performance in cash solutions u Integrated facilities services for the Ministry of Justice for more than 340 seepage37.
court buildings across the Midlands, Wales and the North of England from 1 February 2012 for five years In Israel, G4S is the preferred bidder for a PFI police training academy u The provision of transport and accommodation for asylum applicants which will have a 25-year contract term and two immigration for the UK Border Agency in two regions the Midlands and the East accommodation contracts started in Cyprus in March and April.
ofEngland and the North East, Yorkshire and Humberside Following significant revenue reductions in 2010, organic growth in most u Prisoner escorting services for the Scottish Prison Service which was Eastern European markets is stabilising to a low single-digit level.
mobilised on 10 January 2012 u Outsourcing services for Lincolnshire police the first contract of its kind to be awarded by a British Police Authority: it includes a framework agreement for ten other police forces this commences in May 2012 G4S plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Performance Divisional review continued Secure solutions Case study North America Hong Kong air cargo terminals Hactl Organic growth in North America was good at 3% and margins were slightly lower due to the performance of the US government business where revenues were down 8% and margins were lower compared to the prior year.
The US government business was impacted by the significant reduction in federal funding levels.
In the United States, growth in the commercial sector was strong, particularly in the financial institution, compliance and investigations and petrochemical sectors.
The outlook for new US federal government work inthe short term continues to be subdued.
State and local governments arealso under financial pressure, but we continue to see some level ofoutsourcing focused on the more effective delivery of public services.
Airports are a key sector to G4S and a good example of the work we Recent contract awards include work in the healthcare, energy, chemical, doisthe Hactl contract.
Hactl is the worlds leading air cargo hub and manufacturing, federal government and retail sectors.
G4S commenced isresponsible for around 80% of total cargo volume handled by freight theprovision of security solutions for a major automotive company from terminal operators in Hong Kong, and 70% of all the air freight that passes 1January 2012 valued at $70m per annum for three years.
The groups through this Special Administrative Region of the Peoples Republic of largest commercial contract with Bank of America has been extended until China.
Hactl serves over 100 carriers, including 53 freight operators.
2014 and G4S North America has been awarded a secure solutions Itscargo throughput for 2011 was 2.7 million tonnes, and it regularly contract with Google for its locations in the United States and data centres handlesaround 10,000 tonnes per day.
G4S has a decade long relationship in Belgium and Finland.
The US systems business performed well with a with Hactl and in 2011 was awarded a further two year secure solutions number of systems integration projects for Tampa Airport, Iberdrola, and contractprotecting Hactls building, cargo and people.
We are confident that organic growth in 2012 will be stronger than in 2011 Case study following the large contract wins and contract expansions during the final The Port of Los Angeles quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012.
In Canada, the organic growth rate was 7% assisted by the CATSA aviation security contract which started on 1 November.
The contract is for security at 20 airports in the Pacific region of Canada and has projected revenue ofmore than CAD$400m over the initial five-year term.
Developing markets In developing markets, organic growth was excellent at 9% with strong margins, albeit slightly lower than the prior year.
Organic growth in Asia was 10% and margins were 5.6% due to a number of factors including bidding costs and floods in Thailand.
There was strong The Port of Los Angeles is the leading container port in the United States organic revenue growth in Hong Kong and Indonesia.
India, the largest and a critical hub in the international supply chain.
G4S Technology designed market in the region, achieved a good performance with double-digit and installed an access control, CCTV and video content analysis system revenue growth.
Our risk consulting business delivered a good performance through two separate contracts at numerous facilities for the Port of Los helped by our advisory services to a retailer developing its footprint in China.
The system will provide the port with a higher level of protection and reduce the vulnerability of its facilities.
In the Middle East, there was double-digit organic growth excluding Iraq an excellent performance across the region.
Qatar and Egypt performed particularly strongly, with Qatar helped by the new airport contract.
In Iraq, as we had expected, the work for the US forces contract has come to an end and commercial work for oil and gas companies has taken longer than expected to be mobilised which had a short-term impact on margins.
G4S plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The US Embassy contract in Kabul, Afghanistan is now expected The Latin America and Caribbean region has performed well as tocontinue until at least the summer of 2012.
The decision has been made aresult of strong performances across all countries.
We have also had to exit the UK managed risk assessment business operating in Afghanistan.
anumber of strategic contract wins, for example in the pharmaceutical InUAE, the business is being challenged by a shortage of labour supply and andmining sectors.
Overall for the region, organic growth was 20% and the general business environment in Dubai which has impacted our security margins improved to 8.0%.
systems business, but was successful at winning contracts such as Dubai We are in the process of extending our presence in Brazil and have Airport and in event security.
Wewill continue to build our presence Africa performed well with organic growth of 8% and margins of 9.8%, in Brazil so that we are positioned to become a key player in this important helped by strong performances in Djibouti, Morocco, Tanzania and strategic market.
The business in South Africa continued to be challenged by difficult macro economic conditions.
G4S has a unique network of operations in Africa which provides an excellent platform to support ourglobal clients working in Africa and in key sectors such as oil andgas, ports and mining, and there is currently a strong contract pipeline across theregion.
G4S plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
