Overview Strategic review Performance Strategic review Strategy for growth 1 Drive outsourcing in key markets Lincolnshire Police In December 2011, G4S was selected to provide a broad range of services to Lincolnshire Police the first contract of its kind to be awarded bya British Police Authority.
The services range from HR to finance, and from custody services to fleet management.
G4S was selected from an original 160 bidders.
The contract runs from April 2012 and is worth at least 200m over the next ten years.
In total the Authority expects to make around 28m in savings over the life of the contract.
It is part ofa framework agreement for anadditional 10 police forces which should lead to similar outsourcing from a number ofother police authorities.
Our objectives and strategy Our approach and progress G4S uses its expertise in key services, sectors or countries to offer Pioneering outsourcing comprehensive solutions addressing multiple customer needs.
For example, G4S can serve international customers across different markets by exporting In addition to the Lincolnshire Police contract mentioned above, G4S has its government expertise to new countries, implementing its cash solutions been a pioneer in the outsourcing of security for many areas such asthe model across multiple countries and using its global risk management and design and management of private prisons see page 30 for HMP Birmingham security capabilities to protect customer assets.
By leveraging its capabilities case study, electronic monitoring of offenders, prisoner escorting and across operating segments, G4S can effectively expand its presence and integrated ATM contracts to name but afew.
driveoutsourcing in the markets in which it operates.
Our aim is to assist ourcustomers in achieving one or more of their business objectives: Government partnerships u Increase their revenues We believe that government outsourcing is a long-term source of growth aspublic sector spending remains under pressure and governments turn to u Manage their costs the private sector to provide a number of outsourced services.
Government contracts, which represented around 27% of G4Ss revenue in 2011, u Manage their risks tendtobe long-term strategic partnerships with recurring revenues.
u Protect their critical assets G4S provides outsourcing services to governments in the areas of prisons, prisoner escorting, electronic monitoring of offenders, back-office and u Improve the service they deliver to their customers custody suite services for police forces and integrated facilities services for keygovernment locations.
We believe that government outsourcing will continue to be a key trend for the security industry and related sectors.
G4S plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Case study Outlook Ministry of Justice, UK Currently one of the most significant opportunities for outsourcing is in the UK, where the pipeline for further government outsourcing remains strong, particularly in areas such as prisons, police, health and the Department for Work and Pensions.
In the longer term we believe there will be further opportunities to drive outsourcing in developing markets based on the expertise we have demonstrated in the UK and elsewhere.
In 2011, the Ministry of Justice consolidated a number of facilities services contracts into two regional contracts.
G4S was awarded the contract to provide more than 150 maintenance, catering, cleaning, security and energy management services to over 340 court, tribunal and administration buildings across the Midlands, Wales and the North of England.
G4S will employ around 800 staff to fulfil the contract, the majority of whom will betransferred from existing service providers.
The contract builds on the companys position as the UKs fastest growing facilities services provider.
G4Ss commitment to industry and professional standards, partnering and continuous improvement was a key factor in securing this new contract.
G4S plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Strategic review Strategy for growth continued 2 Focus on sectors where security is a key consideration Nevada National Security Site For nearly 50 years, G4S has provided security at the NevadaNational Security Site formerly known as the NevadaTest Site which is at the heart of the United States nuclear security efforts.
The contract was recently renewed fora further three years followed by two, one-year renewal options.
TheG4S team will provide facility protection, riskmanagement, patrol services, and protection of nuclear materials associated with thenational stockpile and safety training at the 1,200 square-mile site.
Our objectives and strategy Our approach and progress For sectors such as government and critical national infrastructure, events, Focusing on key sectors mining, oil and gas and financial institutions, security is a strategic priority andG4S is able to design and manage bespoke security solutions for In recent years, G4S has added capability in sectors such as oil and gas and customers in these sectors.
G4S brings together its capabilities in project mining through the appointment of business development executives with management, risk consultancy, secure facilities management, physical security, relevant sector experience.
intelligent systems and high quality security-trained personnel to address the security challenges faced by customers around the world.
We aim to be recognised as the worlds leading security expert through: Revenue Aviation sector u Demonstrating a differentiated offering via a broad m range of security capabilities CAGR 270 240 u Identifying or acquiring key sector expertise within 16% 202 2009-2011 theG4S organisation u Sharing best practice and knowledge across the group 2009 2010 2011 2011: Includes the CATSA aviation contract in Canada.
G4S plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In addition, G4S has significantly expanded its expertise and revenues in areas such as aviation, port security through the acquisition of Adesta in 2009, events through the acquisition of Rock Steady in 2008 and nuclear power security through the acquisition of NSSC in 2009.
This has helped drive organic growth very strongly across these sectors as can be seen on the charts below for a selection of sectors.
Further detail on the sector growth drivers can be found in the divisional 9 review on page 30 Revenue Ports sector Revenue Oil and gas m m CAGR CAGR 52 274 229 28% 29% 40 2009-2011 2009-2011 32 166 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 G4S plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Strategic review Strategy for growth continued 3 Develop long-term partnerships with customers Bank of America With the help of G4S, its sole security supplier for more than sixteen years, one of the worlds leading global financial institutions, Bank of America, has embraced a new approach that enhances the secure solutions it receives.
The result is a single, integrated solution that combines physical security with real-time incident reporting, as well as providing command and control response together with total data management.
It is a pioneering and wide-ranging concept, agreed upon under a new contract which has transformed ourlong-standing partnership.
Our objectives and strategy Our approach and progress One of the main elements of our strategy is to drive outsourcing across Increasing customer partnerships ourkey sectors and customer base.
In order to achieve this, it is important tohave the right level of customer relationship customers see G4S as We aim to develop relationships with certain types of customers, through astrategic partner, a solutions provider and an essential part of their own extending our service provision and becoming critical to them achieving their strategy delivery.
If successful, this will result in a greater proportion oflong-term contracts that are output based.
We measure this relationship Our continued investment in sales and business development processes development by using tools and software such as Net Promoter Score and should: salesforce.
We analyse various aspects of the service provided, the contractual terms, the strength and duration of the customer relationship and u Drive growth across the group the style of purchasing adopted by our customers.
Our goal is for a significant u Help fulfil the groups aim to increase the proportion proportion of our customer relationships to be at the strategic partnership level.
We have previously estimated this to equate to about 30% of revenues of our business from larger, more complex contracts at a total group level.
For more detail please see our Business model on pages 24 to 25 9 G4S plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Managing key global accounts Outlook G4S has created a Global Account Management Programme to address the Global service excellence centres increasing needs of international companies to ensure quality and consistency During 2012, we are creating a number of global service excellence centres of service across multiple markets.
This programme has enabled G4S to to work with G4S country operations to focus on operational efficiencies, growits global accounts base and to win new contracts in key sectors such service standards and development of technology to support service delivery asoil and gas, technology, aviation, banking, mining, ports, automotive and and share best practice across our core service lines of secure solutions, pharmaceuticals.
G4S plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Strategic review Strategy for growth continued 4 Transfer skills developed in more mature markets into key developing markets Baghdad International Airport Based on its extensive knowledge of aviation security and complex environments, G4S was awarded the contract to provide aviation security at Baghdad International Airport by the Iraq Ministry of Transport, and successfully mobilised on 2January, 2010.
G4S has secure solutions contracts at over 100airports in more than 40 countries around the world andwehave been providing protective security, stabilisation and post-conflict reconstruction services to government and commercial organisations in Iraq since 2003.
Our objectives and strategy Our approach and progress Relatively high levels of GDP growth in developing markets, increasing Developing markets multi-service strategy demand forsecurity services and G4Ss ability to export its experience from its operations in more developed markets have driven positive revenue G4S has an unrivalled geographic footprint which has been developed andmargin growth for G4S in developing markets.
overmany years and is unique amongst its peers.
Our service standards and expertise are also usually superior to those of local competitors.
This means G4S aims to grow the revenue generated from developing markets from we are a trusted partner for our customers, who are keen to secure their 30% in 2011 to 50% of the groups total revenue by 2019 through: people and assets and comply with local standards and regulations.
u Building on G4Ss global presence and market share This has meant that the range of services supplied to customers has broadened to a multi-service offering, covering manned security, security u Using experience of working in developing markets systems, cash solutions, systems integration, monitoringand response and facilities services.
u Pursuing a multi-service strategy u Adding facilities services in larger developing markets u Substantial focus on Brazil, India and China the global GDP growth drivers over the next ten years 9% 25% Organic growth from developing CAGR in revenue from developing markets in 2011 markets 2004 to 2011 G4S plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Typical developing market progression Outlook G4S is active in more than 80 developing markets and has been present in The group has delivered a compound annual revenue growth of 25% on many of these markets for decades.
G4S often enters a market through a average from its developing market activities since its formation in 2004 and large customer such as a US embassy or via acquisition of a strong local seen the percentage of group revenues increase from 13% to 30% of the company.
Through this approach we have built up a unique network of group during that period.
businesses often providing a broad range of services and with high levels G4S expects to grow the revenue generated from developing markets to ofexpertise and service standards compared to local peers.
G4S global presence, market share andexperience of developing markets should mean we are well positioned to benefit from further growth opportunities.
G4S plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Strategic review Strategy for growth continued 5 Acquire businesses to drive further growth potential Accelerated Brazil strategy Building on its market entry in 2010 with the acquisitions of Instalarme and Plantech, G4S acquired a facilities services company in So Paolo, Brazil for 64m in 2011.
We plan to continue to build our presence in Brazil so that we are well positioned to become a key player in this large and growing security market.
Our objectives and strategy Our approach and progress G4S has a unique geographic footprint on which to build through bolt-on Re-investing free cash flow to drive further acquisitions which can add value to the group and provide enhanced shareholder returns.
shareholderreturns We will be focusing the majority of our acquisitions in the following areas: Since 2008, G4S has made around 1bn of acquisitions including acquired net debt, which have contributed significant revenue and operating profit u Where we can improve our market share and also provided additional growth opportunities.
In 2011, acquisitions included the Cotswold Group Limited, the UKs market leader in surveillance, u Where an acquisition will start to drive outsourcing fraud analytics, intelligence and investigations services, Guidance Monitoring, inkey sectors an offender monitoring technology business in the UK, a facilities services company in Brazil and Munt Centrale Holland B. V. acoinmanagement service company based in the Netherlands.
The group will consider acquiring integrated facilities services businesses intheUK and US where the market has developed in that direction, butwillbe focusing the majority of its acquisition efforts in developing markets, to either improve market share or where an acquisition will starttodrive outsourcing in key sectors.
G4S expects to spend around 200m each year on acquisitions from freecash flow.
G4S plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Disciplined M&A screening criteria Divestment strategy All acquisitions are reviewed by the group executive team and transactions The group will be more active in its divestment strategy in 2012, particularly over 5m also require board approval.
For any acquisition to be considered, where a service line or business is not in line with the groups core strategy, it must have a post-tax expected return on invested capital of at least the where a business is unable to reach the groups internal margin targets or groups weighted averagecost of capital within three years.
In practice, where an alternative parent could add or drive more value from a business.
mostacquisitions that are undertaken by the group have an expected The proceeds from these divestments will be reinvested into acquisitions returnwhich is far above thatlevel.
For example: thatcan drive further growth for the group.
u 12.5% return on invested capital post-tax within three years for smallerdeals u 10% return on invested capital post-tax within three years for medium sized strategic deals In addition to any acquisition meeting our strategic and financial objectives, since 2010 we have implemented a CSR checklist whereby new market entries and acquisitions are assessed against a range of business ethics and human rights criteria.
G4S plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
