Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Executive management team Nick Buckles Trevor Dighton Grahame Gibson Chief executive officer Chief financial officer Chief operating officer and Regional CEO Americas Nick has worked in the security industry for Trevor has worked in the security industry for 26 27years, focusing throughout this time on the years.
After several years in both the accountancy Grahame has been involved in the security commercial and strategic aspects of all areas profession and commerce working in the finance industry for 29 years, having joined Group 4s UK ofsecurity services.
function and general management, he joined BET operating company in 1983 as finance director.
in 1986 as finance director of its security and After a variety of commercial roles throughout Since that time, Grahame has held a number of communications division.
the group, he was responsible for driving operational, management and board positions in significant profit improvements in many Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following a the UK, USA, Denmark, the Netherlands and Securicor businesses throughout the 1990s as number of years as finance director of the security Austria.
abusiness unit managing director and divisional division, he was appointed to the board of His broad experience of the security industry and chief executive of the security division.
He was Securicor plc in June 2002 as group finance management of businesses across a diverse range also instrumental in the development of director.
He became chief financial officer of of cultures has been invaluable to the group Securicors security sector focus, becoming group G4Sin July 2004. throughout its development.
Grahame joined the chief executive in 2002, and in bringing together Trevor is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of board of G4S plc in April 2005.
Group 4 Falck and Securicor to create the Management Accountants.
Nick became chief executive Grahame is a board member of the Ligue ofG4S in July 2005.
Nick is chairman of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance, theinternational association of leading security companies.
Debbie McGrath Graham Levinsohn David Taylor-Smith Group Communications director Group Strategy and Development Chief operating officer and Regional director CEO UK and Africa Debbie is Group Communications director, heading the corporate communications team which focuses Graham has more than 18 years experience in In addition to his existing role as Regional CEO, on the groups key audiences investors, media, the security industry, having joined Securicor Cash UK and Africa, David was appointed as Group government, employees and customers.
Debbie Services in 1994 as general manager marketing.
In his new position, hasa broad range of experience in marketing, Since then, Graham has held a number of Davidhas responsibility for developing G4Ss main corporate communications, brand development commercial and line management positions in service lines globally.
David joined G4S in 1998 andimplementation, and crisis communications.
both the cash and security lines of business.
He moved Priorto the merger between Group 4 Falck and Graham was responsible for the creation of the back to the UK in 2002 and has held a number Securicor, Debbie was employed in a number of UK cash centres outsourcing business in 2001 as ofpositions in the company, including CEO, senior marketing and communications roles within managing director, before moving on to become G4SUK and Ireland, and managing director of the Securicor group from 1993 to 2004. divisional managing director for G4S Cash Services G4S Justice Services.
UK, and then regional president Nordics.
Before joining Securicor, Debbie had also held Prior to joining G4S, David held senior roles with Hebecame group strategy & development marketing positions with ICC Information Group Jardine Matheson, Project ORBIS and Operation director in 2008 and joined the Executive andHoneywell Bull.
Debbie is also chairman of the Raleigh.
Before this he was a British army officer Committee in 2010.
CBI South East Regional Council the representative and served in Northern Ireland, Germany, England, body for all CBI member companies based in the Namibia and in Cyprus with the United Nations.
South East of England and the Thames Valley and David has a degree from the University of amember of the CBI Chairmens Committee Southampton and is a Fellow of the Royal whichtakes the lead responsibility for setting the Geographical Society.
He has also held positions CBIs position on all policy matters.
on the board of several charities, and currently sits on the Public Services Board of the CBI.
In 2003 he was awarded the MBE in recognition of his charitable activities overseas.
G4S plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen Irene Cowden Group general counsel Group HR director Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark Irene has spent her career in HR management, and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal specialising in employee relations, organisational experience as general counsel for international development, talent management and groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before compensation issues.
She has been involved in joining Group 4 Falck in 2001 as general counsel.
major change projects including the cultural and Sren has been involved in a wide range of integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions, as successful mergers and acquisitions during his well as large scale organisational change involving career, including the acquisition of Wackenhut workforce restructuring, working in partnership andthe merger of Group 4 Falck and Securicor.
Sren now has overall responsibility for all internal Irene has worked in the security industry for and external legal services for G4S as well as the 34years and has held director level positions groups insurance programme.
atbusiness unit, divisional and corporate level.
Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and Law Shewas appointed to the board of Securicor plc Society, a member of the advisory board of the in 2002 as group HR director.
Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and author Irene is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute ofthe book Executive Management Contracts, ofPersonnel and Development FCIPD.
Willem van fide Ven Dan Ryan Regional CEO Europe Regional CEO Asia Middle East Willem has served over 20 years with G4S and its Dan joined G4S in August 2010, from global corporate predecessors in Holland.
He started out logistics and transportation company Neptune in the former Randstad group where he became Orient Lines NOL where he held a number of Regional Director.
Willem then served as HR senior management positions including regional director and managing director of the Netherlands president for Greater China for NOLs APL and security company Randon which was subsequently APLL divisions, regional president for the Middle acquired by Securicor.
In April 2003, Willem East for the APL division and regional president wasappointed as Securicors regional managing for Europe for the groups APL Logistics division.
director Africa, becoming the regional president He was a member of the NOL Group Executive for G4S Africa Sub-Sahara in 2004.
In July 2010, Willem was appointed regional He also held various managing director positions CEO Europe.
for NOL including Middle East, Hong Kong South China and Indonesia and was a regional head for the Middle East a during his 20-year career with the group.
Dan is a Charter Member of the Middle East Logistics Supply Chain Management Forum, Hong Kong Liner Shipping Association and the American Chamber of Commerce Shanghai.
G4S plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
