Genus plc Annual Report 2011 34 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Bob Lawson 66 Chairman Bob Lawson was appointed Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee in November 2010.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Barratt Developments plc.
He is also a Director of The Federation of Groundwork Trusts.
His career has spanned several UK and continental groups including ten years as Chief Executive of Electrocomponents plc leading its successful expansion into new international markets and three years as Managing Director of Vitec Group plc.
Richard Wood 66 Chief Executive retiring 30 September 2011 Richard Wood is a graduate chartered chemical engineer.
He worked for ICI for 23 years and is a former Managing Director of ICI Seeds UK.
He then worked for seven years in the pharmaceutical industry, firstly as Chief Executive of Daniels Pharmaceutical Limited until it was acquired by Lloyds Chemists plc and then as Managing Director of a division of Lloyds.
He joined Genus as Chief Executive in December 1996.
Karim Bitar 46 Chief Executive with effect from 30 September 2011 Karim Bitar joined the Board in September 2011.
He worked for over 15 years with Eli Lilly and Company Lilly and was President of Lilly Europe, Canada and Australia before joining Genus.
An ex-McKinsey & Company consultant, who worked across Asia and in Europe, he has also held management roles at Johnson & Johnson and the Dow Chemical Company.
John Worby 60 Group Finance Director John Worby joined the Board in September 2004 and was Chairman of the Audit Committee until he became Group Finance Director in February 2009.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Cranswick plc and Smiths News plc, and was previously Deputy Chairman and Finance Director of Uniq plc formerly Unigate plc having been Finance Director of Wincanton Ltd.
He is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 35 Nigel Turner 62 Senior Non-Executive Director Nigel Turner joined the Board in January 2008 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 to November 2007.
Previously he was Vice Chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale and Investment Bank in which he had specific responsibility for the Global Corporate Finance and Equity businesses.
He joined the Dutch bank in 2000 from Lazard, where he was a partner for 15 years and sat on its Supervisory Board.
Mike Buzzacott 63 Non-Executive Director Mike Buzzacott is a qualified accountant.
He joined the Board in May 2009 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He spent 34 years at BP prior to his retirement in 2004, holding a number of international roles including Finance & Control Director Asia Pacific, CFO BP Nutrition and Group Vice President Petrochemicals.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Scapa Plc.
He retired as a Non-Executive Director of Croda plc in August 2011 and was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Rexam plc and Chairman of Biofuels plc.
Professor Barry Furr 67 Non-Executive Director Professor Furr recently retired as Chief Scientist and Head of Project Evaluation for AstraZeneca plc after 34 years of service.
He is a Non-Executive Director of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and the American Pharmaceutical company GTx Inc.
He was awarded an OBE in 2000 for his services to cancer drug discovery.
He joined the Board in December 2006 and chairs the Boards Science Committee.
He is the author of more than 160 papers on reproductive endocrinology and antihormones.
Ian Farrelly 43 Group Company Secretary & General Counsel Ian Farrelly is a solicitor and joined Genus in June 2006 from Microgen plc where he was Group General Counsel.
Previously he was Group Solicitor & Company Secretary of Diagonal plc and Solicitor to Hays plc.
