Genus plc Annual Report 2011 06 Business Review Our Business Model Genus is a world leader in applying science to animal breeding.
Through World our extensive research and product demand for improved development we create advances farming to animal breeding.
productivity Our Business Our Business Model Genus is a world leader in applying science to animal World Demand for Improved Farming Productivity breeding.
Through our extensive research and product Genus is a growth business well positioned to benefit from the development we create advances in animal breeding.
increasing global demand for improved agricultural efficiency.
The non-genetically modified organism technology used is applicable across all livestock species but is World-leading Research & Product Development only commercialised by Genus in the bovine and porcine The lifeblood of the business is its research and product farming sectors.
This enables us to sell semen and breeding development.
Approximately 25m per annum is spent animals to our customers with superior genetics to those on research and product development to create animals currently in production.
Customers animals produce improved genetics.
offspring with greater production efficiency, milk and meat output and quality, and use these to supply the global dairy Our bovine product development programme is and meat chain.
designed to create elite bulls whose characteristics meet the requirements of farming customers.
We achieve Genus operates sales and distribution on a regional this through an extensive bull development programme basis across its four major regions of North America, involving 400 animals each year entering our five year Latin America, Europe and the Far East including Russia selection and testing programmes located across the and Australia.
Genus worldwide sales are made in seventy world.
Genome evaluation is increasingly being used countries under the trademarks Genus or ABS dairy to supplement traditional progeny testing and thereby and beef cattle and PIC pigs.
Its bovine and porcine to extend the Companys lead in the sector.
product sectors are broadly of similar size, with annual sales of 310m being split 50% bovine and 50% porcine.
The primary objective of our porcine development Research and development is managed centrally on a programme is to improve the genetics in the Companys global basis to ensure maximum effectiveness.
These are then used to create elite boars and gilts to multiply in order to supply agricultural Revenue by Revenue by quantities of superior pure-bred and cross-bred animals species region for sale to regional customers.
Pure line development involves 6,400 sows and boars and is undertaken in two nucleus herd facilities located in Canada and the USA.
The programme is optimised using genomic evaluation techniques and the in-house extensive database of animal records created through cross-bred trials and information obtained from our customers.
n 50% Bovine n 118m North America inc R&D n 50% Porcine n 46m Latin America n 111m Europe n 35m Far East Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 07 Improved farming World leading Global productivity research & sales and development distribution Shareholder return Alongside the development programme we operate a the extensive multiplication process, Genus subcontracts fundamental research programme designed to identify to third party multipliers the vast majority of its multiplication improvements in techniques and to provide the potential requirements.
Contracts with multipliers entitle the Group to for a technological breakthrough.
repurchase for onward sale those animals that are required to supply its customers.
In addition, a number of its larger Global Sales and Distribution customers undertake their own multiplication.
Genus sells and distributes most of its products through thirty subsidiaries located in the four operating regions.
In a number Sales of breeding animals to customers are increasingly of other countries sales are made through agents.
being made under royalty contracts rather than by a direct and outright sale.
Under royalty contracts, breeding animals The business model is different for bovine and porcine: are sold to customers at or near their cost of production In bovine, the elite bulls graduating from product and customers commit to pay a royalty fee on the number development enter one of our nine studs located of offspring produced from these breeding animals.
Semen produced at these studs sales involve a significantly larger upfront sales value that is frozen and distributed to the regional businesses for includes the premium payable for the genetics involved but sale to customers.
In some countries, we also provide the farmer can continue to use the animals for future related added value products, such as Powerstart silage matings without making any further payments.
enhancer, and technical services such as genetic mating and reproductive management services to assist farmers The outsourcing of porcine multiplication combined to maximise the benefits of the genetics we sell.
with sales being made under royalty contracts produces a more robust and consistent profit performance than would Distribution of porcine genetics is achieved through the otherwise be achievable at times when pig prices fluctuate sale of live breeding animals and in some cases through and pig production profitability is low.
Over 99% of the the sale of fresh semen.
Porcine semen has a short life and Groups multiplication requirements are outsourced.
can only be used on farms near our multiplication facilities.
Approximately 67% of the Groups porcine sales by volume are under royalty contracts, including virtually The elite boars and gilts produced from the two nucleus all sales in North America.
farms are multiplied to produce agricultural quantities for supply to our customers.
At this stage of the development of the Far East markets, direct sales rather than royalty contracts are being used Genus adds value by continuously increasing the quality for the majority of sales.
of the genetics that it provides.
Therefore, in order to capitalise on its intellectual property whilst minimising the Groups exposure to fluctuations in pig prices involved in
