Genus plc Annual Report 2011 10 Business Review Strategy Review Target Research & Product Development Genus spends approximately 8% of sales 25m per annum on research and product 1 development.
Genus has 30 of the top 100 bulls in the important US bull rankings Independent trials demonstrate Genus pigs deliver a US$3 per pig advantage Product Development The product development activities are focused on using natural selection techniques together with leading biotechnology, such a genomic evaluations, continually to improve the Companys proprietary lines of breeding animals.
In bovine, we operate a five year selection and testing programme for the identification of new bulls.
This continuously regenerates and enhances the stud of elite animals whose semen is collected for sale.
The porcine development programme is centred on the Groups two porcine genetic nucleus herds located in the USA and Canada.
A sophisticated breeding programme is operated involving nine major pure lines of animals to develop Genus uses genomics to solve pig elite boars and gilts to be multiplied to agricultural quantities robustness issues and sold by the Groups operating businesses.
Quantitative Pig mortality and scrotal hernia are traits genetics and cross-bred trials in commercial herds are used where genomic selection can have a large to enhance the selection process.
impact: lowly heritable, requiring large commercial datasets to estimate breeding The success of the product development programme is demonstrated by Genus world leading product range.
For value, and of high economic importance example, we have 30 of the top 100 bulls in the internationally to customers.
important US bull rankings: well ahead of any competitor.
Genus researchers last year used high density SNP In porcine, independent third party trials demonstrate an genetic marker chips to search for significant marker average US$3 per pig advantage compared to competitors.
trait associations in porcine data.
The result was an affordable test that improves the accuracy of selection by Research 38.7% for scrotal hernia and 58.6% for finisher mortality.
Research activities are targeted at projects which will both enable a reasonable likelihood of a technological breakthrough Genus R&D in this area has dramatically accelerated and offer commercial benefits, such as the Genus sexed semen the rate of improvement delivered to customers.
The Group manages much of its fundamental research in educational establishments and with specialist research companies.
In addition Genus monitors work undertaken in more than 500 research establishments around the world.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 11 Genus plc Annual Report 2011 12 Business Review Strategy Review Enhance Global Production Development Facilities Two year US$30m investment programme to expand capacity completed 2 Global bull development programme expanded to over 400 bulls per annum Over the last two years, the Company has invested US$30m in expanding its central product development facilities, to increase its product development capabilities and to expand production capacity by over 30%.
In the year to 30 June 2011, we completed the final part of this investment programme and the new porcine genetic nucleus farm in South Dakota, USA became fully operational.
The increase in bovine product development facilities was completed in the previous year and has enabled the bovine product development programme in the USA to be increased to 317 bulls per annum.
Worldwide, the bull development programme has now been expanded to an annual intake of over 400 bulls per annum across the six primary studs New Genetic Nucleus facility opens in located in the USA, Canada, Brazil, the UK, Italy and Australia.
North America The new state of the art Genetic Nucleus Investment in our global product development facilities GN facility became fully operational during is ongoing.
This complex in South Dakota supports our growth strategy by supplying the most competitive available PIC genetics.
The site houses a population of 3,000 sows, and over 90,000 gilts and boars were on and off tested during the first year.
Of those, the top 15% selected breeding boars and gilts were distributed in over ten countries to provide our customers with advanced genetic material.
Results so far match the world-class performance at Aurora, our GN facility in Canada.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 13 Genus plc Annual Report 2011 14 Business Review Strategy Review Capture Growth in Developing Markets Strong growth across Latin America and the Far East regions, with sales 17% higher Investment made to provide locally 3 supplied product in RIC countries Genus business in Latin America and the Far East including Russia is operating in fast growing agricultural markets.
The objective is to capture up to 50% of the new growth available in these markets.
Genus has already been operating in a number of the countries of Latin America for some time including Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Chile.
We recently opened a new business in Colombia, the third largest cattle market in Latin America.
Local production facilities such as the bull stud in Uberaba in Brazil were established in the region a number of years ago.
This stud is being used to achieve strong volume growth and increased market share across the region.
Global partnerships satisfy Chinese The successful approach proven in Latin America is being appetite for pork emulated in the expansions of business in the Far East The 48 million sows in China account for region, by establishing local production and supply in the 50% of the global sow herd, and pork RIC countries.
remains the meat of choice for Chinas The strategy in porcine is to supply quality breeding animals to 1.3 billion people.
customers from locally owned or sub-contracted production.
Genus has capitalised on these changes by forging In the large Chinese market, this is being achieved through successful new global partnerships.
We are currently building our own production nucleus farms.
We now working with Besun Food Group in Shaanxi Province, have four such farms in operation and a further two farms which produces 100,000 pigs a year, by stocking its under development.
4,500 sow high health breeding unit from one of our nucleus units in China.
The partnership also includes In bovine, Genus strategy is to provide a differentiated product Pipestone Swine Systems, a US company that is managing Besuns production operations.
by supplying locally produced semen from progeny-tested bulls.
These are being marketed alongside imported semen from our global studs.
We now have 48 bulls providing semen in China that were shipped from our Australian stud and nine bulls in Russia that were shipped from the USA.
In India, we are marketing locally sourced semen and are developing plans to introduce progeny-tested product into the market.
Strong growth is being achieved across the Latin American and Far East regions, with sales up 17% in the year to 30 June 2011.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 15 Genus plc Annual Report 2011 16 Business Review Strategy Review Continue Growth in Developed Markets 6% growth in sales in the year to 30 June 2011 4 Additional revenue achieved through new programmes such as CBVPlus Our objective is to continue to grow in the developed markets of North America and Europe in line with historical growth rates.
This will be achieved through the successful marketing of an improved product offering supported by specialist customer services.
Increased emphasis is being placed on our global product management to ensure we have the right product ranges available for each of the markets in which we operate.
For example, in the North American porcine business, our new CBVPlus programme is being used to provide higher quantity genetics to our customers and generate additional revenue for Genus.
In bovine, semen sales are being enhanced by the marketing of GMS system builds genetic value in added value services such as GMS genetic mating services large dairies and RMS reproductive management service.
These services With so many inputs and the need for return also increase customer loyalty.
on investment while feed prices are high, dairy managers may lose sight of the need Additional business opportunities continue to be exploited, to invest in the genetic value of their herd.
such as the Powerline Beef Genetics business, acquired in 2010.
This provides speciality beef genetics to large Now, by using the Genus Genetic Management System US suppliers.
and its herd percentile ranking tool, dairy managers can see the link between cow performance and an animals In the year to 30 June 2011, the strength of the Genus genetic level.
This makes it possible to predict a return on product range and additional services provided contributed genetic investment, which enables customers to use to a 6% growth in sales in the developed market countries.
better genetics and improve profitability.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 17
