Genus plc Annual Report 2011 08 Business Review Our World Today An increase in world population and urbanisation will drive up consumption of beef, pork and milk across the world as incomes rise and diets change... Our population is rising fast.
Between 1950 As economies grow and industrialisation and 2011, the world population has grown from continues, per-capita incomes rise giving people 2.6 billion to almost 7 billion: the UN population more disposable income.
Households spend forecast for 2050 is 9.2 billion.
82% of people live more on higher-value food meat and dairy and in the developing world.
Here, average growth this trend is likely to continue, reinforcing both rates are even faster, outstripping growth in the near and long-term global demand.
developed world by a factor of nine times.
Economic prosperity is creating changes in This huge increase in world population will drive a global eating patterns.
It is not so much the rapid expansion in urbanisation.
In 1950, only 29% billion additional mouths at the bottom of the of the population lived in an urban environment: consumption pyramid that are creating pressure, today its about 50% and thats 3.5 billion people.
but the burgeoning middle class in the emerging By 2050, forecasts suggest that this will reach markets.
Significant rises in incomes over the past 6.4 billion, around 70% of the population, with five years in India alone have created 220 million growth concentrated in the less-developed regions.
consumers of meat, fish, eggs and milk.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 09 Clearly there will be many more consumers in the This is driving the move towards greater world to feed, many of these will be considerably industrialisation of farming.
To maintain a wealthier and as a result, will demand higher profitable and sustainable operation now and in quality, added value food.
the future, farmers have been compelled to seek new ways to improve both the productivity of This accelerating consumption of meat and dairy their operations and the overall quality of their products acts as a catalyst for the industrialisation of product offering.
Greater demand is being placed on finite land, water and energy resources by increased food consumption and the competing demands on Genus plays an increasingly important these finite resources of alternative energy sources.
social and economic role, enabling our global customers to produce quality foods Combine this with adverse weather conditions that efficiently and to meet the increasing have lead to poor harvests, for example in Russia and Australia, and by necessity farming practices demands of sustainable agriculture.
