CF GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Other statutory information Annual General Meeting Rights and obligations attaching to shares The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.00 pm on Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when Thursday, 3 May 2012 at the Cavendish Conference Centre, 22 Duchess declared, to receive the Company's annual report, to attend and speak Mews, London W1G 9DT.
The notice of meeting, which includes the at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise special business to be transacted at the meeting, is included within voting rights.
The circular also contains an explanation of all the On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding resolutions to be considered at the AGM.
ordinary shares has one vote.
On a poll taken at a meeting, every member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each Dividend ordinary share held by him.
In the case of joint shareholders only the The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share in vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, payable to shareholders on by him may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
the register at the close of business on 27 April 2012.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.0p paid in September 2011, brings the total The trustee of the EBT does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by the EBT.
Once the shares are transferred from the EBT to dividend for the year to 6.0p.
share scheme participants, the participants are entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
Issued share capital At 31 December 2011, the issued share capital of the Company consisted The EBT waived payment of the 2010 final dividend in May 2011 and the of 1,590,529,859 ordinary shares of 10p 2010: 1,590,529,859 shares, interim dividend in September 2011. of which 37,388,984 shares 2.35% were held in treasury 2010: Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys 37,565,178 shares: 2.36%.
A total of 176,194 ordinary shares were shares are contained in the articles of association.
issued during the year in connection with the exercise of options under the Companys share option schemes 2010: 636,687 shares, all of which were transferred from treasury 2010: 634,401 shares.
Restrictions on the transfer of securities Whilst the Board has the power under the articles of association to GKN operates an Employee Benefit Trust EBT to satisfy the vesting and refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on the exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Groups sharetransfer of shares.
As at 31 December 2011, the EBT held 2,219,116 shares 2010: 5,810 shares, being 0.14% of the Companys Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to suspend issued share capital 2010: 0.003% including treasury shares.
voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Depositary.
The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter market where that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
Substantial shareholders As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Shareholder Nature of interest % of voting rights Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct 7.00% Indirect 4.99% Total 11.99% Ameriprise Financial Inc Direct 0.15% Indirect 4.98% Contracts for difference 0.02% Total 5.15% Capital Group International Inc Indirect 4.95% Legal & General Group plc Direct 3.89% see footnote on page 71.
D Other statutory information Continued Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Name Position as at @ December ?
Service in the year ended @ December ?
Roy Brown Chairman Served throughout the year a Sir Kevin Smith Chief Executive Served throughout the year Marcus Bryson Chief Executive Aerospace and Land Systems Served throughout the year Tufan Erginbilgic Independent non-executive Director Appointed 9 May 2011 Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Richard Parry-Jones Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Andrew Reynolds Smith Chief Executive Automotive and Powder Metallurgy Served throughout the year William Seeger Finance Director Served throughout the year John Sheldrick Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year b Nigel Stein Chief Executive Designate Served throughout the year Michael Turner Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year a Retired on 31 December 2011. b Appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors in A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at the office at the date of this report are shown on pages 44 and 45.
Further Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be details relating to Board and Committee composition are disclosed in available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
the corporate governance statement on pages 46 to 52.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for any Following his appointment to the Board in May 2011 and in accordance legal action taken against its Directors and officers.
with the Companys articles of association, Tufan Erginbilgic will retire and offer himself for election at the 2012 AGM.
With the exception of Conflicts of interest Roy Brown, who retires at the conclusion of the AGM, all other Directors Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the conflicts of interest with the Company.
As permitted by the Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Companys articles of association enable Directors to authorise actual and potential conflicts of interest.
The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors, Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further information conflicts are in place.
These procedures enable non-conflicted Directors on GKNs internal procedures for the appointment of Directors is given to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation in the corporate governance statement.
and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential The remuneration report, which includes details of service agreements conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are and the Directors interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 56 to 68. considered by the Board prior to appointment.
Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for Articles of association inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business The Companys articles of association can only be amended by special hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
GKNs current articles are available on our website at www.
Directors powers The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company Change of control subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys articles The Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings plc, has entered into of association and any directions given by the Company in general agreements with 14 banks for 21 bilateral banking facilities totalling meeting.
The powers of the Directors include those in relation to the 675 million.
Each agreement provides that, on a change of control issue and buyback of shares.
of GKN plc, the respective bank can give notice to GKN Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts under the relevant facility.
At the 2011 AGM the Company was authorised to purchase up to 155,296,468 of its ordinary shares.
No shares were purchased under All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a this authority in 2011.
A special resolution to renew the authority will change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Directors indemnities The executive Directors service agreements provide for payment of a Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed a predetermined amount equivalent to one years salary and benefits on deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the Company termination by the Company of a Directors service agreement on less and persons who were Directors of the Company in respect of costs than due notice within 12 months of a change of control of GKN plc.
of defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
These Further information is given in the remuneration report on page 61. provisions remain in force.
The indemnity provision in the Companys articles of association also extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect of liabilities incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an associated company of the Company.. D GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Payments to suppliers Auditors & disclosure of information It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their contract.
Given the nature and diversity of the Groups international remuneration will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
purchasing arrangements and contracts, it is not Group policy to follow Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this any specific code or standard in relation to payment practice.
Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are trade creditors at 31 December 2011. unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors Donations are aware of that information.
In 2011, charitable donations made by Group companies around the world totalled 747,800, of which 34,340 was to UK registered charities.
This Directors report comprising the inside front cover and pages 1 to 72 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by In addition, the GKN Millennium Trust, a UK charitable trust established in 1995, donated a total of 137,000 to the Engineering Development Trust and Young Enterprise in 2011.
During the year, the Trust also provided funding totalling 108,000 for the winning projects of the Groups 2009 Evolve competition, designed to foster long term sustainable links in local educational establishments.
The GKN Foundation, an independent US charitable body established in 1951, supported approximately 300 organisations in the US in 2011 with Judith Felton contributions totalling almost US $700,000.
Company Secretary In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were made 27 February 2012 and no political expenditure was incurred during 2011.
The Groups US Aerospace business has a Political Action Committee As at 1 March 2012, Standard Life Investments Ltds holding in the PAC which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No Company amounted to 11.05%, 6.81% of which was held directly and funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services 4.24% of which was held indirectly.
As at this date, the Company had provided to the PAC by the US Aerospace business are fully charged to not been advised of any further changes or additions to the interests and paid for by the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of these to be political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely the Financial Services Authority as set out on page 69. voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
