44 roy Brown 65 nigel Stein 56 Marcus Bryson 57 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Executive Aerospace n n e and Land Systems e Appointed a non-executive Director in Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
1996 and became Chairman in May 2004.
Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
Experience He will retire from the Board following the Joined GKN in 1994 and has held a range Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2012.
Experience of commercial, general management Joined GKN with the acquisition of the Experience and finance roles, including Finance Westland Group in 1994.
He has extensive Former executive Director of Unilever plc Director and Chief Executive Automotive.
experience of the aerospace industry and Unilever NV from 1992 to 2001 with He became Chief Executive on 1 January having held a number of finance and responsibility for the groups activities 2012.
Prior to GKN, he gained experience commercial roles with Westland and in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
in the commercial vehicle and senior positions in GKNs Aerospace He is a former non-executive Director of manufacturing sector and held senior division.
Joined the Executive Committee Brambles plc, Brambles Ltd Australia, financial positions with Laird Group plc as Chief Executive Aerospace in January British United Provident Association Ltd and Hestair Duple Ltd. Former non- 2006 and assumed responsibility for BUPA, the Franchise Board of Lloyds of executive Director of Wolseley plc.
Chartered Member of the Institute of Chartered Engineer, Fellow of the Institution of Accountants of Scotland.
External Appointments Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of the Vice-President Aerospace of External Appointments Institution of Engineering and Technology.
ADS Group Ltd. President of The Society of Motor External Appointments Manufacturers and Traders Ltd and Non-executive Director of Santander UK plc Member of the Automotive Council.
william Seeger 60 John Sheldrick 62 Michael turner, cBe 63 Finance Director Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent Director e a r n a r n Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in September September 2007.
2009 and became Senior Independent Director in May 2010.
He will succeed Experience Experience Roy Brown as Chairman on 3 May 2012.
Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior ViceFormer Group Finance Director of President and Chief Financial Officer of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 to 2009.
In June 2007 he became Prior to joining Johnson Matthey in 1990 Has extensive experience of the a member of the Executive Committee as he was Group Treasurer of The BOC Group aerospace industry having worked for President and Chief Executive Propulsion plc.
He is also a former non-executive BAE Systems plc for over 40 years, and Systems and Special Products.
Appointed Director of API Group plc.
Fellow of the as Chief Executive from 2002 to 2008.
Association of Corporate Treasurers Former President of the Aerospace Prior to GKN, he held a number of senior and Fellow of the Chartered Institute & Defence Industries Association finance positions at TRW Inc spanning of Management Accountants.
Fellow of the Royal over 20 years, latterly as Vice-President Aeronautical Society.
External Appointments Financial Planning and Analysis.
Non-executive Director of Fenner plc External Appointments and Low & Bonar plc.
Chairman of Babcock International Group plc and non-executive Director of Lazard Ltd.
Member of the Governments Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.. 4C GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 51 richard Parry-Jones, cBe 60 andrew reynolds Smith 45 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Chief Executive Automotive a r n a r n and Powder Metallurgy e Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Appointed to the Board in March 2008.
Experience Experience Currently Chief Operating Officer for Has extensive experience of the automotive Experience CDC Group plc, the UK Governments industry having previously worked for the Joined GKN in 2002 and has held a number of development finance institution.
She Ford Motor Company for 38 years, latterly senior positions across the Groups Driveline, joined CDC in early 2009 from Unilever, as Group Vice-President Global Product Powder Metallurgy and OffHighway businesses.
where for eight years she was Senior Development and Group Chief Technical Joined the Executive Committee in January Vice-President Finance and Information, Officer.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of 2006 and became Chief Executive Automotive Home and Personal Care, originally in Engineering, the Institution of Mechanical and Powder Metallurgy on 1 October 2011.
Prior Asia and later for the group as a whole.
Engineers and the Royal Society of to GKN, he held various general management Her early career was spent at KPMG, Statistical Science.
Former Chairman of the and functional positions at Ingersoll Rand, latterly as a partner.
Former nonWelsh Assembly Government Ministerial Siebe plc now Invensys plc and Delphi executive Director of Havelock Advisory Group.
Former Chairman of Europa plc.
the CBI Manufacturing Council and former External Appointments member of the Ministerial Advisory Group External Appointments Non-executive Director of Cosworth Group for Manufacturing.
Chair of the Sustainability Committee of Holdings Ltd.
Visiting Professor within the the Institute of Chartered Accountants Department of Aeronautical and Automotive External Appointments in England & Wales and an Association Engineering at Loughborough University.
Member of the Governments Green Member of BUPA.
Joint Chairman of the Automotive Council.
tufan erginbilgic 52 Judith felton Independent non-executive Director Company Secretary a r n e Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Joined GKN in 1980 and became Deputy Company Secretary in 1995 before being Experience appointed Company Secretary in 2009.
Currently Chief Operating Officer for Fellow of the Institute of Chartered the Refining and Marketing division of Secretaries and Administrators.
BP plc with specific responsibility for External Appointments the global lubricants, aviation and LPG businesses as well as all refining and Non-executive Director and Trustee fuels operations outside the US.
He of Young Enterprise UK.
joined BP in 1997 and has held a number of senior marketing and operational roles, including Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive.
His early career was spent at Mobil Oil.
a Member of Audit Committee r Member of Remuneration Committee n Member of Nominations Committee e Member of Executive Committee Governance
