22 Our markets automotive In the automotive market, GKN Driveline sells to manufacturers of passenger cars and light vehicles and around 75% of GKN Powder Metallurgy sales are also to the automotive market.
Key market drivers n Macroeconomic trends, such as consumer prosperity and confidence.
n Fuel efficiency and emissions: n Demand for smaller vehicles.
n Progressive electrification of the drivetrain.
n Demand for personal mobility in emerging markets.
n Lower weight and a focus on new materials.
n Customer preference for quality and safety.
GKNs four divisions operate Trends in the global automotive, n Overall, global production volumes increased 3% in 2011 to 76.9 million vehicles 2010: 74.4 million whilst sales of cars and light vehicles 1 aerospace and land systems increased by 4%, to 75.1 million vehicles.
n All major geographic markets, except Japan due to the earthquake markets including agricultural, and tsunami in March 2011, experienced production growth relative to 2010, with the strongest growth in North America and India.
n Demand for larger premium vehicles and light commercial vehicles increased strongly.
The demand for smaller vehicles, GKN aims to achieve a leading particularly in Europe, was lower as the prior years scrappage and tax incentive schemes had the effect of pulling forward demand.
position in these markets and n Overall vehicle production in Europe benefited from a strong deliver above market growth.
improvement in exports while in North America the economic recovery following the recession supported vehicle sales.
Outlook n External forecasts indicate that global production in 2012 will 1 increase by approximately 5% to 80.7 million vehicles.
n This projected growth is the result of a return to normal production in Asia after the natural disasters in Japan and Thailand as supplies of components improve, together with continued recovery from the global recession.
n Major markets that are expected to show the fastest growth include 1 Japan 18%, North America 10%, China 8% and India 6%.
n Europe is forecast to contract by 8% in the wake of the current 1 economic climate.
lIGHT vEHIClE PRODuCTION GlOBal lIGHT vEHIClE PRODuCTION million units million units          Europe North Brazil, India       America and China CAGR - actual  - forecast Total  Source: IHS Automotive Source: IHS Automotive.
23 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 aerospace land Systems GKN Aerospace is a global first tier supplier to manufacturers of aircraft, GKN Land Systems serves the agricultural, construction, mining, and aircraft engines and equipment.
The division has a balanced position industrial machinery markets, offering integrated powertrain solutions, in civil 58% and defence 42% aerospace markets.
wheels, structures and aftermarket distribution and services.
Key market drivers Key market drivers n Backlog of aircraft orders for key customers.
n Population growth and consumer prosperity.
n Introduction and production rate of new aerospace programmes.
n Urbanisation leading to infrastructure development and increased mass transit.
n Levels of passenger air traffic.
n Regulatory drive to cut emissions and increase energy efficiency.
n Crude oil jet fuel prices.
n Need for significant increased operational efficiency and reliability.
n Drive to improve aircraft and engine efficiency.
Trends n Recovery in European and US agricultural sectors continues.
Trends n Estimated average growth of 15% in the EU agricultural machinery n The overall aerospace market in 2011 was positive, driven 1 market in 2011, with a market volume of 24 billion : and prospects by recovery of civil aircraft production and a generally stable for 2012 continue to be positive.
n Infrastructure investment driving growth in the construction sector.
n A recovery in passenger and cargo volumes led both Airbus and Boeing to announce increases in production levels of both single n Continued increasing global demand for energy.
aisle and wide bodied aircraft.
Outlook n In the civil aerospace market, Airbus and Boeing reported that they 2 n The agricultural output required will double by 2050 to feed the delivered a record 1,011 aircraft in 2011 and took on new orders world population which is expected by then to reach nine billion, totalling 2,529 aircraft.
Both companies continue to benefit from from seven billion today.
The need for increased farming efficiency their extensive order backlog that has grown to over 8,200 aircraft.
will drive ever greater mechanisation.
n US defence spending showed slight growth in 2011 with the n By 2050, more than 70% of the worlds population is expected to Presidents 2012 to 2016 Budget Request expected to remain 2 live in cities requiring massive urbanisation: the migration from relatively flat for 2012-2013. rural areas creates need for roads, power grids, water containment and distribution systems.
Outlook n Passenger air traffic rose around 6% in 2011 and is projected to n Significant growth in agricultural and construction sectors is continue to grow at a similar pace throughout 2012.
Longer term expected in Brazil, Russia, India and China.
worldwide passenger market demand is projected to grow at around n Growth in global construction is expected to outpace world GDP 5% with worldwide cargo traffic market growth at around 6%.
Growth in Asia and the cyclical rebound in n Boeing and Airbus forecast that between 28,000 and 32,000 new the US will fuel global construction growth from $7.2 trillion today to 3 single-aisle and wide-bodied aircraft will be required globally over $12 trillion by 2020. the next 20 years, with around 40% to support fleet replacement and approximately 60% to support market growth.
2 FAO, How to Feed the World 2050 Deere & Company, January 2012.
CIvIl aIRCRaFTMaRKET 2011-2017 MIlITaRy aIRCRaFTMaRKET 2011-2017 GlOBal CONSTRuCTION, FaRM WORlD POPulaTION by aircraft type US$ billion by aircraft type US$ billion billion MaCHINERy aND HEavy TRuCKS US$ billion    !
Trainers light attack Urban  actual  actual  actual - forecast - forecast - estimated Rural Business jets Military transports Rotorcra!
Commercial jetliners Source: Teal Source: UN World Urbanisation Prospects: The # Revision Source: Datamonitor Fighters Source: Teal Business review
