1 GKN strategy STRATEGIC objectives GKN is committed to creating long-term shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends through the delivery of sustained growth in sales, profitability and cash generation.
Market leadership n Achieve a leading market share in our chosen markets.
n Develop superior technology and quality in all our businesses.
Growth n Achieve above average market growth in our chosen markets.
n Leverage and extend our global footprint to increase market share.
n Accelerate growth through value-enhancing strategic acquisitions.
Operational excellence n Develop a world-class, efficient enterprise using Lean manufacturing techniques.
n Be an employer of choice with a high-performance culture, motivated people and outstanding leaders.
n Achieve preferred status with our strategic customers and suppliers.
Sustainability n Develop products and processes to help reduce emissions.
n Achieve a world-leading health and safety record.
n Have a positive impact on the environment and communities in which we operate.
On the following pages Find out more about the progress made in each of these areas in the case studies on pages 14 to 21.. 11 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 KPIs Risk management Key capabilities See pages % & and % ' for more information.
See pages ' and ' for more information.
See pages ', to ' for more information.
GKN monitors performance GKN has an extensive risk Underpinning the delivery of against strategy through key management framework the GKN strategy are key Groupperformance indicators KPIs, designed to identify, assess wide capabilities: superior both financial and non-financial.
and mitigate significant technology: recruiting, retaining Progress against these KPIs is business risks which, if not and developing outstanding reported regularly to the Board mitigated, could impact employees: leveraging a and senior management.
In delivery of the strategic plan.
global footprint: a culture addition, certain KPIs are linked of continuous improvement: Risk management processes to executive remuneration.
and a commitment to operate throughout the corporate responsibility.
Financial KPIs most explicitly Group at plant, divisional and measure profitable growth.
corporate levels and regular These are at the heart of the However, operational excellence reports are made to the GKN GKN business model, together and market leadership support Board and its Committees.
with our Values which bind the delivery of customer the Group together and satisfaction, and consequently, guide relationships with ensure GKN is well positioned to all stakeholders.
Non-financial KPIs indicate progress in creating a sustainable business model, in terms of employee engagement and health and safety performance, as well as GKNs environmental impact.
