GSK Annual Report 2011 95 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Total votes cast for each resolution ranged from 3.8 to 3.9 billion Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend shares.
The percentages of votes for and against are shown in the the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf provided that, in table below, together with the number of votes withheld for each the event that a single shareholder appoints multiple proxies, each resolution.
Please note that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or share or shares held by that member.
Share capital and control Total Total votes votes Votes Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares held in for against withheld Treasury as at 31 December 2011 can be found in Note 33 to the % % million financial statements, Share capital and share premium account.
1 Adoption of Financial Statements 99.9 0.1 4.8 Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and are also 2 Approval of the Remuneration 92.9 7.1 82.8 quoted on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of Report American Depositary Shares ADS.
Each ADS represents two 3-17 Election and re-election of 93.9 0.1 5.2 Ordinary Shares.
Directors to 99.9 to 6.1 to 5.6 Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, when 18 Re-appointment of auditors 99.3 0.7 60 declared, and the companys Annual Report, to attend and speak 19 Remuneration of auditors 99.7 0.3 26.5 at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to 20 To authorise the company to 97.6 2.4 8.6 exercise voting rights.
make donations to political organisations and incur political There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the expenditure holding, of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain prior 21 Authority to allot shares 98.2 1.8 6.6 approval to any transfers.
No Ordinary Shares carry any special 22 Disapplication of pre-emption 99.0 1.0 8.8 rights with regard to control of the company and there are no rights restrictions on voting rights.
Major shareholders have the same 23 Authority for the company to 98.2 1.8 5 voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
purchase its own shares There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are 24 Exemption from statement of 99.5 0.5 9.2 held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known senior statutory auditors name agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
25 Reduced notice of a general 92.2 7.8 7 meeting other than an AGM Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally Includes discretionary votes.
with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
Our 2012 AGM will be held on 3 May 2012 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London Change of control and essential contracts SW1P 3EE.
The business to be proposed at the meeting, together We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually with explanatory notes, is set out in the separate Notice of are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, Meeting.
The ordinary business of the meeting will include: nor is the company party to any material agreements that would s RECEIVING AND ADOPTING THE !NNUAL 2EPORT take effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
s APPROVING THE 2EMUNERATION 2EPORT s THE RETIREMENT AND RE ELECTION OF $IRECTORS AND We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a s THE RE APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF THE AUDITORS takeover, except that provisions of the companys share plans may As special business we will seek authority to: cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a s MAKE DONATIONS TO %5 POLITICAL ORGANISATIONS AND INCUR %5 takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in the companys political expenditure up to 100,000: framework contracts for Executive Directors are given on page 121. s ALLOT RDINARY 3HARES OF THE COMPANY Interests in voting rights s ALLOW THE $IRECTORS TO DISAPPLY PRE EMPTION RIGHTS WHEN ALLOTTING Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no new shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise up to persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and to Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial purchase the companys own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs of just under 10% of the current issued share capital: is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the s EXEMPT THE AUDITORS FROM HAVING TO STATE THE NAME OF THEIR companys website.
senior statutory auditor for the company in the Annual Report: s REDUCE THE NOTICE REQUIRED TO CALL A GENERAL MEETING OTHER THAN an Annual General Meeting, to not less than 14 clear days: and s RENEW THE 'LAXO3MITH LINE 3HARE3AVE 0LAN AND THE GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan.
96 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration At 2 March 2012, the company had received notications in Articles of Association accordance with the FSAs DTRs of the following notiable interests Our Directors powers are determined by UK legislation and our in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: Articles of Association, which are available on our website.
The Percentage of Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
of issued The Directors may exercise all the companys powers provided that shares capital % the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such BlackRock, Inc. 300,912,446 5.96 powers must be exercised by the members.
Legal & General Group Plc 173,787,038 3.44 The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
The power under Article 9 and the authority for The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the companys the company to make purchases of its own shares are subject to ADS, which are listed on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares representing shareholder authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our the companys ADR program, which are managed by the AGM.
Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY Nominees Limited.
Details of the number of Ordinary Shares held by the Depositary Share buy-back programme can be found on page 245.
On 3 February 2011, we initiated a new long-term share buy-back We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own programme and expected to buy-back 1-2 billion of shares in shares during the period under review, other than in connection 2011.
The expected upper level of this 1-2 billion band was with our share buy-back programme.
subsequently increased to up to 2.3 billion on 26 October 2011.
Directors and Senior Management During 2011, 169 million shares were purchased at a total cost of 2,191 million.
No shares were purchased in the period 1 January The interests of Directors and Senior Management and their 2012 to 7 February 2012.
In the period 8 February 2012 to connected persons in the issued share capital of the company are 2 March 2012, 8.6 million shares were purchased at a cost of given in the Remuneration Report pages 106 to 133.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or contained in our Articles of Association.
to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority Our Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2011, when the ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just over Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed 518 million shares.
Details of shares purchased, those cancelled, in this way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
and those held as Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements Share capital and share premium account.
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if The exact amount and timing of any future purchases, and the they have held ofce for a continuous period of nine years or more.
extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors, who wish to rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company continue as members of the Board, should seek re-election and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
annually in accordance with the Code.
Members may remove a Donations to political organisations and political Director by passing an ordinary resolution of which special notice expenditure has been given, or by passing a special resolution.
A Director may automatically cease to be a Director if: With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global s HE OR SHE BECOMES BANKRUPT OR COMPOUNDS WITH HIS OR HER policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
creditors generally: In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011, the s HE OR SHE CEASES TO BE A $IRECTOR BY VIRTUE OF THE #OMPANIES Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU Acts or the Articles: organisations.
s HE OR SHE IS SUFFERING FROM MENTAL OR PHYSICAL ILL HEALTH Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance s HE OR SHE HAS MISSED $IRECTORS MEETINGS FOR A CONTINUOUS PERIOD with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue of six months without permission and the Board resolves that to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee he or she shall cease to be a Director: PAC that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK employees.
s HE OR SHE IS PROHIBITED FROM BEING A $IRECTOR BY LAW The PAC is not controlled by GSK.
"Decisions on the amounts and s HE OR SHE RESIGNS recipients of contributions are made by participating employees s HE OR SHE OFFERS TO RESIGN AND THE ""OARD ACCEPTS THAT OFFER OR exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political s ALL OTHER $IRECTORS BEING AT LEAST THREE IN NUMBER REQUIRE contributions, which are subject to strict limitations."
In 2011 a total of US$612,500 US$824,000 in 2010 was donated to political him or her to resign.
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
