104 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration Corporate responsibility is integrated into the management of US law and regulation GSKs business.
Throughout this report you will read of advances to ensure that GSK works as efficiently and effectively as possible A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange while ensuring that we always act responsibly.
We publish more information on our approach and performance in NYSE rules our annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
This report can be found on our website and will be published in March 2012.
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK Committee evaluation corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US, provided that we explain any significant variations.
This explanation The Committee considered Dr Longs evaluation of the Board, and is contained in our Form 20-F ling, which can be accessed from the Committee in particular, and concluded that the Committee the Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR database continued to operate effectively.
As part of the Committees or via our website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require review of its operation and activities, it was agreed that more time us to le annual and interim written afrmations concerning the could be allocated at meetings for discussion around the key CR Audit & Risk Committee and our statement on significant subjects, risk areas, hot topics and to strategic thinking on differences in corporate governance.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SarbanesOxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate governance.
As recommended by the SEC, GSK has established a Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit & Risk Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, corporate communications and investor relations.
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts are invited to attend its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility for the timely ling of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F.
In 2011, the Committee met 14 times.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk Committee ARC is an audit committee financial expert as dened by Sarbanes-Oxley.
For a summary regarding the Boards judgement on this matter, please refer to page 99.
Additional disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of SarbanesOxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: s THEY HAVE EACH REVIEWED THE !NNUAL 2EPORT AND &ORM & s BASED ON THEIR KNOWLEDGE IT CONTAINS NO MATERIAL MISSTATEMENTS or omissions: s BASED ON THEIR KNOWLEDGE THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of the dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and Form 20-F: GSK Annual Report 2011 105 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 s THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING DISCLOSURE Section 404: Managements annual report on internal controls and procedures that ensure that material information is control over financial reporting made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanesthese controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as Form 20-F: dened in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities s THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING INTERNAL Exchange Act of 1934 : control over financial reporting that provides reasonable s MANAGEMENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide accordance with generally accepted accounting principles: reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial s THEY HAVE DISCLOSED IN THE !NNUAL 2EPORT AND &ORM & ANY reporting and the preparation of financial statements for changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the external purposes in accordance with IFRS: period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have s MANAGEMENT CONDUCTED AN EVALUATION OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, internal control over financial reporting based on the framework, the companys internal control over financial reporting: and Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee s THEY HAVE DISCLOSED BASED ON THEIR MOST RECENT EVALUATION OF of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission: internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors s THERE HAVE BEEN NO CHANGES IN THE 'ROUP S INTERNAL CONTROL OVER and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses financial reporting during 2011 that have materially affected, or in the design or operation of internal controls over financial are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the control over financial reporting: companys ability to record, process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud regardless of materiality s MANAGEMENT HAS ASSESSED THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL involving persons that have a significant role in the companys over financial reporting, as at 31 December 2011 and its internal control over financial reporting.
conclusion will be led as part of the Groups Form 20-F: and We have carried out an evaluation under the supervision and s 0RICEWATERHOUSE#OOPERS, , 0 WHICH HAS AUDITED THE CONSOLIDATED with the participation of the Groups management, including the financial statements of the Group for the year ended CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation 31 December 2011, has also assessed the effectiveness of the of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at Groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing 31 December 2011.
5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Their audit report will be led with the There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of Groups Form 20-F. disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certications and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures on 13 March 2012, following which the certicates will be led with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. 106 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & remuneration Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for 2011, for which we will be seeking your approval at our AGM in May 2012.
Recent changes to executive remuneration In recent years, the Remuneration Committee has implemented a number of changes to our executive remuneration, after extensive consultation with, and good support from, our major shareholders.
These changes have included more tailored benchmarking versus the local market, simplifying and aligning remuneration across the CET and linking reward from long-term incentive plans more closely with performance against the companys key strategic priorities.
Although early days, we are encouraged by the increased motivation and focus amongst the management team against delivery of these priorities.
As promised last year, we have provided a full annual update on performance against the long-term incentive targets.
Annual bonus structure During the year, the Committee undertook a review of the annual bonus structure in place for our executives and concluded that the measures remained sound and should continue to focus on annual delivery of strong financial performance.
Given the change in Moncefs role, which now includes overall responsibility for both R&D and Vaccines, we have amended the measures and weightings of the financial element of his bonus.
This is now based 50% on R&D performance, 25% on Vaccines performance and 25% on Group profit before interest and tax.
CEO remuneration The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to pay appropriately, but not excessively, and we apply a rigorous data driven process to assessing competitive positioning, setting remuneration and determining performance targets.
During 2011, we assessed the competitiveness of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other CET members and were satisfied that in most instances their remuneration was appropriate.
However, we did identify a significant competitiveness gap for our CEO.
This is a particular concern for the Committee, because Sir Andrews strong performance is widely acknowledged.
On appointment as CEO in 2008, we set Sir Andrews remuneration conservatively and signicantly below that of his predecessor, as we set his primary benchmark to a UK cross-industry comparator group rather than the much higher benchmark of global pharmaceutical companies.
We also took into account that he was a new CEO who needed to demonstrate performance in his role.
We have not increased his remuneration for over three years.
Since Sir Andrews appointment, there has been a continual and marked improvement in the Groups performance.
Most recently, in 2011, underlying sales and profits have performed well, and the Groups increase in TSR of 25% was in the upper quartile of the FTSE 100, of our UK corporate comparator group and of our global pharmaceutical peer group.
This is the Groups best TSR performance since the formation of GSK in 2000.
GSKs strategy has momentum and Sir Andrews vision and leadership are fundamental to this performance.
GSK Annual Report 2011 107 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 The Committee believes that the reward level offered to the CEO should now reect his achievements to date and has therefore increased the level of his performance related remuneration by raising his performance share award from 500% to 600% of salary, within the limit previously approved by shareholders.
These performance shares will continue to vest based on Group performance after three years, but 25% of the shares vesting from the grant will now have to be retained for a further two years.
We have also increased Sir Andrews base salary by 4%, which is in line with the average salary increase for GSKs UK employees.
These changes will position him more competitively against his UK peers.
It should be noted that, even after these adjustments, his remuneration will still be in the bottom quartile when compared to GSKs pharmaceutical peers.
You will also see that Sir Andrews total remuneration achieved in 2011 has increased signicantly from 2010.
This directly reects our pay for performance policy.
In 2011, GSK delivered good underlying financial performance, pipeline progress and strong cash generation.
Together with upper quartile share price performance, this enabled the best annual total shareholder returns 25% since 2000.
Sir Andrew deserves both credit and reward for these.
Full details are given in the Report which follows.
Governance The Committee is very aware of the sensitive environment surrounding executive pay at a time of real economic challenge.
As one of Britains largest companies, GSK recognises its leadership role and is aware of the importance of a balanced approach.
As we do every year, we have discussed our proposals and policies extensively with major shareholders during our annual meetings in the Autumn and have listened carefully to their feedback.
I believe the following Report reects this.
During the year, there has been a substantial initiative by the Government to improve corporate communication on executive pay.
While many of these proposals are still at a formative stage, the following Report attempts to capture the spirit of the Governments direction, particularly with regards to simplication, separation of past pay and future policy and transparency.
This year will be my last year as Chairman of the Committee.
Tom fide Swaan, who has been a member of the Committee since May 2009, will succeed me as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2013.
I should like to thank shareholders for their support during my tenure as Chairman of the Committee and, as always, we welcome all shareholders feedback on this Report.
Sir Crispin Davis Remuneration Committee Chairman 9 March 2012
