42 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Our financial architecture In 2011, we established a new financial We expect the Groups core operating One of our key objectives architecture.
This aligns our planning, margin to begin to improve gradually has been to deliver execution and performance measurement in 2012 with further improvement over in order to maximise financial returns the next two to three years.
The rate sustainable sales growth.
It is designed to drive and the extent of this will depend on improvements in our operating margin, the precise mix of our businesses and Our new financial greater financial efficiency and enhanced the delivery rate of our pipeline which architecture is designed cash conversion from the sales growth will drive sales growth in high margin we are focused on delivering.
to enhance returns to This should drive stronger growth in In addition to improving the core shareholders from this earnings per share and better free cash operating margin, enhancing our generation.
The expected cash ow financial efficiency is also a key driver strategy.
and enhanced cash conversion is then of earnings and cash ow growth.
available for dividends, share buy-backs In 2011 we reviewed how we manage or for reinvestment in the business our cash balances relative to our debt depending on where returns are portfolio and the sources of the debt that most attractive.
We intend to make a number of changes and believe that by taking Sales growth advantage of current interest rates as well One of the key objectives of our strategy as reducing our cash balances, we can has been delivery of sustainable broadly reduce our effective net interest cost.
While reported sales As a result, our overall effective nancing fell by 3% in the year, over the last two rate is expected to reduce to below 6% years we have delivered average annual by 2013. underlying sales growth of 4%.
As we move into 2012 we expect underlying Tax is a second area where we have sales growth to translate into reported opportunities to improve efficiency.
sales growth as the sales headwinds from The shape of the Group has changed the loss of sales of !VANDIA, 6ALTREX and materially over recent years and by pandemic products diminish.
aligning our tax strategy more tightly with that changing shape, we have Operating leverage and financial identied opportunities that will allow efficiencies us to reduce the tax rate down from approximately 27% at the beginning We also want to drive operating leverage of 2011 to approximately 25% by 2014. and financial efficiencies in our business.
During 2011 we made good progress, In order to maximise the operating reducing our tax rate to 26.2% profit, earnings and cash generated excluding the disposal of Quest.
from our sales growth we remain focused on managing our cost base more effectively and improving financial efficiency throughout the organisation.
GSK Annual Report 2011 43 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Financial architecture to drive returns Sales growth EPS Operating leverage Focus on Focus on Returns to returns returns shareholders Financial efficiency Free cash ow Cash ow growth In 2011 we returned all of our free cash Cash conversion Earnings and cash ow generation ow to shareholders.
We paid 3.4 billion We also see significant opportunity to Sales growth, operational leverage, greater in dividends, and our ordinary dividend enhance cash conversion through greater financial efficiency and cash conversion, grew 8% to 70p.
In addition we bought focus on cash generation and capital should together drive enhanced earnings back 2.2 billion of shares as part of the allocation.
per share and free cash ow that will long term programme we started last year.
support our objective of enhancing the We will also return the proceeds from the A particular focus is on the working returns to shareholders from our strategy.
sale of our non-core North American OTC capital programme.
During 2011 we brands to shareholders via a supplemental reduced the cash conversion cycle from In 2012 free cash ow is expected to be dividend of 5p payable with the fourth 221 to 210 days and working capital further enhanced as the cash charges quarter 2011 ordinary dividend.
as a percentage of turnover from 23% associated with our long-standing to 21%.
We are focused on delivering restructuring programme continue to In 2012 we expect to deliver continued further improvements in this cycle in decline.
From 2013 free cash ow is also dividend growth.
In addition, given the medium term.
expected to benefit as the demand on current market conditions, we intend to cash to fund previously announced legal repurchase 12 billion of shares.
Reduction in working capital: Measurement and reporting cash conversion cycle Focus on return on investment and We have improved our financial reporting returns to shareholders Days to align it more closely with our financial Cash generated is deployed to invest architecture.
We are providing more 2011 210 in our business and deliver returns to data and insights into the progress we 2010 221 shareholders.
are making in each of our businesses 2009 244 and regions and on our progress against We have improved our capital allocation the key drivers of operational and process so that it is more consistently and financial efficiency.
Starting in 2012 we rigorously based on return on investment are transitioning our reporting to a core metrics, particularly cash ow return on basis, enabling greater visibility of the investment CFROI.
In doing this, we underlying performance of the business.
are able to benchmark opportunities for internal and external investment across More details on the transition to core the business more consistently, with the reporting are provided on page 51. returns available through share buyback and other returns to shareholders.
