28 GSK Annual Report 2011 Our strategy for growth Strategic review Deliver more 2 products of value Overview We have changed our R&D organisation so that it is better able to develop and sustain an industry-leading pipeline of products that offer valuable improvements in treatments for patients and healthcare providers.
We have increased the level of externalisation of our research, allowing us to access new areas of science and to share the risk of development with our partners.
We have also made decisions earlier around pipeline progressions, so that only those medicines that we believe will be signicantly differentiated from existing therapies are progressed.
We are ensuring our early stage research investments are made where the science suggests there is greatest opportunity.
We have created smaller, more agile groups of scientists who are accountable for progressing their projects through discovery and development.
All of this has been underpinned with a focus on improving the rates of return in R&D and being more rigourous in how we allocate investment across pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare R&D.
Progress We are confident that we have the right model to improve R&D productivity and returns.
Over the past four years we have had 16 new drugs and vaccines approved in the USA, which is more than any of our peers.
We have sustained a significant late-stage pipeline of around 30 assets, and signs from our recent review of discovery research gives us confidence that we can replenish this pipeline on an ongoing basis.
com GSK Annual Report 2011 29 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Priorities and progress Contribution to sales of new products 54 Sales of new Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines products How we performed Growth Total sales from those products bn bn CER % launched over the past five years, 2.5 2011 2.5 47 excluding pandemic vaccine, grew 2010: 1.7bn 2010 1.7 36 by 47% in 2011.
2009 1.3 55 Investment in R&D 30 33 Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure How we performed bn The proportion of investment in our bn Discovery 0.9 Development 1.7 late-stage portfolio continues to 3.2 2011 Other 0.6 3.2 grow, while total R&D expenditure 2010: 3.3bn 1.0 0.8 2010 1.5 3.3 remains relatively at.
1.0 0.7 3.3 2009 1.6 New product approvals 54 New product approvals in the USA How we performed No.
In 2011, we gained product approvals in the USA for Benlysta, 2011 3 9 Potiga and Horizant.
2010 1 new drugs and vaccines approved in USA in last 2009 5 3 years 30 Improving returns on R&D Projected rate of return How we performed % We are encouraged by our progress % in projected rate of return from our 12 2011 12 2010: 11% investment in R&D and we are on 2009 11 track to reach our long-term goal of 14%.
30 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review 2.
Deliver more products of value continued Investment in R&D Our primary goal in R&D is to develop Costs incurred at each stage are carefully Research and innovative new medicines safely and managed to maximise the likely future development is critical efficiently.
We are concentrating on return, consistent with our overall developing new medicines that will offer objective of increasing our IRR from to ensuring we have a significant improvements over existing R&D activities from its current level.
The treatment options and will therefore returns generated are, however, primarily sustainable business, and provide value to both patients and those determined by the eventual commercial that we can continue who pay for the medicines.
impact of new products as they achieve regulatory approval and are launched.
to offer new medicines, More than 12,500 people work in R&D, with the majority based in our large R&D The start of 2011 marked the beginning vaccines and consumer centres in the UK, USA, Spain, Belgium of a critical two-year period for our and China.
products that can help By the end of 2012, we expect to have We split our R&D budget between people live longer and reported Phase III data on 15 late-stage Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer assets.
We discuss the progress of this healthier lives.
We aim to allocate R&D in the following pages.
Details of our expenditure consistently across each late-stage development pipeline, made up of these areas.
Levels of investment of both pharmaceutical and vaccine assets, Highlights are based on where we see the best are set out on pages 36 and 37 with a full opportunities in both the market and s Data received for nine out of 15 pipeline chart on pages 235 to 238 and the science, rather than as a xed Phase III assets on our website.
s Total R&D investment held constant Rate of return The pharmaceuticals and vaccines s Rate of return on R&D investment rises discovery and development process is We remain focused on improving long, expensive and uncertain and it is returns on investment in R&D.
In 2010 not possible to predict which projects we became the first major pharmaceutical will succeed or fail.
The risks inherent in company to publish an internal rate R&D expenditure allocation in 2011 the R&D process are described more fully of return IRR on R&D investment, 3 1 in the Risk factors section, under Risk to indicate the value being realised that R&D will not deliver commercially from our investment choices within 2 successful products on page 72. the R&D organisation.
In early 2010, our estimated rate of In 2011 our R&D expenditure before return on the investment made in our major restructuring was 3.9 billion.
recently launched and late-stage pipeline In monetary terms, this amount has was approximately 11%.
We have now remained relatively at for the past three updated this analysis and calculate that m years.
However, we have been working to 1.
Pharmaceuticals 3,160 the rate of return has increased to 12% reduce xed costs through rationalisation 2.
Vaccines 599 on an equivalent basis.
We are on track of our infrastructure and reinvest some 3.
Consumer Healthcare 153 to deliver our long-term goal to improve of the surplus back into discovery and before major restructuring returns to around 14%.
We are also shifting the balance of our spending from This projected rate of return includes early stage projects to fund our growing products launched from 1 January 2009 late stage pipeline.
Our R&D expenditure and compounds in Phases IIb and III of is discussed in the sections that follow in the development process.
The calculation respect of our three businesses and in the is based on actual sales from 2009 to 2011 Financial review on page 56. and forecast sales for the relevant products We allocate our R&D investment with up to 2032, adjusted to reect expected reference to the potential returns failure rates, which are broadly in line available from the target therapeutic with standard industry failure rates.
markets and the technical and The cost base used in this calculation commercial risks associated with products comprises an estimate of attributable R&D in the pipeline.
Those factors are reviewed costs and actual and projected milestone at each phase of the development process payments where appropriate.
Estimated and are central in the decision to proceed profit margins, capital investment and to the next stage.
working capital requirements are factored into the calculation, based on our historical performance.
Deliver more products of value continued Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Pharmaceuticals R&D In 2011, our Pharmaceuticals R&D In 2007, all therapy areas were reviewed to To be successful over expenditure was 3.2 billion before identify the most scientically promising the long-term we need major restructuring.
More than 10,000 areas for drug discovery and to move people work in our Pharmaceuticals the organisation from a static culture the investments we are R&D business, and we view our research of reinvestment in existing areas.
As a projects as early stage discovery or late result of this therapy area rebalancing making in our pipeline stage development.
process, we changed our business model to lead to new medicines in 2008, moving away from industrialIn 2011 we launched three new sized therapy groups to smaller, more agile that will be valued by medicines: Benlysta for the treatment of and focused Discovery Performance Units systemic lupus erythematosus, Horizant DPUs of 570 scientists.
Each DPU works patients and those who for the treatment of moderate-to-severe on a particular disease or pathway, and is restless legs syndrome and Trobalt Potiga, pay for the treatments.
responsible for potential new medicines an adjunctive treatment for epilepsy.
through to early stage clinical trials up to the completion of Phase lla.
Since 2008, we have had 16 new medicines Highlights and vaccines approved in the USA, 11 of As part of this new model, DPUs were which were new molecular entities.
This s Three newly approved medicines in given their own budgets and a three-year is more than any other pharmaceutical Benlysta, Horizant and Trobalt window to complete specic tasks.
This year was an active period s Early stage progress reviewed business plans of each DPU identied of late-state pipeline activity, with data for specic targets and investment across s Seven new collaborations signed nine late-stage medicines announced.
The plans also included 2012, we anticipate we will have sufficient opportunities for collaboration with data in-house to le for: Promacta for external organisations such as large and Pharmaceutical R&D investment hepatitis C, Relovair for COPD, and our small companies and academia.
Our in 2011 MEK inhibitor, a new potential treatment internal R&D expertise gives us a strong for melanoma.
1 basis in identifying and forming these collaborations which in drug discovery The year also saw some failure, with the 3 are typically in-licensing when we termination of otelixizumab in Type acquire ownership of an asset for further 1 diabetes, but overall the balance of 2 development and commercialisation progression versus failure was positive.
or option-based when we have an In 2012, we expect to complete exclusive opportunity to license the asset development programmes for another depending on its performance at different five late-stage assets and indications.
Development 1,720 The original business plans of each DPU spending has remained relatively at, we 3.
Facilities and central support 587 were initially reviewed by the Discovery have been shifting our investment from Investment Board DIB, a panel created to discovery to development to reect the advise on investment decisions.
The DIB increasing number of late-stage assets evaluated the proposals, identied areas in our portfolio.
The proportion of total for improvement and suggested agreed expenditure made in development of the progress targets and investment levels.
late-stage portfolio continues to grow Membership of the DIB comprises senior from 49% in 2009 to 54% in 2011. management from R&D and commercial Discovering new medicines and external individuals with expertise in areas such as life science investment and Our early stage R&D drug discovery payer perspectives.
It is chaired by our SVP seeks to identify the biological targets of Medicines Discovery and Development.
involved with the development of diseases, and then to create small The three-year mark for most DPUs was molecules or biopharmaceuticals that reached in 2011, and progress of all 38 interact with these disease targets, DPUs was reviewed by the DIB.
Our ultimately leading to new medicines.
approach has been driven by assessments The wide range of scientific discoveries of potential returns on investment, makes it essential that we are highly scientific quality and opportunity.
selective in where we invest our drug discovery resources.
We focus on those areas we consider most likely to lead to significant medical advances.
32 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review 2.
Deliver more products of value continued Pharmaceuticals R&D continued Early stage investment Just as start-up companies have to make a pitch to venture capitalists for funding, Discovery Performance Units DPUs at GSK have to demonstrate their value by having their business plans reviewed by the Discovery Investment Board DIB.
While our budget has In 2011 the DPUs presented their remained relatively at, progress against three-year plans to the DIB.
Funds were allocated we have been shifting based on the scientific quality and our spend from discovery opportunity and potential returns on investment.
As a result, some DPUs to development to reect will grow, others will shrink or close the increasing number and new DPUs will be created.
of late-stage assets in our portfolio.
50 External discovery engines In 2011 we had more than 50 external discovery engines, compared to 17 in 2007.
This enhances our discovery efforts by opening up new areas of science to us and sharing our risk with our partners.
We hope it will reduce the time to get a breakthrough into the clinic.
Pierre Charbonneau GSK Annual Report 2011 33 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 The overall review was positive.
This The Portfolio Investment Board PIB The scientific Review Board SRB is has led to new investment allocations in has replaced pipeline governance boards the governing body accountable for the discovery research and as a result, four in assessing the technical, commercial scientific assessment of the R&D portfolio new DPUs have been created and three and investment case for each project to support investment decisions made have been closed.
Of the remaining DPUs, to progress in development.
The SRB will establish a view six have received increased investment co-chaired by the Chairman of R&D on the overall scientific promise of the and five have had investment decreased.
and the President of North America asset: development plan to deliver the Pharmaceuticals, and includes the heads asset: cost effectiveness of the clinical Across R&D, we form alliances with of each pharmaceutical region along with plan: opportunities and risks to the likely external organisations to accelerate the the head of global manufacturing.
product prole: and gaps where evidence discovery of new medicines as well as is missing or remains uncertain.
to share scientific understanding and The PIB is accountable for investment ultimately to improve patient care.
decisions and funding allocation across There are two other important We signed seven new collaborations all late-stage Pharmaceutical R&D governance boards in R&D.
The in 2011, taking us to over 50 alliances Medicines Discovery and Development, Technology Investment Board makes with external groups to complement Biopharm R&D, Oncology, Stiefel, Rare investment decisions for new platform our internal discovery units.
technologies and licencing or optionsThis allows investment decisions to based collaborations up to the point of No individual discovery project has be made in a holistic way, ensuring a entry into clinical trials.
The New Product annual expenditure of more than 10% balance and diversity of assets of differing Supply Board is the governing body of the total annual R&D expenditure.
risk prole, novelty, opportunity, accountable for the technical feasibility Decisions on investments continue to development cost and potential to be and infrastructure assessments covering be made where the science presents a reimbursed by payers.
all aspects of the physical product and compelling case and there remains a supply chain.
Projects are reviewed by the PIB at three key decision points: commit to medicine GSKs Chief Medical officer, as Chair of Developing medicines for patients development, commit to Phase III and the Global Safety Board, is accountable A compound that advances into late-stage commit to le and launch.
Funding for overseeing all major decisions R&D development typically after is generally allocated up to the next regarding patient safety.
The Global Phase IIa will undergo much larger scale key decision point, typically between Safety Board is responsible for approving studies in humans to investigate further two and four years ahead.
The PIB also pivotal studies and investigating any its efcacy and safety.
At the same time, carries out an annual late-stage funding issues related to patient safety arising review, where investment in all projects during the development programme we work to optimise the compounds is reviewed, adjusted if necessary and and post-launch.
Information from GSK physical properties and its formulation prioritised.
No individual late-stage clinical trials is available at the Clinical so that it can be produced efficiently project has incurred annual expenditure Study Register on GSKs website and at and in sufficient quantities through the of more than 10% of the total annual www.
the results of these activities into a le In 2011 we announced that we were for submission to regulatory agencies.
developing a Global Regulatory Board Governance to enhance compliance with companyMedicine Development Teams are Changes have been made to the R&D wide standards, make regulatory services small units of 610 people who have governance structure to ensure clearer more efficient and agile, and further align responsibility for a compound through accountabilities.
The oversight of strategic capabilities with business needs at global the later stages of development to ling issues and overall budget management and local levels.
This will be led by the with the regulatory agencies.
There are across R&D is owned by the R&D new role of Chief Regulatory officer.
about 30 assets in late-stage development, Executive team.
DIB and PIB control comprising more than 50 individual investment decisions in early and lateprojects.
We also actively seek opportunities to add products to our late-stage portfolio through alliances with other companies.
For late-stage assets, these typically take the form of in-licensing deals or co-promotion arrangements with other companies and are most likely to be aligned to existing areas of therapy expertise or investment.
34 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review 2.
Deliver more products of value continued Vaccines and Consumer R&D We invested nearly 600 million in In vaccines, our R&D investment has Our vaccines R&D is vaccines R&D in 2011 and we have increased by 62% since 2008, in line with centred on discovering more than 1,600 scientists working our investment in high growth areas.
on the development of new vaccines.
and developing Discovery research We currently have around 20 vaccines The discovery and development of a new prophylactic and in development for a range of diseases, vaccine is a complex process requiring from malaria to tuberculosis and therapeutic vaccines to long-term investment.
We currently have four vaccine 1012 years to develop a new vaccine.
protect people against candidates in late stage development: with trials in zoster, malaria, quadrivalent Vaccine discovery begins by identifying infectious diseases, inuenza vaccine and our therapeutic new antigens, which are specic vaccine MAGE-A3.
We also have two cancers and chronic structures on pathogens viruses, bacteria vaccine candidates in regulatory ling or parasites or on cancer cells that are disorders.
against meningitis MenHibrix and recognised by the immune system.
Nimenrix in the USA and Europe.
We then produce these pathogens in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and The highlight of 2011 for vaccines R&D genetically manipulate them so that they has been the results from our adjuvanted can be puried and formulated into a Key highlights malaria vaccine candidate RTS, S in vaccine.
It is the antigen that creates the a Phase III study conducted in seven s Filings in USA and Europe for bodys immune response.
After 25 years of work, MenHibrix and Nimenrix we presented promising results from the We often work with academia and s Phase III data announced on malaria initial Phase III data on this candidate the biotech industry to identify these vaccine see Milestone in malaria on page 35. new vaccine antigens.
In some cases, formulation of the vaccine into clinical Our R&D effort is focused on the lots involves mixing antigens with GSK development of new prophylactic and proprietary adjuvant systems.
therapeutic vaccines, alongside the lifecycle management of vaccines already on the market.
Consumer Healthcare R&D More than 600 people in the UK, USA, Examples of innovation in 2011 included: developed to drive a differentiating India and China are dedicated to our speed-of-action claim aimed at s N RAL HEALTHCARE THE BUSINESS R&D efforts in Consumer Healthcare.
launched a new breakthrough in We invested 153 million in 2011, up dental care through Sensodyne We are now implementing new from 124 million in 2008.
The Repair & Protect programmes to increase the ow, pace formulation is the first everyday Developing a sustainable ow of new, and value of our innovation portfolio, uoride toothpaste to contain  products aligned with the new fast-moving patented NovaMin technology.
our innovation portfolio is a critical consumer healthcare model we are element of our Consumer Healthcare s N OUR.
These can include new expanded the products offered in This model aims to combine industrytechnologies and formulations as well our Maxinutrition range to include leading scientific capability with as product line extensions.
We also Maximilk Chocolate and Strawberry superior consumer insights to develop carry out ongoing research to assess and three new avours of Cyclone a value-driving global pipeline the efcacy and value of our products in one muscle growth shake.
GSK across our four newly formed global so that we can make validated claims acquired Maxinutrition, which makes categories: Oral health, Wellness, to consumers.
UTRITION AND 3KIN HEALTH enhanced functional nutritionals, Our innovation products launched at the beginning of the year.
We have also established a new in the past three years contributed global regulatory structure whereby s N 4# WE CONTINUED TO ROLL OUT sales of 821 million in 2011, 16% local regulatory staff report centrally, Panadol Advance across 28 markets of Consumer Healthcare sales.
Key enabling us to drive more rapid and and launched Panadol Extra Advance contributing products included efficient roll-out of innovation.
Both these brands contain Sensodyne Repair & Protect, Optizorb a superior patented Sensodyne Rapid Relief, Horlicks dissolution technology which we have Biscuits and Panadol Extra Advance.
GSK Annual Report 2011 35 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Vaccine manufacturers use adjuvants to Milestone in malaria improve the specic immune systems response to antigens contained in vaccines.
After 25 years of work, a We have been innovating in the area of milestone in the development adjuvant systems for more than 20 years.
of our malaria vaccine candidate Our proprietary adjuvant systems RTS, S was reached in 2011 with the combine adjuvants to give the most publication of Phase III data that appropriate immune response to a showed the vaccine provided young specic antigen.
Our expertise allows us African children with significant to understand which combinations of protection against clinical and severe antigen and adjuvant system can help malaria with an acceptable safety the body mobilise the most effective and tolerability prole.
Trials are immunological pathway, and so provide continuing, and data on infants aged maximum protection against specic 612 weeks are expected by the end diseases in targeted populations.
Read more in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Candidate vaccines are usually a combination of several antigens, and the final composition of the vaccine antigens and adjuvant may change over time.
The preclinical research usually takes two to five years and failure in the discovery process is relatively low.
Failures are more likely in later stage clinical trials, where around 30% of candidates can be expected to fail.
As well as the discovery of new vaccines in early development projects, R&D supports late-stage projects such as the inclusion of new antigens in existing vaccines to create new generation vaccines.
Traditionally, vaccines have been used to prevent illness.
However, we are pioneering a different approach with our Antigen Specic Cancer Immunotherapies ASCIs.
This approach is designed to programme the bodys immune system to ght existing diseases and so represents a new treatment There are five key decision points in the The board has an overall view on all model as a therapeutic vaccine.
We are vaccine development process: commit projects, from early to advanced projects.
evaluating the ASCI concept against a to research decide to invest resources : The VDCBs core members come from variety of tumour types.
early clinical development: commit to across the organisation.
The VDCB Governance Phase III: registration and launch: and recommendation to progress a project is commit to life-cycle management where submitted to the VIB.
In 2011 we revised the organisation of we consider whether to pursue a nextvaccine discovery and development The VIB has the final decision on whether generation product or to extend the teams, to simplify the infrastructure, to invest in a project, taking into account viability of the product.
focus on timely decision-making and the scientific and commercial perspectives enhance clarity and accountability.
Oversight of these key decisions rests with reviewed by the VDCB.
The VIB evaluates Vaccines research and development are led two bodies: the Vaccine Development the public health benefit, business by Project Teams and Vaccine Leadership and Commercial Board VDCB and opportunity, development costs and Teams, which are responsible for the daythe Vaccine Investment Board VIB.
risks, the project timing and the overall to-day progress, including identifying and The VDCB reviews the research project evolution of our portfolio of vaccines.
strategy and advises on its scientific, The VIB is also responsible for assessing technical and commercial feasibility.
the overall t of the project in our vaccines portfolio.
Tom Whipps 36 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review 2.
Deliver more products of value continued Late stage pipeline summary We have a full and diverse product development pipeline.
We highlight here our projects comprising new chemical entities, biological entities or vaccines, new combinations and new indications for existing compounds that are in Phase III, have been led for approval or have been recently approved.
The most advanced status is shown and includes 2011 and 2012 approvals.
"7 3 5 assets moving into Phase III approvals in USA or EU development or registration from January 2011 terminated s 1605786 for Crohns disease s ""ENLYSTA belimumab, for systemic s almorexant for primary insomnia lupus erythematosus USA and EU s dolutegravir S GSK1394572 s otelixizumab, for type 1 diabetes abacavir sulphate lamivudine s 4ROBALT 0OTIGA retigabine ezogabine, s 2EVOLADE 0ROMACTA eltrombopag, for HIV infections for epilepsy, partial seizures USA for chronic liver disease induced and EU s dabrafenib 2118436 for metastatic thrombocytopaenia melanoma s ORIZANT gabapentin enacarbil, s 6OTRIENT pazopanib 4YKERB 4YVERB for restless legs syndrome USA s trametinib 1120212 for metastatic lapatinib, for inammatory breast melanoma cancer s 573719 vilanterol for COPD s !VODART for reduction in the risk of prostate cancer s 2402968 for Duchenne muscular dystrophy s 685698 for asthma Key: Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo and or established treatment in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety."
Filed Following successful Phase III trials, we le the product for approval by the regulatory authorities.
Approval Only when approval is granted can we begin to market the medicine or vaccine.
Our full pipeline is on pages 235 to 238 and on our website.
In-licence or other alliance relationship with a third party GSK Annual Report 2011 37 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Phase III registration Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines pipeline summary Therapeutic area Compound Indication Phase III Filed Approved Biopharmaceuticals albiglutide type 2 diabetes s Arzerra ofatumumab chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy s Arzerra ofatumumab diffuse large B cell lymphoma relapsed patients s Arzerra ofatumumab follicular lymphoma refractory & relapsed patients s Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus s. c. s Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus i. v. s Xgeva denosumab bone metastatic disease s Cardiovascular & metabolic darapladib atherosclerosis s Immuno-inammation 1605786 Crohns disease s Infectious diseases Relenza i. v. zanamivir inuenza s Neurosciences 587124 IPX066 Parkinsons disease s Horizant gabapentin enacarbil post-herpetic neuralgia s Horizant gabapentin enacarbil restless legs syndrome s Trobalt Potiga retigabine ezogabine epilepsy, partial seizures s Oncology dabrafenib 2118436 metastatic melanoma s trametinib 1120212 metastatic melanoma s Revolade Promacta eltrombopag hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia s Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib breast cancer, adjuvant therapy s Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib gastric cancer s Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib head & neck squamous cell carcinoma resectable disease s Votrient pazopanib ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy s Votrient pazopanib renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy s Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib metastatic breast cancer, in combination with trastuzumab s Votrient pazopanib sarcoma s Respiratory & 573719 COPD s immuno-inammation 573719 vilanterol COPD s 685698 asthma s vilanterol COPD s Relovair vilanterol 685698 asthma s Relovair vilanterol 685698 COPD s Paediatric vaccines Mosquirix Malaria RTS, S malaria prophylaxis plasmodium falciparum s MenHibrix Hib-MenCY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y & Haemophilus inuenzae type b disease prophylaxis s Nimenrix MenACWY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis s Other vaccines Zoster herpes zoster prevention s Flu prepandemic pre-pandemic & pandemic inuenza prophylaxis s Flu vaccine seasonal inuenza prophylaxis s Pumarix pandemic inuenza prophylaxis s Antigen Specic Cancer MAGE-A3 treatment of melanoma s Immunotherapeutic ASCI MAGE-A3 treatment of non-small cell lung cancer s Rare diseases 2402968 Duchenne muscular dystrophy s 2696273 adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency s migalastat HCl Fabry disease s Dermatology Duac low dose acne vulgaris s Sorilux mild to moderate scalp psoriasis s tazarotene foam acne vulgaris s HIV dolutegravir S GSK1349572 HIV infections s dolutegravir S GSK1349572 abacavir sulphate lamivudine HIV infections s In-licence or other alliance relationship with a third party
