06 GSK Annual Report 2011 Overview How we deliver Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable growth, reduce risk and improve long-term financial performance and returns to shareholders Our strategic priorities Grow Deliver Simplify a diversied more products the operating 1 global business 2 of value 3 model 16 27 28 37 38 41 We are creating a more balanced We have changed our R&D organisation As we change the shape of our business, business and product portfolio capable of so that it is better able to sustain an we are transforming our operating delivering sustainable sales growth.
This industry-leading pipeline of products model to reduce complexity and make is centred on our three business areas of that offer valuable improvements in it more efficient.
Over the past four Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer treatment for patients and healthcare years we have implemented a global Healthcare.
As well as accessing growth providers.
restructuring programme which has markets, we are creating a business that delivered significant savings.
We have increased the level of is less vulnerable to market volatility, externalisation of our research, allowing At the same time our manufacturing including generic pressures.
us to access new areas of science and to business unit has been relentlessly Over the past three years, we have share the risk of development with our focused on streamlining production substantially increased our investment partners.
We have also made decisions processes to improve efficiency and in our Emerging Markets and Japanese earlier around pipeline progressions, so eliminate waste.
operations as well as in our global that only those medicines which are We have reorganised our global support Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare signicantly differentiated from existing functions such as facilities real estate, IT businesses.
We have and procurement into one centralised broken up the traditional hierarchical We are also maximising the promotion group.
This will allow us to become more business model and created smaller, and distribution synergies between streamlined and provide significant more agile groups of scientists who our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and economies of scale.
are more accountable for delivering Consumer Healthcare businesses in their projects.
bn % bn days 27.4 38 3 c. 30 2.2 210 Group turnover proportion of new product assets in late annual benets working capital sales outside approvals stage pipeline from restructuring cycle down from USA and Europe programme 221 in 2010 Our financial architecture In 2011 we established a new financial architecture.
This aligns In addition, we have improved our financial reporting to align our planning, execution and performance measurement in order it more closely with our architecture.
We are providing more to maximise financial performance and returns to shareholders.
data and insights into the progress we are making in each of our businesses and regions and on our progress against the key It is designed to drive improvements in operating margin, greater drivers of operational and financial efficiency.
financial efficiency and enhanced cash conversion from the sales growth we are focused on delivering.
This should lead to stronger Starting in 2012 we are transitioning our reporting to a core growth in earnings per share and better free cash generation.
basis, enabling greater visibility of the underlying performance of the business.
This expected cash ow is available for dividends, reinvestment in the business or share buy-backs depending on where returns 42 43 are most attractive.
GSK Annual Report 2011 07 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Our underlying operating principles Operating responsibly Strong governance Our commitment to responsible, values-based business We believe that only by being a responsible business can we underlies everything we do.
Our values are applied across grow and create value for our shareholders and for society in the Group.
These values are to operate with transparency, the long term.
We think about our responsibilities in four areas: demonstrate respect for people, act with integrity and remain helping improve peoples health and well-being wherever they patient-focused.
We have strong policy and compliance live or whatever their ability to pay: working to support the programmes and expect the same standards of our suppliers, development of our people as well as communities around contractors and business partners.
Our Chairman and Board of the world: behaving in an open and honest manner in all that Directors provide leadership on corporate governance, which we do, and growing our business while protecting the natural is fundamental to sound decision making and supports our resources we all need for the future.
executive management in implementing our strategy.
Our We continue to change the way we do business so we can be Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC oversees successful and sustainable in the longer term.
the management of significant business risks including 44 50 reputational and non-financial risks.
It does this in compliance with laws and regulations as well as in coordination with our other governance bodies and in the spirit of our values Collaborative approach and standards.
Our Audit & Assurance group support the Our business and our products touch many different groups, ROCC and the Boards Audit & Risk Committee, providing an over and above the people who take our medicines and independent view of how significant risks are being managed products.
We aim to work with these groups in a transparent across the organisation.
and collaborative manner to allow us to succeed with our 82 105 partners.
That approach applies to our interactions with payers, regulators and the healthcare professionals we work with, as well as our suppliers and business partners.
Equally we seek to be a valuable participant in scientific research, through our collaborations with researchers and by sharing significant scientific developments and data through the appropriate routes.
We actively seek to work in partnership with public bodies and non-governmental organisations to help progress health issues that present wider societal challenges, such as treatments for neglected tropical diseases and the prevention of childhood illnesses in the least developed countries.
