78 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & remuneration Our Board Our Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance.
Sir Christopher Gent Committee memberships 2.
Sir Andrew Witty a Audit & Risk 3.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson b Remuneration 4.
Sir Crispin Davis Not standing for re-election 3 4 at AGM 2012 8.
Simon Dingemans Not standing for re-election 9.
Sir Robert Wilson 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Board photos: George Brooks and Iain Crockart GSK Annual Report 2011 79 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 1.
Sir Deryck Maughan 64 Chairman, b, c, d Non-Executive Director, a Non-Executive Director, a, c Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2004 and as Appointed on 1 April 2011.
Stacey joined Burberry Appointed on 1 June 2004.
Sir Deryck is a Partner of Chairman on 1 January 2005.
Sir Christopher Group plc as Chief Financial officer in 2003 and was Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
He is a Non-Executive is Chairman of the Nominations and Corporate appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Director of Thomson Reuters and BlackRock Inc. as Responsibility Committees.
He is a Non-Executive officer in June 2008.
Previously she held the role of well as serving on the board of directors of the Lincoln Director of Ferrari SpA, a member of KPMGs Chief Financial officer at Egg plc between 1999 and Center and is a Trustee of the New York University Chairmans Advisory Group and a Senior Adviser at 2003, and from 1988 to 1999 she worked in various Langone Medical Center.
He was formerly Chairman Bain & Co. Sir Christopher was formerly Chief Executive finance-related positions at Granada Group plc.
and Chief Executive officer of Citigroup International officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement and of Salomon Brothers Inc. 6.
He was also formerly a Non-Executive 11.
James Murdoch 39 Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Non-Executive Director, b, c Non-Executive Director, b, d Appointed on 1 July 2003.
Sir Andrew Witty 47 Chief Executive officer of Danaher Corporation.
James is Deputy Chief Chief Executive officer to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, Operating officer and Chairman and Chief Executive Appointed on 8 October 2007 as Chief Executive previously Andersen Consulting.
officer, International of News Corporation.
He is also officer Designate and on 21 May 2008 as Chief Non-Executive Chairman of BSkyB plc and Non- 7.
Sir Crispin Davis 62 Executive officer CEO.
Sir Andrew joined the Group Executive Director of Sothebys.
He previously served as in 1985 and has held senior positions in Asia Pacic, Chief Executive officer of BSkyB plc from 2003 to 2007, Non-Executive Director, b, c South Africa and the USA.
Immediately prior to being and Star TV from 2000 to 2003.
Sir Crispin is Chairman of appointed CEO, he was President, GSK Pharmaceuticals the Remuneration Committee.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 58 Europe, a position he held from January 2003.
Sir Director of StarBev Netherlands BV, a member of Andrew has served in numerous advisory roles to Non-Executive Director and scientific Expert, a, d Citigroups Global Advisory Board and serves on the governments around the world including South Africa, Council of Oxford University.
Sir Crispin was previously Appointed on 1 July 2006.
Daniel is President of the Singapore and Guangzhou China.
He is currently a Chief Executive officer of Reed Elsevier plc and prior University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory to that appointment, Chief Executive of Aegis Group and holds the Phillip OBryan Montgomery, Jr. Group and is the Lead Non-Executive Board Member plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was M. D. Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
a member of the main board and Group Managing Administration, and the Doris and Bryan Wildenthal He was a board member of the INSEAD Business Director of United Distillers.
In his earlier career, he Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a School until January 2012.
Sir Andrew is President of worked for Procter & Gamble, where he was President member of the Institute of Medicine of the US National the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries of the North American Food Division.
Academy of Sciences, a member of the board of the and Associations.
He was awarded a knighthood for Southwestern Medical Foundation and is a director of services to the economy and to the UK pharmaceutical 8.
Simon Dingemans 48 Antibe Therapeutics, Inc. industry in the 2012 New Year Honours.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 64 Appointed on 4 January 2011 as Chief Financial officer Chairman, Research & Development Non-Executive Director and scientific Expert, a Designate and on 1 April 2011 as Chief Financial officer CFO.
Simon joined GSK from Goldman Sachs where Appointed on 17 May 2006.
Moncef joined GSK Appointed on 1 October 2007.
Sir Roy is Professor he was a Managing Director and Partner.
He has over Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the of Infectious Disease Epidemiology in the Faculty of 25 years of experience in investment banking.
While development of a robust vaccines pipeline and Medicine, Imperial College, London.
He is a member at Goldman Sachs, Simon worked with GSK for over a subsequently led Worldwide Business Development of the International Advisory Board of Hakluyt & Co decade and was closely involved in a number of GSKs for pharmaceuticals before his appointment to lead Ltd, a Trustee of the Natural History Museum, London, strategic projects, including the establishment of R&D.
Moncef was given overall responsibility for GSKs a fellow and member of the Science Policy Advisory ViiV Healthcare.
Oncology Business in 2010, and for GSK Vaccines Group of the Royal Society and a fellow of the in 2011.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical 9.
Judy Lewent 63 Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
Sir Roy is a member of the International Non-Executive Director, a Advisory Board of the HIV Monitoring Foundation, an 14.
Tom fide Swaan 65 Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a Appointed on 1 April 2011.
Judy served as Executive Non-Executive Director, a, b Foreign Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine Vice President and Chief Financial officer of Merck & at the US National Academy of Sciences and the French Co. Inc. until September 2007.
She is also a director of Appointed on 1 January 2006.
Tom is Chairman of Academy of Sciences.
His former positions include Thermo Fisher scientific Inc. and Motorola Solutions, the Audit & Risk Committee.
He is Chairman of the Rector of Imperial College and Chief scientific Adviser Inc. She served on the boards of Motorola Inc. from Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers, a member at the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
1995 until May 2010 and Dell Inc. from 2001 to 2011. of the board of directors of Zurich Financial Services She previously served on the board of Quaker Oats and a Non-Executive Member of KPMG Europe LLPs 4.
Since 2009, Judy has served on the boards Public Interest Committee.
Tom is also Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director, d of Purdue Pharma Inc. Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Limited and certain Mundipharma International Limited Committee of Royal Ahold and a member of the Appointed on 12 February 2007.
Stephanie was companies as a Non-Executive Director.
She is also a Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
He was previously a formerly Chairman, President and Chief Executive Trustee and the Chairperson of the Audit Committee member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial officer of Dow Corning Corporation until her of the Rockefeller Family Trust, a life member of the officer of ABN AMRO.
Stephanie was Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc. on 15.
Sir Robert Wilson 68 and a member of the American Academy of Arts 31 January 2012.
She sits on the US Presidents Export & Sciences.
Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Council and is a former Chairman of the American Director, a, c Chemistry Council.
She is also an officer of the Society of Chemical Industry, America Section.
She has also Appointed on 1 November 2003.
Sir Robert is currently served on the board of the Michigan Molecular Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc until he Institute and the Society for Womens Health Research.
He was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto plc until his retirement in October 2003 and Chairman of The Economist Group between 2003 and 2009.
