04 GSK Annual Report 2011 Overview How we create value Our business model relies on innovation, intellectual property protection and brand allegiance to deliver sustainable growth Our business model New medicines and healthcare products A critical element of our business model is Vulnerability to generic competition are needed by people across the globe the protection of the intellectual property is less marked for vaccines and to address the many illnesses such as we create in developing new treatments biopharmaceuticals, including enzymes cancer, diabetes and heart disease that and technologies.
This protection allows and monoclonal antibodies.
These large are still not well-controlled or treated.
us to generate income for a set period molecules are created through different At the same time, scientific research of time, enabling us to recoup our R&D development and manufacturing is continuously uncovering new costs and invest in further research.
processes to that of small molecules, understandings about disease processes and these products are typically more Patent protection for prescription and technologies.
difficult and expensive to manufacture.
medicines as for other inventions These two elements present us with the is around 20 years in most Western The development of generic versions opportunity to investigate and develop countries.
However, by the time a new of vaccines and biopharmaceuticals new and improved treatments.
We medicine is approved for use in patients, is also subject to different regulatory create value by applying science and a significant proportion of this exclusivity requirements, such as the requirement technology to discover, develop, produce period will have passed.
Patents on to carry out trials in humans.
This incurs and distribute medicines, vaccines and our products also do not prevent the an additional expense not required in the consumer healthcare products.
protection being challenged before generic manufacture of small molecules, they expire.
and therefore places a further barrier to Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines generic competition.
Once patent protection expires, a The process of discovering and medicine is often subject to competition Consumer Healthcare developing new medicines and vaccines from generic manufacturers who do is long and expensive and requires Intellectual property protection is not the not have the same R&D overheads innovation and creativity.
Industry same for consumer healthcare products.
and so are able to offer their products development times are typically 1015 Our Consumer Healthcare business relies at considerably lower prices.
Declines years for new medicines and vaccines, on product innovation, brand loyalty and in sales following patent expirations with costs of up to 1 billion for each trademark protection to be competitive are particularly rapid in the USA and approved product.
The R&D process often and create value.
Generic pressures are different in involves thousands of patients in trials timelines for new consumer healthcare emerging markets, where brand allegiance to investigate the safety and efcacy of products are signicantly shorter than has a greater influence.
In these markets, potential new treatments.
for pharmaceuticals and vaccines and a known heritage or brand for existing the pace of innovation is rapid.
The medicines whether on-patent or not application of science and consumer is valued and provides an opportunity insights are key to driving successful to withstand generic competition.
product innovation for consumer brands.
Pharmaceutical discovery and development process Research and Regulatory Market Development discovery review after and testing Market under patent protection 25,000 1 patent 25 compounds compound expiry compounds 10-15 years indefinite 5-10 years Final patent application Product approval Patent expiry GSK Annual Report 2011 05 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Why we are different We have fundamentally changed our To do this, we have broken up the Commitment to access business and our culture to help us grow traditional hierarchical pharmaceutical We are actively seeking new ways of and improve our performance.
Our R&D business model, creating instead delivering healthcare and making our approach is now one of openness to smaller units to encourage greater products more available and affordable challenge and innovation.
This affects entrepreneurialism and accountability to people who need them wherever they the way we do business, the way we work for our scientists.
We do this not only because society with external groups and our relationship We are striving to develop new expects us to and it is the right thing with our employees.
For our employees, partnerships and approaches, adopting to do, but also because it is good for the positive impact their contribution a different mindset, that is more our business.
makes to peoples lives is one of their innovative, open-minded, exible, key motivators to working at GSK.
In our effort to expand access to our and consultative.
We value the new products, we have led the industry in and different perspectives that other Breadth of business adopting a exible approach to pricing groups can bring to our thinking.
We We have a broad-based and balanced of our medicines and vaccines, based are open to working with research business across pharmaceuticals, vaccines on a countrys wealth and ability to pay.
charities, academia, companies and nonand consumer healthcare products.
Our This has resulted in significant reductions governmental organisations.
We are also Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in price and increases in demand for increasing consultation with patients and include both established brands and new our products in emerging economies, payers to ensure the medicines we are innovative patent-protected medicines.
representing a good outcome for patients, developing provide improvements that We have many category-leading brands governments and our shareholders.
In healthcare systems will value and reward.
in our Consumer Healthcare business.
Western markets, we have developed We are committed to researching new and new reimbursement approaches for our This diverse portfolio provides us with a better treatments for diseases that impact medicines, where we agree risk-sharing range of products to drive our business the developing world.
Our research arrangements with payers.
in innovation-driven markets such as centre in Spain is dedicated to this the USA and Japan.
It also provides us We have established a special business discovery work and we are one of the few with good opportunities for growth unit that is responsible for increasing companies researching treatments and in emerging markets, where rapidly access to our products in the least vaccines for malaria, TB and HIV.
In 2011, developing economies are expanding developed countries in the world.
The we reported positive initial results for our the number of people with access to price of our patented medicines in this malaria vaccine which if successful, would healthcare treatments.
region is kept at no more than 25% of our be the worlds first vaccine against this developed world prices and we re-invest a The changes we have made to the shape deadly disease.
We are being more exible fifth of the profits we make from sales in of our business are intended to provide with our intellectual property and knowthese territories back into local healthcare broadly-sourced sales growth and provide how in areas of research such as diseases infrastructure projects.
greater resilience in the face of market of the developing world, with the aim challenges, such as the loss of patent of stimulating progress in the search for We work with many agencies to protection or government austerity new treatments.
distribute our vaccines to the people measures.
in these countries at the lowest price we In our commercial organisation, we have can.
Of the 1.1 billion vaccine doses we pioneered new sales models to align with New ways of working delivered in 2011, more than 80% were the changing market and expectations We have fundamentally changed our supplied to protect people in developing of our customers.
For example, we have R&D organisation to deliver a large and countries.
We also have significant introduced a new remuneration system diverse late-stage pipeline and a discovery medicine donation programmes targeted for our US sales representatives based organisation structure that can sustain at disease elimination.
on the service they deliver to healthcare a ow of innovative new medicines professionals rather than on individual and vaccines.
