80 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & remuneration Our Corporate Executive Team Our Corporate Executive Team supports our Chief Executive officer in the management of the business and our activities.
Emma Walmsley 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 CET photos: George Brooks, Iain Crockart and Tom Whipps GSK Annual Report 2011 81 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 1.
Phil Thomson Chief Executive officer Senior Vice President, Core Business Services Senior Vice President, Global Communications & Chief Information officer See page 79.
Phil was appointed Senior Vice President, Global Bill was appointed Chief Information officer in January Communications in August 2010.
In addition to this role, he was appointed to for Media Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate create and lead Core Business Services, a global Responsibility, Global Community Partnerships, and Senior Vice President, Governance, Ethics multi-function shared service, in April 2010.
Prior to Internal, Product, and Business Communications.
and Assurance his current role, Bill was Senior Vice President, R&D Phil joined Glaxo Wellcome as a commercial trainee Simon was appointed to the role in January 2011.
He is responsible for risk management, compliance, Vice President, Medical Data Sciences.
internal auditing, data privacy, security and the ofce 16.
Dan Troy of product quality.
He was formerly SVP, Company 10.
David Pulman Senior Vice President and General Counsel Secretary & Corporate Compliance officer.
Simon President, Global Manufacturing and Supply joined the Corporate Secretariat in 1984.
He was Dan joined GSK as Senior Vice President and General appointed Company Secretary of GlaxoSmithKline plc David is responsible for the Global Manufacturing Counsel in September 2008.
Before that he was a in May 2000 and combined this position with his role and Supply organisation and Global Procurement.
Partner at the Washington law rm Sidley Austin LLP as Corporate Compliance officer from April 2006 until He joined Glaxo in 1978.
He has broad experience and Chief Counsel of the FDA.
From 20062007 he his current appointment.
of manufacturing operations having previously led chaired the American Bar Associations Section of the Primary Supply, European manufacturing, North Administrative Law, and was previously an adjunct 3.
John Clarke American manufacturing, Global Logistics and scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Manufacturing Strategy organisations.
President, Consumer Healthcare John Clarke was appointed President, Consumer 11.
Patrick Vallance Healthcare in January 2006.
In October 2011, in-line Chief Strategy officer President, Pharmaceuticals R&D with agreed succession planning, he handed over responsibility to Emma Walmsley.
John will continue David is responsible for proactive exploration of Appointed President, Pharmaceuticals R&D, in January as a member of the Corporate Executive Team until new business opportunities, strategic planning and 2012, Patrick joined GSK in May 2006 as Head of Drug March 2012.
He joined Beecham in 1976 and was the global leadership of the dermatology business.
He focused the organisation on science that the President of the Future Group before his current He is also Chairman of the Board of ViiV Healthcare has the best chance of leading to new medicines, and appointment in January 2006.
He began his career with GSK in 1994 in Corporate created small, multidisciplinary teams called Discovery Development before being appointed Finance Director Performance Units.
In 2010 he united discovery and 4.
Deirdre Connelly of Europe Pharmaceuticals in 1999.
He was appointed development to create Therapy Area Units, a group he Area Director for Central Europe in 2003 and Northern led until his recent appointment.
Patrick was a clinician President, North America Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2005. and academic and led the Division of Medicine at Deirdre joined GSK in February 2009 after working at University College London before joining GSK.
Eli Lilly and Company for 24 years.
Moncef Slaoui of positions including sales professional, General 18.
Emma Walmsley Chairman, Research & Development Manager of Puerto Rico, Senior Vice President of President, Consumer Healthcare Worldwide Human Resources and, most recently, President of See page 79.
Emma assumed the role of President, Consumer 13.
Jean Stphenne Healthcare Worldwide in October 2011 after joining 5.
Simon Dingemans GSK in May 2010 as President of Consumer Healthcare Chairman and President, Biologicals Europe.
She joined GSK from LOral where she worked Chief Financial officer Jean has led GSKs global vaccines business since 1989. for 17 years, holding a variety of marketing and general See page 79.
Previously, he was Vice President of Human Vaccines management roles in Paris, London and New York.
Research and Development and Production.
He joined From 2007 Emma was based in Shanghai as General 6.
Marc Dunoyer the Group in 1974 as Head of Bacterial and Viral Manager, Consumer Products, LOral China.
Jean was named Baron by King Global Head, GSK Rare Diseases and Chairman joining LOral, Emma worked in strategic consultancy Albert II of the Belgians in 2000 in recognition of his of GSK Japan in both the USA and UK.
leading contribution to R&D and industry in Belgium.
Marc was appointed Chairman of GSK Japan in January 2010 and in February 2010 to lead GSKs rare diseases 14.
Claire Thomas business from R&D to commercialisation.
He joined Senior Vice President, Human Resources the Group in 1999 and was previously President, Pharmaceuticals Japan from January 2000 until May Claire leads the Global Human Resources HR 2008.
He was President, Pharmaceuticals Asia Pacic function, and is responsible for GSKs Environmental Japan from May 2008 until July 2010.
Previously, she oversaw HR in Pharmaceuticals International and in Pharmaceuticals 7.
Claire joined the Group in 1996 and was appointed Director of Human Resources for UK President, Pharmaceuticals Europe Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
Claire was honoured as Eddie became responsible for the Groups operations an Outstanding European Woman of Achievement in Europe in January 2008.
He joined Beecham in 1988 in 2007. and, prior to his current appointment, was Senior Vice President and General Manager, Pharmaceuticals UK.
Abbas Hussain President, Emerging Markets & Asia Pacic Abbas joined GSK in June 2008 from Eli Lilly and Company, where he spent more than 20 years overseeing markets throughout Europe, Africa Middle East and Australasia.
82 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & remuneration Corporate governance Dear Shareholder Good corporate governance provides a structure for delivering the companys strategy and is fundamental to a sound decision-making process.
It supports the executive management in achieving maximum performance for the business.
As Chairman, I recognise that my leadership of the Board is critical to encouraging open and transparent debate, discussion, constructive challenge and support.
UK Corporate Governance Code We welcomed the introduction of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and our report this year is structured so that we report our corporate governance arrangements and practice against its five sections.
One of the new provisions of the Code is the requirement for all directors to retire each year at the Annual General Meeting AGM and, if they wish to continue in ofce, to offer themselves for election or re-election by the shareholders.
We complied with this provision ahead of time at our 2011 AGM and we intend to follow this practice going forward.
We also conducted our second external Board evaluation this year and, in line with the Code, intend to continue to have an external evaluation every three years.
Board composition This year the Board has reviewed its composition and made a number of changes to ensure that its membership is continuously refreshed and that it provides the leadership expected to take our global business forward.
Simon Dingemans was appointed to the Board in January and succeeded Julian Heslop as CFO in April.
James Murdoch has decided not to stand for re-election at this years AGM.
The process of refreshing the Board continues.
Three of our Non-Executive Directors, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and Larry Culp, will have completed nine years service by 2013 and they will not offer themselves for re-election at the AGM next year.
In replacing those Directors, priority is being given to candidates who have knowledge of Emerging Markets or are chief executive ofcers of global companies.
We support the initiatives to increase diversity on the boards of public companies, although we view diversity in a much wider context than gender diversity.
This is reected in the wide range of backgrounds and skills of our Board members.
During the year, we were pleased to welcome Judy Lewent and Stacey Cartwright, who bring particular experience of global business and finance, as Non-Executive Directors.
They are completing tailored induction programmes, but are already active contributors to Board debate.
Management of risk In the current uncertain economic climate, we recognise that it is important to maintain our increased focus on risk.
We have spent a significant amount of time and resources on the assessment and monitoring of risk throughout the Group, led by our Audit & Risk Committee, which oversees risk management and internal control activities.
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme has been enhanced following the introduction of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
GSK Annual Report 2011 83 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Communications with shareholders We value open, constructive and effective communication with our shareholders.
Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, our CFO, Simon Dingemans, and myself have continued our regular dialogue with major shareholders, holding over 240 meetings with shareholders this year.
I also attended meetings with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Sir Crispin Davis, where we discussed remuneration policy and governance matters.
I am always available to meet shareholders and would anticipate we will continue this programme of meetings each year.
Corporate governance debate The debate over good corporate governance continues at a national, EU and international level.
We have sought to contribute to that debate by responding to the numerous consultation documents issued on this subject.
We feel strongly that companies and not just their advisers and representative bodies should contribute to the structure of governance processes going forward.
The Corporate Governance Report that follows sets out how we complied with the Code during 2011.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 9 March 2012
