GSK Annual Report 2011 97 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the Audit & Risk Committee Report company to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually.
The Companies Act 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations to political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we Dear Shareholder make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU The current global political and economic environment has created political expenditure.
The Committees work and our The denitions of political donations, political expenditure and Audit & Assurance and Compliance models continue to adapt and political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
In evolve to help maintain and improve the integrity of our financial particular, the denition of EU political organisations may extend to and internal controls and the effective identication and bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the management of risk in response to these challenges.
representation of the business community and special interest During 2011, the Committees agenda included the usual review groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the of our financial results and controls, our business operations across company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
As a result, the the world and their management of risk, as well as focusing denitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the consideration on other matters including: ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support any s CONCLUDING THE 53 GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS INTO SALES AND political party or independent election candidate.
The authority marketing practices: which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to s OVERSEEING THE MANAGEMENT OF SOVEREIGN DEBT ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently s PROTECTING OUR 4 SECURITY AND PREVENTION OF CYBER CRIME breach the legislation.
s UNDERSTANDING THE NATURE OF THE PROBLEMS AND CORPORATE Committee reports governance failures which occurred at Olympus, the Japanese camera manufacturer: The reports of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate s MONITORING PROGRESS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR GLOBAL Responsibility Committees, describing the activities of those Enterprise Resource Planning system: and Committees during the year, are set out below.
"s REVIEWING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF OUR ENHANCED !NTI ""RIBERY and Corruption Programme."
At each meeting we also considered if there were any emerging risks which could impact the Group.
These discussions provided an opportunity for Committee members and other attendees to raise any issues which warranted further consideration, investigation or attention.
Our internal control framework has been further strengthened with the establishment of our new Global Product Quality Ofce.
This will increase the independence of the leadership and governance of our Good Manufacturing Practice product quality activities across the Group.
In addition, we consolidated our compliance network into a new Global Compliance organisation to provide more consistent and effective oversight across the Group.
I was delighted to welcome Stacey Cartwright, Chief Financial officer of Burberry, and Judy Lewent, former President and Chief Financial officer of Merck & Co. Inc. as members of the Committee.
They bring with them considerable financial experience and expertise and, as a result, the Board has determined that they, like me, should be designated as audit committee financial experts.
This will be my last year as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
I will remain a member of the Committee, but Judy will succeed me as Chair of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2013.
Tom fide Swaan Audit & Risk Committee Chairman 98 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration Membership Main responsibilities The membership of the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee, The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 87. together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, is The Committees oversight role requires it to address regularly the set out below: relationships between management and the internal and external auditors and to understand and monitor the reporting relationships Attendance at full meetings and tiers of accountability between them.
Members Committee member since during 2011 The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET Tom fide Swaan and senior managers covering the key risk management and Chairman from compliance activities of the Group, including those covering R&D, 1 September 2006 1 January 2006 6 6 manufacturing, sales and marketing and corporate functions.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 20 May 2009 6 6 Further details of the reporting framework to the Committee are Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 3 4 set out on pages 91 to 94 under Accountability.
Judy Lewent 1 April 2011 4 4 Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 6 6 The Committee also reviews the quarterly results of the Group Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6 6 prepared by management and considers reports on key Sir Robert Wilson 12 December 2003 6 6 accounting issues.
The Committees meetings are split into two parts: The Committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis.
No material changes to the terms of reference were made in 2011. s 0ART ONE DEALS WITH THE MORE FUNDAMENTAL ASPECTS OF INTERNAL financial control and considers standing items, such as receiving Qualications of Audit & Risk Committee members reports from the external auditors and Audit & Assurance.
"Committee members, with the exception of Professor Sir Roy s 4HE ENTIRE ""OARD IS INVITED TO ATTEND 0ART TWO OF THE #OMMITTEE S Anderson and Dr Daniel Podolsky, bring considerable financial meetings, which usually considers developments in the external and accounting experience to the Committees work."
Members risk environment, receives legal updates, new business unit and have past employment experience in either finance or accounting corporate function reports and reports on the outcome of roles or comparable experience in corporate activities.
Sir Roy Strategic Risk Evaluations and other topical issues.
and Dr Podolsky are, respectively, a world-renowned medical scientist and a world-renowned researcher and this enables them In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met to bring scientific expertise to the Committees deliberations.
on a quorate basis on five occasions.
"Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Regular Attends Attendee attendee as required Chairman CEO CFO General Counsel Financial Controller Head of Audit & Assurance Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee Chairman, Research & Development Chief Medical officer Part two only Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance Chief Product Quality officer External auditors GSK Annual Report 2011 99 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 In 2011, the Committee worked to a structured programme of Financial and accounting experience activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to Tom fide Swaan s #HIEF &INANCIAL FlCER OF !""."
!-2 UNTIL consider at each meeting, together with other matters timed to 31 December 2005 coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: s. ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR OF 0-' %UROPE, , 0 S Public Interest Committee External auditors Reported on all critical accounting policies, significant judgements and practices used by the Stacey Cartwright s %XECUTIVE 6ICE 0RESIDENT #HIEF &INANCIAL FlCER Group, alternative accounting treatments which of Burberry Group plc had been discussed with management and their s &ORMER #HIEF &INANCIAL FlCER OF %GG PLC resultant conclusion, material written s 6ARIOUS lNANCE RELATED POSITIONS AT 'RANADA communications with management and any Group plc restrictions on access to information.
Judy Lewent s &ORMER %XECUTIVE 6ICE 0RESIDENT AND #HIEF CFO Reported on the financial performance of the Group and on technical financial and accounting Financial officer of Merck & Co. Inc. matters.
0ARTNER OF OHLBERG RAVIS 2OBERTS #O General Counsel Reported on material litigation.
s &ORMER #HAIRMAN AND #HIEF %XECUTIVE FlCER OF Citigroup International Company Secretary Reported on corporate governance.
s &ORMER #HAIRMAN AND #HIEF %XECUTIVE Head of Governance, Reported on the activities undertaken by officer of Salomon Brothers Inc. Ethics and the ROCC.
"Assurance Sir Robert Wilson s #HAIRMAN OF ""' 'ROUP PLC s %CONOMIST Heads of audit and The majority of the heads of these groups s &ORMER #HAIRMAN OF 4HE %CONOMIST 'ROUP assurance and the reported on their audit scope, annual coverage s &ORMER %XECUTIVE #HAIRMAN OF 2IO 4INTO Groups compliance and audit resources and on the results of audits and audit groups conducted throughout the year."
scientific expertise Company Secretary, Reported on matters that affected the quality as Chair of the and timely disclosure of financial and other Professor Sir Roy s !
WORLD RENOWNED MEDICAL SCIENTIST WITH Disclosure Committee mate rial information to the Board, to the public Anderson advanced knowledge of infectious disease markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the epidemiology Committee to review the clarity and s 0ROFESSOR OF NFECTIOUS $ISEASE %PIDEMIOLOGY IN completeness of the disclosures in the published the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London annual financial statements, interim reports, s &ELLOW OF THE 2OYAL 3OCIETY quarterly and preliminary results announcements s &OREIGN !SSOCIATEEMBER OF THE NSTITUTE and other formal announcements relating to of Medicine at the US National Academy financial performance prior to approval by the of Sciences Board.
s &OREIGN !SSOCIATEEMBER OF THE &RENCH Academy of Sciences Head of Audit & Reported on the progress of the global assurance s &ORMER #HIEF 3CIENTIlC !DVISER AT THEINISTRY OF Assurance plan to review the assurance for each significant Defence in the UK risk throughout the Group.
See Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on page 104.
WORLD RENOWNED RESEARCHER WITH ADVANCED knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease The Committee, management, internal auditors and the full Board and new therapies for gastrointestinal disorders work together to ensure the quality of the companys corporate s 0RESIDENT OF THE 5NIVERSITY OF 4EXAS accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee serves as the Southwestern Medical Center primary link between the Board and the external and internal sEMBER OF THE NSTITUTE OFEDICINE OF THE auditors.
"This facilitates the necessary independence from US National Academy of Sciences management and encourages the external and internal auditors to s $ORIS AND ""RYAN 7ILDENTHAL $ISTINGUISHED #HAIR in Medical Science communicate freely and regularly with the Committee."
In 2011, the s &ORMERALLINCKRODT 0ROFESSOR OFEDICINE Committee met both collectively and separately with the external Harvard Medical School auditors, the Head of Audit & Assurance and the Head of s &ORMER #HIEF !CADEMIC FlCER 0ARTNERS Governance, Ethics and Assurance without members of Healthcare management being present.
The Board has determined that these members are audit committee financial The Chairman of the Committee is also a member of the experts for purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee and provides input on the Committees Board is satisfied that each of these members has recent and relevant review of the Groups performance and oversight on any risk financial experience for purposes of the Code.
factors relevant to remuneration matters.
100 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration Consideration is also given by the Committee to the need to External auditors appointment and fees include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors from the The Committee has primary responsibility for making a market in its risk evaluation and planning.
recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement re-appointment and removal of the external auditors by assessing, partner every five years.
The current audit partner commenced on an annual basis, the qualications, expertise, resources and his engagement on 1 January 2008 and is not subject to rotation independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the until after the audit of GSKs financial statements for 2012 has previous audit process.
In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal, the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance actuarial, internal audit outsourcing, or financial information against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, systems design.
Where the external auditors are permitted to at the beginning of each years audit.
As part of this process, the provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor Committee considers feedback on the prior years external audit objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring gathered through a client satisfaction survey facilitated by the pre-approval by the Committee for such services.
The total fees for auditors client service review team, which is independent of the non-audit work do not exceed 50% of the audit fee except in engagement team that undertook the audit work.
The survey seeks special circumstances where there would be a clear advantage in feedback from the financial management team at corporate and the companys auditors undertaking such additional work.
Having reviewed the feedback, provided the services may include audit, audit-related, tax and other services.
Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories of process, it will recommend the re-appointment of the auditors services, and is subject to a specic budget.
There are guidelines which set out the Groups policy on engaging Details of the criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external the external auditors to provide non-audit services, which include: auditors are set out below: s ASCERTAINING THAT THE SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE OF THE EXTERNAL s DELIVER A SMOOTH RUNNING THOROUGH AND EFlCIENTLY EXECUTED auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services: audit: s ENSURING ADEQUATE SAFEGUARDS ARE IN PLACE SO THAT THE OBJECTIVITY s PROVIDE ACCURATE UP TO DATE KNOWLEDGE OF TECHNICAL ISSUES ON and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or a timely basis: compromised: and s SERVE AS AN INDUSTRY RESOURCE COMMUNICATING BEST PRACTICE s ENSURING THAT THE FEE LEVELS RELATIVE TO THE ANNUAL AUDIT FEE ARE and industry trends in reporting: within the limits set by the Committee.
s ADHERE TO ALL INDEPENDENCE POLICIES INCLUDING '3 S POLICIES The external auditors and management report regularly to the ISA UK I 220 and SEC requirements: Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance s DELIVER A FOCUSED AND CONSISTENT AUDIT APPROACH GLOBALLY THAT with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
The reects local risks and materiality: Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-bys LIAISE WITH !UDIT !SSURANCE FUNCTION TO AVOID DUPLICATION OF case basis.
Fees paid to the Companys auditor and its associates work: and are set out below.
Further details are given in Note 9 to the financial statements, Operating profit.
s PROVIDE CONSISTENCY OF ADVICE AT ALL LEVELS m Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors, 2011 17.3 which is reviewed by management, the Committee considers cost 2011 6.4 comparisons to ensure that it is fair and appropriate for GSK.
2010 16.5 There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees 2010 5.7 capacity to recommend a particular rm as external auditors to 2009 15.2 the Group.
2009 8.9  LLP have remained in place as auditors Audit and assurance services since the Groups inception in December 2000.
Their performance All other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and has been reviewed annually by the Committee since that time.
treasury related services In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which detail the relevant UK legislative, regulatory and professional requirements relating to external auditors and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance with the requirements, on the safeguards that have been established and on their own internal quality control procedures.
GSK Annual Report 2011 101 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Code of Conduct and reporting lines Nominations Committee Report We also have a number of well established policies, including a Code of Conduct, which is available on our website, and condential reporting lines for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No waivers to the Code of Conduct were made in 2011.
The Committee reviews regular reports about the arrangements available to employees to encourage them to seek help and to report concerns or suspected cases of misconduct without fear Sir Christopher Gent of retaliation.
Nominations Committee Chairman Committee evaluation Membership The Committee considered Dr Longs evaluation of the Board, and The membership of the Nominations Committee the Committee, the Committee in particular, and concluded that the Committee together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, is continued to operate effectively.
In respect of Dr Longs specic set out below: observations, it was agreed that the Committee should ask management to demonstrate how they are embedding the culture Attendance at full meetings of risk awareness within Emerging Markets and how emerging Members Committee member since during 2011 risks are captured within the Assurance process.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman from 1 January 2005 9 December 2004 4 4 Larry Culp 28 March 2008 4 4 Sir Crispin Davis 9 July 2009 4 4 Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 4 4 Sir Robert Wilson 28 March 2008 4 4 In addition to the four scheduled meetings, the Committee met on a quorate basis on one occasion.
Other attendees at Committee meetings: Regular Attends Attendee attendee as required CEO Head of Human Resources Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee Appropriate external advisers Main responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 87.
Work of the Committee during 2011 During 2011, the Committees main focus was on the search for new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers the particular skills, knowledge, independence, diversity and experience that would benefit the Board most signicantly for each appointment.
Broad selection criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance between the representation of Continental European, UK, US and Emerging Markets experience, and having individuals with expertise developed in various sectors and specialities.
The search process focused on the need for candidates who are current or recently retired CEOs, CFOs, or Audit partners, or who have other significant financial expertise, and sought candidates who further increased the diversity of the Boards composition.
102 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration Professional search agencies were engaged which specialise in the Committee evaluation recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers of The Committee considered Dr Longs evaluation of the Board, and potential Non-Executive appointees were considered by the the Committee in particular, and concluded that the Committee Committee and candidates were shortlisted for interview against continued to operate effectively.
In respect of Dr Longs specic objective criteria, after considering their relevant qualications.
observations, it was agreed that in replacing the Non-Executive After interviewing several candidates, the Committee was pleased Directors who are due to retire at the 2013 AGM, priority should be to recommend to the Board Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent as given to candidates with global CEO experience and knowledge of, Non-Executive Directors.
They were both appointed to the Board and experience in, Emerging Markets.
The Committee also agreed on 1 April 2011. that in recruiting new Non-Executive Directors, it would be helpful to plan the composition of the Board over a longer time frame.
The Board considered that their experience of global business and finance, and their respective knowledge of consumer brands and the pharmaceutical industry, would bring fresh perspectives to the Boards deliberations.
The process of refreshing the Board continues as a number of Board members approach their nine years of service.
In January 2012, it was announced that James Murdoch would not stand for re-election at the AGM in 2012 and Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and Larry Culp, each of whom will have served as Non-Executive Directors for nine years by 2013, would not stand for re-election at the AGM next year.
The Committee recommended that Sir Deryck Maughan should succeed Sir Robert as Senior Independent Director, Tom fide Swaan should succeed Sir Crispin as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Judy Lewent should succeed Tom fide Swaan as Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee.
In terms of Executive succession planning, the Committee also recommended the appointment of Emma Walmsley and Phil Thomson to the CET in May 2011 as President Designate, Consumer Healthcare Worldwide and Senior Vice President, Global Communications respectively.
Emma Walmsley joined GSK in May 2010 as President, Consumer Healthcare Europe.
She subsequently assumed the role of President, Consumer Healthcare Worldwide in October 2011.
She joined GSK from LOral, where she previously held a number of marketing and general management roles.
Phil Thomson joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 and has held senior positions in media relations and investor relations.
He was appointed to the role of Senior Vice President, Global Communications in August 2010.
He has responsibility for Media Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Global Community Partnerships and Internal, Product and Business Communications.
To ensure an orderly succession in Global Manufacturing & Supply GMS, the Committee recommended the appointment of Roger Connor, Vice President, Ofce of the CEO & Corporate Strategy, to the role of President Designate, GMS, with effect from 1 January 2012.
Roger will succeed David Pulman when he retires from GSK in 2013, and will join the CET in late 2012.
Detailed biographical information for Emma Walmsley and Phil Thomson is given under Our Corporate Executive Team CET on pages 80 to 81.
GSK Annual Report 2011 103 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Corporate Responsibility Committee Report Main responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee are set out on page 87.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress on meeting GSKs Corporate Responsibility CR Principles is reviewed.
The Committee annually reviews progress on the following five CR Principles: Sir Christopher Gent s ACCESS TO MEDICINES Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman s STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT Membership s RESEARCH AND INNOVATION The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee the s EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at s COMMUNITY INVESTMENT meetings, is set out below: GSKs other CR Principles are discussed at least once every two Attendance at years.
The Committee also reviews and approves the Corporate full meetings Responsibility Report.
Members Committee member since during 2011 Sir Christopher Gent Work of the Committee during 2011 Chairman from During 2011, the Committee focused its attention on several issues 1 January 2005 9 December 2004 4 4 including: Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 3 4 James Murdoch 20 May 2009 3 4 GSKs CR Principles Committees area of focus during 2011 Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 4 4 Access to medicines Access to, and pricing of, medicines in Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: middle income and least developed countries Regular Attends Standards of ethical Embedding ethical values in the Attendee attendee as required conduct organisation CEO Reinforcing values-based decision making General Counsel in the business Head of Global Communications Head of Corporate Responsibility Research and innovation Replacement, renement and reduction in use of animals in research and Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance development Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee Research integrity and transparency, Independent external Corporate including medical governance and ethical standards for human subject research Responsibility adviser Employment practices Inclusion and diversity Independent external Corporate Responsibility adviser Leading and developing employees To augment GSKs engagement with stakeholder opinion, in March Employee relations, including consultation 2009 Ms Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external arrangements adviser to the Committee.
Ms Tickell is the co-founder and Director Employee health, safety and wellbeing of Meteos, from which she directs the Pharma Futures Series, Community investment Pulse volunteering programme which aims to align better societal and shareholder value.
She also sits on the Expert Review Committee of the Access to Medicines Caring for the environment Progress on our environmental Foundation and is a member of the European Healthcare sustainability strategy Innovation Leadership Network.
Products and customers Adoption of global principles and practices to ensure distinction Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided between the interaction and exchange of independent advice and guidance on corporate and social scientific or medical information and responsibility matters to both the Chairman and CEO.
To avoid a product promotional activity conict of interest with a new role which she was due to take on, Disclosure of payments to healthcare Ms Tickell decided to retire as an adviser to the Committee in the professionals summer of 2011.
