GSK Annual Report 2011 13 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Our marketplace from austerity measures taken to correct General overview The difficult market public deficits and debt may become Global economic growth was mixed in conditions stemming more common.
2011, with events such as the tsunami and earthquake in Japan, political unrest from the international Pharmaceutical market in North Africa and the Middle East and Sales in the world pharmaceutical market financial crisis continued turbulence in the Eurozone affecting the were worth 503 billion at constant international economy.
The economic to impact the worlds exchange rates CER in the 12 months environment through the year was to the end of September 2011, up from economies during 2011, particularly influenced by large budget 481 billion in the prior year.
deficits in the developed world, which while sales in world required significant action in some This represented growth of 4.5%, down countries such as Greece and Italy.
In pharmaceutical markets from 5.4% growth a year earlier.
The the latter part of 2011, these pressures share of global sales fell in the USA, showed significant prompted fears of recession in some which remained the top pharmaceutical countries despite improvements in a market, and also in Europe, while there regional variation.
number of sectors, including sales in the was a rise in the rest of the world.
The world pharmaceutical market is Share prices in the USA ended at about the expected to continue to grow, although same point as they started the year, but growth in mature markets will be limited there were falls in Europe.
The FTSE 100 compared to emerging markets, where index of leading UK shares ended the year double-digit growth may be expected.
5.6% lower, while the DAX in Germany Factors inuencing growth was 14.7% lower and the CAC 40 in France was 17% down.
Japans main share index, There is a significant need for medicines the Nikkei, closed at its lowest end-of-year and healthcare treatments around level since 1982 and Chinas Shanghai the world.
A number of factors give us Composite Index lost 22% in 2011. reason to be optimistic about our ability to grow our business by researching, Based on external assessments, the manufacturing and selling healthcare outlook for global economic growth treatments, particularly with the new in 2012 remains uncertain.
Where it shape of our business.
However, other exists, recovery is likely to be slow and factors can affect the performance and unbalanced.
Risks to mature economies success of research-based healthcare will be greater than in developing ones, companies and the exact impact is and social and political unrest arising difficult to predict.
Value % of % compound growth World pharmaceutical market by geographic region bn total Sep 2006Sep 2011 USA 195 38.8 4.0 Europe 132 26.2 3.8 Rest of World 176 35.0 9.9 Emerging markets 86 17.1 17.6 Asia Pacic 16 3.2 8.2 Japan 5811.53.7 Canada 13 2.6 5.0 Total 503 100 5.8 Sales % of World market top therapeutic classes bn total Central nervous system 80 15.9 % Antineoplastic Immunomodulatory 70 13.9 Cardiovascular 70 13.9 4.5 Alimentary tract and metabolic 60 11.9 Anti-infectives bacterial, viral and fungal excluding vaccines 50 9.9 sales growth in world Respiratory 35 7.0 pharmaceutical market in 2011 Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources including IMS Health.
Values are at CER constant exchange rate.
14 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Our marketplace continued Growth of emerging markets increased Estimated change in world population millions access to medicines and treatments 200 Fast-developing economies, and the wealth this creates, are expanding the opportunities for people to benefit from 100 medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products.
Emerging markets 0 such as China and India have large 2012 2013 2014 2015 populations and these markets are 014 years 2011 pop: 1,751m 564 years 2011 pop: 4,413m 65 years 2011 pop: 536m expected to grow signicantly more than mature markets in the next few years.
The world population is projected to increase substantially from the current levels, with the biggest proportional growth in the older age group 2.9%.
Lifestyle changes and population growth Source: IMS The worlds population is rapidly increasing in number and people are living The relative percentage of these The number and impact of regulatory longer see World population.
Against this biopharmaceuticals to newly approved agency requirements continue to grow, background, health risks are changing.
medicines has continued to rise see rise particularly around aspects of product The success of treating infectious diseases of biotechnology.
In addition, the is having an impact on life expectancy evaluation of benefit and risk continue and patterns of physical activity and Price controls to be paramount consideration for the food, alcohol and tobacco consumption In many countries the prices of approval of a new medicine.
Low and middle-income pharmaceutical products are controlled the Food and Drug Administration FDA countries face a double burden of by law.
Governments may also has increasingly focused on the safety of increasing chronic, non-communicable influence prices through their control medicines from approval through to the conditions, as well as the communicable of national healthcare organisations, post-marketing phase of the product.
diseases that traditionally affect the poor.
which can bear a large part of the cost In 2011 the FDA approved the highest The prevalence of chronic disease is of supplying medicines to consumers.
number of new molecular entities since increasing in middle-income countries Recent government healthcare reforms 2004, and nearly a third of these approvals and is beginning to have an impact in the in countries such as France, Spain and were for therapies to treat rare diseases.
Germany may restrict pricing and This is in line with the FDAs priority to reimbursement.
Advances in science and technology address the public health needs of special In the USA there are currently no populations.
Enforcement and compliance scientific advances continue to translate government price controls over private activity increased in the manufacturing into new medicines and technologies, sector purchases, but federal law requires and global supply chain, as well as in although it is difficult to predict which pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay drug advertising and promotion.
For instance, rebates on certain medicines to be eligible FDA developed its goals for the renewal in following the development of monoclonal for reimbursement under several state and 2012 of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act antibodies and biopharmaceutical federal healthcare programmes.
Those PDUFA with a focus on enhancing the manufacturing techniques of the past two rebates increased in 2011 as the health science of drug development, improving decades, many new biopharmaceuticals reform law, the Affordable Care Act the quality of evidence in applications, medicines have been approved.
providing a more efficient and predictable review process, and maintaining public The rise of biotechnology % The pressure to control healthcare costs confidence.
will continue in 2012 and beyond.
US 2002 85 Government spending on healthcare In Europe, following the adoption of programmes, cross-border trade, the revised European Union EU legislation, 2002 15 acceleration of generics to market, new measures aimed at strengthening the 2010 67 comparative effectiveness research, safety monitoring of medicines are under 2010 33 pharmaceutical pricing and other issues of discussion and will be implemented from 2016 55 importance to our industry are part of the July 2012.
2016 45 continuing healthcare debate in the USA.
New EU laws to protect citizens from the Prescription and OTC Biotechnology Regulatory pressures threats posed by fake medicines have been adopted.
Discussions continue on draft The proportion of biotechnology sales The pharmaceuticals and vaccines legislation on improving citizens access compared to global prescription and OTC industry is highly regulated.
Regional and to reliable information on medicines.
The pharmaceutical sales within the worlds country-specic laws and regulations are top 100 drugs.
European Medicines Agency EMA has major factors in determining whether a Source: EvaluatePharma published more information on how the product can be developed and approved.
GSK Annual Report 2011 15 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 vision outlined in its five-year strategic name registrations is critical in ensuring sold in the EU as Seretide.
Trademark plan, Road Map to 2015, is expected to be a reasonable return on investment in R&D.
protection may generally be extended as developed.
The EU Commission continued long as the trademark is used by renewing It is our policy to try to obtain patents with its review of the regulation of clinical it when necessary.
GSKs trademarks are on commercially important, protectable trials in Europe and legislative proposals are important for maintaining the brand inventions discovered or developed expected in 2012. identity of our products.
We enforce our through our R&D activities.
Patent trademark rights to prevent infringements.
The regulatory environment in emerging protection for new active ingredients markets and Asia Pacic continues to is available in major markets and Competition evolve, with a number of countries patents can also be obtained for new Within the pharmaceutical industry, revising their regulatory review systems.
drug formulations, manufacturing competition can come from other We participate in a number of specic processes, medical uses and devices for companies making patent-protected regional and national regulatory administering products.
medicines with indications to treat initiatives which provide opportunities similar diseases to our medicines, or from Although we may obtain patents for our for meaningful scientific and regulatory manufacturers making generic copies of products, this does not prevent them dialogue between industry, agencies our medicines following patent expiration.
from being challenged before they and other stakeholders.
Further, the grant of a patent include broader sets of patient populations Our principal pharmaceutical and does not mean that the issued patent will from a number of these countries in vaccines competitors include: necessarily be held valid and enforceable medicine development programmes in Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca, by a court.
If a court determines that order to increase global patient access to Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, a patent we hold is invalid, nonnew innovative medicines, and optimise Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, infringed or unenforceable, it will not regulatory approvals.
For example, China, Pzer, Roche Holdings, Sano, Takeda protect the market from third party Russia, India and other emerging market and Teva Pharmaceuticals.
entry prior to patent expiry.
significant countries are updating their regulations litigation concerning such challenges is The Consumer Healthcare market has to have local clinical experience in their summarised in Note 44 to the financial become more challenging.
Consumers populations as part of the registration statements, Legal proceedings.
are demanding better quality and better packages for new chemical entities.
Retailers have consolidated and The treatment of many neglected tropical The consumer healthcare industry is globalised, which has strengthened diseases has little or no commercial subject to national regulation comparable their negotiation power.
Our principle market to stimulate research or reward to that for prescription medicines for the competitors in these markets include: innovation.
In these areas we are taking testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, a more exible approach to help speed and marketing of products.
High standards Procter & Gamble, Unilever, Pzer and up R&D for new medicines.
This includes of technical appraisal frequently involve Novartis.
being more exible with our patents and a lengthy review and approval process providing access to our know-how and In addition, many other smaller companies before a new product may be launched.
resources, and sharing our data with the compete with GSK in certain markets.
Our objective is to Outlook ensure that IP is not seen as a barrier to When patents expire on a medicine, much-needed research that could spur the While our operating environment remains these medicines can be subject to development of new and better treatments challenging, we have made significant competition from generic products.
progress through restructuring and a The effect of this is particularly acute in rigorous returns-based approach to capital Western markets, where generic products The life of a patent in most countries is 20 allocation.
We expect underlying sales can rapidly capture a large share of the years from the ling date.
However, the momentum to translate into reported market following patent expiration.
long development time for new medicines growth in 2012 at constant exchange As generic manufacturers typically do can mean that a substantial amount of rates, despite further anticipated pricing not incur significant costs for research this patent life has been eroded prior to reductions in many markets.
and development, education or market launch.
In some markets it is possible to development, they are able to offer their have some of this lost time restored and The outlook for the timing and impact of products at considerably lower prices than this leads to variations in the amount substitutable competition to Seretide Advair branded competitors.
The same pressures of patent life actually available for each in both Europe and the USA is uncertain.
do not apply as signicantly to vaccines.
This uncertainty is in part due to significant regulatory and manufacturing Intellectual property Trademarks requirements that need to be satisfied Intellectual property IP is an important All of our commercial products are to produce an inhaled medicine such as aspect of our business, and the effective protected by registered trademarks Seretide Advair.
In addition, patents over legal protection of our intellectual in major markets.
There may be local the delivery devices for Seretide Advair are property via patents, trademarks, variations, for example, in the USA the referenced on page 239.
See also Risk registered designs, copyrights and domain trademark Advair covers the same product factors on pages 72 to 77.
