1.4 | Business overview OuR BusinEss Glencores marketing and industrial investment activities are supported by a global network of more than 50offices located Overview in more than 40countries throughout Europe, North, Central Glencore is a leading integrated producer and marketer of metand South America, the CIS, Asia, Australia, Africa and the als and minerals, energy and agricultural products.
Glencores main offices are located in Baar Switoperates globally, marketing and distributing physical comzerland, Stamford Connecticut, London, Rotterdam, Beijing, modities sourced from third party producers and its own proMoscow and Singapore.
This network provides Glencore with duction.
Glencores customers and suppliers number in excess significant worldwide sourcing and distribution capabilities.
of 8,000 and span the automotive, steel, power generation, oil Glencores marketing operations employ close to 3,000people and food processing industries.
Glencore also provides financworldwide, while industrial operations directly or indirectly eming, logistics and other essential services to producers and ploy over 58,000people in 33countries.
Refer to the map on consumers.
page10 and 11 for more details on the locations of offices and operations.
Glencores long experience as a commodity marketer has allowed it to develop its expertise in the commodities which it Glencore has an established record of successful strategic inmarkets.
Glencore has also cultivated long-term relationships vestments in industrial assets which have become an important with a broad supplier and customer base across diverse induscomponent of its physical marketing activities.
Glencore intries and geographic regions.
Glencores marketing activities tends to continue to pursue selective strategic acquisitions and are supported by investments in industrial assets operating in alliances to support and strengthen its core physical marketing Glencores core commodities.
Glencores marketing operations activities as and when opportunities arise.
Glencore evaluates are believed to be less correlated to commodity prices than its each industrial asset investment opportunity on a stand-alone industrial operations, due to commodity price risk being subbasis, however, also recognising its potential to support and stantially hedged.
strengthen Glencores physical marketing activities or its existing industrial operations.
Similarly, Glencore evaluates disAs a marketer, Glencore is able to differentiate itself from other posals of industrial assets when they are no longer deemed to production entities as, in addition to focusing on minimising support its marketing activities and or when compelling selling costs and delivering operational efficiencies, Glencore focuses opportunities arise.
on maximising the efficiency of the entire supply chain, taking into account its extensive and global third party supply base, its Glencores three business segments focus on the following logistics, risk management and working capital financing capacommodity segments: bilities, extensive market insight, business optionality, extensive The metals and minerals business segment focuses on: zinc customer base, competitive market position in most commodicopper lead, alumina aluminium and ferroalloys nickel cobalt ties and economies of scale.
In contrast, this is not the busiiron ore.
The activities of Glencores metals and minerals business model of Glencores mainly industrial competitors who are ness segment are supported by ownership interests in congenerally not set up to exploit the full range of value added trolled and non-controlled industrial assets such as mining, margin and arbitrage opportunities which exist throughout the smelting, refining and warehousing operations: commodity supply chain.
The energy products business segment focuses on: oil oil products and coal coke.
The activities of Glencores energy Businesses products business segment are supported by ownership inGlencore conducts its operations in three business segments: terests in controlled and non-controlled coal mining and oil Metals and minerals, Energy products and Agricultural products.
production operations as well as investments in strategic hanGlencores business segments are responsible for managing the dling, storage and freight equipment and facilities: and marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment The agricultural products business segment focuses on: grains activities relating to the commodities which they cover.
including wheat, maize and barley, oils oilseeds, cotton and sugar.
The activities of Glencores agricultural products business group are supported by investments in controlled and Glencore non-controlled storage, handling and processing facilities in strategic locations.
Metals and minerals Energy products Agricultural products Zinc copper lead Oil Grains Alumina aluminium Coal coke Oils oilseeds Ferroalloys nickel Cotton sugar cobalt iron ore 14 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion OuR stRAtEgy commodities can be bought or sold in different geographic locations or time periods, taking into account the numerous Glencores strategy is to maintain and strengthen its position as relevant pricing factors, including freight and product quality.
one of the worlds leading diversified natural resources groups.
These pricing discrepancies can present Glencore with arbitrage opportunities whereby Glencore is able to deploy capital Strategic objectives to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, blending, storing Continue to leverage geographic scope and diversification or otherwise processing the relevant commodities.
Whilst the of operations: Glencore intends to extend product and geostrategies used by Glencores business segments to generate graphical range offered to suppliers and customers.
such margin vary from commodity to commodity, the main arbitrage strategies can be generally described as follows: C apitalise on strategic investments in industrial assets: Geographic: where Glencore leverages its relationships and Glencores strategic investments in industrial assets are an production, processing and logistical capabilities in order to important component of its physical sourcing strategy for source physical commodities from one location and deliver its marketing activities.
Glencore believes these investments them to another location where such commodities can comunderpin Glencore as a reliable supplier for its customers.
mand a higher price net of transport and or other transaction costs : Use additional capital and liquidity to grow the business: Product related: where it is possible to exploit the blending Glencore believes the initial public offering provided reor multi-use characteristics of the particular commodities besources now available to fund future growth opportunities ing marketed, such as the various crude oil products, coal or as they arise.
metal concentrates, in order to supply products which attract higher prices than their base constituents, or exploit existing Focus on cost management and further enhancing logistical and or expected price differentials: and capabilities: Glencore intends to continue its focus on cost Time-related: where it is possible to exploit a difference becontrol and operational efficiencies at its industrial assets and tween the price of a commodity to be delivered at a future date on the sourcing of competitively priced physical commodities and the price of a commodity to be delivered immediately, from reliable third party suppliers.
where the available storage, financing and other related costs until the future date are less than the forward pricing Maintain conservative financial profile and investment grade difference.
ratings: Glencores conservative financial profile and investArbitrage ensures markets function more efficiently by deliverment grade credit ratings have enabled it to consistently acing supply to where it is most needed, in time, geography or cess the required funding on competitive terms and maintain product.
Glencore intends to maintain its investment grade credit ratings.
Glencore uses market information made available by its marketing and industrial teams across its many locations to identify Disciplined risk management: Glencore intends to continue arbitrage opportunities.
Glencores marketing and investment its focus in this key area by maintaining and expanding its risk activities and relationships with producers and consumers of management resources, information systems and culture.
raw materials are supported by a global network providing Glencore with visibility over shifting supply and demand dyPlace highest priority on employees, the environment and namics in respect of sizeable volumes of physical commodities local communities: Glencore places the highest priority on across the globe.
The detailed information from Glencores its employees, the environment and the local communities widespread operations and close relationships with producers, where it operates.
consumers and logistics providers often enables Glencore to identify opportunities, taking into account its extensive logistics capabilities, to source and supply physical commodities at MARKEting ACtiVitiEs attractive margins.
Function of marketing activities Logistics Glencores marketing activities source a diversified range of Glencores logistics operations are a key part of its marketing physical commodities from third party suppliers and from inoperations.
They enable Glencore to fulfil its marketing obligadustrial assets in which Glencore has full or part ownership intions and to maximise arbitrage opportunities created by fideterests.
These commodities are sold, often with value added mand and supply imbalances.
Physical sourcing and marketing services such as freight, insurance, financing and or storage, to of commodities requires highly professional handling and shipa broad range of consumers and industrial commodity end usment of such goods from the supplier to the customer, including ers, with many of whom Glencore enjoys long-term commercial storage activities, as required.
Typically, the staff handling the relationships.
physical movement of goods the traffic team account for a significant proportion of the headcount of a business segment.
Types of arbitrage strategies Glencores dedicated chartering teams actively trade freight to Many of the physical commodity markets in which Glencore gain market knowledge and volume benefits.
The freight eleoperates are fragmented or periodically volatile.
As a result, ment of transactions is furthermore used to maintain maximum discrepancies often arise in respect of the prices at which the physical optionality so that full value can be extracted from | Annual Report 2011 | 15 the underlying commodity positions of each department.
This fected the pricing for many of our commodities although the complements Glencores overall ability to seize geographic and impact on end demand was more muted.
time spread arbitrage opportunities as they arise.
In spite of this more difficult environment, the vast majority of commodities posted gains in average prices compared to 2010, inDustRiAL ACtiVitiEs with only those that are fundamentally over-supplied e. g. ferrochrome and cobalt falling year-on-year.
The early gains in Glencores ownership of controlled and non-controlled indusprices were largely driven by stronger industrial output, gentrial assets is designed to generate attractive stand-alone reerally positive momentum in the global growth cycle and the turns and overall business diversification.
They also serve as impact of the various liquidity injections of 2010.
However, the a way to source physical supply for Glencores marketing arm Chinese governments determined intervention to ease inflaand provide further market insight and technical know-how.
tion undoubtedly reduced apparent demand for many indusGlencore believes that its corresponding reduced reliance on trial commodities during 2011, with the rate of steel production third parties helps to ensure that suppliers and customers alike growth in particular declining as the year progressed.
This resee Glencore as a more reliable counterparty.
sulted from slower growth in end demand in combination with tighter credit conditions which helped drive down inventory levGlencore capitalises on investment opportunities created by, els within the supply chain.
The resurfacing of grave Eurozone among other things, i the privatisation of natural resources debt issues during H2 2011 triggered a renewed sell-off in risk producers primarily in emerging markets, ii the rebalancing of assets, including commodities, with the rest of the world joining asset portfolios by other players in the natural resources industhe destocking cycle.
Investment demand from commodity intry and iii further industry consolidation as smaller producers dices also generally declined during 2011.
So while annual aversell out and or seek capital to fund growth.
age prices were generally up in 2011, a comparison of absolute December 2011 and December 2010 prices better conveys the Any decision to acquire or dispose of an industrial asset is challenging nature of commodities markets over the past year based on the stand alone potential of the asset and its potenand in particular during the second half.
tial contribution to Glencores marketing activities and requires group level approval.
Once acquired, an asset is held within Base metals prices decreased between 14% and 26% in Decemone of the business segments.
The business segments manber 2011 compared to December 2010, with each metal in the age the controlled and non-controlled industrial assets via complex trading relatively in-line with the others.
Precious methands-on asset controllers to interface between the asset als were both more disparate in their performance and more and Glencore in respect of day to day operating, financial and volatile, with silver and gold both ending 2011 at higher levels.
Glencores approach to the management Oil and oil products and gold delivered the best returns in of its industrial assets differs from some of its key competitors 2011.
Oil was largely driven by the Libyan supply disruption and in that Glencore encourages its industrial assets to focus on general political uncertainty within the Middle East.
Gold prithe elements of operating performance, which businesses can ces continued to benefit from negative global real interest rates directly control.
and the combined resurgence in gold buying by central banks as a diversifier of reserves and investors as a safe haven.
Tensions in the Middle East persist, and it is particularly noteworthy MARKEt REViEw that the situation in Iran has the potential to dramatically alter the oil supply demand balance.
The price of oil has a unique 2011 was a year characterised by recurring sovereign liquidity and ability to be self correcting at either end of the price spectrum solvency crises, widespread popular uprisings and large scale given its importance to global growth and as such it will remain natural disasters.
In the background, China, the dominant force a defining factor for global growth in 2012. in global commodity consumption continued to tighten credit conditions in order to keep inflation in check.
The US economy With less exposure to financial market sentiment, bulk comremained lacklustre with household formation and job creation modities were on the whole steadier than exchange traded both muted, and business confidence weak.
All of these factors metals during 2011.
Thermal coal in particular remained broadly had important effects on the levels of prices and demand for our flat for the majority of 2011, with Australian flooding, US exports major commodities.
and the Japanese Tsunami driving uncertainty in the commoditys supply demand balance.
Coking coal retreated from the The year started optimistically and the first six months saw 2010s spike induced by the flooding, although the decline is less positive momentum in prices and absolute demand levels pronounced than that seen in the later stages of 2010.
However, as the year progressed, the fundamental was reasonably stable for much of the year, but dramatically fell impetus faded somewhat in the face of Chinas deliberate fideaway in October facing a Chinese buyers strike before eventuceleration of its economy, rising global oil prices and the really recovering at the end of year below the $140 t level.
emergence of Eurozone debt concerns.
Against this backdrop, the second half of 2011 was a challenging period for global Agricultural commodities had a turbulent 2011, with the markets financial markets in particular, with governments reactions to reaching peaks in the summer of 2011.
While the sector is typisovereign debt issues and fiscal policies having a strong daily cally less susceptible to macro headwinds e. g. weak fixed asset influence on investor sentiment and behaviour.
This in turn afinvestments FAI, industrial production IP and GDP growth 16 | Annual Report 2011 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion than the industrial and energy commodities, a combination of One of the key drivers of this growth is the Updated PhaseIV Exuncertain politics, unfavourable weather and generally low inpansion at Katanga which was approved in Q42011.
This expanventory levels drove prices up materially.
Prices eventually stabision will entail the construction of an additional 100,000tonnes lised in the fourth quarter.
While agricultural commodities may per annum solvent extraction plant and an in-pit crusher at the not revisit last years highs in 2012, a combination of improving KOV Open Pit, which should allow Katanga to increase its copnon-OECD demand, continued low inventory levels and an unper production to 270,000tonnes per annum of LME GradeA certain supply outlook across many sub-groups should keep copper by December 2013 and thereafter to 310,000tonnes per prices well supported around recent levels.
Subject to developments in Iran, we continue to expect comAt Mutanda, the optimisation of the front end of the Phase III modity prices to remain largely supply driven during 2012. plant and the associated cobalt circuit is expected to be comGenerally, inventories remain below average levels in most pleted by the end of Q22012 and Q42012 respectively which, major commodities.
We continue to see customer behaviour along with the already commissioned EW4 tank house, will reand physical premia consistent with this view.
This is a key difsult in the overall hydrometallurgical complex being capable of ferentiator to the environment in 2008, when a major element producing 110,000tonnes per annum of copper cathodes and of the correction in global industrial production was caused 23,000tonnes per annum of cobalt in hydroxide at design feed by the fide-stocking of inventories.
Mutanda also continues to assess various other expanducing at close to capacity levels and with broadly declining sion options and is currently considering whether to expand the grade levels globally, the scope for supply disappointments replant capacity to 210,000tonnes per annum with an initial cost mains very real.
2011 has reminded us once more how weather estimate of $670million or to expand the existing plant capacity and production disappointments are liable to compound supto 150,000tonnes per annum in conjunction with the construcply issues when assets are operating close to capacity levels.
tion of a new 100,000tonnes sulphide concentrator.
Operating and capital costs have also continued to rise ahead of expectations around the commodity space, which is putting Mutanda, Katanga and Kansuki are engaged in a project to secontinued pressure on marginal costs.
cure power for all three operations through the refurbishment of two turbines at the Inga dam which is expected to provide On a longer term horizon, we see no change to the fundamental 450megawatts of electricity.
The project is being executed in drivers for healthy demand in our major commodities.
Emergpartnership with Socit Nationale dElectricit, the national ing market urbanisation will continue to increase commodity power operator in the Democratic Republic of Congo with an intensity per capita, as developing economies strive to improve initial cost estimate of $340million, recoverable via future lowtheir living standards to the level of OECD countries.
remain the central driving force on account of its existing scale, inherent potential and demonstrable commitment to deliver The Smelter PhaseIII project at Mopani is currently underway growth and development.
The precise growth rates and the which includes the installation of three new converters, gas patterns they form will clearly vary by country, reflecting develcleaning equipment and a second acid plant, which will imoping economies heterogeneous political and cultural strucprove sulphur dioxide emissions capture to above 97%.
However, we firmly believe that the common theme will project is on schedule.
In addition the Synclinorium project, remain one of healthy long-term demand growth for the coma major new shaft development, should provide access to modities which we supply.
115million tonnes of copper ore and is expected to yield 4million tonnes per annum of ore by 2018, replacing production New capital investment from the current ore bodies.
Glencore is focused on delivering industry-leading organic production growth which in turn will help drive growth within its Glencores metals industrial asset growth is also expected to marketing business.
In this regard, Glencore is very focused on be driven by Kazzinc.
The new IsaSmelt copper smelter was delivering this growth in a capital efficient manner.
commissioned in August 2011 and is forecast to ramp-up production to its design capacity of 70,000tonnes per annum As a result of currently approved projects for metals and minduring 2012.
In addition, ore processing at Altyntau Kokshetau erals and energy products, Glencores own production, on a Kazzincs gold unit is forecast to ramp up to its design capac- 100% basis, in copper equivalent units using current commodity of 8.0million tonnes per annum by 2013 from an estimated ity price forward curves, is forecast to increase from 1.1million 7.0million in 2012, with gold including silver in gold equivalent tonnes in 2011 to in excess of 1.7million tonnes in 2015, a Comproduction expected to exceed 800,000toz per annum.
pound Annual Growth Rate CAGR of 13%.
Growth in the Energy Products industrial assets is expected from In 2011, overall, our key industrial growth projects continued Prodeco as it ramps-up capacity to 21million tonnes by Q42013 to progress on track and within budget giving confidence that through development primarily of the Calenturitas mine.
Also, Glencore can deliver considerable growth in the next few years, construction of the new direct loading port Puerto Nuevo in even absent an improvement in the economic environment.
Cienaga is currently underway which will provide Prodeco with higher annual throughput capacity and lower operating costs The meaningful production growth experienced by the African compared to the current port at Puerto Zuiga.
This project is Copperbelt assets in 2011 is expected to continue into 2012. on schedule and is expected to be commissioned in Q12013.
| Annual Report 2011 | 17 In addition, the West African oil portfolio will further contribute to the Energy Products industrial assets growth.
After Aseng BlockI commenced first oil production in November 2011 ahead of schedule, the development of the Alen gas condensate field BlockO remains on track for first production in late 2013 with a target flow rate of 37,500bbl per day.
Further exploratory drilling is scheduled in 2012 in respect of various blocks in Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea.
For the Agricultural Products business unit, a five year expansion plan is in place at Rio Vermelho which is due to increase crush ing capacity from 1million tonnes to 2.6million tonnes.
There are significant organic expansion projects underway, primarily via build of additional crushing capacity in Argentina, Hungary, Poland and Czech Republic.
Key objectives for 2012 In 2012, Glencore plans to invest some $2.9billion of its current three year $5.3billion capital expenditure plan, as it continues its primarily brownfield development strategy.
This is expected to generate significant growth in own-production in copper equivalent terms in line with Glencores objective of doubling same between 2011 and 2015.
These developments include the continued consolidation and expansion of the copperbelt assets, however have not factored in significant further expansion potential of the South African coal portfolio, taking into account the recently completed Umcebo and Optimum investments.
Glencore will continue to look for sensible value accretive acquisitions as opportunities arise for further enhancement of its platform for future growth and returns and also continue to focus on cost efficiencies across its industrial activities, particularly in an industry currently experiencing cost pressures from various sources.
Cash generation, liquidity and the maintenance of its investment grade credit ratings will remain key focus areas for Glencore, including managing existing financing facilities and tapping new funds as appropriate to maintain a strong financial profile in order to deliver Glencores growth strategy.
Glencores Board has agreed an all-share merger of equals with Xstrata to create a leading global integrated producer and marketer of commodities.
Upon completion, Glencore Xstrata will realise near term value from marketing the combined groups products, be able to capitalise on more growth opportunities than the sum of either company alone and better optimise the combined groups pipeline of development projects.
