overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 3.5 | Directors report Introduction Corporate Governance This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the affairs A report on corporate governance and compliance with the UK of Glencore International plc the Company and its subsidiaries Corporate Governance Code is set out on pages 80 to 96 and the Group or Glencore, together with the financial statements forms part of this report by reference.
and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Directors Report including details of the business, the develCreditor payment policy and practice opment of the Group and likely future developments as set out In view of the international nature of the Groups operations in the Overview and Business review section, which together there is no specific Group-wide policy in respect of payments forms the management report for the purposes of the UK Fito suppliers.
Individual operating entities are responsible for financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions DTR 4.1.
The notice concerning forward looking statements and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
References to the Company may also It is Group policy that payments are made in accordance with include references to the Group or part of the Group.
those terms, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been met by the supplier.
Corporate structure Glencore International plc is a public company limited by Glencore International plc is a holding company with no busishares, incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerness activity other than the holding of investments in the Group land and its shares are listed on the London and Hong Kong and therefore had no trade creditors at 31December 2011.
Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC Principal activities An overview of health, safety and environmental performance Glencore is one of the worlds leading integrated producers and community participation is provided in section 1.5 Sustainand marketers of commodities.
It has worldwide activities in the ability.
production, sourcing, processing, refining, transporting, storage, financing and supply of metals and minerals, energy prodExploration and research and development ucts and agricultural products.
The Group business units carry out exploration and research and development activities that are necessary to support and Financial results and dividends expand their operations.
The Groups financial results are set out in the financial statements and in the Financial review section of this annual report.
Political and charitable donations No political donations were made in 2011.
In addition to our The Board recommends a final dividend of $0.10 per share totallarge-scale community programmes, Glencore makes donations ling approximately $692million.
Including the interim dividend and provides sponsorship to various causes.
Glencore seeks to of $0.05 per share which has already been paid, this provides ensure that charitable contributions and sponsorship should for a total dividend for the 2011 financial year of $0.15 per share never be used as a substitute for political contributions.
Shareholders will be asked to ance on Glencores policy towards charitable contributions is approve the final dividend at the Annual General Meeting on set out in the Glencore Corporate Practice programme.
For the 9May 2012, for payment on 1June 2012 to ordinary shareholdyear ended 31December 2011, the Company spent a total of ers whose names are on the register on 18May 2012.
$123million 2010: $80million on both purely philanthropic and community investment initiatives.
Review of business, future developments and post balance sheet events Employee policies and involvement A review of the business and the future developments of the Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to Group is presented in the Overview and the Business review.
treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
ApplicaA full description of acquisitions, disposals, and material changtions for employment are fully considered on their merits, and es to Group companies undertaken during the year, including employees are given appropriate training and equal opportunipost balance sheet events, is included in the Financial review ties for career development and promotion.
and in note22 of the financial statements.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its Financial instruments employees which is reflected in the principles of Glencore CorDescriptions of the use of financial instruments and Glencore porate Practice and its related guidance, which require regular, financial risk management objectives and policies, including open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidhuman rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, a safe ity risk and cash flow risk are included in section 1.7 Principal working environment.
risks and uncertainties and in note23 of the financial statements.
| Annual Report 2011 | 97 Directors conflicts of interest No director has any other interest in the share capital of the Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a diNo changes in directors interests have occurred between rect or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, 31December 2011 and 26 March 2012. with the interests of the Company.
The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised by the Directors.
Under the Articles, Each of MrGlasenberg and MrKalmin has executed a Lock-Up the Board has the power to authorise potential or actual conflict Deed, pursuant to which they have agreed, subject to certain situations.
The Board maintains effective procedures to enable customary exceptions, that during the period from 24May2011 the Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential to 24May2016 they will not dispose of the ordinary shares held conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, by them at 24May 2011.
The percentage of Executive Directors if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board.
Directors conflict Ordinary Shares held at 24May 2011 that is subject to restricsituations are reviewed annually.
A register of authorisations is tions on disposal decreases on each anniversary date by 20per maintained.
cent of the original holding.
Directors liabilities and indemnities Share capital and shareholder rights The Company has granted third party indemnities to each of its At the date of this report, the ordinary share capital of the ComDirectors against any liability that attaches to them in defendpany was $69,227,135.11 represented by 6,922,713,511 ordinary ing proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitshares of $0.01 each.
In addition, Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & OfficMajor interests in shares ers liability insurance.
As at 26March 2012 Glencore had been notified of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share Directors capital of the Company: The names of the Companys Directors who served during the year, together with their biographical details and other informaPercentage tion, are shown on pages 81 and 83.
Number of issued Name of holder of shares share capital Directors interests Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of Ivan Glasenberg 1093418752 15.8% those Directors who held office at 31December 2011 are given Daniel Francisco Mat Badenes 417468330 6.0% below: Aristotelis Mistakidis 411730597 5.9% 1 Tor Peterson 366074885 5.3% Ordinary shares Percentage Alex Beard 320260410 4.6% held as at of issued Name of director 31December 2011 share capital Within the meaning of Chapter5 of the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Tor Peterson is an indirect holder of 109,178,079 Ordinary Executive Shares held by Cititrust Switzerland Limited pursuant to a fiduciary arrangement established for his benefit.
This indirect holding of OrIvan Glasenberg 1093418752 15.8% dinary Shares is included in the above table.
Steven Kalmin 70523154 1.0% Share capital Non executive The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being Simon Murray 0 0.0% the only share class of the Company, are set out in the ComPeter Coates 82700 0.0% panys Articles of Association Articles, which can be found at Leonhard Fischer 0 0.0% www.
Subject to Jersey law, any share may be isAnthony Hayward 0 0.0% sued with or have attached to it such preferred, deferred or othWilliam Macaulay 121996976 1.79% er special rights and restrictions as the Company may by special Li Ning 62000 0.0% resolution decide or, if no such resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board Of these shares, 121,996,976 ordinary shares are held by FR Galaxy may decide.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to Holdings S. a. r. l. FR 114,247,165 shares and ECP Galaxy Holdings the recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares S. a. r. l. ECP 7,749,811 shares respectively.
The Company has been notified that 1 FR is a connected person of William Macaulay and may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary 2 ECP is an affiliate of FR.
In addition, FR has an economic interest shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of ordiunder swap arrangements in 33,750,000 shares and ECP in 2,250,000 nary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys Annual shares being an aggregate 36,000,000 shares, which is approximately Report and Accounts or a summarised version and, subject to 0.5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
certain thresholds being met, may requisition the Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
98 | Annual Report 2011 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at an ordinary resolution or by notice being given by all the other GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if Directors.
the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and probeing an individual is present in person or being a corporavide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Comtion is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, pany including to borrow money.
The Company may by ordinary not being himself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
its Articles and Jersey law.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before a GM.
The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution apA holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote at proved at a GM.
GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information Purchase of Own Shares concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a above and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are no shareholders resolution passed on 3 May 2011, to purchase limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
shares immediately following the IPO.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2012.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not Going concern prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity posian open and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over tion and borrowing facilities are set out in the Overview and the that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer Business review sections.
Furthermore, note23 of the consoliof a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i dated financial statements includes the Groups objectives and lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office of policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management the Company or any other place as the Board may decide acobjectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred tivities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require as proof of title: or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
In May 2011, the Companys shares were admitted to trading on the London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges.
ConcurrentTransfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using ly with this admission process, the Company implemented an CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an offer for subscription of new ordinary shares.
Pursuant to this uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governoffer, 922,713,511 ordinary shares were issued, representing ing the operation of CREST.
16.94% of the Groups post admission issued share capital raising proceeds of c. $7,291million net of expenses.
Other sigThe Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transnificant financing activities that took place during the year are fers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholddetailed in the Business review section.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
business despite the current highly uncertain economic environment.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may from time to The Directors believe, having made appropriate enquiries, that time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational trading laws : 2 pursuant to the Companys share dealing code existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they conwhereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company tinue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the finanrequire approval to deal in the Companys shares: and 3 where cial statements.
a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys issued share capital has been served with a disclosure notice and The Directors have made this assessment after consideration of has failed to provide the Company with information concernthe Companys budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, ing interests in those shares.
There are no agreements between undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity review, analysis of debt holders of ordinary shares that are known to the Company covenants, and in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidwhich may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or ity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 pubon voting rights.
lished by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company can remove a director from office, including by passing | Annual Report 2011 | 99 AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure this annual report confirms that: that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the and prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The b the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware the corporate and financial information included on the Comof any relevant audit information and to establish that the panys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation Companys auditors are aware of that information.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proSigned on behalf of the board: posed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and John Burton regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare fiCompany Secretary financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the 26March 2012 Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union, together IFRS.
The financial statements are required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
100 | Annual Report 2011 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN | Annual Report 2011 | 101 financial StatementS | 4 Financial Statements Statement of directors responsibilities 104 Independent auditors report 105 Consolidated statement of income 106 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 107 Consolidated statement of financial position 108 Consolidated statement of cash flows 109 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 110 Notes to the financial statements 111
