OThER STATUTORy INFORMATION The Directors present their report and audited financial statements Rupert Pennant-Rea, Andrew Allner and Katherine Innes Ker for the year ended 2 July 2011. will retire at the 2011 AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors beneficial or family interests in the share capital Principal activities of the Company as at 2 July 2011, with comparative figures The principal activities of the Group throughout the year have been for the 2010 year end, are shown in the table below.
There the provision of passenger transport services.
were no changes in these interests between 2 July 2011 and Results and dividends 31 August 2011.
The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income Details of the Executive Directors interests in awards granted statement on page 82.
The Directors propose that a final dividend to them as participants in the Long Term Incentive Plan can be of 55.5p be paid, making a total of 81.0p for the year 2010: 81.0p.
found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 75.
The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be payable on Friday 18 November 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of No Director was interested in any contract or arrangement business on 4 November 2011. which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
A review of the business of the Group during the year and its Indemnification of Directors prospects for the future, together with a description of the principal The Company maintains a directors and officers liability insurance risks and uncertainties facing the Group, can be found in the Directors which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against Report from pages 2 to 47. its Directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors to the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third Directors and their interests party indemnity provisions as defined in section 234 of the The names of the persons who at any time during the financial year Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year ended 2 July were Directors of the Company are: 2011 and remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities Sir Patrick Brown which the Directors may incur to third parties in the course Rupert Pennant-Rea of acting as directors or employees of the Company or of any Andrew Allner associated company.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the Katherine innes Ker appointed 9 July 2010 insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proven David Brown appointed 1 April 2011 to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Keith Down appointed 7 March 2011 Shareholder and control structure Keith ludeman retired 2 July 2011 At 2 July 2011, the Companys issued share capital comprised nick Swift resigned 7 March 2011 a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
At this The names and biographical details of the current Directors date there were 46,905,978 ordinary shares in issue, of which of the Company are given on pages 52 and 53.
No exercises of share options The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement of under the Companys all-employee share scheme were granted Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association throughout the course of the year.
The Company did not purchase which were adopted by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General any of its own shares during the year for either cancellation or Meeting.
The Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a to hold as treasury shares, and no such shares were purchased general meeting of shareholders.
The Directors have the power to between the year end and the date of this report.
however, 58,632 appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed shares 2010: 26,447 were re-purchased for potential LTIP awards must be subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting that may vest in the future and Directors bonus plans 2010. following their appointment.
The current Articles require that all There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in Directors are subject to re-election on an annual basis.
David the Company other than: Brown and Keith Down were appointed during the year and, in accordance with the Companys Articles, they will retire at the certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed 2011 AGM and offer themselves for election.
Sir Patrick Brown, by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Directors interests in shares 2011 2010 no.
Sir Patrick Brown 10,149 10,149 Rupert Pennant-Rea 2,000 2,000 Andrew Allner 742 Katherine Innes Ker David Brown appointed as a Director on 1 April 2011 Keith Down appointed as Director on 7 March 2011 Keith Ludeman retired 2 July 2011 34,829 34,829 Nick Swift resigned 7 March 2011 12,586 On 31 March 2011, Andrew Allner purchased 742 shares in the name of his spouse.
Keith Ludeman retired on 2 July 2011.
At this date, his shareholding comprised 31,331 shares in the name of his spouse and 3,498 deferred shares which vested in full following his retirement.
Following his resignation on 7 March 2011, Nick Swift sold his holding of 9,088 shares and the remaining 3,498 deferred shares lapsed with immediate effect.
com 77 Corporate Governance OThER STATUTORy INFORMATION CONTINUED restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services and states minimum and maximum prices payable for shares Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require purchased under the authority.
During the financial year this the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys securities.
however, 58,632 shares 2010: 26,447 were re-purchased for potential LTIP awards that may vest in the All shareholders have the same voting rights for each share, future and Directors bonus plans 2010. regardless of the total number of shares held.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of shares The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required one vote except in the circumstance where a proxy has been to be exercised by the Company in general meeting, subject to appointed by more than one member in which case he or she the Companys Articles of Association, relevant statutory law and will have one vote for and one vote against if he or she has been any direction given by the Company in general meeting by instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution special resolution.
and by one or more members to vote against.
On a poll, every The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of Meeting The Company adopted new Articles of Association at the 2010 specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either in person Annual General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at the 2011 the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code.
All proxy votes are counted and the Members of the Company can request a copy of the Articles of numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are Association by contacting the Group Company Secretary at the announced at the Annual General Meeting itself and published on Registered Office.
The 24th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held The Company is not aware of any agreements between at the hilton Newcastle Gateshead, Bottle Bank, Gateshead, NE8 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 2AR on Thursday 27 October 2011 at 11.00 hours.
Details of the securities or on voting rights.
business to be considered can be found in the Notice of Meeting The authorities for the Company to allot relevant securities which will be available on the Companys website www.
up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,433,458 and for the com from 27 September 2011. disapplication of pre-emption rights on the allotment of equity There are no agreements between the Company and its securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of of 215,019, as passed by ordinary and special resolutions at the office or employment whether through resignation, purported 2010 Annual General Meeting, were not utilised in the financial redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
year or up to the date of this report.
These authorities will expire at the upcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and Each of the Groups rail franchise agreements is subject to change approval for new authorities will be sought.
In the last three years of control criteria that would mean, on a change of control, no shares have been issued on a non-pre-emptive basis, other there would be deemed to be an event of default that could than those issued under all-employee share schemes which are potentially terminate the rail franchise.
This is, however, subject to not included for the purposes of this authority.
the discretion of the Secretary of State.
Additionally, the Groups sterling bond issue dated 22 February 2010 and Revolving Credit The authority for the Company to make market purchases of Facility dated 3 February 2011 are subject to change of control its own ordinary shares, as passed by special resolution at the clauses that contain certain specified conditions which could lead 2010 Annual General Meeting, was still in effect at the end of to a compulsory prepayment of the bond and loan respectively.
the financial year and will expire at the upcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, where approval for a new authority Substantial shareholdings will be sought.
Under the existing authority the maximum As at 31 August 2011, the Company had been notified, in aggregate number of shares that can be purchased is 4,300,375. accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, The authority also limits the maximum number of shares held of the interests in its shares representing 3% or more of the voting in treasury to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company rights in the Company as shown below.
Substantial shareholdings Direct Indirect No.
% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Indirect 4,284,959 9.96 Direct 18,500 0.04 J Moyes Indirect 2,317,698 5.39 Direct 28,200 0.07 JPMorgan Asset Management UK Ltd Indirect 2,563,958 5.96 D Ballinger Direct 2,525,580 5.87 UBS AG London Branch Wealth Management Division Indirect 2,128,746 4.95 Newton Investment Management Ltd Indirect 1,665,203 3.87 Legal & General Group plc Direct 1,488,712 3.46 Using the total voting rights figure of 43,003,748.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 78 These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of Our companies maintain relationships with recognised trade investment management clients interests within the respective unions and have established a network of local employee asset management companies and may have changed without representatives who are consulted on key business decisions triggering a further notification.
likely to affect their interests.
Three of our companies have Stakeholder Boards, which bring together employees, individual Share schemes passengers and representative bodies to share views.
The Group At the date of this report, EES Trustees International Limited, as produces a range of internal newsletters, information circulars Trustee of The Go-Ahead Group Employee Trust, holds 0.3% of and intranet sites that keep employees abreast of developments the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of at their specific employing company and across the Group the Executive Directors of the Group and their dependents under as a whole.
The Group has awards to recognise and reward the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The voting rights in relation to these outstanding contributions by our employees.
shares are exercised by the Trustee and dividends are waived Employees are encouraged to participate directly in the success while the shares are held by the Trustee.
of the business through the Groups hMRC approved Share Under the rules of the Companys Share Incentive Plan, employees Incentive Plan SIP which is open to all employees with six of the Group are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
months service and gives the opportunity to buy shares in the In order to preserve certain tax benefits these shares are held Company in a tax-efficient manner.
in a trust by EES Corporate Trustees Limited for participating The Group is committed to developing a culture of openness employees.
Whilst these shares are held in trust, the voting rights across all its businesses and ensuring the highest standards attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee or the of probity and accountability and aims to achieve a common employees for whom they are held.
As at the date of this report, awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and 0.8% of the issued share capital of the Company is held by EES economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
In the event of an offer being made Group engages with its employees, who are encouraged to to acquire these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES discuss matters of interest to them and subjects affecting dayCorporate Trustees Limited to accept an offer in respect of the to-day operations with operating company management.
The shares held on their behalf.
Board also actively encourages employees with serious concerns On 1 June 2010, the Companys only outstanding Sharesave regarding the interests of others or the Group to come forward.
Scheme a savings related share option scheme matured The Group and its operating companies have policies in place underwater meaning that the price at which to exercise the to ensure processes exist whereby employees can raise serious options was greater than the market price of the underlying concerns constructively without fear or victimisation, subsequent shares.
hence, no employees chose to exercise their options discrimination or disadvantage.
upon maturity and no ordinary shares were allotted under Further details of our responsibilities as an employer, including the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
No accounts remain operating in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, outstanding.
There will therefore be no future exercise of can be found on pages 48 to 51 and also in the Groups share options unless a new Sharesave Scheme is launched, Corporate Responsibility Report which is published separately and and any such launch would be at the discretion of the Board.
can be found on the Companys website www.
vesting of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan for the Executive Directors is satisfied by market purchases of shares, Charitable donations and therefore there is no dilution of the issued share capital.
Charitable donations, sponsorship and community support over the year amounted to 348,619 2010: 268,000.
The Group employees strives to support many worthwhile causes, including health The Groups responsibility is to provide a positive work charities and local community projects.
For further details, please environment conducive to the recruitment and retention of staff see the Groups separate Corporate Responsibility Report which and one which meets its business objectives by motivating and can be located as detailed above.
encouraging the Groups employees to be responsive to the needs of its customers, maintaining, and wherever possible, improving Political donations and expenditure operational performance.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly no such payments were made in the year 2010: nil.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to Additionally, the Company did not incur any political expenditure all employees and treats all employees fairly regardless of gender, as defined in the Companies Act 2006 2010: nil.
ethnic origin, age, religion, belief, race and, where practical, physical disability.
Appropriate training, career development and promotion land and buildings opportunities are provided for all employees.
The Group gives full In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference and fair consideration to applications for employment made by between the market value of the Groups interest in land and disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and buildings and its net book value.
It is the Groups policy to provide continuing employment, Suppliers and arrange appropriate training, for existing employees who Each Group operating company individually agrees terms and become disabled during their employment, and to provide conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is training, career development and promotion as appropriate then made on these terms, subject to the terms and conditions to all disabled employees.
being met by the suppliers, including the timely submission of www.
com 79 Corporate Governance OThER STATUTORy INFORMATION CONTINUED satisfactory invoices.
For the year ended 2 July 2011, the trade the impact of particular transactions, other events and creditor days for The Go-Ahead Group Plc as a Company conditions on the Groups financial position and not as a Group were five days 2010: 11, based on the ratio financial performance: of trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any during the year by trade creditors.
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial Post balance sheet events statements: and There are no post balance sheet events.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting to affect its future development, performance and position, are records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups set out in the Directors Report on pages 2 to 47.
The financial transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time position of the Group, its cashflows, liquidity position and the financial position of the Group, enabling them to ensure that borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 32 to 35.
In addition note 23 to the financial statements includes and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures other irregularities.
to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Responsibility statements Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of excellent and the balance sheet remains strong.
Core financing approving the Directors report are listed on pages 52 and 53. is provided by a 200m sterling bond securing financing to The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: September 2017 and bank facilities funding of 275m to February a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs 2016, of which 191m was undrawn and available at the year end.
as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the its business risks successfully, despite the current uncertain Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation economic outlook.
taken as a whole: and The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated b The Directors Report includes a fair review of the economic conditions, the Company and Groups ability to development and performance of the business and the continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm they are position of the Company and the undertakings included in satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of the Directors confirm that: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is UK law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as no information that is, information needed by the Companys adopted by the European Union.
auditors in connection with preparing their report of which Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Group the Companys auditors are unaware: and financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are are aware of that information.
required to: By Order of the Board select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the C Sephton, Company Secretary specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand 31 August 2011 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of the Go-Ahead Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Group plc for the year ended 2 July 2011 which comprise the Companies Act 2006 consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the the consolidated cashflow statement, the consolidated statement financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes consistent with the Group financial statements.
in equity and the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Matters on which we are required to report by exception law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as We have nothing to report in respect of the following: adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in our opinion: in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Companys members those matters we are required to state to them not made: or in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent we have not received all the information and explanations we permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to require for our audit.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: have formed.
the Directors statement, set out on page 80, in relation to going concern: and Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK set out on page 80, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with on Directors remuneration.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Other matter Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of the Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended Scope of the audit of the financial statements 2 July 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Report that is described as having been audited.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Kathryn Barrow Senior statutory auditor estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and London non-financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
31 August 2011 If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Notes: Opinion on financial statements 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Go-Ahead Group plc In our opinion the Group financial statements: website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any as at 2 July 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs they were initially presented on the website.
as adopted by the European Union: and 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
