SENIOR MANAGEMENT alex carter alan eatwell roger French Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Go South Coast Metrobus Brighton & hove Alex has been Managing Director Alan has been Managing Director Roger has been Managing since 2003. he controls eight since 2001 and was previously the Director of Brighton & hove since businesses within Go South Groups Engineering Director.
Alan the company was purchased by Coast embracing bus, coach and has over 40 years experience in Go-Ahead in 1993. he joined engineering.
Alex joined the bus the bus industry and successfully Brighton & hove in 1982 and as industry in 1981 in its nationalised participated in the management general manager he was part of the form and has held a number of buy-out of Brighton & hove.
Roger received an OBE in 2005 for his services to public transport and an honorary MA degree from Brighton University in 2007. peter huntley philip Kirk John trayner Managing Director, Managing Director, Oxford Bus Managing Director, Go North East Company & Thames T ravel Go-Ahead London Peter has been Managing Director Philip has been Managing Director of John has been Managing Director since 2006. he has brought a the Oxford Bus Company since 2001, since 2006. he joined the Group wide range of innovations and having joined the company in 1995 in 2002 as Operations Director developments to the north east shortly after it was acquired by Goof London Central General having business.
Peter has over 35 years Ahead.
he has 30 years experience previously held senior positions at experience in the bus industry of managerial and technical positions Arriva London.
he has worked in including periods working with in bus companies, and is chair of the the transport industry for 30 years.
local and national Government Oxford City Centre Management on policy development.
Philip became Managing Director of Thames Travel upon its acquisition by Go-Ahead in May 2011.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54 andrew Wickham chris Burchell mike hodson Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Plymouth Citybus Southern London Midland Andrew Wickham was appointed Chris has been Managing Director Mike was appointed Managing Managing Director in December of Southern since April 2006, having Director in July 2009.
Previously, he 2009 when Go-Ahead acquired previously been Operations Director was Operations and Safety Director the company.
he was previously for two years.
he has also worked at of Southeastern and was instrumental Operations Director for Go South Thames Trains, the Foreign in the successful introduction of the Coast.
Andrew has over 20 years & Commonwealth Office and high Speed preview service.
Mike was management experience in the Railtrack, accumulating over Managing Director of Thames T rains bus industry.
from 2003 to 2004 and has over 30 years experience in the rail industry.
In August 2011 it was announced that Mike will retire at the end of 2011. charles horton martin Dean patrick Verwer Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Southeastern Bus Development Rail Development Charles has been Managing Director Martin joined Go-Ahead in 2008.
Patrick was appointed Managing since April 2006, after three years he leads and acts as a focus for all Director of Rail Development in in the same role at Southern.
he bus development and acquisition December 2010. he joined has gained extensive management activity in the Group and oversees Go-Aheads former aviation services experience in a career spanning Konectbus and Go-Ahead North division in December 2007 as Managing 24 years in National Rail and America operations.
Previously, he spent London Underground.
Martin held senior management more than 10 years with Netherlands roles in rail and bus with FirstGroup Railways in various executive roles.
he began his Patrick came to the UK in 2002 to lead career with London Transport.
the Serco NedRailways Merseyrail concession in Liverpool.
