Q U ALIT y DeliveRinG quAliTy Providing high quality services across all of our operations is one of our key objectives for the business.
For us, quality means meeting the needs of our passengers.
This covers all aspects of the customer experience from safety, comfort, and value for money to frequency and reliability.
At Go-Ahead we are committed to All of our companies strive to stay at the listening to our passengers, acting on forefront of customer service and new their feedback, and continually improving initiatives are continually being launched our services to meet and exceed their across our operations.
One such rail initiative is the award Our unique devolved structure winning Railway for All programme from enables our local management teams Southern which goes well beyond the to respond to the specific needs of the statutory requirements of the Disability passengers they serve.
We believe the Discrimination Act to ensure all our key to providing good quality services passengers have a service they can use is to get the basics right, from the and enjoy.
The programme includes a simple things like ensuring our trains range of measures, but also tackles the and buses are clean and our employees simple things that make a difference such are well presented, to providing up to as priority seating.
A priority seat card is date timetable information.
We take issued which entitles the holder to a seat continuous improvement very seriously.
on the train avoiding the embarrassment We ensure our staff receive the training of having to ask a fellow passenger to give they need to meet the expectations of up the seat or identify why it is needed.
Alongside this, we ensure Our bus operations are also adopting that health and safety is the number one initiatives.
Go north east is stepping priority for every employee to ensure up to exceed passenger expectations that both they and our passengers are through the recent launch of the safe.
In an industry first we recently Commuter Club service, designed to commissioned Passenger Focus to bring people into the heart of newcastle conduct a passenger survey across quickly, directly and in comfort on our deregulated bus operations and luxury coaches.
The service offers 1 found that 91% of bus passengers commuters the opportunity to work were satisfied with Go-Aheads services.
or relax on their journey into the city, Our rail passengers are also satisfied providing newspapers and Wi-Fi access with our services.
it offers great value for 2 rates are currently over 82%.
money, compared with the alternative Southeastern saw its highest ever score of the private car and provides a more in the latest results.
1 Passenger Focus, Bus Passenger Survey for The Go-Ahead Group, March May 2011 2 Passenger Focus national Passenger Survey Spring 2011 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 91% 82% DeReGulATeD RAil CuSTOMeR BuS CuSTOMeR SATiSFACTiOn SATiSFACTiOn MOvinG WiTh OuR PeOPle... Mr Farrow, who uses Go South Coasts Wilts & Dorset A Southern employee said: services said: I love to come The buses are always clean and to work: its a nice well presented, and the drivers place: people are invariably cheerful and helpful: approachable.
I am proud to work a fantastic service.
com 3 Strategic Review FOCUS DeliveRinG FOCuS Our unique devolved structure enables our local management teams to focus on the specific needs of the passengers they serve.
We realise that while many of the markets in which we operate have common features, each have their own unique characteristics.
Go-Aheads core strategy is to deliver across hundreds of services in the uK.
bus and rail services in predominantly The scheme offers flexibility as well as urban areas where there is a strong time and cost savings.
underlying demand for public transport.
in a pioneering scheme, the Oxford This strategy has enabled us to withstand Bus Company has formed a partnership the economic challenges the uK has with Stagecoach and Oxfordshire County faced as these markets are the most Council using new powers under the resilient and continue to grow.
The scheme, in a tougher economic environment, part of the countys Transform Oxford we have to work harder to grow the initiative is the first of its kind, with business and keep our passengers happy.
integrated smartcard ticketing and Alongside the frequent and reliable coordinated timetabling, making bus travel services that we provide, passengers in the Oxford area much simpler.
We want us to be innovative and make travel will be exploring the merit of other such as hassle-free as possible.
That is why schemes across the country where last year we launched The Key, our new there is passenger demand and they smartcard, which makes travelling on our are economically viable.
services simple and cost effective.
The We recognise the need to communicate aim is for this card to be used across our to our passengers on products and offers operations saving time when switching that are both timely and relevant.
As such services or boarding the bus and saving we have invested heavily in developing a money through multi-journey tickets single customer view marketing database available.
We believe this will improve the that includes both bus and rail passenger travel experience for both bus and rail details.
This ensures that passengers who passengers and will provide information live in areas where we provide both bus to help us better understand their needs.
and rail services such as london, Brighton Many passengers use more than one and Southampton receive offers that help mode of transport to complete their end-to-end journey planning.
in addition, journey with vast numbers using both by clearly analysing previous transactions bus and rail.
in order to make these we are able to identify the most relevant multi-stage journeys as easy and as cost products to promote to our passengers effective as possible we encourage our to drive both loyalty and revenue.
Our businesses to participate in PluSBuS, a database currently holds information scheme which enables multi-modal travel for 1.6 million passengers.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4 12 1 lOCAlly FOCuSeD neW BuSineSS OPeRATinG ACquiReD in COMPAnieS The yeAR MOvinG WiTh OuR PeOPle... A Go north east user said: Thank you for the last 45 My family and I have been years working visiting the North East for for Brighton & several years and I wouldnt Hove Bus and consider using the car as the Coach Co mpa ny.
Id like to Its been a express my appreciation for the pleasure working frequent and reliable service with such a provided and to the drivers great team.
who are courteous and helpful.
I was also very impressed by Mr Gosling, a Brighton & Hove the branding on the buses in employee.
the area, providing an easily identifiable service and giving a splash of colour to the city.
com 5 Strategic Review vALUE DeliveRinG vAlue We run our business with strong financial discipline to deliver value to our shareholders.
We are continually assessing growth opportunities in line with our strategy and maintaining the dividend remains a core priority for the Group.
The views of our shareholders are improvements in the rail franchise model important to us.
We take the time and and the wider rail industry will add value effort to ensure we understand what to the Group.
We are actively working they expect from our business and with the Government and other key to meet their expectations on their parties to deliver change in the industry.
Our aim is to deliver a Go-Ahead submitted its bid for the combination of good earnings growth, Greater Anglia Rail Franchise in July 2011 strong cash generation and effective on a stand-alone basis.
Should the bid balance sheet management.
be successful, the franchise would be Our Board of Directors acknowledges a welcome addition to Go-Aheads the importance of the strong dividend division of busy commuter operations.
to our shareholders and is committed The Department for Transport is to maintaining this despite the continuing expected to announce the successful difficult economic conditions.
Due to our bidder in the autumn of 2011. increasing earnings, dividend cover has increased to 1.67x further enhancing the security of the dividend payout.
We remain committed to growing the business organically and through bolt-on acquisitions.
in May 2011 we acquired the high quality bus operator, Thames Travel, based in Oxfordshire.
This is a great addition to the Go-Ahead family.
We are continually assessing opportunities for growth in line with our strategy.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 6 81.0p 1.67x FinAl DiviDenD DiviDenD COveR MOvinG WiTh OuR PeOPle... A new employee of Konectbus said: I cannot believe how professionally Konectbus operates.
We have first-class back-up from the depot during the working day.
com 7 Strategic Review SUST AINABLE DeliveRinG SuSTAinABiliTy Corporate responsibility is at the heart of our business.
Adopting a responsible approach to our operations directly contributes to our success.
Delivering safe, reliable and cost-effective services helps us to grow passenger numbers.
Corporate responsibility is integral to by public spending cuts.
The company the way we run our business.
The safety is maximising spare vehicle capacity by of our passengers and employees is an training local community volunteers to absolute priority.
We are committed to drive them.
The company is working reducing the environmental impacts of with local authorities to ensure that new our operations and believe a sustainable routes are designed, based on community transport network is essential to the needs.
This initiative is a positive move UKs future.
We are a passenger focused for local communities by improving social business and we strive to provide inclusion.
There are also environmental reliable and convenient services to the benefits to the scheme, as the provision millions of passengers who travel with us of services will reduce the number of every day.
We consider our employees private cars on the islands roads.
to be our most valuable asset.
We put During the year london Midland became considerable effort into developing their the first UK train operator to install skills and performance, this helps deliver energy meters on all of its electric train high levels of staff retention, low levels fleet.
The benefits include accurate energy of absenteeism and improving levels of costs being charged, information that customer service.
We believe that good will enable energy consumption to be businesses have strong links with the reduced and data on the condition of communities they serve.
Our devolved train systems to improve reliability.
structure, where local management teams in addition, london Midland expects make day-to-day service decisions, ensures that, over time, its electricity costs will we have an immediate understanding of be reduced by up to 20% and its carbon local communities and can tailor services emissions from 98,000 tonnes to 78,000 to those individual needs.
due to the installation of the new meters.
We set challenging targets to ensure The company is also working to reduce we are continually improving our energy usage by training drivers in performance.
energy efficient driving techniques and is making smarter use of on-board air Our commitment to corporate conditioning, heating and lighting to responsibility can be seen throughout our drive down energy usage.
Go South Coast has launched the Community Bus Partnership on the isle of Wight, a unique initiative designed to provide much needed bus services to communities which have been affected The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8 12% 6% ReDuCTiOn in CO ReDuCTiOn in 2 eMiSSiOnS SinCe BuS ACCiDenTS 2007 08 MOvinG WiTh OuR PeOPle... A wheelchair user who travels on Go South Coast services said: The drivers go over and above the call of duty, and are so helpful with my wheelchair.
