BOARD OF DIRECTORS sir patrick Brown David Brown Keith Down Company Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Sir Patrick Brown joined the Board David Brown was appointed as Keith Down was appointed to the in January 1999 as Non-Executive Deputy Chief Executive on 1 April Board as Group Finance Director Director, becoming Company 2011 before his accession to Group in March 2011. he will stand for Chairman in October 2002. he was Chief Executive on 3 July 2011. election before shareholders at last re-elected by shareholders at the he will stand for election before the AGM in October 2011.
2010 Annual General Meeting AGM shareholders at the AGM in Committee membership: and will again stand for annual reOctober 2011. election at the AGM in October 2011.
Attends Audit Committee Committee membership: by invitation.
independent: Member of the Nomination external appointments: On appointment.
Attends Audit Committee and Remuneration None Committee membership: Committee by invitation.
Previous experience: Chairman of the Nomination external appointments: Committee and member of the Prior to joining Go-Ahead, Keith Remuneration Committee.
Regularly None Down worked for JD Wetherspoon attends Audit Committee by invitation.
plc as Finance Director and Previous experience: Company Secretary.
Before joining external appointments: David Brown was previously JD Wetherspoon plc in 2007 he Senior Independent Director at Managing Director of Surface served as Commercial Finance Northumbrian Water Group plc Transport at Transport for London Director of Tesco plc.
Keith is Chairman of the Audit Committee TfL.
Before joining TfL, David was a Chartered Accountant.
and member of the Nomination and Chief Executive of Go-Aheads Remuneration Committees : NonLondon bus business, from 2003 to Executive Director of Northumbrian 2006, and was a Main Board adviser.
Water Ltd, Northumbrian Water Prior to this he held the positions of Share Scheme Trustees Ltd, Camelot Managing Director from 1999 and UK Lotteries Ltd and Camelot Operations Director for London Global Services Ltd: Chairman of the General London Central.
his 28 UK Advisory Board of Alexander year transport career began with Proudfoot Ltd. London Transpor t. Previous experience: Sir Patrick Brown spent ten years Keith ludeman nick swift in industry and management Keith Ludeman, former Group Nick Swift, former Group consultancy before joining the Chief Executive, retired from the Finance Director, resigned from Civil Service, initially involved in Board on 2 July 2011. the Board on 7 March 2011. privatisation in the Department of Transport DfT during the 1980s.
he then moved to the Department of the Environment, before returning to the DfT as Permanent Secretary from 1991 to 1997.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 rupert pennant-rea andrew allner Katherine innes Ker carolyn sephton Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Andrew Allner joined the Board Katherine Innes Ker joined the Carolyn Sephton was appointed Rupert Pennant-Rea joined the Board in October 2008. he was last Board in July 2010.
Following her as Group Company Secretary in October 2002 and was appointed re-elected by shareholders at appointment, she was elected by in July 2006.
Senior Independent Non-Executive the 2010 AGM and will stand for shareholders at the 2010 AGM Committee membership: Director in October 2008. he was last annual re-election at the AGM and will stand for annual re-election re-elected by shareholders at the 2010 in October 2011. at the AGM in October 2011.
Secretary to the Audit, AGM and will stand for annual reRemuneration and independent: independent: election at the AGM in October 2011.
yes yes independent: external appointments: Committee membership: Committee membership: yes None Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration Committee membership: Previous experience: Member of the Remuneration and and Nomination Committees.
Chairman of the Remuneration Carolyn Sephton spent 12 years external appointments: Committee and member of the working for Northern Electric, external appointments: Audit and Nomination Committees.
Senior Independent Director of predominantly in the field of Non-Executive Chairman at Tribal Group plc Non-Executive pensions, before joining Go-Ahead external appointments: Marshalls plc Chairman of the Chairman of the Remuneration in 2001.
Carolyn is a Chartered Non-Executive Chairman of PGI Nomination Committee : NonCommittee and member of the Secretary and a Fellow of the Group Ltd, Defaqto Group Ltd, The Executive Director at CSR plc Audit and Nomination Commitees Institute of Chartered Secretaries Economist Newspaper Limited and Chairman of the Audit Committee and Non-Executive Director of and Administrators.
Prior to her henderson Group plc Chairman of and member of the Nomination and St Modwen Properties plc.
appointment as Group Company the Nomination Committee.
NonRemuneration Committees : NonSecretary she was Assistant Previous experience: Executive Director of henderson Executive Director at Northgate plc Company Secretary for the Group UK Finance plc, Times Newspapers Chairman of the Audit Committee with responsibility for non-rail Katherine Innes Kers previous holdings Ltd, Specialist Waste and member of the Nomination and pensions and a wide range of Non-Executive Directorships include Recycling Ltd, The Economist Group Remuneration Committees : Noncompany secretariat functions Taylor Wimpey plc, Marine Farms Trustee Company Ltd and Gold Executive Director of AZ Electronics including share schemes, legislative ASA, Taylor Woodrow plc, The Fields Ltd member of the Gold Materials S. A.
Chairman of the compliance, corporate governance Television Corporation plc, Fibernet Fields Ltd Nomination & Governance Audit Committee.
and codes of conduct specific to plc, Williams Lea plc, The Ordnance Committee and Audit Committee.
Survey, Shed Media plc and Gyrus Previous experience: Group plc.
Katherine has also spent Previous experience: Andrew Allner is a Chartered a decade working in the City.
Accountant and a former partner at Rupert Pennant-Rea was Deputy .
he was Governor of the Bank of England Group Finance Director of RhM from 1993 to 1995, prior to which he plc between 2004 and 2007, and was Editor of The Economist.
he has Chief Executive of Enodis plc prior held a large variety of Non-Executive to this.
he was also a Non-Executive Directorships over the last 15 years.
Director of Moss Bros Group plc and Chairman of their Audit Committee until 2005. www.
