ThE MARKET The economic environment The last 12 months have not delivered meaningful growth in public the wider economy with GDP up only 0.7% in the 12 months 1 to June 2011.
It is encouraging that employment rates have remained relatively stable during the financial year.
We have seen strong growth on our own services over the period and tranSport: we believe we are well placed to benefit from wider improvement in economic conditions.
The rising cost of motoring reSilient The costs of motoring have risen steeply with drivers paying at 2 least 20% more to run their cars than a year before.
Not only are car owners making fewer journeys in their cars, car ownership is also declining.
This is contributing to modal shift with drivers in difficult leaving their cars at home and using the better value alternative of public transport.
Those switching are finding services that are high quality, reliable and frequent.
conditionS The future of rail franchising Sir Roy McNulty was commissioned by the Department UK public transport remains for Transport and the Office of Rail Regulation to conduct a value-for-money study of the UK rail industry.
While the wider the report, Realising the potential of GB rail, was published.
economy still faces challenges we continue Key recommendations included longer franchises and closer collaboration around infrastructure.
We welcome the report to see growth across our businesses.
as a positive step in shaping the future of rail franchising The Government remains committed which will benefit the industry and passengers alike.
A Rail Delivery Group with representatives from across to ensuring the UK has a strong public the industry, including Go-Ahead, has been convened to transport infrastructure help implement the proposals.
1 Office for National Statistics, June 2011.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20 The result Department for Transport spending cuts No changes to London bus mileage requirements The findings of the Governments Comprehensive Spending Review, which were released in October 2010, demonstrated the Different levels of cuts across local authorities Governments commitment to public transport with the impact Financial impact on the bus and rail industries being less severe than many Due to the highly commercial bias of our bus operations the had anticipated.
financial impact will be negative but not significant c2m We identified three potential impacts of government spending Mitigation cuts in our 2010 Annual Report.
These areas were impacted Continue with our strategy of operating largely as follows: commercial services Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG Rationalise services on tendered routes where possible Prior situation The Competition Commission 43ppl fuel duty rebate In May 2011, the Competition Commission issued its provisional 500m overall annual funding of which Go-Ahead currently findings and notice of proposed remedies in response to its receives c50m inquiry into the UK local bus market.
No fundamental change The result to the regulatory structure of the bus industry is currently being proposed.
20% reduction from April 2012 Financial impact long term growth 2011 12 c1.6m cost net of receipt of 8% smartcard subsidy Our business continues to grow in what is a difficult financial 2012 13 c9.6m cost environment.
We are progressing well in delivering our growth Mitigation strategy and are well placed to embrace future opportunities.
Our bus and rail operations remain fundamentally strong and Offset in deregulated market by 8% smartcard subsidy in 2011 12 have benefited from passengers leaving their cars at home and Built into new London contract tenders ongoing choosing better value public transport alternatives.
Yield benefits and efficiency improvements across services We will continue to monitor the wider performance of the in the rest of the UK economy very closely in the months ahead.
The Government has Bus concessionary fares shown its commitment to UK public transport and believes that Prior situation transport infrastructure investment is vital for economic growth.
1.2bn overall annual funding of which Go-Ahead currently In addition to this, an efficient public transport system reduces receives c60m traffic congestion, limits air pollution, and helps tackle social exclusion.
The Government recognises this and acknowledges 30% of passenger journeys and 20% of passenger that the private sector is best placed to deliver and grow revenue in Go-Aheads deregulated markets are from these services.
concessionary passengers Average concessionary fare reimbursement rates were 50-60% The result Government committed to protecting statutory entitlement for travel to ensure older people can maintain greater freedom and independence.
In practice, we have seen reimbursement rates fluctuate The Coalition Governments vision is Financial impact for a transport system that generates Overall impact is negative but not significant c2m growth and spreads prosperity.
Mitigation We want one that empowers local Continue to drive growth in fare paying passengers communities and supports social Tendered bus services Prior situation mobility and is a cleaner, greener 1.2bn overall annual funding of which c600m is TfL subsidy gateway to a better quality of life.
Go-Ahead has 21% share of London market and less than 10% of deregulated operations are tendered services Philip hammond Total Politics, April 2011 www.
