review of the year our business Retail Experts in comprises managed hospitality pubs, restaurants and hotels across the uk.
There are 915 sites in total, split equally Greene King has between Destination Pubs and Local beenproviding its Pubs, putting us at the heart of local customerswith authentic communities across the country.
pub and beer experiences forover 200 years and central to its longevity is anability to develop its business to reflect changing consumer preferences and economic conditions.
Pub Partners operates our tenanted Greene Kings main and leased pubs across businesses are: the uk.
There are currently 1,514 pubs in thisestate split 80% tenancy and 20% leased.
Pub Partners success isbased on its focus on getting the right licensee, on the right agreement, with the right offer, in the right pub.
Theres more... Brewing and Brands pages 1019 brews, markets, Turn to the business review for sells and distributes more on our business segments.
our wide range of award-winning craft ales.
As the UKs leading cask ale brewer, Brewing and Brands supplies pubs, clubs, supermarkets and retail outlets across the country and throughout the world.
Our portfolio of well-known, much-loved ale brands from our breweries Visit us online in Bury St Edmunds and Dunbar includes greenekingreports.
Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen, com ar11 Belhaven Best and Abbot Ale.
2 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Review of the year Retail at a glance Operational highlights Revenue 915 sites Another successful year for Greene King Retail with strong like-for-like LFL sales growth, including growth in all 710.7m ourkey sales categories, and improved operating margins.
Destination Pubs 470 sites, Delivering excellent value, service and quality to our Local Pubs 445 sites customers is key to our continued success.
Leading brands such Greene King Retail like-for-like LFL sales growth of 4.9%.
asHungry Horse and LochFyne Restaurants Our largest, and award-winning, retail brand, Hungry Horse, now has 155 outlets and is achieving LFL sales growth of 10.3%.
Food continues to grow in importance for Greene King Retail, 68.1% with LFL food sales growth of 8.1% driving expected sales participation towards 40% for the year.
Expansion strategy boosted by acquisition of Cloverleaf Restaurants and Realpubs.
Pub Partners at a glance Operational highlights Revenue 1,514 pubs Pub Partners achieved an industry-leading improvement in EBITDA per pub growth in the year, up 1.9%, and made further 166.4m progress in improving the quality of its licensees offers.
To drive 80% tenancy further growth Pub Partners has introduced the innovative Blueprint franchise-style agreement into its estate.
20% leased LFL EBITDA is 0.1% and average EBITDA per pub is 1.9%.
Agreement innovation including Business Builder, Blueprint and Local Hero.
BII accreditation for our new and updated Code of Practice.
16.0% Industry-leading Business Development Manager training with Birmingham City University.
Brewing and Brands at a glance Operational highlights Revenue Greene King IPA Brewing and Brands had a strong year with good revenue and theNo.
1cask beer in theUK profit growth, despite the UK ale market falling another 6.3% 165.6m in the year.
All core brands outperformed their competitor brands with total volume up 2.5% and own-brewed volume Old Speckled Hen OBV at -2.0%.
1premium ale brand in the UK Old Speckled Hen became our biggest brand with another year of strong volume growth.
1ale in Scotland Greene King IPA continued as the official beer ofEnglandRugby.
Abbot Ale the 15.9% Installations of the innovative Revolution font were up No.
1premium cask brand almost 70% to over 1,500.
We successfully completed the integration of Belhaven Brewing.
CGA Brand Index MAT to 16 04 11 Nielsen Scantrack MAT to 16 04 11 andCGA Brand Index MAT to 16 04 11 www.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 3
