review of the year our strategy for growth Drive growth through expanding our 1.
Retail branded, food-led, retail estate.
We have a clear and consistent expand branded strategy to drive long-term We are currently targeting a total retail of1,100 sites and at the same time are growth through expanding improving the overall quality of the our Retail division, improving estate by increasing our exposure to the quality of our tenanted thelong-term growth of the eating out market and raising the premiumness and leased division and ofour unbranded more wet-led estate.
increasing investment in ouriconic ale brand portfolio.
Our operational strategy is to deliver outstanding value, Generate sustainable and improved 2.
Pub Partners exceptional service and rates of cash returns from a higher unbeatable quality across quality, more customer focused, improve quality tenanted estate.
and reduce size of We are looking to reduce the Pub tenanted estate Partners estate to around 1,200 pubs including over 300 non-core pub Our medium-term disposals.
We are taking increasing control over our licensees customer prioritiesare: offers and introducing new and innovative agreements into the estate.
Brewing and Brands in our branded beer business.
increase core beer Using synergies from the Belhaven brand investment integration, we are increasing the investment behind our iconic core alebrands including Greene King IPA, OldSpeckled Hen, Abbot Ale and Belhaven Best.
We aim to grow volumeand take share in a declining UKale market.
6 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Review of the year Progress made: Going forward: A net increase of 27 sites during the year.
Continued expansion through targeted For more... package and single-site acquisitions.
page 10 Acquisition of Cloverleaf Restaurants Read more to accelerate our new-build programme.
Ongoing transfer of prime sites from on our Retail Pub Partners.
performance Acquisition of Realpubs to take our presence in London to 220 pubs ahead Strong new build pipeline in 2011 12. of the Olympics.
Progress made: Going forward: Introduction of Blueprint, Further agreement innovation and For more... a franchise-style agreement, rollout: targeting 25% of core estate page 14 whichisforecast to improve to be on new agreements by year-end.
Read more on licenseeincome by 45k.
our Pub Partners Continued improvement in licensee performance Reduction in bad debts, temporary profitability and length of tenure.
Further disposal of unsustainable Disposal and transfer out of 70 pubs to non-core pubs.
leave estate at 1,514 pubs at year-end.
Progress made: Going forward: Successful and seamless integration Enhanced support for Greene King For more... ofBelhaven Brewing with 1m p. a. IPA during Rugby World Cup.
Read more on New brewhouse in Dunbar our Brewing Total volume up 2.5% and both todrivefurther efficiencies and Brands revenueand profit growth in inScottishbrewing.
Continued market share gains Launch of 1.0m Man Deserves a andcore ale brand growth.
Proper Pint campaign supporting Greene King IPA.
Theres more... pages 8 and 9 Turn to pages 8 and 9 to viewour performance KPIs.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 7
