27 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Operational risks Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Product quality and safety The Company produces and sells a wide range The Company has in place detailed procedures of products.
If products are not of a high and regarding product quality and safety and these are consistent standard, or out-of-date ingredients and subject to regular audits.
products are used and sold, the Company could be exposed to significant food safety issues.
This could have a detrimental impact on consumer confidence and revenue.
Disruption to production A major incident leads to the loss of a key production The Company has detailed disaster recovery and facility.
This could lead to a significant loss of capacity business continuity plans which include potential and supply disruption to our shops with a resultant alternative sources of supply.
Food scare A major food scare beyond the control of the Company We constantly monitor national and worldwide could lead to a disruption in ingredient supply or a situations.
We also work closely with Government and general consumer boycott of some products.
Disruption to external supply chain Dependencies on key suppliers could lead to a We aim to ensure we have several sources of supply situation where we are unable to maintain production.
but where this is not achieved we have an actionable alternative supply strategy.
Reputation risk If we dont meet high production, safety, social, Our Operating Board, Risk Committee and Social environmental and ethical standards in all of our Responsibility Steering Group regularly review and operations there is a risk that our brand reputation monitor our operations, identifying potentially brandcould be damaged.
damaging risks and developing mitigation plans.
All of our products are subjected to rigorous quality checks and audit.
We also have in place a Crisis Management process for dealing with incidents in an appropriate and timely manner, and we retain public relations consultants to advise and assist with any issues which are being debated in public.
28 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Principal risks and uncertainties - continued Regulatory risks Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Health and safety The Company has functioning health and safety A health and safety accident or incident could lead to serious illness, injury or even loss of life for one or more policies and procedures throughout the business.
The operation of these is subject to both internal and of the Companys employees or customers.
Legal Adverse regulatory risk including tax, planning, In addition to taking advice where it is considered appropriate, the Company monitors new legislative environmental, employment, and food safety laws can increase the cost base and reduce flexibility.
developments through its membership of the CBI and British Retail Consortium, such that it can lobby Government where appropriate and plan to give effect to new laws as and when they are adopted.
Financial risks Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Liquidity The Company operates with net current liabilities and In the event of a significant business interruption the Company would draw on cash and borrowing is reliant on its cash sales to meet short-term payment requirements.
facilities to meet working capital requirements.
This would include deferring capital expenditure in order to maximise cashflow.
Pension scheme The Company has a potential liability under its defined The scheme is closed to new members and to future benefit pension scheme.
The funding level of the accrual of benefits.
The Company works closely with scheme is sensitive to the risk of changes in key the Trustee of the scheme to manage its long-term assumptions such as life expectancy, price inflation funding requirements.
Changes in these assumptions can lead to volatility in the liability or surplus recognised on the balance sheet.
Price inflation Significant changes in the costs of raw materials, To mitigate this risk, agreements with suppliers fix the wages, overheads and utilities could create volatility in price of key input costs in the short term.
This reduces the Companys short-term financial performance.
volatility and allows the Company to plan its costs with greater certainty.
29 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Risk management Operating Board asset protection and regulatory requirements.
The Operating Board, answerable The directors regularly review the directly to the Chief Executive, risks to which the Company is Whistle blowing is responsible for implementing exposed, as well as the operation The Company has whistle decisions of the Board and and effectiveness of the system blowing procedures in place, providing protection against the of internal controls.
This is an which enable employees to bring major risks by various techniques, ongoing process which involves matters to the attention of the including strategic planning, the identification, evaluation and senior management and for the monitoring, supervision and training.
management of the significant confidential, proportionate and risks faced by the Company.
Key The Operating Board is made independent consideration and elements of the internal control up of the following functional follow-up of any matter so raised.
system, which have been in place directors: Finance, Retail, Trading The whistle blowing procedures during the whole of the year under and Marketing, Supply Chain, are reviewed regularly by the Audit review and up to the date of People, and Corporate Affairs.
It Committee, and the Chairman of approval of this annual report and meets monthly to review financial the Audit Committee is the first accounts, are: and other business performance, line recipient of any matters that Board of Directors as well as to develop, monitor and are raised through this policy.
implement the strategies as set by The Board takes a proactive There were no matters reported the Board.
Although the Operating approach to the management of through the policy during the year.
Board is not a formal committee all forms of risk, and views risk Following the implementation of of the Board, it does have its management as a vital constituent the Bribery Act in July 2011, a new own terms of reference which are of its role.
At each Board meeting, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy reviewed by the Board from time the effectiveness of the controls was introduced.
relating to the most significant Business Conduct Policy with an risks i. e. those which may restrict associated updated Gifts, Tips and Risk Committee the Companys ability to meet Hospitality Policy has been issued The Risk Committee is a its objectives are monitored and the final stage will include a management committee chaired and reviewed and consideration review of the Whistle Blowing Policy.
by the Company Secretary is given as to whether any new and General Counsel.
The Risk Internal audit material risks have emerged.
The Committee consists of the Chief Audit Committee, on behalf of the The function continues to review Executive, all members of the Board, conducts a formal review of the performance of shops, bakeries Operating Board, and appropriate risk management procedures and and central functions across a heads of certain management reports its findings to the Board.
range of financial and non-financial functions within the business.
It Remedial action is determined requirements, reporting findings to has responsibility for analysing, where appropriate.
For some key senior management and direct to assessing, measuring and risks, where it is felt necessary, the Audit Committee.
The Internal understanding the Companys specialist advice is sought from Audit Manager reports to the risk environment, as well as external agencies and professional Company Secretary and General devising a sound risk management advisers.
The Board also reviews, Counsel, to improve functional strategy for review and approval at least annually, the major risks independence, and has a standing by the Board.
The Risk Committee facing the business and the level invitation to attend all Audit reports its findings and important and scope of insurance cover Committee meetings, not only that changes to the Board through maintained within the business.
part relating to the presentation of personal presentation, narrative The Board receives reports from relevant audit reports.
The Internal reports and key performance management on significant Audit team has authority to access indicators internal and external changes in the business and all areas of the business, senior to the organisation and through external environment which might management, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The risks affect the risk profile.
It has also the Audit Committee as is seen fit.
are assessed on a regular basis set in place a system of regular In 2012 the Internal Audit team will hierarchical reporting which across all functional areas but, in be provided with further resource particular, the areas of food safety, provides for relevant details and to increase its effectiveness.
assurances on the assessment and health and safety, the competitive control of risks to be given to it.
