30 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Board of Directors Back row, from left to right - Bob Bennett, Iain Ferguson, Jonathan Jowett, Raymond Reynolds, Richard Hutton, Roger Whiteside.
Front row, from left to right - Julie Baddeley, Derek Netherton, Kennedy McMeikan, Ian Durant.
The Board Board on 1 March 2002 and was Chief Executive of Tesco in Japan appointed Chairman in August of the in 2004 he had previously been The Board currently comprises the same year.
Derek is Chairman Chief Executive of Europa Foods Chairman, three executive and five of Opera North, and a non-executive convenience store business following non-executive directors.
On 5 October director of three companies in the 2011, Ian Durant joined the Board its acquisition by Tesco in 2002.
There have as an independent non-executive began his retail career at Sears UK in been no significant changes to the director.
There were no other 1986, after five years service in the Chairmans other commitments changes to the Board during Royal Navy.
Derek is Chairman of the period.
Richard Hutton FCA Finance Director, 43 Kennedy McMeikan Derek Netherton Chief Executive, 46 Was appointed to the Board on Chairman, 67 13 March 2006.
He qualified as a Joined the Board on 1 June 2008 Chartered Accountant with KPMG and Spent his career in investment and became Chief Executive of the gained career experience with Procter banking and retired in 1996 from his Company on 1 August 2008.
Kennedy & Gamble before joining Greggs in position as joint head of corporate was Retail Director of J Sainsbury plc from 2005-2008.
He was appointed Finance finance at J Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
He was appointed to the spent 14 years at Tesco.
31 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Raymond Reynolds Managing Director from 2000 to Smallcap companies.
He began his career at Marks employers include Avon Cosmetics & Spencer, where he spent 20 years, Limited, SSL International plc, Wagon Was appointed to the Board as Retail ultimately becoming head of its food plc and Bakkavor Group.
Jonathan is Director on 18 December 2006.
Roger is a member of the Secretary to the Board and each of joined Greggs in retail management Nominations, Remuneration and its committees.
in 1986, and has recently celebrated Audit Committees.
Directors and their interests 25 years service with the Company.
During the late 1990s, as General Iain Ferguson, CBE, 55 The names of the directors in office Manager, he built a significant new Joined the Board on 31 March 2009. during the year, together with their business for Greggs in the Edinburgh Iain was Chief Executive of Tate & Lyle relevant interests in the share capital region, and in 2002 he was appointed PLC until October 2009.
Previously, of the Company at 1 January 2011 Managing Director of Greggs of he worked for Unilever where he and 31 December 2011 or at date Scotland.
held a number of senior executive of appointment if later are set out in Bob Bennett, 64 positions.
He is currently a nonnote 25 to the accounts.
Details of executive director of Balfour Beatty directors share options are set out in Was appointed to the Board in plc, Chairman Elect of Berendson the Directors Remuneration report on December 2003.
He trained as a plc, Honorary Vice President of the pages 40 to 51.
Chartered Accountant with Spicer British Nutrition Foundation and In accordance with provision B.
7.1 & Pegler and was Group Finance lead non-executive director of the of the Governance Code, all directors Director of Northern Rock plc from DEFRA Management Committee.
will retire from the Board at the AGM 1993 until his retirement at the end of Iain became Chairman of the and offer themselves for election January 2007.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee on Audit, Nominations and Remuneration by shareholders.
1 January 2012, and is also a Committees, and was Chairman of The Nominations Committee has member of the Nominations and the Audit Committee from 2004 and considered the appropriateness and Audit Committees.
Senior Independent Director from suitability of each director standing for 2008, until 31 December 2011.
Bob Ian Durant, 53 election and has recommended to the will retire as a director at the end of Board that each individual should be Joined the Board on 5 October 2011. the AGM to be held on 16 May 2012. put forward for election.
He is a Chartered Accountant with a Julie Baddeley, 60 background in international financial Directors indemnities and commercial management, and and conflicts Was appointed to the Board in March experience of the retail, property, hotel 2005.
She has held senior executive As at the date of this report, and transport sectors.
Ians career roles in Woolwich plc, where she indemnities are in force under includes leadership roles with the was responsible for Information which the Company has agreed to retail division of Hanson and Jardine Technology and Human Resources, indemnify the directors, to the extent Matheson, Hongkong Land, Dairy Accenture and Sema Consulting.
permitted by law, in respect of losses Farm International, Thistle Hotels, Julie is a non-executive director of arising out of or in connection with SeaContainers and as Finance Chrysalis VCT plc, and Harvey Nash the execution of their duties, powers Director at Liberty International.
Ian plc, and is Chairwoman of Sustain or responsibilities as directors of the is currently Chairman of Capital and Limited, the environmental consulting Company.
The indemnities do not Counties Properties PLC, a nongroup.
Julie is a member of the apply in situations where the relevant executive director of Greene King Remuneration, Nominations and Audit director has been guilty of fraud or plc and Home Retail Group plc, Committees and was Chair of the wilful misconduct.
and an Advisory Board member of Remuneration Committee until Under the authority granted to Eurosite Power Inc. Ian was appointed 31 December 2011.
Julie was them in the Companys Articles Chairman of the Audit Committee on appointed as the Senior Independent of Association, the Board has 1 January 2012 and he also sits on Director on 1 January 2012. the Nominations and Remuneration considered carefully any situation Roger Whiteside, 53 Committees.
declared by any director pursuant to which they have or might have Joined the Board on 17 March 2008.
Jonathan Jowett a conflict of interest and, where it Roger is Chief Executive of Punch Company Secretary, 49 considers it appropriate to do so, Taverns plc.
He was Chief Executive has authorised the continuation of the Thresher Group off-licence Joined the Company in April 2010 and was appointed as Company of that situation.
In exercising its chain from 2004 to 2007.
Prior to Secretary on 12 May 2010.
He is a authority, the directors have had this, he was one of the founding regard to their statutory and other team of Ocado, the innovative online solicitor by profession, and has held duties to the Company.
grocer operating in partnership the position of Company Secretary with Waitrose, and served as Joint in a number of FTSE 250 and FTSE
