38 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Additional information Fixed assets case of a poll, every shareholder their discretion so as to prevent present in person or by proxy has dealings in partly paid shares In the opinion of the directors, one vote for every share in the from taking place on an open and the aggregate market value of capital of the Company held by him.
proper basis, where a shareholder the Groups properties is not has failed to reply to a duly served The Companys articles significantly different from their notice under Section 793 1 CA of association set out the historical net book amount.
2006 or if a transfer of a share is in circumstances in which shares Authority to purchase shares favour of more than four persons may become disenfranchised.
In addition, the directors No shareholder is entitled, unless At the AGM Annual General may decline to recognise any the directors otherwise determine, Meeting on 11 May 2011, the instrument of transfer unless it is in in respect of any share held by him shareholders passed a resolution respect of only one class of share to be present or vote at a general authorising the purchase by the meeting either personally or by and is deposited at the address at Company of its own shares to a proxy or to exercise any other which the register of members of maximum of 10,350,000 ordinary right in relation to meetings of the the Company is held or at such shares of 2p each.
Company in respect of that share other place as the directors may That authority had not been used as in certain circumstances if any determine accompanied by the at 31 December 2011. call or other sum is payable and relevant share certificate s and The authority remains in force until remains unpaid, if the shareholder such other evidence as the directors the conclusion of the AGM in 2012 is in default in complying with a may reasonably require to show the or 16 August 2012, whichever is the duly served notice under Section right of the transferor to make the earlier.
It is the Boards intention to 793 1 of the Companies Act 2006 transfer.
In respect of shares held in seek approval at the 2012 AGM for CA 2006 or if the shareholder has uncertificated form the directors may the renewal of this authority.
failed to reply to a duly served notice only refuse to register transfers in requiring him to provide a written accordance with the Uncertificated Takeover Directive information statement stating he is the beneficial Securities Regulations 2001 as owner of shares.
Following the implementation amended from time to time.
of the European Directive on A notice convening a general Under the Companys Code Takeover Bids by certain provisions meeting can contain a statement on dealings in securities in the of the Companies Act 2006, the that a shareholder is not entitled Company, persons discharging Company is required to disclose to attend and vote at a general managerial responsibilities and certain additional information in the meeting unless his name is entered some other senior executives may in directors report.
This information is on the register of members of the certain circumstances be restricted set out below.
Company at a specific time not as to when they can transfer shares The Company has one class more than 48 hours before the in the Company.
meeting and if a shareholders of share in issue being ordinary There are no agreements shares of 2p each.
As at 14 March name is not so entered he is not between shareholders known to 2012, there were 101,155,901 such entitled to attend and vote.
the Company which may result in ordinary shares in issue.
There are Under the Companys articles restrictions on the transfer of shares no shares in the Company that grant of association the directors or on voting rights.
the holder special rights with regard may, in their absolute discretion, Details of the significant holders to control of the Company.
refuse to register the transfer of a of the Companys shares are set out At general meetings of the share in certified form in certain on page 35.
Company, on a show of hands every circumstances where the Company has a lien on the share provided Where, under an employee share shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote only and, in the that the directors do not exercise plan operated by the Company, 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 participants are the beneficial the Company by special resolution.
The average creditor payment owners of shares but not the period for the Company and the Under the CA 2006 and the registered owner, the voting rights Group at 31 December 2011 was 41 Companys articles of association, are normally exercised by the days 2010: 41 days.
the directors powers include the registered owner at the direction of power to allot and buy back shares Disabled employees the participant.
At each AGM, The Companys articles of resolutions are proposed granting Applications for employment association may only be amended and setting out the limits on of disabled persons are always these powers.
by special resolution at a general fully considered, bearing in mind meeting of the shareholders.
The Company is not party to any the aptitudes of the applicant The Companys articles of significant agreements which take concerned.
In the event of members effect, alter or terminate upon a association set out how directors of staff becoming disabled every change of control of the Company, are appointed and replaced.
effort is made to ensure that their Directors can be appointed by the following a takeover bid.
employment within the Company Board or by the shareholders in a There are no agreements continues and that appropriate general meeting.
At each AGM, any between the Company and its training is arranged.
It is the policy director appointed by the Board directors or employees providing of the Company that the training, since the last AGM must retire from for compensation for loss of office career development and promotion office but is eligible for re-election or employment whether through of disabled persons should, as far by the shareholders.
Furthermore, resignation, purported redundancy as possible, be identical to that of the Board has resolved that, in line or otherwise that occurs because other employees.
with Governance Code provision of a takeover bid.
7.1, all of the directors will be directors service agreements and Significant relationships subject to annual re-election by terms of appointment are set out The Group does not have any shareholders.
Under the CA in the Directors Remuneration contractual or other relationships 2006 and the Companys articles Report on pages 40 to 51.
However, with any single party which are of association, a director can provisions in the employee share essential to the business of the be removed from office by the plans operated by the Company Group and, therefore, no such shareholders in a general meeting.
may allow options to be exercised relationships have been disclosed.
The Companys articles of association set out the powers of By order of the Board Payments to suppliers the directors.
The business of the Jonathan D Jowett Company is to be managed by Good relationships with our the directors, who may exercise all Company Secretary suppliers are an important factor the powers of the Company and in the success of the Group.
do, on behalf of the Company, all Payments to suppliers are made Greggs plc CRN 502851 such acts as may be exercised and in accordance with the Groups Fernwood House done by the Company and are not, normal terms and conditions of Clayton Road by any relevant statutes or by the business except where varied terms Jesmond Companys articles of association, and conditions are agreed with Newcastle upon Tyne required to be exercised or done by individual suppliers, in which case NE2 1TL the Company in general meeting, these prevail.
Where disputes arise, 14 March 2012 subject to the provisions of any attempts are made to resolve them relevant statutes and the Companys promptly and amicably to ensure articles of association and to such delays in payment are kept to regulations as may be prescribed by a minimum.
