06 Introduction Business Model Halfords has core competences in marketing, branding, store The successful expansion of our retail offer through in-store retailing, distribution and international sourcing which allow value services has driven the decision to invest in car servicing given to be generated while meeting market needs.
It is now leveraging similar market drivers to our successful Car Maintenance these competences into Car Servicing.
Halfords now also runs the largest chain of UK car service centres providing service, repair and MOTs.
Range strategy follows our strategic thread of life on the move and encompasses Car Maintenance, Car Enhancement and As a retailer Halfords makes a profit from the combination of Leisure categories.
Halfords has grown market share, low cost sourcing and supply chain coupled with excellent consolidating fragmented markets with a national store network marketing skills and a national store network, leveraging these and strong brand management.
skills in the car service sector by running an efficient service offer that profits from scale and efficiency.
Halfords Autocentres Evolving buyer trends have been met by developing a dynamic provides services cheaper than most franchised garages and web offer which has enabled the Company to leverage average more comprehensively than many independent garages.
transaction values and drive many web customers into stores.
With the evolution of more compact and complex vehicles, the reduced interest for self service and an escalating main dealer service price list, Halfords has augmented the retail offer with Range strategy follows our in-store fitting services.
This increases average transaction value, strategic thread of life on the and allow store colleagues to up-sell and attach accessories to the sales whilst improving customer service and loyalty.
move and runs from cycles to car maintenance life on the move Our customers lead busy lives there arent enough hours in At Halfords we understand how journeys are at the heart of work the day.
The school run, the commute, the pick-ups and dropand family life, and through our great products, expert advice offs, the visits to families and friends, the holidays and free time.
and service we are focused on helping our customers stay on Each year families make thousands of journeys as essential parts the move.
We stock the products they need to maintain and of their daily lives.
They need to keep moving for work and family enhance their vehicles and we have cycles for every age and and they want to travel for their holidays and enjoy active leisure discipline.
Through our expert colleagues we offer advice and time wherever possible.
Our customers are living their lives on added value services to ensure our customers make the best the move.
choices around their life on the move.
