Halfords Group plc Online version 57 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Retail and Autocentre Resources and Capabilities Car Maintenance 58 Car Enhancement 59 Leisure 60 In-store Services 62 Stores 64 Online 66 Autocentres 68 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Financials Financials Gover Gover Gover Governance finance finance finance Resour Resour Resour Resources ces ces ces Business Review Business Review Business Review Business Review Intr Intr Intr Introduction oduction oduction oduction 58 Resources Resources and Capabilities Car Maintenance If you have a failed bulb, blade or battery, Halfords is the destination of choice to keep your life on the move.
Unrivalled availability, ranges and wefit!
Market To keep life on the move our customers need products and services which will keep their car, van or motorcycle roadworthy.
As such, this category is less exposed to changes in disposable income.
The current economic climate is expected to keep consumers minds focused on cost saving and therefore the Halfords approach to value remains attractive.
Value for motorists is a combination of price, quality and service and Halfords competes strongly in each aspect.
Our range strategy offers options to meet all budgets and performance needs whilst the wefit store service can get the product professionally fitted both economically and conveniently by store colleagues.
Competition is fragmented with no nationally equivalent service provider.
Geographically the supermarkets have a national network of outlets but have limited product scope and usually no service offering.
Competing smaller car parts suppliers lack our brand strength and national accessibility, providing us with significant competitive advantage.
Sustainability The evolution of vehicle maintenance and complexity of repair in modern vehicles has meant the reduced long-term demand for heavy parts where consumers are driven to use service agents.
These trends have also allowed us to build a service backed product range to meet the demand for the more consumable items.
Evidence of these trends is seen in the growing proportion of sales now taken with a fitting services 23.5% of 3Bs in 2011.
Offer Using our retailing competences, our large ranges follow a good, better, best positioning strategy and in particular our 3Bs bulbs, blades and batteries continues to perform well.
Clearly labelled benefits allow customers to select upgraded product performance, and attachment rates for services are also growing.
Blades stocked Bulbs stocked UK Sales for 93% for 98% No.
1 of UK car parc of UK car parc for engine oil Key Product Groups Key Brands Blades Halfords Value, Core & Advanced, Bosch, Castrol, Mobil, Bulbs Redex, WD40, Haynes, Loctite, Davids, Hammerite, NGK, Batteries Champion, Ferodo, Stanley.
Oils Spark plugs Panel sprays, rust repair Haynes manuals Winter Tools Metal storage Lifting According to Market Research Agency GfK Retail and Technology UKs panelmarket data, Halfords are the number one Engine Oil retailer by litres share sold between the periods April 2010 - March 2011.
Panelmarket refers to the areas GfK include in their measure.
The panelmarket used in both the engine oil, specialist cleaners and paint care reports incorporates Car Accessory Stores, DIY Super Stores, Variety Stores and Supermarkets combined.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 59 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Car Enhancement Halfords is the UKs No.
1 retailer of Sat Nav and car audio and our market position is defensively maintained by our scale, scope, multichannel availability and the knowledge of our colleagues.
Market The market for enhancing life on the move is more exposed to changes in discretionary spend given its optional nature.
In order to stay ahead in these product led categories Halfords have processes to capture both consumer buying tends and gain insight to broader market developments to select and update ranges.
DAB digital radio is one of the market trends which has both an aspect of enhancement in that it has more channels and the sound quality is improved as well as macroeconomic shifts towards digital broadcasting that are driving uptake.
Whilst the market is still in development there are an estimated 20 million cars in the UK that dont currently have DAB radio, and Halfords is at the forefront of product ranges, availability and fitting capability to capture the opportunity.
Sustainability Technological innovation creates constant streams of sales opportunities and lifestyle challenges.
The evolution of products and features in core markets like CD Audio and Sat Nav provide upgrade sales well before products mature in a traditional sense.
This is countered, however, by increased competition in some ranges where online price comparison can become the norm.
We have developed a series of responses to these market challenges, learning fast and adapting ranges and services.
Offer Product led categories like car enhancement inherently get more space in most of our advertising media.
In stores we have comprehensive range displays and fully trained colleagues to ensure customers get the product they need and the opportunity to see the product and for many technology items be able to see them perform prior to purchase.
Online provides an ideal opportunity to present both our detailed product information and to drive sales through our Reserve & Collect and Order & Collect.
1 UK Sat Nav Car air UK in-car retailer fresheners technology and sold in Fy11 entertainment Key Product Groups Key Brands Sat Nav and accessories Technology: In-car DVD players Tom Tom, Garmin, Sony, JVC, Kenwood, Sonchi, Ripspeed, Pioneer Audio Car Accessories Performance styling Car polish Car shampoo Car Accessories and Performance Styling: Pressure washers Type S, Airwick, Magic Tree, Hello Kitty, Prism lighting, Me to You Alloy wheel cleaners Data from GFK Panel market.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 60 Resources Resources and Capabilities continued Leisure: Cycling 2011 sees a comprehensive upgrade of ranges making the Halfords bike offer exciting, contemporary and great value.
Market The Leisure category comprises two core groups, cycles and travel solutions.
In cycling we hold the number one position selling one in three of all bikes in the UK.
For those wanting life on the move to have a more social, health and environmental slant, cycling hits the mark.
For commuting cycling offers the added bonus of economy to an already attractive proposition.
Changes in the HMRC Cycle2Work scheme still provide a persuasive incentive for employers to provide tax efficient benefit to staff.
Halfords has worked hard to clarify the options available and take-up is now stable: more information is available from www.
info Sustainability Underlying consumer trends towards health, leisure and environmental concerns make cycling a category with potential to not only sustain into the medium term but offer attractive growth potential.
Halfords multichannel competences have enabled changes in purchasing patterns to be dealt with effectively.
Offer Participation in the cycle market by an increasingly wide range of competitors from the grocers to online pure-play companies has driven innovation in range attributes and service offers.
At the low cost end the Trax range offers a boxed adult bike to compete with online price comparison whilst Apollo, Carrera, Voodoo and Boardman offer distinct value options right through to the premium end of the market.
For every child and adult bike Halfords offer innovative bundle pricing deals including popular cycle accessories and services that differentiate our offer.
Largest vOODOO GB bikes UK bike New Premium 31% retailer MTB launched by value share Feb 2011 Key Brands Data from GFK NOP Consumer Panel, 31 12 2010.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 61 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Leisure: Travel Solutions Increasingly recognised as the destination of choice for products which facilitate life on the move Halfords has grown revenues in camping and launched new ranges including Pampero.
Market The Travel Solutions division within the Leisure category includes product ranges to facilitate journeys, camping, child travel solutions and mobility products.
Our life on the move focus in travel solutions encompasses products which increase the capacity of carrying goods like roof boxes and trailers, increase the safety of the journey like child seats and safety vests and provide service at destination or en route like tents and camping equipment.
Many of these ranges have appeal to different segments of the UK audience at different times but certainly many facilitate the ability to holiday more cost-effectively and spend leisure time with family.
In short there is balanced portfolio of product demand at different points in the economic cycle.
Sustainability The long-term consumer trends towards leisure, safety and economy make our Travel Solutions ranges a category with attractive growth potential.
Our growing brand association with leisure products continues to grow from the traditional core products like roof boxes and cycle carriers, to the expanding camping and mobility offer.
Offer Travel Solutions is heavily promoted through our multichannel offer and on the more price competitive ranges we have created new products to drive margin.
One example is the Pampero child seat range it offers equivalent quality and performance at a lower price point whilst maintaining margins.
The Halfords offer also has the benefit of a professional fitting service.
448,000 9.5m 51,700 child safety units sold tent packs seats sold across the sold Fy10 Travel Solutions Category Key Brands 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 62 Resources Resources and Capabilities continued In-store Services 272,600 Bike Care In-store services continue to be a success story Plans sold, up driven by a high value service meeting a growing 28.5% on Fy10 market demand.
Our fitting services are central to the thats helpful customer campaign.
Our compelling service offers are designed for the growing do it for me audience and meet the 2.26m level of support and service provision required by the customer.
wefit werepair Each service varies according to customer competence, confidence and desire to get involved jobs.
An and by the product complexity and safety needs.
We continue to develop a compelling and increase comprehensive range of support services which make us the natural destination to facilitate life on the move and creates for Halfords a sustainable competitive advantage.
of 6% Our service innovations have secured not only increased transaction values but has attracted new consumer groups to Halfords.
The offer is both a strategic defence and a growth driver differentiating us with check, assembly, repair and fitting services.
12.4m revenue from in-store services wecheck is a service most commonly provided free of charge which allows all customers to Being helpful through value added ensure the part required is not only in need of replacement, but services further differentiates the also to ensure the correct part is supplied.
It also performs a wider role in expanding the audience we see visiting our stores.
The increased audience from a wider family group are reassured in the knowledge that our colleagues help them every step of the way: whether checking screenwash or oil level, we help facilitate Year on year we have seen significant growth life on the move.
The offer enables us to deliver the following benefits: Our werepair offer is perhaps the improved customer service most under-utilised area of improved safety with professional fitting service, but one which has increased loyalty to the brand potential to grow significantly as customers become more aware cross-selling, up-selling and attachment opportunities of what can be delivered by our store colleagues.
From cycle repairs and maintenance to the car scratch and dent service The demonstration and fitting of our child safety products, for many of our colleagues have been trained to deliver to high example, provides peace of mind to parents and ensures best standards of quality and safety.
practice is followed for fit and general operation.
Cycles has seen the most The build and significant implementation of assembly of products our maintenance offer.
When is another key purchasing a cycle or at the free six week check stage, differentiator, especially where safety and complexity is customers can purchase a plan to have the labour element of concerned.
Cycles and trailers are examples of product groups regular maintenance covered a bike care plan.
Policies are where the assembly and testing service enhances the customer issued lasting between one and three years.
The customer gets experience and builds customer loyalty.
peace of mind and a higher level of safety, while our stores get increased footfall, sales of the consumable items used and improved customer loyalty.
It is also a service not offered by online and supermarket competitors so has growth and defensive potential.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 63 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com being helpful with wefit every parent is concerned about child safety and were helpful Angela Davies Plymouth store colleague being helpful with weassemble knowing the bike has been safely built gives everyone some peace of mind Darren Smith Oxford store colleague 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 64 Resources Resources and Capabilities continued Stores Structurally unique, our national stores network drives the majority of Group revenue but also offers competitve advantage to multichannel with availability, location and service.
Halfords operates 466 stores which include 402 superstores, 29 compact stores and 35 metro stores.
Our stores are within 20 minutes travelling time for 90% of the UK population and are increasingly optimised in layout and range which is specific to local demographics.
Halfords large store network not only allows us to present goods in prime locations but also to serve as a consolidation point drawing in web customers with the Reserve & Collect and Order & Collect online offer.
They also facilitate the delivery of our range of retail services which include checking, building and fitting products.
Of the five factors affecting stores business performance Value, Stock, Expertise, Range and Service a good deal of work on several fronts has furthered the Retail strategic aims of Extending range and service and Investing in the store portfolio.
Improvement in colleague work patterns has optimised the availability on the shop floor of the right people at the right time to improve the customer experience of helpfulness.
Ongoing store refreshment has improved layout and promotion and continues to show good returns.
The pervasive use and uptake of mobile technology which has helped Halfords see impressive growth from the mobile website and provides many potential options for assisting customers instore.
The potential to leverage PC tablets in particular for smaller format stores to showcase our 14,000 product lines also remains an area of investigation.
New store formats are also being investigated in highly populated urban locations where very significant range and layout changes are based upon local demographics.
Halfords has pilot stores in London where as much as 60% of range is focused on cycles and accessories.
466 23 located stores ROI stores 20 minutes from 90% of the UK population 18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 65 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Store Locations 1 9 17 18 Superstores 14 Superstores 18 Superstores 1 Compact Store 4 Compact Stores 2 Metro Stores 466 2 10 18 16 Superstores 19 Superstores 22 Superstores Stores 2 2 Compact Stores 1 Compact Stores 1 Metro Store 3 11 21 19 Superstores 17 Superstores 17 Superstores 2 Compact Stores 2 Metro Stores 4 12 22 1 19 Superstores 1 Compact Store 14 Superstores 10 Superstores 1 Metro Store 3 Compact Stores 2 Metro Stores 4 2 Metro Stores 5 23 9 13 18 Superstores 15 Superstores 1 Compact Store 19 Superstores 5 Metro Stores 6 3 2 Compact Stores 6 24 1 Metro Store 18 Superstores 11 Superstores 10 5 7 14 1 Compact Store 7 19 Superstores 7 Metro Stores 14 1 Compact Store 8 17 Superstores 11 12 25 13 2 Compact Stores 15 1 Metro Store 17 Superstores 22 15 16 Superstores 3 Metro Stores 23 21 8 4 Compact Stores 16 26 24 17 Superstores 26 16 1 Compact Store 20 Superstores 18 25 17 3 Metro Stores 12 Superstores 1 Metro Store 4 Compact Stores 4 Metro Stores Includes 3 superstores situated in ROI.
Halfords Store Types Superstores Compact stores Metro stores Our superstores are typically Our 29 compact stores Our 35 Metro stores are 7,50010,000 sq.
ft. of retail formerly neighbourhood are the smallest format and are space located on out of designed to service smaller created only where there town retail shopping parks.
catchment areas where a is edge of town alternative.
Of the 402 superstores, 240 superstore would not be Typically carrying 4,200 have a mezzanine floor.
With typically product lines our metro stores average superstores employ 4,000 sq.
ft. of retail space provide both a local footprint 20 colleagues with speciality the compact stores carry and a local ability to leverage training across most areas around 6,000 product lines our Reserve & Collect and of service.
A superstore has and employ 20 colleagues Order & Collect web offer.
a typical range of 10,000 and cover all of our key products.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 66 Resources Resources and Capabilities continued Online Offering 14,400 product lines our website holds our most comprehensive range, directs many customers into stores for service delivery and captures information used across the business.
The Halfords multichannel strategy has grown significantly year on year and combined with the Halfords store network offers a compelling array of services which meet the changing buyer behaviour as online becomes further embedded in everyday life.
Competition online stems from either the pure play internet only companies or organisations which also have a bricks and mortar store network.
Each of the competitor types has strengths and weaknesses to which Halfords has developed strong competitive responses to.
As a result the multichannel offer continues to outperform the average industry growth rates with online sales growing by over 36.4%.
To take advantage of the macroeconomic trend to buy online and increasingly through mobile devices, Halfords has continued to strengthen the multichannel teams and further integrate techniques and knowledge with the core retail business.
During the year additional members joined as specialists in retail trading, digital marketing, search analysis and analytics which has served to inform a range of new buying and trading strategies.
Online product selection and targeting has also been refined, whilst the product range is in total only around 45% larger than our superstores.
In selective categories where we have identified higher levels of online participation, the ranges offered can be up to 600% larger than a store to best capture online buying behaviour.
Our Reserve & Collect and Order & Collect continue to be effective in getting customers into store which is our preferred option, this allows us to improve attachment rates through upgrades and accessorisation.
In addition, we provide our build and fit services to ensure safe and appropriate product usage.
40.5m Online Sales up Over visitors in 36.4% 14,400 Fy11 in Fy11 products available online 18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 67 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com... continues to outperform the average industry growth rates with online sales growing by over 36%.
466 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 68 Resources Resources and Capabilities continued Autocentres The first full year as part of Halfords has seen all 224 Autocentres rebranded and refurbished and 16 new Autocentres opened achieving a new centre run rate in Q4 consistent with our 30 per annum target.
Halfords Autocentres is the largest car service network in the UK with currently around 1% market share of the estimate 9bn car aftercare market.
The addition of full service capability means the Halfords customer offer runs from the DIY with retail parts sales, through Do it for me with the in-store wefit service to the complete vehicle maintenance package.
The car maintenance market has by virtue of its needs driven nature some insulation from economic cycles although can be exposed to owners choosing to extend service cycles.
The Halfords offer in car servicing has developed a series of strategies to optimise capture of new business both by harnessing the Halfords brand as well as operational improvements.
The service market consists of three broad segments.
At one extreme are the franchised dealers: slick, credible and trusted but generally costly.
At the other extreme are the small private garages and mechanics, a generally less polished experience and frequently without the security of a large organisations resources, but the costs are lower.
In the middle ground Halfords Autocentres offer the best of both, a cost structure which is competitive but a service which also delivers high standards and does not compromise manufacturers warranties, the backing of a large group and the latest technology and training.
This balance of franchise quality service and competitive price is attractive to both retail customers and fleet operators alike and we deal very effectively with a number of very large fleets.
During the year brand testing was carried out at test centres during May to July which encompassed comprehensive research from consumers on the service offer.
From August the full 224 Autocentres were rebranded in seven months with over 30 centres rebranded every month and included a full refresh of marketing materials and website.
The programme was completed on time, to budget and, based on the broad feedback received, to a high standard.
On 28 February 2011, Halfords Autocentres launched its first national above the line advertising campaign.
This featured radio commercials with the new thats helpful, thats halfords campaign, and we ran the first phase in the spring of 2011.
With a growing and ageing car parc and cars lasting longer than ever, the need for car service is assured in the medium to long term.
We are experienced at consolidating the requirements in fragmented markets and with a long heritage of dealing with retail customers, we are uniquely aligned to take advantage.
Largest 240 679,000 independent Autocentres appointments garage in Fy11 network in the UK 18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 69 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com... Halfords Autocentres launched its first national advertising campaign featuring radio commercials with the new thats helpful, thats halfords campaign.
224 Autocentres rebranded Arnold Autocentre Redditch Autocentre Fareham Autocentre Arnold Redditch Fareham Nottingham Worcestershire Southampton NG5 7DS B98 8DU SO31 6AF 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 70 Governance 466 Use your phones bar code app and go directly to the relevant page on our website.
com governance Go Governance Board of Directors 72 Directors Report 74 Corporate Governance 78 Directors Remuneration Report 84 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 71 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com 18559 04 05 2011 Proof 1 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
