18 Business Review Autocentre Strategy and KPIs Our Autocentre strategy is built on the four pillars of Maintaining and growing service advantage Investing in new centres Maintaining low cost structure Leveraging the Halfords brand Autocentre Strategy As planned the complete rebranding of 224 existing centres and the opening of 16 new centres has met our predictions for year one.
Maintaining and growing service advantage Maintaining low cost structure The Service market consists of three broad segments.
At one We aim to increase sales in existing centres and make use of extreme are the franchised dealers: slick, credible and trusted spare capacity in our technicians.
Jobs per productive worker but very costly and prepared to only operate at their own pace.
per week have improved from 12.5 to 13.8 over the last five At the other extreme are the small private garages and years and we believe we can raise this to at least 17, i. e. a further mechanics, a generally less polished experience and frequently 19% increase in revenue without needing more fixed cost or without the security of a large organisations resources, but the more labour.
We aim to improve customer retention at our costs are lower.
The Autocentres business is the perfect balance.
existing centres: over the last five years this has increased from We are always more competitive than franchised dealers and we 43% to 51.5% and we believe we can ultimately achieve 60%.
have the brand and reputation to put customers at ease and the We will achieve this through better marketing and use of diagnostic computer technology to maintain most cars without customer data.
Our main commitment though is to the highest affecting warranties.
levels of customer service and we measure this through the Net Promoter Scoring which scores each centre on customer We are also targeting increased penetration of the fleet market.
There is growing realisation amongst fleet operators that our business offers them the scope to lower the cost of maintaining Leveraging the Halfords brand their vehicles without compromising the quality of the service We are leveraging the Halfords brand in the car servicing sector they receive in any way.
to cross sell our services to existing Halfords customers and to recruit new ones.
This will give our Autocentres significantly more Investing in new centres credibility and recognition and make our marketing much more The second pillar of our sales growth strategy is to increase the effective in attracting customers.
Since acquiring our autocentre number of centres.
Our research on the geography and business we have rebranded the entire estate as Halfords demographics of the 9bn car servicing and repair market and of Autocentres and launched our first high profile national media our local catchment sizes shows that there is scope for up campaign on radio.
to 600 Autocentre locations throughout Britain.
We will add new centres at the rate of approximately 30 further locations per year until we reach this point.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 19 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Autocentre customer types Fleet 26.3% Retail 73.7% Greater Manchester West Midlands New Autocentres in FY11 new centres existing centres Our target is to open new Autocentres at a rate of 30 per year.
London 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
