74 Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the 52 weeks to 1 April 2011.
Principal activities Donations Halfords Group plc is a public limited company incorporated in England, During the year the Group contributed 73,000 2010: 82,800 to registered number 04457314, with its registered office at Icknield Street Charities in the UK, including donations to BEN, a charity supporting Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE.
individuals and families linked to the motor industry and associated trades.
The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of automotive, leisure and cycling products, which it does from 466 retail stores 2010: In 2009 Halfords commenced a two-year partnership with Macmillan 469 and car servicing and repair performed from 240 autocentres Cancer Support which ended on 31 March 2011.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding the partnership the Company raised over 134,000 for the charity with company.
stores selling carrier bags and sweets, holding events and individual employees undertaking fund-raising events ranging from running Business review marathons to holding charity auctions, together with head office and The Chairmans statement on pages 8 to 9, the Business Review on store colleagues participating in relay bike ride.
pages 12 to 49 including the Finance Directors report on pages 32 to The Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes.
37 provide a review of the business and progress against its key However, the Companies Act 2006 defines the term donations very performance indicators during the year and descriptions of possible widely and, as a result, certain expenses legitimately incurred as part of future developments and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the the process of talking to Government at all levels and making the Group, and form part of this Directors Report.
Environmental Groups position known, are now reportable.
Although during the year considerations are reviewed within the Corporate Social Responsibility no such expenditure or political donations were made, resolutions were Report on pages 42 to 49 and also form part of this Directors Report.
passed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM that provided for Corporate governance limited authority for such expenditure, such authority remaining valid The Corporate Governance report on pages 78 to 83 forms part of this until the earlier of 4 October 2011 or the conclusion of the AGM to be Directors Report.
held in 2011, and as such the Company will be asking for this limited authority to be renewed at the AGM to be held on 2 August 2011.
Profits and dividends The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Colleagues Statement on page 98.
The Board seeks to instill high standards of customer care and service in the Group and the commitment of every colleague to this business The profit before tax on ordinary activities was 118.1m 2010 requirement is considered to be critical.
The Group has established a 109.7m and the profit after tax amounted to 85.5m 2010: 77.0m.
framework of communication for colleagues concerning business The Directors propose that a final dividend of 14p per ordinary share be performance and Company benefits.
Group-wide training reinforces the paid on 5 August 2011 to shareholders whose names are on the Groups commitment to colleague involvement and development.
register of members at the close of business on 1 July 2011.
This The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in payment, together with the interim dividend of 8p per ordinary share employment and to ensuring that no applicant or colleague receives paid on 24 January 2011, makes a total for the year of 22p per ordinary less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, share.
The total final dividend payable to shareholders for the year is race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, age, or is disadvantaged estimated to be 29.5m.
Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Limited, trustee of by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
the Halfords Employee Share Trust, has waived its entitlement to The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable dividends.
and which seek to promote entry into and progression within the Performance monitoring Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the criteria, personal ability and competency.
Board through Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the periodic The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for review of various aspects of the Groups operations.
The Board employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their considers the KPIs listed on pages 16, 17, 20 and 21 are appropriate particular aptitudes and abilities, wherever suitable opportunities exist, measures for the delivery of the strategy of the Group and its two and training and career development support are provided, where divisions Retail and Autocentres.
Should a colleague become disabled when working for the Group, efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining is provided, if necessary.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 75 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com A whistle-blowing policy and procedure is in place and has been Directors indemnities notified to all Retail and Autocentre colleagues.
The policy enables them Article 136 the Companys Articles of Association provides that every to report any concerns on matters affecting the Group or their Director is entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company employment, without fear of recrimination, and reduces the risk of against all costs and liabilities incurred by him in the execution of his things going wrong or of malpractice taking place and remaining duties or the exercise of his powers or otherwise in connection with his unreported.
In addition, the Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to duties, powers or office including any liability incurred by him in matters of discrimination, harassment and bullying in all aspects of its defending any proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything business operations, whether they relate to sex, race, national origin, done or omitted to have been done or omitted by him as an officer of disability, age, religion or sexual orientation, and policies and the Company and in which judgement is given in his favour or in which procedures are also in place for reporting and dealing with these he is acquitted.
During the year the Company maintained liability insurance for its Owning shares in the Company is an important way of strengthening Directors and officers.
The Directors of the Company, and the Directors colleagues involvement in the development of the Groups business of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit of an indemnity and bringing together their and shareholders interests.
The Group provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The indemnity therefore encourages the Groups colleagues to participate in its provision, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity provision as Sharesave Scheme.
defined by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, has been in force throughout the year.
Directors The following persons were Directors during the 52 weeks to 1 April Directors responsibilities 2011 and at the date of this Report: The statement of Directors responsibilities in preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements can be found on page 96 of the Annual Report.
Dennis Millard Disclosure of information to Auditors David Wild The Directors of the Group have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any Nick Wharton resigned 30 November 2010 information needed by the Groups Auditors in connection with Paul McClenaghan preparing their report and to establish that the Auditors are aware of that information and so far as the Directors are aware there is no such Andrew Findlay appointed 1 February 2011 information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware.
The Directors David Adams appointed 1 March 2011 are responsible for maintaining the integrity of financial information which includes the Annual Report, together with other financial Claudia Arney appointed 25 January 2011 statements, presentations and announcements on the Groups website Nigel Wilson resigned 31 March 2011 halfordscompany.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Keith Harris other jurisdictions.
Bill Ronald Supplier payment policy The Group does not follow any formal code or standard on payment practice, but agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and with the when orders for goods and services are placed, and includes the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines all those persons holding relevant terms in contracts, where appropriate.
These arrangements are positions as directors of the company on 1 April 2011, will offer adhered to when making payments, subject to the terms and themselves for re-election at that the companys AGM on 2 August conditions being met by suppliers.
The number of trade creditor days 2010. outstanding at the period end for the Group was 59 days 2010: 49 Directors interests days.
The Company is a holding company and had no trade creditors The Directors interests in shares and options over shares in the at the end of the financial year.
Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Contractual or other arrangements 84 to 93.
The Directors consider that there are no contractual or other In response to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 introduced arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to in October 2008, each Director has notified the Company of any influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct or indirect interest value.
that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These interests were considered and approved by the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and each Director was informed of the authorisation and the terms on which it was given.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 76 Governance Directors Report continued Major Shareholders The Company has Term and Revolving facilities and under the terms of these credit facilities, the Company is required, in the event of a change At 3 June 2011, the Companys share register of substantial of control, to give notification to the facility agent and if so required by shareholdings showed the following interests in three per cent or more the majority lenders the facilities may be cancelled.
of the Companys issued ordinary shares: Number of % of issued Authority to purchase shares Holder shares shares At the AGM on 27 July 2010 shareholders approved a special resolution authorising the Company to purchase a maximum of Artemis Investment Mgt Ltd 12,154,298 5.7 21,101,923 shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share Capital Institutional Grp 11,724,908 5.5 capital at 18 June 2010, such authority expiring at the conclusion of the Ignis Asset Management 8,472,512 4.0 AGM to be held in 2011.
The Directors intend to optimise the Groups L&G Investment Management 7,721,079 3.6 balance sheet to enhance shareholder returns and on 7 April 2011 F&C Asset Management 7,306,885 3.4 commenced a 75m share buyback programme.
In the 52 weeks to M&C Investments 6,419,454 3.0 1 April 2011 the Company purchased Nil shares 2010: Nil, representing a nominal value of Nil 2010: Nil.
The Takeover Directive Auditors As at 1 April 2011 and 2 April 2010, the Companys authorised share At the AGM held on 27 July 2010 KPMG Audit Plc were appointed as capital was 2,950,000 divided into 295,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p the Companys external Auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc has indicated its each nominal value ordinary shares.
On 1 April 2011 there were willingness to accept reappointment as the external Auditor of the 211,985,998 2010: 210,710,960 ordinary shares in issue.
A resolution proposing its reappointment is contained in the ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Notice of the AGM and will be put to shareholders at the meeting.
All ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and the Going concern rights to receive dividends.
Shares acquired through Company share The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have its future development, performance and position are set out in the no special rights.
Business Review on pages 12 to 49.
The financial position of the The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are Annual report and financial statements: to attend and speak at general described in the Finance Directors Review on pages 32 to 37.
In meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting addition, note 20 to the Group financial statements includes the rights.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the With effect from 5 November 2010 the Group secured a four-year Company.
300m revolving credit facility extendable by a further year and at 1 April 2011 the Group had undrawn borrowing facilities of 211m.
There are no known arrangements under which the financial rights are The Groups previous and current committed borrowing facilities contain held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known certain financial covenants, which have been met throughout the agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Following the possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should publication of a revised Combined Code on 28 May 2010, the Board be able to operate within the level of its borrowing facilities and has agreed that all Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis covenants for the foreseeable future.
As a consequence, the directors and this requirement was adopted into the Companys Articles of believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks Association on 27 July 2010. successfully despite the uncertain economic outlook.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the time.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern The Company does not have agreements with any Director or basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plan may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 77 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at the Hyatt Hotel, Bridge Road, Birmingham.
The notice of the AGM and explanatory notes regarding the special business to be put to the meeting will be set out in a separate circular to shareholders.
By order of the Board Alex Henderson Company Secretary 8 June 2011 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
