14 Business Review Retail Strategy and KPIs Our Retail strategy is built on the four pillars of Extending Range and Services Investing in the Store Portfolio Ongoing focus on cost control Leveraging the Halfords brand in multichannel Retail Strategy Extending Range and Services Investing in the Store Portfolio Halfords trading strategy is aimed at increasing the number of We are also expanding the services we offer.
Halfords has a products purchased by customers on each visit to a store progressive approach to service, that provides fitting of many of through dynamic use of store space in order to sell products the products that we sell.
We now fit 23% of all the blades, bulbs which are seasonally relevant or which are being specifically and batteries we sell.
We will also undertake oil top-ups and fit promoted.
The Directors have also increased staff participation in Sat Navs, child seats and roof boxes.
Our move into Autocentres sales-related incentive schemes and have implemented specific is a significant demonstration of our approach to extending the incentives at peak trading periods to help drive sales.
service that we offer motorists to include mechanical repairs, MOT and car servicing offer.
The Directors intend to continue to leverage Halfords brands into new categories and new product ranges within existing The Group has considerable experience in both converting categories.
This is one route to increasing sales.
During the year existing stores and opening new stores.
This year we have we introduced a variety of new products across our categories.
opened five new stores, closed one and relocated three, as well These include innovative new designs like longer life car light as refurbishing 26 others.
Our active store refresh programme is bulbs, extension of our existing ranges, like new camping lines working across the estate to rebalance the store layout and and entirely new ranges like our mobility products.
In the coming signage around the key areas of growth and customer focus year we will launch three new cycle ranges within our own brand within our stores.
Carrera, and our exclusive Voodoo and Boardman ranges.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 15 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Retail Revenue 771.6m We will be launching 3 new cycle ranges within our own brand Car maintenence 31% 242.6m Carrera, and our exclusive voodoo and Boardman ranges.
Car enhancement 29% 219.6m Leisure 40% 309.4m Online Product Ranges Ongoing focus on cost control To provide the flexibility to invest in our customer offer we are 14,400 vigilant across the business on cost control.
We look for ways to reduce unnecessary overheads wherever possible.
Operating Option to Online Reserve & Collect expenses for the UK ROI business, before non-recurring items, 14,400 lines from every store type at 296.2m, were down 7.4% on the prior year.
This decrease 10,000 reflected reductions across all key cost categories.
The benefits Superstore from the review of store labour rotas and structures combined with lower than planned colleague store incentive payments 6,000 drove an 8.7m reduction in store staffing costs.
Warehouse and 4,200 Compact Distribution costs fell marginally by 0.8%.
Metro Leveraging the Halfords brand in multichannel A major facet of our strategy is to stay at the forefront of multichannel development.
Our brand is growing rapidly online Figures quoted are for typical store examples as customers turn to the internet to research and buy products.
We have invested in our dot com platform and developed a true multichannel approach where 85% of our internet purchases are researched and collected from our stores.
Our unique product Multichannel Revenue Growth mix strongly favours added value, so when customers come to 36.4% store we can offer further advice and fitting services.
36.4% 70.1m 37.1% 51.4m Our brand is growing rapidly 93.3% online as customers turn to 37.5m the internet to research and buy products.
19.4m 2008 2009 2010 2011 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
