52 Resources Group Resources and Capabilities The Halfords Brand Growth and leverage of a trusted high street brand for 109 years.
The Halfords brand is distinct and unique... there is nowhere quite like Halfords.
In many categories Halfords products are consistently the UKs No.
1 choice, testament to the trust the brand has earned through the long-term delivery of good value.
The Halfords brand embodies our life on the move product and service range principles, it is the central aspect of our Group strategy of single face to the customer and its marketing value has leveraged our strategic aim to grow both the Retail and Autocentres multichannel business.
Through the use of TV, radio, direct mail and online campaigns the brand has engaged old and new target audiences using the Helpful personality, whilst reinforcing our value, quality and service advantage.
The 240 Halfords branded Autocentres now add significant national brand visibility whilst extending the store based services to a whole new level of trusted support for customers.
Trading as 1st Over Halfords choice in 7,900 since core markets own-brand 1902 SKUs Branding and Marketing The skill of knowing when to use an existing brand and when to create a new one.
Retail product positioning has always been a complex operation of understanding the target audience needs and sensitivities.
Halfords continues to build techniques for the capture of market information from store and online channels and to use this in the design of new ranges.
Whilst half of the story is to create products to meet demand, the other half is to ensure there is shareholder value to be had from the margins achieved.
Own brands can frequently be used to meet price points in the market whilst allowing our skilled sourcing teams to buy competitively.
As the Internet has empowered consumers research capability, Halfords own brands have successfully differentiated product and met price and specification expectations.
The creation of the Pampero child car seat brand is an example.
Child seats have a higher than average level of sales online, they are frequently researched prior to purchase, and comparison of known brands and models is easy to do online.
Pampero was created to compete with premium brands whilst offering exceptional specification and can only be purchased through Halfords.
1 products distribution of UK Bike 44.5% of Boardman Brand Apollo revenue in 2011 Brand in UK 18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 53 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Colleagues Developing performance and living the Group values of being helpful.
Halfords people are central to our Group strategies of Operational Specialisation and Least Cost Back-Office: their talent and passion for service on the frontline ensures a great customer experience and the skill and dedication to efficiency and effectiveness ensure all back-office services improve year in year out.
2011 is the beginning of an expanded culture of service delivery.
Our thats helpful, thats halfords campaign is being rolled out as much within the business as with customers: indeed, there is a dependency on the former being delivered.
Read more on page 22 about our Helpful culture development plans.
Our evolving training techniques and their consistent application continue to drive performance.
Training is a key element in delivering a memorable service experience, including from a competence framework across the business to nationally recognised and accredited training programmes for Retail and Autocentres colleagues helping Halfords achieve customer loyalty and growth.
c. 11,000 c. 4,800 60% industry colleagues of our retail qualified staff hold Autocentre accredited fitting staff qualifications Systems The integration and roll-out of updates to many systems has put Halfords in a strong position.
Halfords is online with upgraded warehousing, enterprise resource and web systems to cope with our efficient store logistics and successful multichannel offer.
Investments have helped to drive up capacity and business intelligence whilst meeting our Group strategy of least cost back-office.
Halfords is one of the few true bricks and clicks operations and has delivered large scale leverage to our customer offer through the Reserve & Collect and Order & Collect services.
These services integrate our website with store and DC inventories and increase the footfall to stores with particular range increasing opportunities for the smaller formats.
During the year Halfords launched a dedicated mobile website and it has seen consistent growth in volume.
Looking to the future Halfords now has the capability to enhance the customer experience and empower our Helpful culture with more functional applications for colleagues and customers.
Mobile website 2.76m Over launched Reserve 400,000 August & Collect items available 2010 transactions to order in store to date 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 54 Resources Group Resources and Capabilities continued Our Customers Usually, I am lost when I go into large stores I visited your store in the Old Kent Road London SE1 earlier this morning and was delighted by the courteous and knowledgeable advice I received from the Sales Assistant in the Bicycle Department.
I was looking for a Schrader valve inner tube and a 28 tyre and the assistant, who was also a mechanic, kindly stopped what he was doing to pick the items for me.
Usually, I am lost when I go into large stores, but the help shown by your member of staff today has confirmed that I shall be using Halfords in future: for price, for quality and above all, for the stress-free service that came free with the purchase.
Anthony Dennis on Customer Service Our Customers The repairs were carried out promptly and efficiently Last week I had occasion to take my daughters bike into your Rickmansworth cycle branch for a check and service.
I am delighted to say that the service I received was exemplary: the repairs were carried out promptly and efficiently and I was immediately informed by phone.
Moreover, the gentleman who carried out the work provided me with some invaluable advice concerning bike maintenance, taking time to ensure that I fully understood.
He is clearly someone who really enjoys his job and takes great pride in providing excellent customer service.
Needless to say, I will be returning there!
Bill Grimwood on Bikes 18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 55 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Sourcing Domestic growth in the Far East has at times introduced new challenges we have risen to well.
Our successful retail strategy of strong own brands has increased the need to source large quantities of own-brand products at a price structure and quality level to meet customer expectations and brand positioning.
The majority of products are sourced through our UK-based buying teams with mutually beneficial relationships across manufacturers and distributors.
The Far East A growing source of value has been our ability to deal more directly with the Far East as an economic supply region.
Our new offices in China have proven invaluable, in investigating new sources of supply in inland China, compared with our historic sourcing in southern China.
Ethics and quality We have introduced our own code of conduct based upon established international standards which are regularly audited.
In addition, most of the products are manufactured to EN, BS and ISO standards like ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 which are likewise audited by the international quality audit company BVQI.
Direct trade 31% 99.85% of with 9 of supply products countries managed imported audited from Far East to our ethical standards Distribution Having completed the distribution centre move the focus moves to operational efficiencies.
Having come fully on stream in June 2010 the new Coventry distribution centre was a successful project as part of our least cost back-office Group strategy.
In both financial and economic measures the new site has delivered the budgeted savings whilst giving the Group further growth potential.
A net reduction of 240,000 km travelled was seen and with additional economies in vehicle fuel consumption Halfords will have delivered a saving of over 270,000 kg of CO. 2 Within the distribution centres, many of the envisioned efficiencies have been achieved and the management of a multi-million pound rationalisation plan was carried out to a high standard.
In practical terms the pick rate on bulk items has grown by 25% and on small items by 35%.
In addition, the reliability of new automated warehouse systems has been excellent.
Going forward the logistics operations have an ambitious programme of improvements.
First is in optimising the economics, second in supporting the internal aspects of Helpful by improving customer service and third with a colleague engagement programme for the recent recruits.
New 320,000 240,000 3.5% of CO 2 sq ft DC fully less delivery reduced in functional kilometres 2010 11 summer 2010 driven 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 56 Resources Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director Looking closely at regional demographics is allowing us to investigate new options for store types and layouts... the early stages are looking promising.
