72 Governance Board of Directors DAvID WILD DENNIS MILLARD PAUL McCLENAGHAN CHIEF ExECUTIvE OFFICER CHAIRMAN COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR Joined Joined Joined 4 August 2008 28 May 2009 31 March 2007 Current Roles Current Roles Current Roles Chief Executive of Halfords Group plc and Dennis is currently Chairman of Smiths News plc.
Commercial Director of Halfords Group plc non-executive director of Premier Foods plc He is the Senior Independent Director and Past Roles Chairman of the Audit Committee of Premier Past Roles Before joining Halfords, Paul worked for the Dixons Farnell plc, Xchanging plc and Debenhams plc.
Prior to joining Halfords David was Senior Group, most recently as Trading Director for its Vice-President for New Business Development at Past Roles Vision and Audio division.
He also held the Wal-Mart US.
Prior to this appointment he was Dennis was previously a non-executive director of positions of Buying Director for Brown Goods and President and Managing Director of Wal-Mart Exel plc and EAG Limited.
Commercial Director for Dixons Asia.
Before joining Wal-Mart, David spent 18 Brings to the Board Brings to the Board years at Tesco, latterly as Group Supply Chain Dennis has broad commercial and financial Paul brings over 20 years experience in Retail Director.
He spent the six years prior to this experience in the retail, service, distribution and Marketing, Supply Chain, Merchandising, Space focused on the companys Continental European manufacturing sectors both internationally and in Planning, and Multichannel Retailing.
Expertise in expansion, both as Chief Executive of Central the UK and, through his roles on other boards, Range Management and Far East sourcing.
Europe and, before that, as European Corporate relevant experience of the entrepreneurial and Development Director.
governance contributions that directors and Brings to the Board chairmen should bring to the board.
David brings over 20 years retailing experience, n r gained at two world-leading businesses, and the skills and ability to manage the companys future growth strategy.
n ANDREW FINDLAy GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Joined 1 February 2011 Current Roles Group Finance Director of Halfords Group plc Past Roles Prior to his appointment, Andrew was Director of Finance, Tax and Treasury at Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Prior to Marks and Spencer he held senior finance roles at the London Stock Exchange and at Cable & Wireless, both in the UK and US.
Andrew qualified as a chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
Brings to the Board An impressive track record and extensive financial experience in retail and other competitive, consumer and business facing industries.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 73 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com DAvID ADAMS CLAUDIA ARNEy KEITH HARRIS NON-ExECUTIvE DIRECTOR NON-ExECUTIvE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT NON-ExECUTIvE DIRECTOR Joined Joined Joined 1 March 2011 25 January 2011 17 May 2004 Current Roles Current Roles Current Roles David is the Non-Executive Chairman of both Snap Claudia is a Board member of Transport For Keith has been Executive Chairman of Seymour Equity Ltd Jessops and the Alexon Group, he is London, a member of the Advisory Group to the Pierce Limited since its acquisition from Investment also the Senior Independent Director at JJB Shareholder Executive of the Department of Management Holdings plc.
Keith is currently on Sports.
He is a non-executive director of the Business, Innovation and Skills and a Nonthe Boards of Cooper Gay Holdings Limited and British Retail Consortium and the charity, Walk The Executive Director of Doctors.
Past Roles Past Roles Past Claudia was the Group Managing Director, Digital Prior to this Keith was Chairman of the Football David was the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance at EMAP Inform until autumn 2010 where she led League and Chief Executive of HSBC Investment Director of the House of Fraser Plc until 2006. the development and execution of online Bank plc and he has been on the Board of Prior to that, he was the Group Finance Director at publishing strategy.
Prior to this she was Director Benfield plc.
Asprey Plc and before that the Finance Director at of the Enterprise and Growth Unit at HM Treasury, Brings to the Board Texas Homecare and also at Top Shop and and previously she was an Executive Director at Keith brings extensive experience of public Dorothy Perkins.
Goldman Sachs working on both product company governance, particularly in the field of development and e-publishing.
She has also Brings to the Board executive remuneration.
worked as the Head of Product Development at David brings extensive and very relevant financial a n r FT. Com.
and business experience and a deep knowledge of the retail sector.
Brings to the Board Claudia brings extensive experience of strategy a n r formulation and business development particularly in the online consumer and media space.
a n r BILL RONALD INDEPENDENT NON-ExECUTIvE DIRECTOR AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Joined 17 May 2004 Current Roles Bill is currently Chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign, and a non-executive director of Bezier Limited, Dialight plc and Alfresca.
Past Roles Bills past roles include Chairman of Europackaging Limited and Chief Executive of Uniq plc for three years, prior to which Bill spent 23 years in a variety of roles within the Mars Corporation.
His final positions there were Managing Director of the UK confectionery operation and Vice-President of Masterfoods Europe.
Brings to the Board executive non-executive Bill brings experience of brand building and winning loyalty by putting the customer first.
He also brings a focus upon organisational a Audit Committee development.
n Nomination Committee r a n r Remuneration Committee 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
