12 Business Review Market Review United Kingdom UK & Republic of Ireland ROI The Halfords business operates through retail stores, Autocentres and websites in the UK & ROI.
We continue to grow market share in our core markets sectors where we have leading positions in attractive markets.
Our unique proposition creates value for customers through a combination of range, price, quality and service delivered through our multichannel offer by our colleagues who extend expert advice and service, thus differentiating Halfords from its competition.
The UK has been the core market since the Company was founded in 1892 and we have operated in the ROI since 2006.
Our Customers Halfords Retail The economic climate during the last year has created uncertainty for We retail from 466 stores in the UK and ROI, of which 402 are customers and reduced household incomes.
All retailers have been Superstores, 29 are mid-sized Compact stores and 35 are the affected through a reduction in discretionary expenditure on nonsmaller Metro stores.
In most catchments the preferred location is a essential purchases and we have also seen customers delaying items 7,500 sq ft unit on an edge of town retail park with parking for around like car repairs and servicing.
A secondary effect is that fuel prices have 20 cars.
This is allows us to locate a superstore format which can carry led to motorists reducing mileage and hence their need for car products some 10,000 lines.
associated with normal wear and tear.
Around the country 90% of the UK population are within a 20 minute As a result sales across the year have been more difficult and we have drive of one our stores.
not grown sales at the levels we would like to.
The Halfords retail business is split across three main product Even in a tougher climate Halfords looks to drive sales.
Our response categories: Car Maintenance, Car Enhancement and Leisure.
has been to focus on the needs of our customers for better value and Our UK and ROI websites carry our most comprehensive product to work hard to deliver this through a combination of great prices, selection and currently display 14,400 product lines.
They received 40.5 innovative quality products and expert advice and service.
million visitors in the year to March 2011.
Our web traffic is growing at Looking to the year ahead we expect it to be just as demanding for our an annual rate of 35% and 81% of online sales are through our industry customers.
leading Reserve and Collect channel.
Here customers buy online and collect from their nearest store, which allows us to provide further Halfords has market-leading positions in long-term resilient categories advice for customers and additional sales of accessories.
and we have worked hard to rebalance our prices and reinvigorate our ranges with innovative new products.
Our Autocentres have been In the product categories, Car Maintenance is market-led with rebranded and we are now leveraging the strength of the Halfords customers making needs based purchases.
These are either to replace brand in that market.
We have launched initiatives to deliver sales worn or failed parts like car bulbs, wiper blades and batteries or to growth and supported these with a new marketing campaign thats meet legislative, manufacturer guidelines or safety concerns.
This helpful thats halfords which emphasises Halfords credentials.
market is relatively robust and driven by the large and ageing UK car These initiatives give us the potential to trade more strongly in the year parc.
Car Enhancement is technology led and depends largely on ahead.
innovation to drive the market: it also responds to changes in discretionary income.
Leisure covers a wide range, of which cycling is the largest proportion but also includes travel solutions, child safety and camping products where we drive business through both awareness and promotional activities.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 13 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Multichannel Revenue Growth 36.4% 70.1m Our response has been to 36.4% 37.1% focus on the needs of our 51.4m customers for better value 93.3% 37.5m 19.4m 2008 2009 2010 2011 The majority of the business is from direct retail clients where most of Halfords Autocentres the cars are over three years old.
Advanced client relationship systems Halfords Autocentres is the largest independent chain of car service manage the retention of this type of business and the Halfords brand is garages in the country, comprising 240 centres.
The chain was acquired expected to add further value to an already successful service offer.
in February 2010 and over the last year it has been fully rebranded as Fleet customers tend to operate cars under three years old and Halfords Autocentres.
The car maintenance market is worth recognise the cost saving benefits of a non-franchised, high quality, approximately 9bn annually, of which Halfords has approximately a 1% national organisation.
The market is fragmented: at one end are the more expensive franchise dealers and at the other small independent garages.
Since rebranding, the centres have been relaunched with a national advertising campaign to raise awareness and more proactive customer relationship management.
9bn car 466 stores aftercare and 240 market Autocentres 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
