Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 Directors Report Business Review Sector Reviews: Infrastructure Sensors continued Automatic Door Sensors World leader in sensors used on automatic doorsin public and commercial buildings.
Strategy Strategy Automatic Door Sensors In Security Sensors our growth strategy Our core strategy in Automatic Door Market trends and growth drivers centres on reducing exposure to the UK Sensors is to maintain market leadership Legislation to enhance the safety and byincreasing sales in Europe, the Middle inpedestrian door sensors and diversify security of people continues to drive growth East and Africa together with long-term further into industrial doors, security and in our niche Automatic Door Sensors investment in India and China.
Although we continue to forecast continue to increase the proportion of toseek complementary acquisitions.
medium-term annual expansion in our core non-residential sales with newwireless business of 3% to 4%, we expect higher Implementation of lean manufacturing products targeted at commercial growth in Asia.
andimproved logistics will increase customers.
competitiveness via improved customer We continued to diversify into industrial, Our two Security Sensors businesses which service.
Our unique laser scanner sensor transport and security markets supported make intruder sensors and hazard signalling products will ensure global technology by increased R&D and marketing spending.
products were successfully consolidated leadership and assist market diversication.
Investment in market-leading levels of into a single company.
Direct sales product quality, reliability, service and Performance operations were set up in India and China.
product development has enabled us to win We achieved a very strong performance new customers in our core and diversied Performance inAutomatic Door Sensors with record markets.
We see considerable growth Our Security Sensors business achieved revenue and profit.
We completed a prospects in the transport sector.
double-digit increases in both revenue and significant management reorganisation profit.
We delivered strong market share tosupport future growth.
Revenue growth growth despite at or receding markets in was strongest in Asia.
Almost one-third many of the countries where we operate.
ofthe workforce in this sub-sector is now We made progress in reducing dependence based in China.
During 2010 11, UKsales Outlook were less than half of total revenue for the Increasing safety regulation will continue first time.
Our strategy Outlook ofdeveloping innovative new technologies, Supported by a return to growth in the extending global reach and investing in global intrusion alarm market, we anticipate market diversication has created a strong further growth from Security Sensors growth platform.
based on geographic expansion, particularly in Asia, extending market share in Europe and positive customer response to our recently launched and upcoming advanced intrusion detection technology.
Market focus Analysts predict that the Chinese market Chinas stricter reregulations for re detection and suppression At Chinas 11th National Peoples Congress products will grow at a compound the countrys leaders announced major annualgrowth rate of about 13% from 5 changes to national re laws which came 2009 to 2014. into force in May 2009.
The stricter laws, which increase re safety liabilities for enterprises, are predicted to have a significant impact on attitudes towards re safety and the way in which re detection equipment is used in Chinese buildings.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Elevator Safety World leader in elevator lift door safety sensors.
We also make emergency communication devices, displays and control panels for elevators.
1 Global Fire Market Regroups after a Troublesome 2009.
Strategy Elevator Safety IMS Research, March 2010.
In contrast to other Halma sub-sectors, 2 Market trends and growth drivers The Dawn of Chinas New Fire Industry.
IMS Research, R&D and marketing activity among our Western countries account for the majority May 2010.
3 Elevator Safety businesses is closely Intrusion Alarm Market Set to Recover.
IMS Research, of the installed elevator customer base.
co-ordinated within a global business May 2010.
Here, demand for our safety products 4 Recovery imminent for global construction markets, RLB framework.
Our three elevator companies depends on building modernisation and Global Research and Development, January 2011. sell the products of their sister businesses 5 elevator upgrades driven by legislation.
The Dawn of Chinas New Fire Industry, IMSResearch, within their regional markets.
TheAsian elevator market, in contrast, is 6 growth strategy in Elevator Safety is Chinese Elevator Industry, Credit Suisse, March 2011. mainly driven by new elevator installations.
7 World Elevators to 2013 Demand and Sales Forecasts, toincrease investment in new products China is now the worlds largest installer of Market Share, Market Size, Market Leaders, Freedonia andexpand global sales channels.
new elevators and accounts for about 60% Group, 2009. of all new elevator projects.
Social housing Performance is the largest segment of the Chinese Elevator Safety performance improved market, forecast to grow signicantly in dueto more favourable market conditions 6 2011 fuelled by government investment.
and areturn to growth at our Asian business.
We saw growth inboth sales and The competitive environment in the profit.
Ourelevator emergency telephone ElevatorSafety market is changing as we product line achieved high UK market share face stronger competition from Chinese with anumber of significant customer manufacturers in global markets.
and continuous cost reduction programme will maintain competitiveness and protect Outlook margins.
European demand has been Global demand for Elevator Safety products steady, driven by stronger safety regulations is forecast to rise by over 4% annually while US markets have been at.
China will account for over half of all new demand, while Western Europe remains the largest market for 7 modernisation.
Outside Asia, demand is expected to be at but we expect to maintain growth momentum from market share gains and new technology.
In the medium term we anticipate that theChinese authorities will adopt Europeanstandards for elevator safety.
These standards favour our market-leading elevator door control sensors and monitored emergency telephones.
Market focus Our new RICOCHET system is based on Intruder alarms gowireless mesh network technology.
Thismeans Wireless intruder alarms use radiowaves that intruder sensors cancommunicate in place of cables to communicate with their control panel by sending signals between the control panel and the security to any other sensor in the network.
Wireless security products Ifthewireless connection between two aremoreexpensive than hard-wired devices weakens, the network self-heals equivalents but, because there are andautomatically re-routes signals nocabling costs, wireless systems viaother devices.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 Directors Report Business Review Industrial Safety What we do Sector performance Sector Group KPIs We make products which protect performance target x 9 1 assetsand people at work.
Revenue growth 5% 5% 9 1 profit growth 20% 5% 9 2 Return on Sales 23.7% 18% 9 3 ROCE 88% 45% 9 4 R&D % of Revenue 4.3% 4% 9 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are Sector growth drivers compared tothe equivalent prior year gure.
5 Increasing health and safety regulation 2 Return on Sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense andtaxation expressed asapercentage of sector revenue.
Increasing demand for energy and water 5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sectoroperating netassets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sectorrevenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangibles and acquisition costs.
Where we operate Contribution to Group Percent 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 of Group m m m m m 6 Revenue 20% 103 98 103 91 77 6 6 profit 22% 25 20 22 20 16 10 4 11 2 6 Prior years gures have been restated for the transfer of Radio-Tech 3 9 Limited between reporting segments.
5 7 8 Sub-sector revenue split 1 Asset Monitoring Gas Detection 9% 29% 1.
Singapore Safety Interlocks Bursting Disks 43% 19% Strategic summary Achievements Directions Record organic revenue and profit Organic revenue and profit growth Revenue growth in China and Asia Pacic Continued expansion in China and Asia R&D expenditure exceeded 4% of revenue Maintain R&D investment above 4% of revenue withnew products launched inall sub-sectors and increase rate of new product introductions R&D collaboration Bolt-on acquisitions Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Gas Detection Bursting Disks Portable instruments One time use pressure andxed systems relief devices to protect whichdetect ammable large vessels and and hazardous gases.
Strategy Gas Detection Bursting Disks In Gas Detection our strategic focus is to Market trends and growth drivers Market trends and growth drivers increase competitive advantage and gain Fixed and portable Gas Detection Our Bursting Disks are sold into industrial market share by continuous technical equipment is increasingly required in manufacturing and process industry upgrading and extension of our portable industrial workplaces for compliance with markets where increasing regulation and gasdetectors.
Wewill continue to invest in health and safety regulations.
In addition to rising expectations of health and safety manufacturing, marketing and development our core oil & gas and chemicals markets, drive demand.
A rising oil price and greater resources to maintain market-leading we see expanding sales opportunities in safety awareness during 2010 11 stimulated customer service.
monitoring commercial buildings, confined increased petrochemical capital spending 1 space working and wastewater treatment.
Geographic expansion, particularly by government-owned oil companies and 3 penetration of markets in North and South created opportunities for sales growth.
The worldwide market for Gas Detection America, and Asia, will support our strategic products is expected to grow by 3% to 4% Strategy objective of increasing sales ahead of 2 annually at least until 2013.
We have seen Our core Bursting Disks strategy is to build underlying market growth.
demand grow strongly in China, India and on growth in our core industry sectors and South America and there are indicators home markets by diversifying and Performance ofrecovery from the 2009 recession in expanding our customer base.
We will We achieved record Gas Detection sales global markets such as power generation, increase sales resources beyond Europe and profit in 2010 11, with solid market offshore oil, utilities and chemical and North America, particularly in Asia share gains across all trading territories.
Weanticipate fastest growth andSouth America.
We will diversify into Outlook from the Asia Pacic region.
Key market medical instrumentation, energy The outlook for Gas Detection is for good drivers in Asia are the increasing pace of exploration and other new health and growth underpinned by resilient legislative industrialisation and adoption of Western safetyapplications.
growth drivers in industrial safety markets.
We will enhance competitiveness through The launch of innovative new products advanced manufacturing processes during 2011 12 will support this objective.
andextend collaboration between our businesses to add new technologies.
