Halma p. l. c.  20 Directors Report BusinessReview High rate of innovation Our photonics markets Building our andapplications presence in photonics We acquired Ocean Optics, a world-leading photonics business based in Florida, USA, in 2004 for 28m.
Since then we have acquired aseries of stand-alone and bolt-on photonics businesses and spent another 28m in acquisitions to generate asub-sector within our Health and Analysis sector whichgenerates around 73m of revenue.
Science What photonics Leisure Research products do 8% 27% wemake?
We make products that generate and Environmental capture light, transmit light, analyse lightand change light to deliver desired 11% optical characteristics.
Ocean Optics makes instruments that analyse light.
When something is hit Defence bylightit either reflects the light, emits energy, absorbs the light or does all three.
Our spectrometer instruments 16% record how light reacts with a sample which reveals what the sample is made of.
Applications include scientific analysis, space research, medical diagnostics and environmental monitoring.
Fiberguide makes fibre optic products thattransmit light carrying digital data.
These are strands of glass thinner than Industrial ahuman hair sometimes coated with aluminium or gold to add strength or 17% Medical Life science temperature resistance.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Revenue SphereOptics bolt-on to 90m Fiberguide Labsphere Sandhouse Design 80m Ocean bolt-on to Oerlikon Thin Films Ocean Optics Optics spin-off from 70m Ocean Optics bolt-on to Ocean Labsphere 60m Thin Films Mikropack bolt-on 50m to Ocean Optics 40m Ocean Optics 30m 20m 10m 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiberguide manufactures the raw bre Positioned to Photonics and produces assemblies that carry theenergy from a light source to the benefit from fast thenew point of use or transmit information froma test sample to a detector growth in theLEDs electronics oranalyser.
Applications include photodynamic therapy, ophthalmology, Almost any physical or environmental market laser delivery systems, industrial parameter can be measured using Our businesses are world leaders process control, illumination, remote lightand the applications for photonics indevices that capture light so that it sensing and smoke detection.
aregrowing all of the time.
Our products enable where we expect exciting growth are Labsphere is a world leader in capturing theenergy output and colour spectrum photonics applications in remote sensing, emitted light for analysis.
They make high oflightsources to be analysed with biotechnology, medicine and other precision test chambers internally coated extraordinary accuracy.
Many people believe that with highly reective material.
Customers photonics will be the fundamental These systems are used to check quality include some of the worlds largest transforming technology ofthe 21st inthe manufacture of LED light xtures consumer electronics manufacturers century in the same way that electronics andelectronic consumer products such andleading research scientists.
was the key technological development asTVs, cameras and mobile phones.
Ocean Thin Films specialises in changing inthe last century.
The LED market is moving from niche light.
They deposit coatings on glass tohigh volume.
Market forecasts for the orplastic which behave like lters, highbrightness LED market suggest that separating specic wavelengths of light.
applications such as backlights for LCD Applications include colour wheels TVs and solid-state lighting will grow faster forprojecting light and coatings than 50% per year over the next five years.
The global high brightness LED market is projected to grow at almost 30% per year between 2010 and 2014.
Ocean Optics NeoFox is a new type of portable optical sensing system for measuring dissolved andgaseous oxygen.
