Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 02 Directors Report Business Review Halma has an impressive record of creating sustained shareholder value through theeconomic cycle.
Our reputation is built on consistently delivering record profits, high returns, strong cash ows, low levels of balance sheet gearing and a 30 year track record ofgrowing dividend payments by 5% or more every year.
We are one ofonly three companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange with this record ofdividend increases.
Our ability to achieve record profits through the recent period of unprecedented economic turbulence is derived from our strategy of having a group of relatively small, autonomous businesses operating in diverse specialised global markets with resilient growth drivers.
These include Health, Safety and Environmental regulation which stimulate non-discretionary purchase of products whose technical, quality and reliability requirements enable us to build competitive advantage.
We maintain organic growth momentum by increasing levels of investment in management development, new product development and establishing platforms for growth in developing markets, where Health, Safety and Environmental regulation is starting to emerge.
Organic growth generates the financial and business resources we need to fund acquisitions.
Through acquisitions we add value to our business by bringing new intellectual assets and a wider technological and geographic footprint.
Over the long term, we actively manage the mix of businesses in our Group to ensure we cancontinue to generate strong growth and returns.
Whilst acquisitions accelerate entry into more attractive market niches, we also exit markets which promise to offer less attractive opportunities in the future through carefully planned disposals.
Halmas defensive market qualities, organic growth momentum and potential toacquire new businesses position us strongly to continue to create shareholder value and achieve even higher levels of performance in thefuture.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03 The Group has made strong progress 1 Halma: what we do and our strategy to 98.3m.
Return on Total Invested Capital Research and Development was 5.0% Our business is to make products which increased to 15.5% 2010: 13.6%, Return ofrevenue 2010: 4.7%.
1 protect lives and improve the quality of life onCapital Employed at the operating level People for people worldwide.
We do this through increased signicantly to 71.9% 2010: We continue to invest strongly in people 1 continuous innovation in market-leading 61.3%.
Return on Sales improved to 20.2% development, introducing new tailor-made products which meet the increasing compared to 18.8% the previous year.
training courses for our technical staff as demands for improvements to health, Netdebt at the year end was 37.1m having well as even more management training.
We build spent 82m on acquiring a number Asa result, it is pleasing to see more and strongpositions in niche markets where ofexcellent companies during the year.
more internal promotions across the Group.
Our businesses are You will see therefore, that the Company To everyone in the Group, these outstanding autonomous and highly entrepreneurial.
made excellent progress during the year and record results are the result of your Strategically we aim to grow profit and against its key performance indicators.
imagination and dedication, sincere thanks revenue in excess of 5% p. a. organically, As a result the Board is recommending to you all.
tohave Return on Sales in the region of anal dividend of 5.56p per share giving a Governance 18%to 22% and generate post-tax Return total dividend of 9.1p for the year, an increase In July 2010, we appointed Norman on Total Invested Capital of more than 12%.
The final dividend is subject to Blackwell and Steven Marshall to the Board As a result, we are highly cash generative approval by shareholders and will be paid and I am delighted to say that already they and reinvest in our businesses through on 24 August 2011 to shareholders on are making strong contributions.
people, product and market development, theregister at 22 July 2011. Dividend cover continue to acquire more companies with At this years AGM, Richard Stone will be is 2.25 times 2010: 1.98 times meeting like characteristics and strive to give annual stepping down from the Board after 10 years ourobjective of around 2 times cover.
dividend growth of 5% or more to our of exemplary service.
Richard has made Acquisitions shareholders: something we have achieved ahuge contribution to the Board during his In contrast to the previous year, we judged for more than 30 consecutive years.
tenure, and we offer him our sincere thanks that the climate was right to put more and wish him well for the future.
Performance capital to work and during the year we Full year revenue increased by 13% to In line with the recommendations of the invested a record 82m in acquisitions.
518.4m 2010: 459.1m, organic revenue UKCorporate Governance Code, the Board Withthe maximum earn-outs, this sum 1 growth was 11%, and also 11% at constant has agreed to submit all Directors to annual could increase by a further 25m.
profit before tax, amortisation of election starting at this years AGM on Continued strong investment in markets acquired intangibles and acquisition costs 28July 2011, ahead of being obliged to and products increased by 21% to break through the dosoat the 2012 AGM.
The Group has continued to invest strongly 100m level for the first time to 104.6m Following publication of the FRCs in developing markets, which in turn is 2010: 86.2m, organic profit growth was Consultation Document: Gender Diversity boosting our growth rates.
Our regional 19% and also 19% at constant currency.
on Boards, we are reviewing our own development in China is progressing well Statutory profit before tax increased by 21% position and contributing to the consultation and sales in China grew by 28% to 24m.
We intend to explore the Many companies in the Group are now also establishment of wider diversity targets developing a stronger focus on South andreport annually on our progress.
As usual, theyear has seen the launch of many Outlook newinnovative products.
Despite many economic uncertainties across the globe, the Group has made Technical collaboration across the Group strong progress.
Some excellent has increased which accelerates our acquisitions have added to our strength.
adoption of new technologies andspeeds Weare pleased with the momentum we our time to market.
Although we believe have coming into 2011 12 and are looking passionately inautonomy, collaboration forward to making further good progress isalso encouraged, these arekey inthe year ahead.
