Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 06 Directors Report Business Review Our global capability is developing as we continue to put our resourcesclose to our customers.
We operate in 22 countries sellingto customers in over 150 countries.
We are not over-reliant onany single region, market or customer with our largest customer constituting less than 3% of revenue.
Contribution to Group revenue United States of America Revenue by destination 150m Employees Other countries 1,215 Revenue by destination 19m Employees 1 Asia Pacic and Australasia Revenue by destination 76m Employees 529 Africa, near & Middle East United Revenue by destination Kingdom 29m Revenue by destination Employees 106m 34 Employees 1,622 Mainland Europe Revenue by destination 138m Employees 692 Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07 We have access to the resources necessary to support investment fororganic growth and acquisitions.
Operationally, we have a decentralised structure which places our R&D, manufacturing, salesand marketing resources within each Halma company under themanagement of the local board.
Relationships and resource breakdown Internal resources We continue to increase our investment intraining and development ofemployees Strategic partners since this iscritical to our mediumand long-term success.
In 2010, we launched Shareholders anew programme aimed at technical staff.
Suppliers and advisers In general our manufacturing is asset light and not capital intensive.
We do have some xed assets which are critical to our businesses for example, thin lm coaters inPhotonics.
The average direct labour Customers Regulators content of our products is less than7% ofthe selling price.
This allows us to locate operations close to our customers rather than be driven toposition them in the lowestcost region.
Decisions to establish manufacturing facilities in low cost regions are made because we see local sales opportunities.
Employees Brand Our technical resources include our people, patents and specialist application knowhow.
Often our competitive advantage is built on knowing how to reliably apply a proven technology in very specic situations Fixed assets Financial whilst meeting stringent regulatory requirements.
We invest at least 4% of Technical revenue inR&D and this, together with acquisitions, continues torefresh andstrengthen our intellectual assets.
distributors to complement our technical External relationships Weencourage our companies to collaborate and commercial resources.
From these on technical issues through our various We work in partnership with our customers relationships comenew technologies training programmes and the HITE events not only toensure their short-term needs andexpertise to aid product development held in May 2009 and May 2011. are met but also to ensure that we design oridentify new market opportunities.
new products which meet their mediumWe have sufficient financial resources to and long-term needs.
Since we have a We develop good relationships withindustry meet our organic and acquisition growth diverse customer base, our decentralised regulators who regulate thequality of suppliers objectives.
We operate with a strong system structure enables our companies to develop like us or our customers.
Many Halma of financial control and auditthe value and closer relationships with their customers companies will be represented on industry location of our cash on a weekly basis.
than would be possible if we were more regulatory bodies as technical experts to Dueto our high returns, we encourage centralised.
ensure regulatory codes are implemented in ourcompanies to make capital investments light of the latest technology and best practice.
in accordance with a strict but speedy We assemble products locally, but source approvals process.
Halma companies Halma recognises the need to listen closely often collaborate toidentify high quality to the views given by shareholders and Halma companies are typically the leader suppliers of common technologies or corporate advisers such as our bankers, in the top five intheir specialised markets component types and are required to ensure brokers, solicitors and investor relations and therefore each has a strongproduct suppliers meet our ethical standards.
They provide valuable insight brand.
These brands are synonymous with gained through their involvement with high quality products and service levels We develop relationships with strategic abroad array ofother businesses and andin some cases are used as the generic partners such as universities, specialist commercial situations.
industry term for a particular producttype.
design businesses and value-adding Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 08 Directors Report Business Review Objective Strategic direction To create sustained shareholder value and To operate in global specialised markets high returns on invested capital.
offering long-term growth with technology able to sustain high returns.
Organic Growth Through strategic investment in people development, international expansion and innovation we aim Strategic focus to achieve organic growth in excess of our blended market growth rate of 5%.
Organic revenue growth Organic profit growth KPI denition strategic focus Organic revenue growth measures the change Organic profit growth measures the change in inrevenue achieved in the current year compared profit achieved in the current year compared with with the prior year from continuing Group the prior year from continuing Group operations.
The effect of acquisitions and The effect of acquisitions and disposals made disposals made during the current or prior during the current or prior financial period has financial period has been equalised.
2010 11 performance 1 1 Organic Revenue Growth % Organic profit Growth % 20 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 0 Target 5% Target 5% Performance 11% Performance 19% Strong organic growth following the tough Very strong organic profit growth.
Over the last Comment economic conditions in 2010.
Over the last five five years our average rate of annual organic years our average rate of annual organic revenue profit growth has been 10% p. a. growth has been 8% p. a. which is 3% in excess ofour minimum target.
The Board established a long-term minimum organic growth target of 5% representing the blended 2011 12 target long-term average growth rate of our markets.
This target remains appropriate to the Groups achievement of an overall revenue and profit objective of growing by 15% p. a. after acquisition revenue and profit are taken into account.
In order to meet the target of organic growth in excess of 5%, the Group will need to maintain its focus on innovation, people development and growth in Asia in order to ensure the momentum developed over recent years is retained.
The primary factors affecting our ability to meet the target relate to competitive innovations overtaking the Groups technology and macro-economic factors.
Link to other disclosures Chief Executives Strategic Review, Financial Review andRisk Factors.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09 International Expansion High Rate of Innovation Acquisitions The Health, Safety and Environmental markets in We have maintained high levels of R&D We buy companies with business and market Asia and other developing regions are developing investment and spending on innovation.
They have to be a fast and offer us higher rates of growth in the Thesuccessful introduction of new products good t with our operating culture and strategy future.
We continue to invest in establishing local isakey contributor to the Groups ability to build inaddition to being value-enhancing nancially.
selling, technical and manufacturing resources competitive advantage and grow organically to meet this current and future need.
International expansion R&D as Percentage of Revenue Acquisitions Total sales to markets outside the UK, Mainland Total research and development expenditure in The cash outow disclosed in the Consolidated Europe and the USA as a percentage of total the financial year regardless of whether or not it Cash Flow Statement under Acquisition revenue from continuing operations.
was capitalised as a percentage of revenue from ofbusinesses.
2 Revenue outside the USA and Europe % R&D as Percentage of Revenue % Acquisitions m 30 5 100 25 4 75 20 3 50 15 2 10 25 1 5 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2011 0 0 0 Target by 2015 30% Target 4% Performance 24% Performance 5.0% Performance 82m Revenue outside the USA and UK Europe was Total spend in the year was 26m 2010: 21m We began the year with good financial capacity 24% of the Group total with revenue from Asia exceeding the 4% of revenue target.
All three with net cash and facilities in place to Pacic and Australasia up by 29%.
Revenue from sectors exceeded the 4% target both this year comfortably finance a further 100m of China grew by 28% to 24m which is now 4 times and last year.
investment and we succeeded in buying a the level in 2006 when we established our first number of excellent companies during the year.
During 2010 we opened three new regional ofces in China and doubled the number of local staff in our hub in India.
Our aim is for revenue outside the USA and New products contribute strongly to achieving 2011 ended with sufficient financial capacity UK Europe to be 30% of the Group total by 2015. organic growth, maintaining high returns and tonance further acquisitions.
The 4% Halma corporate hubs have been established in Such investment will be kept under close minimum investment target is appropriate China and India to assist companies in setting up scrutinyto ensure market conditions remain tothemix of product life cycles and technologies local operations.
We will review our options for appropriate and acquisition targets meet our within Halma.
South America during 2011 12. exacting standards.
The recently introduced HCAT development programme for engineers in the Group helps drive our technical and process innovation to fuelorganic growth.
Chief Executives Strategic Review and Financial Chief Executives Strategic Review, Corporate Chief Executives Strategic Review, Financial Review, Note 1 to the Accounts.
