Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 Directors Report Business Review Adding value through acquisitions Higher growth markets Since 2005 we have reshaped Return on Sales ourbusiness.
Wehave moved into Health and Analysis 21.1% marketswithhigher growth potential which can sustain higher margins 15.9% andexited from markets with 218m Revenue unattractive growth prospects.
95m Revenue Infrastructure Sensors We have achieved growth combined with increased 19.8% returns by giving high priority to M&A activity.
Since2005 we have bought 18 businesses and sold12.
We acquired 20.1% businesses in our existing markets or closely allied sectors, with strong, long-term growth prospects.
197m Wesold businesses where market growth was uncertain, 118m Revenue where competition was increasing and where mature Revenue technologies could not sustain high returns.
Over the past six years we have grown revenue by73% and Return on Sales ROS has risen: all three sectors nowhave ROS above 18% and overall ROSis over 20%.
Industrial Safety 23.7% 13.2% 103m 86m Revenue Revenue 2005 2011 Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Recent acquisitions have focusedon our Health andAnalysis sector.
Alicat We acquired Alicat scientific, Inc. in November 2010.
It makes precision instruments which measure and controlthe ow of gases in analytical andlife sciences industries such as pharmaceuticals.
Alicats secondary market is specialised industrial processes.
The company shares many customers with our existing Fluid Technology businesses.
Accudynamics Accudynamics LLC, which we bought inDecember 2010, makes components usedin scientific and medical analysis systems such as in vitro diagnostics.
Accudynamics is a good t with our other Fluid Technology businesses and enables us to offer OEM customers integrated sub-assemblies which incorporate components from different Halma uidicscompanies.
Medicel In March 2011 we bought Medicel AG.
Thisextended our interests in the ophthalmic surgical instrument market.
Medicel is a leader in very high precision surgical instruments that inject replacement lenses into the eyes of people suffering from cataracts.
Cataracts are the leading cause of treatable blindness, with approximately 15 million surgeries performed annually.
There is a migration towards the specialist instruments made by Medicel because they allow surgeons tomake a smaller incision which leads toimproved patient safety and outcomes.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 Directors Report Business Review High rate of innovation Highertechnology markets Why is Halma in the Photonics sector?
To deliver growth with quality returns we are moving into highertechnology markets.
Photonics technologies are  both within our companies .
Our photonics businesses operate infast-growingmarket niches with strong drivers and benefit fromtheprotection of strong barriers to entry.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 What is Every aspect Real photonics?
Photonics is basically about how we make use of light.
It is the science of generating, controlling and detecting light.
Light letsussee, but it can also transmit data andcontrol electronic equipment.
Whileelectronic devices communicate viaelectricity using electrons, photonicsdevices use photons, thefundamental particles oflight.
Photonics products are crucial to The ability to measure the quality So many of the products we rely on manycutting-edge areas of science oflightwhich materials reect, absorb aremade using photonics components andtechnology, often involving lasers, ortransmit, can tellusalotabout the andprinciples.
Light bulbs, TVs, digital optics, bre optics and hybrid electroworldwe live in.
InBeijingAntique City, cameras, cell phones, PDAs, theinternet optical devices.
The range of photonics China, nationallyrenowned antiques and computers all depend on the science applications is huge.
Photonics devices appraiserGuan Haisen uses our ofphotonics andcomponents that emit playa major role in scientific research spectrometers to tellgenuine ormeasure light.
Halma businesses andmedicine, and technology used ceramicsfrom fakes.
matchthe science of photonics with inmanufacture, lighting, communications, productsthat solve customers problems.
defence, aerospace, environmental monitoring, security, safetyand consumerelectronics.
Which Halma Water on the sub-sectors use moon?
Our photonics productshelped In Infrastructure Sensors, our NASAtodiscover that there really FireDetection, Security Sensors, iswater onthe moon in the form AutomaticDoor Sensors and oficecrystals.
NASA deliberately  all use avariety crashedarocket carrying scientific ofoptical technologies.
InHealthand instrumentsinto the Moons surface Analysis, our Water products, Health and our spectrometer analysed the Opticsproducts andour Photonics lightto reveal the presence of water.
businesses use lightandoptics within theirproducts.
Inour Industrial Safety sector our GasDetection and Asset Monitoring businesses use optics and imaging technologies.
