Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 Directors Report Business Review Chief Executives Strategic Review continued financial performance and in succession Our strategic objective is to grow our positioning.
More details are given in the planning.
The latest example of the latter businesses organically and through sector reviews on pages 26 to 37. isthe promotion of one of our US company acquisitions but maintain our at Our primary market Presidents, Dr Rob Randelman, to the organisational structure and devolved Executive Board in April 2011. management approach.
Consequently, growthdrivers inaddition to acquiring businesses, we also Halmas strategy is to develop market In future, we recognise the need to increase consider internal mergers or divestment.
positions with a horizon of 10 years or more.
the diversity of our management talent in Our success in this active management Growth strategies within our individual order to meet the new challenges ahead.
ofour portfolio is demonstrated by the fact operating businesses tend to have three This objective will be integrated into a new that since the startof financial year 2005 06, tove-year horizons.
management development strategy being our profit hasmore than doubled, yet the implemented in early 2011 12.
Our selected markets must have robust number ofprincipal operating companies growth drivers with the potential for organic Acquisitions, mergers and disposals has reduced from 44 to 38. growth at rates well above background We look to buy companies with business GDPgrowth.
and market characteristics like Halma.
Macro-economic, regulatory They have to be a good t with our operating All of our businesses operate in markets andcompetitive environment culture and strategy in addition to being underpinned by at least one of the following Our expectation at the start of 2010 11 value-enhancing nancially.
As the growth drivers: wasthat the stability and slow recovery Grouphas grown, the average size of our which had returned in Europe and the USA Increasing demand for healthcare transactions has increased.
This remains inlate 2009 would be maintained as Three key demographic trends underpin inline with our increasing capacity and wouldthe higher rate of growth enjoyed theincreasing demand for healthcare: capability to successfully grow businesses indeveloping economies.
This was broadly population ageing in developed economies, of that larger size thereby not materially borne out with our predominant focus in and population growth and increasing altering our risk prole.
Europe on Northern markets providing afuence in the developing world.
Demand some insulation from the economic As expected, 2010 11 saw a pick-up in for healthcare services and health-related problems in countries in Southern Europe.
M&Aactivity globally and we successfully products drives growth in our Health and completed seven transactions spending Analysis markets.
Many Halma businesses have products atotal of 82m 2010: 2m.
Four of these where demand is driven byrelatively Spending on healthcare continues to grow were small bolt-on additions to existing non-discretionary customer spend and rapidly throughout the developed world, Halma businesses adding new technology allbenet from strong marketpositions particularly in the USA where it is projected andlocal manufacturing or sales resources providing upgrade andreplacement sales torise from about 17.5% of GDP in 2010 in Photonics, Water, HealthOptics and 3 opportunities.
Allthese factors give us toabout 20% by 2020.
genuine resilience in tough economic Population growth and rising incomes in conditions and enable usto achieve organic We acquired three larger businesses, all thedeveloping world also drive healthcare growth well above themarket rate.
within our Health and Analysis sector, which demand.
The worlds population is also will operate as stand-alone companies.
Increasingly environmental, health and ageing.
Globally, the number of people Within our Fluid Technology sub-sector we safety regulation in our markets creates a over60 years old is growing annually by paid $26.3m for Alicat scientific Arizona, relatively robust demand for our products 2.6%, considerably faster than the general USA in November 2010 and $24.8m for 4 and enables us to invest for the longer term population growth of 1.2%.
Accudynamics Massachusetts, USA in with confidence.
Global, regional and Population ageing creates rising healthcare December 2010.
In March 2011, we paid national product approvals or technical needs and, as incomes rise, health services CHF70m for Medicel Switzerland who validations are an increasing cost and become available to an increasing number specialise in cataract lens injector devices technical challenge, but also allow us to of people in the developing world.
In China, and will operate within Health Optics.
The build competitive advantage too.
Many of our for example, the healthcare budget will have Medicel deal includes an earn-out of up to businesses have a presence on industry increased threefold between 2000 and CHF30m for achieving profit growth targets representative bodies, enabling them to 5 2015.
Continuous advances in medical over the next three years.
influence and anticipate new market trends.
technology create new medical procedures, All these acquisitions are forecast to We serve a wide range of market niches, which also stimulate demand for new beearnings enhancing in year one.
each with its own unique competitive instruments and equipment.
Wearecontinuing to search for further environment.
Our strategy is to empower Increasing demand for energy and water acquisitions in Health and Analysis, local management to create or respond to Throughout the world rising energy Infrastructure Sensors and Industrial their changing markets by controlling their consumption and water usage is driven by Safetyand will be increasing resources own competitive strategy including product three key trends: population growth: rising tosearch for opportunities.
pricing, product development and market living standards: and changing patterns of food consumption and agriculture.
In many Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Delivering quality and growth Over the next few pages we will demonstrate how Halma adds value by focusing on higher growth markets, more innovation, developing our people and international expansion.
economies energy and water supply are Increasing health and safety regulation Outlook mutually dependent.
In the USA for example, According to the International Labour In 2010 11 we achieved our objective the energy sectors water consumption is Organisation about 2.3 million people die ofsignicant organic growth and higher forecast to rise by 50% from 2005 to 2030. each year from work-related accidents and ratesof return.
We made substantial This will account for 85% of the countrys diseases.
This comprises almost 360,000 investments in acquiring businesses 6 total increase in water demand.
fatal accidents and an estimated 1.95 million anddeveloping new products and markets.
By the end of Worldwide consumption of marketed Thiswill remain a strategic focus for each day nearly 1 million workers will have energy is projected to increase by 49% theyear ahead to ensure we continue suffered a workplace accident, and around from2007 to 2035 with the highest topositionthe Groups activities into 5,500 people will die due to a work-related 7 increasein non-OECD economies.
marketsoffering growth and high returns.
Whilewater demand rises relentlessly, We are pleased with the momentum we boththe quality and availability of clean In addition to the human cost, workplace have coming into 2011 12 and are looking 8,9 water is declining.
Contaminated water accidents and sickness restrain economic forward to making further good progress isthe primary environmental cause of development.
Taking account of the direct inthe year ahead.
and indirect costs of occupational accidents 1 See Financial Highlights.
and diseases, such as lost working time, 2 See note 1 to the Accounts.
Several of our Health and Analysis employee compensation, production 3 Introduction to the Health Care Industry, businesses are positioned to benefit from downtime and medical expenses, the PlunkettResearch, 2010. the global trend of rising demand for energy 4 World Population Aging, 2009.
United Nations, 2010. economic impact is estimated at around and water.
In both developed and developing 5 Healthcare Market in China: Opportunities and Barriers 16 4%of global GDP US$1.25tn.
regions we see increasing competition for ofa Developing Economy, Scientia Advisers, 2009.
6 Energys Water Demand: Trends, Vulnerabilities, and water resources between economic groups Throughout the world, governments are Management, US Congressional Research Service, 11 and between national governments.
The requiring employers to comply with November 2010. increasing value placed on water resources increasingly strict laws and regulations 7 International Energy Outlook 2010, US Energy drives demand for our water conservation, toprotect workers from workplace hazards.
8 UN Water Policy Brief, UN Water, 2011. treatment and quality analysis products.
In parallel with government regulations, 9 International Atomic Energy Authority, IAEA Continued investment in oil and gas many multinational employers based in the Programme on Water Resources, 2010-2011. exploration and extraction drives demand developed world are extending health and 10 Global Environmental Outlook GEO4, UnitedNations, 12 for our Industrial Safety products.
safety protocols to developing regions.
11 combination of increasing safety regulation Water Conflicts Chronology, Pacic Institute, 2010.
Increasing urbanisation 12 Big oil groups forecast to spend $128bn, and globalisation drives demand for our Current expectations for continued global FinancialTimes, January 2011.
Industrial Safety and Infrastructure 13 population expansion predict growth from World Population Graphs, US Census Bureau.
14 2010 World Population Data Sheet, Population todays population of about 7 billion people 13 Reference Bureau, 2010. to 9 billion by 2050.
In many developed 15 Delivering corporate World Urbanization Prospects, 2009 Revision, economies, such as Europe and Japan, UnitedNations, 2010. responsibility andsustainability falling birth rates mean that population 16 Facts on Health and Safety at Work, InternationalLabor Our primary market growth drivers mean numbers will decline: future global Organisation, 2009. that Halma companies operate in markets population growth will be concentrated in 14 in which their products contribute positively developing countries.
Population increase to the wider community.
These market will also be an almost entirely urban characteristics and our commitment to phenomenon.
The worlds urban population health and safety, theenvironment and is expected to increase by 84% between people development are reected in the 2009 and 2050: Asias urban population values held by our employees and our ispredicted to grow by 1.7 billion, Africas operating culture.
We review our by0.8 billion, and Latin America and the 15 responsibility and sustainability reporting Caribbeans by 0.2 billion.
Recent Urbanisation drives investment in nonlegislative changes, particularly concerning residential buildings like shops, ofces, the environment and bribery and corruption, schools and hospitals, the primary market have provided an opportunity to review for our Infrastructure Sensors businesses, andensure that our procedures in these while it also requires investment in utilities important areas are accessible, compliant such as Water, one of our target markets and rmly embedded within our businesses.
A detailed report on Corporate Responsibility is on pages 44 to 47.
