Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 04 Directors Report Business Review Our Our strategic Our growth strategy priorities drivers We aim to achieve high returns oninvested We are making the following key strategic Demand in each of our markets is capital and create shareholder value.
investments across the group to accelerate drivenbyone or more of the following Weoperate in relatively noncyclical, growth above market rates: long-term growth drivers: specialised global markets where Increasing demand for healthcare A cquisitions technology and application know-how Increasing demand for energy and water Innovation products and process provide the opportunity to generate growth Increasing urbanisation of population P eople development at sustainable high returns through strong Increasing health and safety regulation International expansion especially Asia competitive advantage.
Our chosen markets have significant barriers to entry.
Demand for our products is underpinned by longterm, resilient growth drivers.
We place our operational resources close toour customers through local, autonomous businesses.
Our Our organisational Our operational values structure culture A small head ofce team focuses on setting Our decentralised structure delivers real Our values help to ensure a consistent set the strategic framework and maintains competitive advantage.
Tactical decision of standards and behaviours throughout astandard process of financial planning, making takes place at operating company the Group.
This is particularly important reporting and control.
level by managers closest to markets given the Groups decentralised structure.
withthe ability to allocate resources.
Halmas 12 sub-sectors are composed Our core values are Achievement, Thisensures quick and agile responses of38autonomous operating companies, Innovation, Empowerment and Customer tomarket changes.
each with their own board of directors.
We encourage our employees These sub-sectors are grouped into Acquisition prospects are attracted by our to act fairly in their dealings withfellow operating divisions, each chaired by a operating culture which affords them the employees, customers, suppliers and Halma Divisional Chief Executive DCE, autonomy they are accustomed to while business partners.
responsible for its own growth.
providing access, amongst other things, tonew markets and technology via the DCEs understand the market needs of their Groups collective resources.
companies and contribute broadly to their strategies.
Through regular interaction between Executive Board members, common challenges and opportunities areidentied.
