Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28 Directors Report Business Review Sector Reviews: Health and Analysis continued Health Optics Devices used to assess eye health, diagnose disease, assist with eye surgery and for general medical applications.
Performance R&D is focused on projects to develop Health Optics Our Photonics business comfortably instruments marketed to existing Market trends and growth drivers exceeded all sectoral KPI targets delivering customers.
We are broadening health New diagnostic and therapeutic record revenue and profit.
Reecting the opticsproduct lines with new products technologies, ageing populations and rapid pace of technological innovation in tomaximise the value of our highly greater access to healthcare in the thissub-sector, Photonics R&D spending developed sales channels.
A new family developing world continued to drive growth was over 7% of sales.
Successful integration ofophthalmic diagnostic products, due in our Health Optics markets.
In the USA, oftheSphereOptics business, acquired forlaunch in 2011, has been created by the largest ophthalmic market, annual inJanuary 2010 continued.
collaborative R&D between two of our 9 growth of 3% to 4% isforecast over the Health Optics businesses.
Weexpect further growth from newproduct Performance We expect strong growth in South East launches in 2011 and we should benefit In Health Optics we achieved record sales Asiaas governments increase healthcare from the high growth forecast for the and profit.
Sales growth was particularly investment.
The Chinese market for solid-state low energy lighting LED strong in South East Asia.
medical devices was estimated to 8 market.
Strong Asian sales growth should 10 havegrown by over 13% during 2010.
Outlook continue and we expect increasing returns Evenin developing markets, increasingly We expect our Health Optics businesses from our Chinese photonics manufacturing stringent, complex and costly medical tocontinue to grow ahead of their markets.
Inthe USA and Europe, product certication procedures create Growth will come from export channel governments will cut spending in 2012 and strong market entry barriers which investment, market expansion in South East we expect lower sales growth in these favourour market-leading brands.
Asia and Latin America and new products.
We expect the newly acquired Medicel Strategy business to continue its recent growth Geographic expansion remains key to our trajectory as their OEM customers grow Health Optics growth strategy with a strong andas demand for their market-leading focus on South East Asia, China, India and cataract surgery instruments increases.
Recently we set up a health optics sales and distribution company in Other So Paulo, Brazil.
We acquired a key US Volumatic, our small cash handling distributor in March 2011 to grow sales in business, increased both revenue and profit.
North America at a faster rate.
Market focus Wireless lighting colour measurement Our ColorBug product measures colour valuesand brightness in theatrical, studio andarchitectural lighting applications.
Itssoftware allows technicians to wirelessly sharedata with their iPhone or iPad, making lighting colour analysis simple and convenient.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Fluid Technology Critical components suchas pumps, probes, valves, connectors andgas conditioning products used by scientific, environmental and medical diagnostic OEMs for demanding applications.
Global Water Intelligence, Strategy Fluid Technology March 2010.
The key strategic direction for our US-based 2 Market trends and growth drivers World Water Disinfection Products: Industry Study Fluid Technology businesses is geographic We saw continued growth in the medical withForecasts for 2014 & 2019.
Freedonia Group, diversication in line with their customer February 2011. diagnostic sector despite customer 3 base.
They will become less US-centric Future water and sewerage charges 201015: consolidation leading to some pricing Finaldeterminations, OFWAT.
byexpanding sales in Europe and Asia.
A continuous stream of new 4 The Drinking Water Directive, EU.
5 diagnostic tests developed by our OEM With the acquisition of Alicat scientific The Ministry of Water Resources, China, 5 Year Plan.
6 China Issues New Regulation on Water Management, customers drives growth in the medical andAccudynamics, our uid technology WorldWatch Institute.
Predictive target markets have broadened and 7 Spectroscopy market: Outlook positive.
com, medicine, in particular analysis of genetic ourpotential acquisition pool is larger.
8 DNA sequences, offers good sales Alicatgives us greater exposure to the High-Brightness LED: Market Review and Forecast prospects and this niche could deliver 5% of scientific analysis market, particularly 2010.
9 The Future of Ophthalmic Devices, Market Forecasts total uid technology sales during 2011 12. laboratories and niche industrial and Growth Opportunities to 2016 The Vision Care The scientific analysis market stabilised and applications.
Accudynamics consolidates Segment Emerges as a Key Revenue Generator.
our position inclinical diagnostics, and GBIResearch, March 2010.
10 givesus a platform to offer customers The Medical Device Market: China.
11 Visual impairment and blindness, Fact Sheet N282.
We began to manufacture uidics World Health Organisation, April 2011.
12 2010 Comprehensive Report on the Global Cataract components in China during 2010 which has Surgical Equipment Market.
Marketscope LLC, underpinned entry into the Chinese market.
13 Performance Cataract Surgery Global Pipeline Analysis, Opportunity Assessment And Market Forecasts Our Fluid Technology businesses achieved To2016.
GlobalData, November 2010. record organic sales and profit growth.
AllFluid Technology companies achieved record sales in China.
Outlook The scientific analysis market is recovering post-recession albeit at a slower rate than medical markets.
With enlarged sales teams and expanded product offerings weexpect continued growth in the Fluid Technology sub-sector.
Recent R&D investment will also grow market share andenable entry to more non-US markets.
Market focus Recentlyacquired Medicel AG is aworld Cataract operations rise leader in specialist cataract surgery The acquisition of Medicel AG extends instruments.
The global market for ourophthalmic surgery interests.
cataract surgical equipment is forecast to 12 Throughout the world cataracts are the grow by 80% between 2010 and 2015 primary cause of vision loss among people driven by improving surgical techniques, aged 55 and over.
In many developing increasing affordability of healthcare and countries cataracts are themain cause of rising demand in emerging economies like 11 blindness.
India where over vemillion cataract 13 operations areperformed every year.
Halma p. l. c.  30 Directors Report BusinessReview Sector Reviews Infrastructure Sensors What we do Sector performance Sector Group KPIs  performance target x 1  Revenuegrowth 8% 5% 1 .
Profitgrowth 10% 5% 2 ReturnonSales 19.8% 18% 3 ROCE 80% 45% 4 R&D%ofRevenue 4.9% 4% 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are Sector growth drivers compared tothe equivalent prior year figure.
5  2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted profit before finance expense andtaxation expressed asapercentage of sector revenue.
 5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sectoroperating netassets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sectorrevenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangibles and acquisition costs.
NewZealand 26% Strategic summary Achievements Directions % Sustainorganicgrowth %  24%revenuegrowthinChina     Bolt-onacquisitions industrial,  014338 Halma AR11 Rev v23.
indd 30 21 06 2011 13:54 Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Fire Detection Security Sensors Fire and smoke Security sensors detectorsand audible andsignals used in visual warning devices.
Market manufacturer of leadersin the UK.
pointsmoke detectors usedinpublic and commercialproperty.
Investment in international Fire Detection Fire Detection Security Sensors product approvals and innovation in new Market trends and growth drivers Market trends and growth drivers products and technology platforms will Legislation remains the strongest growth After two years of recession, demand for continue to underwrite market share driver in the Fire Detection market.
intruder sensors is forecast toreturn to growth, competitive advantage and good Standards governing the installation, growth during 2011 with strongest demand margins.
Further investment inour 3 maintenance and servicing of re products in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
businesses and extension of sales coverage are extensive and may differ even within a Improved sensor technologies are driving in emerging markets will aid organic single country at national, regional and city upgrades to intruder detection systems and growth.
We will continue to seek level.
As the European Union enlarges, the the trend towards integration of building acquisitions that enhance our product and newly admitted states will be governed by management systems.
EU re codes creating a growing, intruder alarm market is migrating to regulation-driven market.
Almost one-third of FireDetection achieved record revenue and A combination of increasingly strict our security sensor revenue growth in profit.
Despite challenging market legislation, new technology and a slight 2010 11 came from new battery-powered conditions, we grew market share strongly recovery in building construction is wireless products.
in the UK and made significant gains in expected to stimulate re industry growth Europe.
Wecontinue to innovate and launch in2011 after reduced capital investment exciting new products.
Asia is expected to deliver significant growth: amendments to Outlook Chinas re laws have stimulated demand We anticipate a continuation of current with market expansion estimated at 12.9% demand trends for Fire Detection in the 2 per year between 2009 and 2014. short to medium term as many economies gradually recover from recession.
Our Strategy businesses are positioned to gain market Our primary strategy in Fire Detection is share due to technology leadership, our world leadership in safety-critical sensor portfolio of worldwide product approvals products for infrastructure monitoring in and penetration of new regional markets.
Our market-leading products eliminate hazards and protect buildings and their occupants.
