Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 46 Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued From April 2010, we have worked with Periodically we complete a survey of Employee consultation aprovider of energy efficiency and employees to determine whether our core The Group places considerable value on carbonreduction solutions to ensure values are authentic in our organisation.
theinvolvement of its employees and has compliance with the new Carbon Reduction continued to keep them informed on The survey establishes the values individual Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme matters affecting them as employees employees wish to see in our operating CRC, which is the UKs mandatory andon the various factors affecting the culture and to what extent they exist in climatechange and energy saving scheme, performance of the Group.
This is achieved ourcurrent culture.
and administered by the Environment through formal and informal meetings, the In 2006, our survey of senior managers Agency.
We are well on track to be in full Group intranet and the annual financial showed that five of the values they wanted compliance with the CRC requirements.
Employee representatives are tosee in our business were actually Already we have rolled out Automatic consulted routinely on a wide range of present.
Again in 2011, our survey of senior MeterReading AMR technology to the matters affecting their current and future managers showed that five desired values majority of UK sites.
An employee share plan has been were still present in our business.
This UKsites received an energy survey and set running successfully since 1980.
It is open to indicates that there is a healthy level of an action plan for improved energy usage.
all UK employees and aligns the interests of alignment between the culture we aspire This initiative is backed up by specialist all UK employees to those of shareholders.
tohave and the culture we have today.
carbon management software and Health and safety comprehensive training on its use.
No survey is capable of capturing all the The Group manages its activities to avoid appropriate sentiments, but our executives, Our carbon policy can be found on the causing any unnecessary or unacceptable who regularly visit all Group companies, Halma website.
The Groups environmental risks to health and safety to our employees agree that observable and valuable performance will continue to be reported in the work place or to the public as a result improvements in the Group culture both in the Annual report and on of our activities.
The policy is understood haveoccurred over recent years.
byall Group companies and was reinforced during the year through improved guidance The Group will continue to monitor the The Group is committed to examining and reporting following a comprehensive survey results to enable us to better support theestablishment of green procurement review led by an external expert.
The our people bringing these values and policies and increasing our use of recycled reporting of Health and Safety incidents strengths to work so that they and we materials.
andcorrective action where needed has mayderive further benefit from them.
been give an even higher prole.
Given Halma and its people Disabled employees theautonomous structure of the Group, The Group has a policy of equal Applications for employment by disabled operational responsibility for compliance opportunities and preventing harassment, persons are always fully considered, with relevant local health and safety which applies in relation to recruitment of bearing in mind the aptitudes of the regulations is delegated to the board all new employees and to the management applicant concerned.
In the event of ofdirectors of each Group company.
This gives us access members of staff becoming disabled, Webelieve health and safety training to the widest labour market and enables us everyeffort is made to ensure that their isimportant and it is carried out within to secure the best employees for our needs.
employment with the Group continues and companies as appropriate.
Adequate We offer all of our staff training relevant to that appropriate training is arranged.
It is internal reporting exists in order that the their roles and we believe that this the policy of the Group that the training, Groups Finance Director may monitor contributes to an increase in employee career development and promotion of eachcompanys compliance with this policy.
The culture disabled persons should, as far as possible, Major injuries recorded 2011 2010 2009 alignment survey results mentioned below be identical to that of other employees.
Days lost due to support this trend.
work-related injuries 455 133 706 Total recorded injuries to all employees 505 233 496 The Group has collected details of its worldwide reported health and safety incidents which are available on our website at www.
We are pleased to report that there were no fatalities during 2010 11, 2009 10 or 2008 09.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 People development 12 programmes have now been completed Responsible investment The Halma Executive Development and the success of the programme can Investing in Halma shares meets the Programme HEDP, which is based on bemeasured by the enthusiasm of the criteria of many professional and private ourrecognition of the fundamental part participants upon their return to their investors who base their decisions ourpeople play in the success of the Group, businesses, the achievements of a number onenvironmental, ethical and social continued to strengthen in 2010 11.
HEDP of participants and their eagerness to considerations.
The Group is a world isan integrated development plan for our coordinate further sessions to explore leaderin several key environmental senior people including the next topics of particular interest to their technologies and has a reputation for generation of Managing Directors and programme Group.
honesty and integrity in its relationships Divisional Chief Executives.
Our objective Now that a significant proportion of with employees, customers, business isto provide these individuals with the tools executives have completed HEDP, a follow partners and shareholders.
and training to achieve more in their existing up programme, HEDP, has been developed Social conditions can be improved for all role and potentially to advance through the to provide updated training and to reinforce through the creation of wealth.
Halma organisation if their achievements merit it.
creates wealth responsibly allowing our Training 2011 2010 2009 employees, customers, business partners Complementing the HEDP is a programme Cumulative number of and shareholders to determine where this for subsidiary managers and supervisors candidates that have wealth is best distributed.
the Halma Management Development completed HEDP 166 152 113 Programme HMDP.
During the year, three Halmas policies reect the core Cumulative number of programmes were completed giving a requirements of the Universal Declaration candidates that have cumulative total of 319 employees who have completed HMDP 319 277 206 of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration completed HMDP.
Programmes were held onFundamental Principles and Rights at HEDP is aimed squarely at employees in the USA, Europeand Asia.
We do not tolerate practices which already serving on subsidiary boards but contravene these international standards.
In 2011, we introduced a new programme wealso encourage applications from senior targeted at our technical engineers to equip Regulatory demands upon us vary functional managers who can demonstrate them with a broader understanding of considerably around the world, so Halma they already have equivalent responsibilities Halmas technology, improve their establishes the core structure to ensure and will benefit from the programme.
productivity and provide specic skills that Group companies fully comply with Thereare approximately 200 such eligible training in areas such as project legislative and regulatory requirements employees in total.
One such programme with while permitting them to tailor the solutions 20 participants has been completed with The programme has been developed from to their particular needs.
aproven course structure and is specifically Ethics and continuously tailored to suit Halmas The Group culture is one of openness, Community needs, aligning the content to the Groups integrity and accountability.
Halma In line with our decentralised structure, social four core values of Achievement, Innovation, encourages its employees to act fairly in their and community activities are sponsored and Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction.
dealings with fellow employees, customers, undertaken at the direction of subsidiary It focuses strongly on strategic and suppliers and business partners.
Each subsidiary has the leadership capabilities and developing have suppliers of high quality and operate to freedom to implement its own initiatives.
personal attributes commitment, accepted international standards.
Halma This approach recognises that priorities determination and resilience.
There is an operates a condential whistleblowing policy, willvary from business to business.
emphasis on performance management which enables all Group employees to raise and team development.
It includes skillany concerns they may have.
based elements such as sales and marketing management, project leadership, Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on corporate governance, finance and bribery and corruption which extends to all innovation, but all are presented in a business dealings and transactions in which strategic context.
This includes a prohibition on making political donations, offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments to influence the outcome of business dealings.
Policy and guidance inthis area continues to be updated in line with best practice.
Cautionary note The Business review has been prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Boards strategies and their potential to succeed.
It should not be relied onby any other party, for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up until the date that they approved the Report.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48 Directors Report Governance Name: Geoff Unwin Name: Andrew Williams Name: Kevin Thompson Title: Chairman Title: Chief Executive Title: Finance Director Appointment: July 2003 Chairman Appointment: July 2004 Board Appointment: April 1998 Board September 2002 Deputy Chairman April2002 Executive Board January 1995 Executive Board Age: 68 Age: 44 Age: 51 Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: Nomination Chairman and Nomination Remuneration Skills and experience: Geoff is Skills and experience: Andrew was Skills and experience: Kevin is Chairman of Taptu Limited, a appointed Chief Executive of Halma Finance Director of Halma.
In1995 Non-voting Board Director of p. l. c. in February 2005.
He became hejoined the Halma Executive Board Capgemini Group, amember of the amember of the Halma Executive as Finance Director, in 1997 became Advisory Board of Palamon Capital Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief Group Finance Director and in 1998 Partners and also chairs one of their Executive of the Optics and Water was appointed to the Halma p. l. c. investments, Retail Decisions Limited.
Instrumentation Division and was Board.
He joined Halma in 1987 Previously he was Chief Executive of promoted to a Director of the Halma asGroup Financial Controller and Cap Gemini Ernst & Young until 2002, p. l. c. Board in 2004.
He joined Halma qualied as a Chartered Accountant Chairman of United Business Media in 1994 as Manufacturing Director with Price Waterhouse.
Kevin is an plc from 2002 to 2007, Alliance ofReten Acoustics now HWM-Water economics and accounting graduate Medical Group until December 2010 and became Managing Director of Bristol University.
Andrew isaChartered Engineer and a production engineering graduate ofBirmingham University.
Name: Jane Aikman Name: Norman Blackwell Name: Steve Marshall Title: Non-executive Director Title: Non-executive Director Title: Non-executive Director Appointment: August 2007 Appointment: July 2010 Appointment: July 2010 Age: 45 Age: 58 Age: 53 Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: Audit Chairman Remuneration and Audit Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Skills and experience: Jane was Skills and experience: Norman was Skills and experience: Steve was appointed a non executive Director of appointed a non-executive Director appointed a non-executive Director Halma in August 2007.
Sheis Finance ofHalma in July 2010.
He is Director of Innis Limited.
Jane non-executive Chairman of Interserve non-executive Chairman of Balfour qualied as a Chartered Accountant Plc, Senior Independent Director at Beatty plc.
He is a former chairman with Ernst & Young and has a degree Standard Life Plc and a non-executive ofDelta plc, Queens Moat Houses plc in civil engineering from Birmingham director of Ofcom, the communications and Torex Retail plc as well as a University.
He is also a non-executive former non-executive director at finance director of both Wilson Commissioner of Postcomm.
His past Southern Water Services Limited.
Bowden Plc and Pressac plc.
business roles have included Senior Hewas Group Chief Executive Shespent three years as an internal Independent Director at SEGRO plc, ofRailtrack Group plc and prior audit manager with GEC Alsthom Director of Group Development at tothatThorn plc, having also andve years in East Asia with NatWest Group and Partner at servedasFinance Director at AsiaPulp and Paper Co Limited.
His earlier career asHead of the Prime Ministers includeda wide range of corporate PolicyUnit from 1995 to 1997 and and operational roles at Grand wassubsequently Chairman of the Metropolitan plc, Burton Group, Independent Centre for Policy Studies Black& Decker and BOC Group.
from 2000 to 2009 where he remains Heisa fellow of the Chartered aboard member.
He was created Institute of Management Accountants.
