YeAr in review The 2011 year saw Allied Gold put in place the operational performance building blocks for a growing, maturing and profitable Allied Gold produced 108,338 ounces in 2011, a gold company.
55 per cent increase on the previous year.
The The first gold pour at Gold Ridge Solomon Islands production contribution from Simberi was 57,284 and the listing on the Main Market of the London ounces and Gold Ridge 51,054 ounces, however Gold Stock Exchange were among the highlights.
Ridge only poured its first gold in March 2011 and for most of the year was in its commissioning phase.
The on-time on-budget delivery of Gold Ridge in 2011 was important in diversifying the companys Simberi recently celebrated four years of production production and cashflows, thereby reducing risks.
Later this year Allied It also marks a subtle but significant change in Gold will complete a feasibility study examining an management emphasis.
expansion of processing capacity at Simberi to enable treatment of sulphide ore, which would lift production The commercial and project delivery skills to approximately 250,000 ozpa.
demonstrated in the development of both Simberi and Gold Ridge are now being complemented with This highlights how from modest beginnings assets greater operational expertise to support each site, like Simberi can grow and develop.
We expect Gold lock in production consistency and drive costs lower.
The Company remains committed to the safety of its At Gold Ridge, the first gold pour was a significant employees and contractors.
Throughout 2011 the achievement for the company, but also the local land Companys environmental and safety management owners, the broader community and the Solomon systems were proven to be effective in monitoring and Islands which had waited more than a decade for the managing safety and environmental risks.
The gold pour was almost 12 months to the day after the start of refurbishment activities.
2 ALLIED GOLD MINING PLC 200,000 ounces in 2013.
Cash costs are expected to Investing in the Future decline towards $850 oz as the 200,000 ozpa run Allied Gold Mining Plc reported a loss of US$5.9 rate is achieved.
million for the 12 months to 31 December 2011.
Like many companies in a development and expansion Community Support phase this result reflects in part a heavy investment in On behalf of the Board of Directors, we would like to growth for the future.
Allied spent US$116m on plant thank our staff, contractors and shareholders for their expansion, development and exploration in 2011.
Its support throughout the year.
capex profile in 2012 is more modest.
The Company has a robust balance sheet.
As at 31 To the people of Simberi and Guadalcanal, on behalf December 2011 it had $21m in cash and $55m of of the Company and its staff, we send our thanks for borrowings and since balance date, gold sales and your openness and hospitality.
We still have much to debt refinancing have seen the cash balance rise to achieve together.
$41 million at the end of February.
The year ahead holds much promise and should see This provides a sufficient buffer for the capital works the unlocking of the inherent underlying value of the programme of the year ahead, most or which is tied Company's assets.
The Company should deliver an to lowering unit operating costs at Simberi through a exciting and rewarding period for Shareholders, with changeover from diesel fuel to heavy fuel oil and the increased production, reduced costs and improved production expansion to 100,000 ozpa.
We look forward to keeping you up to date with that progress.
outlook During 2012 the Company expects to produce Mark Caruso - Non Executive Chairman 180,000 ounces, and will complete its expansion Frank Terranova - CEO and Managing Director plans at Simberi by year end.
Following completion of the expansion, the Company expects to produce 3
