corporAte equity Raising, Share Consolidation, executive Management lSe listing In parallel with listing of the Companys shares on the LSE main Market, Mr Mark Caruso the former Executive In April 2011, Allied Gold Limited raised gross proceeds Chairman of Allied Gold Limited was appointed Non of A$93.8 million UK GBP 60.3 million through an Executive Chairman of Allied Gold Mining Plc.
equity raising in the UK, Australia and North America.
The funds were used for project expansion initiatives Mr Frank Terranova, the former Chief Financial Officer and working capital.
of Allied Gold Limited was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Allied Gold Mining plc.
In April the Company also announced its plan to migrate from the London AIM market to a Premium uS$80 million Gold prepayment Facility Listing on the London Stock Exchanges Main Market.
Debt Repayment Shareholder and option holder meetings were held on 6 On 30 December 2011, the Group entered into a 3-year June 2011 approving a number of resolutions including US$80 million gold prepayment facility.
The facility was drawn down on 3 January 2012 and was As part of the Schemes, one new Allied Gold Mining used to repay the Company's US$55 million in financing Plc share was issued for every six old Allied Gold facilities provided by the International Finance Corporation Limited shares.
and the Bank of South Pacific, with the balance of the Allied Gold Mining Plc shares began trading on the LSE funds providing substantial liquidity for the Group as it Main Market on 30 June 2011. completes its expansion projects.
sAfetY And environment Through all phases of its projects, care of the physical Safety and environment and cultural environment has been a core priority The Company is committed to achieving a safe and for the Company.
The Companys Environmental healthy work environment for all of its employees, Management Plans and associated permits require contractors, partners and visitors.
This commitment regular monitoring and reporting on the impact is reflected in the Simberi operation passing more on the environment of the Companys operations.
than three million man hours free of lost time injuries The Company has complied with, and continues to in November 2011. comply with all of its environmental obligations.
The Company works to achieve continuous improvement 2011 Manhours 2011 LTI's in environmental performance and in this regard plans in 2012 to install a cyanide detoxification system at Simberi 2,454,593 0 Simberi and to enhance the tailings dam monitoring Gold Ridge 2,074,476 1 systems at Gold Ridge.
Combined 4,529,069 1 Allied Gold Mining Plc 16
