Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration report is set out under the following main headings A.
Principles used to determine the nature and amount of remuneration B.
Details of remuneration C. Share-based compensation D. Additional Information In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the following sections of the Remuneration Report have been subject to audit: B Details of remuneration and C Share based compensation.
The remaining sections of the Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
Principles used to determine the nature and amount of remuneration The objective of the Groups remuneration framework is to attract and retain executives of sufficient calibre to facilitate the efficient and effective management of the Groups operations and to ensure that executive remuneration is competitive and appropriate for the results delivered.
The Board reviews the remuneration packages of all Directors and executive officers on an annual basis and makes recommendations regarding the structure and value of those packages.
Remuneration packages are reviewed with due regard to competitiveness, performance, alignment with shareholders interests, capital management and other relevant factors.
The remuneration framework provides a mix of fixed and at risk compensation.
The remuneration framework is aligned to shareholders interests through: incentive payments, having as a core component growth in shareholder wealth, through growth in share price: incentive payments focusing on the production of gold, a key non-financial driver of economic profit: and attracting and retaining high calibre executives.
The Board has established a Remuneration and Nomination Committee which provides advice on remuneration and incentive policies and practices and specific recommendations on remuneration packages and other terms of employment for Executive Directors, other senior executives and NonExecutive Directors.
The Executive Directors are not present for any discussions relating to determination of their own remuneration.
NonExecutive Directors Fees payable to NonExecutive Directors reflect the demands which are made on, and the responsibilities of, the individual Director.
NonExecutive Directors fees and payments are reviewed annually by the Board.
During the period one NonExecutive Director received share options in accordance with a resolution approved by shareholders of Allied Gold Limited at its extraordinary general meeting on June 6, 2011.
Directors fees are denominated in Australian dollars AUD$.
The current base remuneration for NonExecutive Directors of AUD$110,000 per annum was last reviewed with effect from 1 November 2011.
In addition NonExecutive Directors receive additional fees per annum for serving on Board Committees as follows: Chairman Member Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee AUD$15,000 AUD$7,000 Remuneration and Nomination Committee AUD$8,000 AUD$5,000 Mr Harvey receives an additional AUD$15,000 per annum for acting as the Senior Independent Director.
Page | 43 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 NonExecutive Directors fees are determined within an aggregate Directors fee pool limit.
The fee pool limit at the commencement of the current year of AUD$500,000 was approved by shareholders of Allied Gold Limited at the Annual General Meeting on November 28, 2008.
On June 30, 2011 the fee pool limited was superseded by the Articles of Association of the new holding Company of the Group, Allied Gold Mining PLC.
The new pool limit allows for aggregate fees of GBP2 million.
Executive pay Executives are offered a competitive base pay that consists of fixed components plus incentive payments that are payable at the Boards discretion.
Base pay for senior executives is reviewed annually to ensure each executives pay is competitive with the market.
The executive remuneration framework has three components: base pay and benefits, including superannuation.
short term cash based incentives available to nominated executives based on Key Performance Indicators and by board discretion: and long term incentives through participation in the Employee Option Plan.
No awards were made under the Employee Option Plan during the reporting period as the Board is considering the implementation of a revised long term incentive framework.
Base pay Total base pay, including superannuation, can be structured as a total employment package which may be delivered as a combination of cash and prescribed non-financial benefits at the individual executives discretion.
Base pay for Executive Directors and senior management is reviewed annually to ensure market competitiveness or any change in the executives role and responsibilities.
There are no guaranteed base pay increases included in any remuneration contracts for Executive Directors or senior management.
Performance related bonuses In order to retain and incentivise the Executive Directors and Senior Management, performance related bonuses, as approved by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, are awarded based on the performance of the Company and the individual for the period under review.
To date, the Group has grown rapidly by the acquisition and development of gold projects.
In this context the Board has been of the view that rather than set static targets, it was in the best interests of the Group to assess performance based on achievements in relation to the acquisition and development of those gold projects and achievement of the Groups other strategic development goals.
Bonuses granted during the reporting period were therefore based on a subjective assessment of the performance of the Company and the individual.
In the current period the Company awarded the following performance related bonuses to Directors: A bonus of A$200,000 US$214,840 was awarded to Mr Caruso in June 2011 whilst he was the Executive Chairman for successfully bringing the Gold Ridge into production on time in March 2011.
A bonus of A$250,000 US$268,550 was awarded to Mr Terranova for successfully bringing Gold Ridge into production on time in March 2011, the successful completion of the Groups April 2011 equity raising and the successful listing of the Companys shares on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
However, now that the Group has now successfully brought two gold projects into commercial production and has built a platform from which it can achieve its stated production growth profile, the Board and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee have commenced, in conjunction with management and external consultants, the design of a remuneration structure for all employees, including Executive Directors.
It is anticipated that this remuneration structure will incorporate long term and short term incentive payments based on attainment of certain key operational deliverables, financial performance and Page | 44
