Allied Gold Mining PLC Directors report December 31, 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their reports, together with the Financial Statements of Allied Gold Mining PLC the Company and its subsidiaries Allied Gold or the Group for the year ended December 31, 2011 the period.
Allied Gold Mining PLC is incorporated and registered as a public limited Company in the United Kingdom.
The Companys registered office is in London and it is listed on the main market for listed securities Main Market of the London Stock Exchange PLC LSE under the symbol ALD.
On June 30, 2011, Allied Gold Limited, a Company incorporated in Australia, successfully implemented the Share and Option Schemes of Arrangement whereby Allied Gold Mining PLC, a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom, became the holding Company of the Group.
Under the Schemes of Arrangement, Allied Gold Limiteds shares and options on issue as at June 30, 2011 were exchanged on a six for one basis for Allied Gold Mining PLC shares and options.
Allied Gold Mining PLC was admitted to the premium listing segment of the official list of the UK Listing Authority and commenced trading on the Main Market on June 30, 2011.
All disclosures of shares and options in the report reflect this change as though the six for one exchange had always been in place.
The implementation of the Schemes of Arrangement has had the following effects on the information presented in these reports: o The Company has adopted a financial year end of December 31.
Previously the Group had a financial year end of June 30.
The financial information presented in the financial statements therefore relates to the financial year commencing January 1, 2011 and ending December 31, 2011. o Notwithstanding that the Company acquired control of the Group on June 30, 2011: the Group has applied merger accounting principles such that the information in the financial statements is presented as if the Company has been the holding Company of the Group since its formation.
o To ensure consistency between the Directors reports and the financial information the information in the Directors reports is also presented as if the Company has been the holding Company of the Group since its formation.
o The Group is now required to comply with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU-IFRS.
Previously the Group complied with Australian equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards.
At the time of preparation of this report there were no significant differences between the two frameworks.
o Subsequent to the restructuring, the Group has adopted the United States dollar as its functional currency for financial reporting purposes.
o Additional information on the application of merger accounting and the change in the Groups functional currency is provided in note 2 b to the Companys consolidated financial report.
o Given the implementation of the new corporate structure, all shares and options holdings have been transferred to Allied Gold Mining PLC.
All disclosures of shares and options in the report reflect this change and the six for one consolidation that occurred pursuant to the restructuring.
Page | 18 Allied Gold Mining PLC Directors report December 31, 2011 Directors biographies The Directors of the Company in office at any time during or since the end of the financial period are named below.
Directors have been in office since the start of the financial period to the date of this report unless otherwise stated.
Name and qualifications Experience Mr. Mark V Caruso Mr. Caruso has extensive experience in mining, earthmoving and civil NonExecutive Chairman engineering construction earthworks.
Mr Caruso has served as Managing Director of the Mine Site Construction Services business since February 1991 Appointed May 26, 2003 and served as Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Stock Exchange ASX listed Mineral Commodities Limited between September 2000 and Mr. Caruso was Executive May 2009 and was reappointed in July 2011.
Mr Caruso has been a Director Chairman of the Board until of Mineral Commodities Limited since September 2000.
June 30, 2011, at which time he moved to the Mr Caruso is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Former Directorships in last 3 years Nil.
Mr. Frank Terranova Mr. Terranova joined Allied Gold in May 2008 as Chief Financial Officer.
In Managing Director and June 2011 he was appointed as Managing Director and Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer Officer of the Allied Gold Group.
Mr Terranova is a Chartered Accountant with extensive experience in corporate finance and financial risk management Appointed December 10, predominantly within the mining and manufacturing industries.
He has held 2008 many senior finance positions for various ASX listed corporations predominantly within the mining and manufacturing sectors.
Mr Terranova was appointed Chief Executive Former Directorships in last 3 years Officer and Managing Nil.
Mr. T Sean Harvey Mr. Harvey has over 10 years investment banking and merchant banking NonExecutive Director experience, primarily focused on the mining sector.
He is currently NonExecutive Chairman of Andina Minerals Inc. Victoria Gold Corporation, M. A. Econ, MBA, LLB Serabi Gold plc and Sarama Resources Limited and is a NonExecutive Director of Perseus Mining Limited.
Mr. Harvey has consecutively held Appointed March 11, 2010 positions as President and CEO of Atlantico Gold, TVX Gold and Orvana Minerals Corp. Mr. Harvey is Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and is the Groups Senior Independent Director.
Former Directorships in last 3 years Non-Executive Director of Moto Goldmines Limited and Nord Resources Corporation and Polaris Geothermal Inc.
Page | 19 Allied Gold Mining PLC Directors report December 31, 2011 Name and qualifications Experience Mr. Montague House Mr House is the owner manager of an extensive grain and sheep farming NonExecutive Director business in Western Australia.
Mr House was previously a Member of Parliament in Western Australia, having been elected in 1986, 1989, 1993, Appointed March 4, 2009 1996 and 2001.
He was elected as Deputy Leader of the National Party in 1988.
During his tenure as a Member of Parliament, Mr House was for eight years a Minister of the Crown and was a member of various Parliamentary Committees including the Public Accounts Committee.
Mr Houses experience includes being Chairman of Gemstar Diamonds and Central European Bio-Fuels.
Mr House is currently Chairman of LandCorp Western Australia and External Affairs Director of Latent Petroleum.
Mr House is a member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
Mr House is the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee and a member of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
Former Directorships in last 3 years Chairman of Landgate Western Australia.
Mr. Anthony Lowrie Mr. Lowrie has considerable corporate and finance experience, NonExecutive Director encompassing over 35 years association with the equities business.
He was a partner with Hoare Govett London from 1976 until 1986 when it was sold to Appointed March 9, 2007 Security Pacific.
He then became a member of the main board of Security Pacific Hoare Govett for a period from 1986 to 1991.
He led a management buyout of Asian Equities in 1991 and became chairman of HG Asia Securities in 1991.
Mr Lowrie held this position until HG Asia Securities was sold to ABN AMRO Bank in 1996 at which point he assumed the role of Chairman for ABN AMRO Asia Securities until 2004.
Mr Lowrie was also formerly a managing director of ABN AMRO Bank.
He has served as a NonExecutive director in several quoted Asian closed end funds and is a NonExecutive Director of the Edinburgh Dragon Fund and Kenmare Resources PLC.
Mr. Lowrie is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
Former Directorships in last 3 years ABN AMRO Bank Limited.
NonExecutive Director of JD Wetherspoon PLC.
Mr. Gregory H Steemson Mr. Steemson is a qualified geologist and geophysicist with an extensive background in exploration and the development and management of mining NonExecutive Director projects.
Appointed June 14, 2005 Former Directorships in last 3 years Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mineral Commodities Limited from Resigned August 16, 2011 May 7, 2009 until March 31, 2010.
