Directors report | governance corporATe governAnce reporT ContInUed 1 2 3 4 b 1.
Alan Thomson biographies, skills and contributions Chairman, 64 the effectiveness of the Board and its committees is determined by appointed Chairman of the Board and of the nomination Committee the qualities and experience of the individual directors.
on 10 november 2010 having been appointed as a non-executive the non-executive directors bring an independent view to the Boards director on 1 october 2010. alan graduated with an ma degree in discussions and the development of the Companys strategy.
their history and economics from Glasgow University.
he is currently range of skills and experience ensures that the performance of Chairman of Bodycote plc, the international provider of thermal management in achieving the business goals is appropriately processing services and a non-executive director of alstom sa, the challenged.
they also ensure that financial controls and systems of French power generation, rail transportation and electrical transmission risk management are both rigorous and appropriate for the needs equipment manufacturer.
he is immediate past President of the of the business.
Institute of Chartered accountants of scotland and was formerly the senior Independent director and audit Committee Chairman of the following profiles demonstrate the range of experience, Johnson matthey plc and Group Finance director of smiths Group plc.
independent judgement and contribution each director brings to the Board.
Alistair cox Chief executive, 50 appointed to the Board on 1 september 2007 and became Chief boArd experience executive on 15 november 2007. alistair is a Chartered engineer and has an mBa from the stanford Business school in California.
he began his career at British aerospace before moving to schlumberger in 1982.
Financial management 4 after graduating from business school in 1991 he worked for mcKinsey 7 Governance risk & Company before joining Blue Circle Industries latterly called lafarge 3 management Group in 1994, where he was Group strategy director, leading to his human resources 1 appointment as Regional director for asia.
he then became Chief 2 International executive at Xansa plc in 2002 before joining hays.
alistair is a nonInvestor relations executive director of 3i Group plc.
marketing 5 8 strategy 3. paul venables Group Finance director, 49 appointed Group Finance director on 2 may 2006.
he previously worked for exel plc for 13 years prior to the bALAnce of non-execUTive And execUTive direcTorS acquisition of exel plc by deutsche Post in december 2005. at exel he held a number of senior finance and operational roles, including deputy Group Finance director, a member of the executive board of exel plc 1 Chairman and Chairman of their acquisitions and Projects Review Board.
he executive directors joined hays from dhl logistics, a division of deutsche Post World net.
non-executive directors Paul is a non-executive director of Wincanton plc.
Lesley knox 5 independent Non-executive Director, 57 appointed non-executive director on 30 april 2002, she is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and senior Independent director.
lesley graduated in law from Cambridge University.
she went on to a career in merchant banking at Kleinwort Benson where she became a group director and was also head of Institutional asset management.
In 1999, she co-founded British linen advisers a specialist corporate finance adviser and remained as a director until 2002. she is Chairman of the 32 Directors report | governance 5 6 7 8 9 alliance trust plc, Chairman of Grosvenor Group limited, a trustee Company enhance the key skills within its global workforce and has of the Grosvenor estate, a non-executive director of saBmiller plc supported management in creating an industry-leading development and Chairman of design dundee limited.
lesley has provided strategic process for all levels of employees.
insight for the Companys business and has added clarity on the a, b, c 8. paul Stoneham views of investors in relation to the Companys performance and Independent non-executive director, 49 commercial and remuneration strategies.
having served as a director appointed non-executive director on 24 november 2004.
Paul holds for nine years this year, lesley will be stepping down from the Board a degree in sociology from the University of Western ontario and an following the conclusion of the annual General meeting to be held mBa from harvard University.
Previously he was President of Global on 9 november 2011. Business development at Colgate Palmolive, responsible for leading the a, b, c 5. william eccleshare oral Care, Personal Care and home Care global categories.
his earlier Independent non-executive director, 55 roles included managing director of Boots healthcare International and appointed non-executive director on 24 november 2004.
William he was a member of the Boots PlC executive Committee, President of graduated with a masters degree in history from Cambridge University.
alberto Culver International and various Procter & Gamble brand and he was previously Chairman and Ceo of Young & Rubicam emea and category management roles.
he is currently Chief executive officer of Wunderman emea, held senior executive roles at mcKinsey & ghd Group holdings ltd, a professional hair care company.
Paul is a key Company, where he was also a Partner, and was Chairman and Chief contributor to the Companys execution of strategy.
having led global executive of BBdo europe, where he was responsible for all BBdo companies as well as having worked and lived in five countries, he also advertising, direct marketing, digital and public relations agencies in brings an international perspective to the Boards discussions.
he is President and Chief executive of Clear Channel 9.
Alison Yapp International, the worlds largest outdoor advertising media owner.
Company secretary and General legal Counsel, 45 William played a major role in the development of the new hays brand appointed Company secretary and General legal Counsel on identity and continues to bring clarity on the Companys marketing 30 January 2006. alison qualified as a solicitor in 1990. she began her approach, especially across the Groups international markets.
career in private practice at turner Kenneth Brown, advising corporate a, b, c 6. paul harrison and commercial clients before moving in-house.
she has c. 20 years Independent non-executive director, 47 experience in industry within a number of international groups in the appointed non-executive director on 8 may 2007, he is Chairman of engineering, industrial and support services sectors.
she was previously the audit Committee.
he was a senior Company secretary and Group legal adviser of Charter plc now manager at Price Waterhouse, now  llP, and Charter International plc, an international engineering company, and was responsible for the provision of audit and advisory services to large prior to that held senior legal and secretarial positions in Johnson private and publicly listed companies.
he joined the sage Group plc as matthey plc and Cookson matthey Ceramics plc.
Group Financial Controller in 1997 and became its Group Finance all the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be director in april 2000. as finance director of a major technology and independent as detailed in the Code.
the letters of appointment for people-based international company, Paul brings considerable value non-executive directors are available for review at the Companys and thought to the audit Committee and the Board.
Registered office and prior to each annual general meeting.
a pro a, b. c 7. richard Smelt forma letter of appointment is available on the Companys website, Independent non-executive director, 54 haysplc.
appointed non-executive director on 15 november 2007.
Richard a audit Committee graduated in Psychology from leeds University, is a Fellow of the b nomination Committee Chartered Institute of Personnel and development and has an mBa c Remuneration Committee from the london Business school.
With over 30 years experience in hR management, he was Group human Resources director of Carphone Warehouse Group plc and Group human Resources director of northern Rock plc post nationalisation.
he currently has a portfolio of interests in private equity.
Richard has been influential in helping the 33 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011 Directors report | governance corporATe governAnce reporT ContInUed oUr governAnce frAmework OTHER SHAREHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS EXTERNAL AUDITOR NOMINATION COMMITTEE BOARD AUDIT INTERNAL COMMITTEE AUDIT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT CHIEF COMPANY GROUP BOARD EXECUTIVE SECRETARY COMPLIANCE GROUP POLICIES: Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy Financial Reporting Manual Group Policies and Procedures Manual the main functions of our governance framework are listed below, along with an overview of their responsibilities.
nomination Committee Internal audit Reviews the structure and composition of the Board and leads the process Facilitates the identification of risks and carries out reviews and testing for the identification and selection of new directors.
Further details on the of the controls that are in place to mitigate the risks.
Further details of activities of the nomination Committee are provided in the nomination the work of Internal audit are provided in the audit Committee Report Committee Report on page 41. on pages 42 and 43.
Remuneration Committee management Board determines and agrees with the Board the policy for the remuneration of Chaired by the Chief executive, this body is responsible for overseeing the Chairman, executive directors, Company secretary and selected senior operations in the Groups regions and the Group functional areas.
Further details on the Groups remuneration policy are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 and 50. audit Committee Group Functions ensures that the Company applies consistent financial reporting and these specific administrative functions are controlled centrally at Group internal control procedures and maintains an appropriate relationship level and report to the Board via various members of the management with the Companys auditor.
Further details on the activities of the audit Board.
For example, Finance, Investor Relations, Insurance, tax and Committee are provided in the audit Committee Report on pages 42 treasury report through the Group Finance director, and Compliance and43.
and environmental, health and safety report through the Company secretary.
Procedures are clearly defined to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce the risk profile of the organisation.
Company secretary Group Policies ensures good information flows for the Board and its committees and the Board is responsible for ensuring that adequate policies and between senior management and non-executive directors.
Facilitates the procedures are in place.
these are reviewed and amended as required induction of new directors and assists with professional development as to ensure that they remain in line with legislation and regulations and required.
ensures Board procedures are complied with and that applicable are sufficiently robust to ensure appropriate internal controls are rules and regulations are followed.
the Company secretary is available to maintained, whilst also providing a suitable framework for the all directors to provide advice and assistance, and is responsible for businesses and Group functions within which to operate.
providing governance advice to the Board.
34 Directors report | governance Terms of reference how the board operates the Board has agreed written terms of reference for each committee, the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company secretary, plans the which are available on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, and are agenda for each meeting, which is issued with supporting papers also available upon request from the Company secretary at the during the week preceding the meeting.
Board packs contain monthly Registered office.
during the year, each committee reviewed its terms management accounts, briefing papers on commercial and operational of reference to ensure that they remained in line with best practice matters and major capital projects, reports on relations with investors guidance and the Companys policies and practices.
Following the and updates on the implementation of key strategic plans.
reviews, minor changes were made to the terms of reference for the the programme for visits to operations in the UK and overseas is audit Committee to take into consideration the revised 2010 Institute agreed with the Chairman and scheduled by the Company secretary.
of Chartered secretaries and administrators ICsa Guidance for audit this provides the Board with the opportunity to broaden its Committees.
Changes were also made to the terms of reference for the understanding of the business and key markets year-on-year and to nomination Committee to include an annual review of the structure, size gain invaluable insights through direct contact with business managers and composition of the Board and to consider the benefits of diversity, and the operations.
including gender, when identifying suitable candidates in line with the a procedure exists for directors to take independent professional advice Code.
the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee were if necessary at the Companys expense.
all directors also have access to amended to take into account the requirements in the Code relating to the advice and services of the Company secretary.
risk and the Companys remuneration policy, addressing the recommendation that the performance criteria should reflect the matters reserved for the board Companys objectives and should include non-financial performance the following matters are reserved for the Board: metrics where appropriate.
Changes were also adopted to reflect the approving financial results and other financial, corporate and ICsa Guidance issued in october 2010 regarding committee governance matters: membership and termination payments which should reflect a directors duty to mitigate his or her loss.
approving material contracts: operational management structure approving Group strategy: Responsibility for the management and operations of the business approving appointments to the Board: is delegated to the Chief executive who operates through the management Board.
the management Board is chaired by the Chief Recommending dividends and deciding dividend policy: executive and consists of the Group Finance director, Regional Reviewing material litigation: managing directors, the Group hR director, the Group marketing director, the Group It director and the Company secretary and General approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: legal Counsel.
Clear levels of authority exist for the management Board Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal control and the in their day-to-day activities.
nature and extent of significant risks identified by management each of the Companys Regional managing directors operates through and associated mitigation strategies: and their regional operating boards.
each regional board is led by the approving the annual budget.
regional managing director and consists of key management from the regions operations and business functions, including Finance, hR board committees andmarketing.
our non-executive directors play an important governance role in the work they carry out on our committees.
the Chairman and members as far as possible, each business is given autonomy, whilst being of each committee are detailed below.
the Board has satisfied itself that required to operate within the internal control environment established at least one member of the audit Committee has recent and relevant through the Group Policies and Procedures manual.
the committees can seek professional advice at the Companys expense.
audit Committee Paul harrison, Chairman Richard smelt William eccleshare Paul stoneham lesley Knox nomination Committee alan thomson, Chairman lesley Knox William eccleshare Richard smelt Paul harrison Paul stoneham Remuneration Committee lesley Knox, Chairman Richard smelt William eccleshare Paul stoneham Paul harrison Richard smelt was appointed to the audit Committee on 23 march 2011.
35 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011 Directors report | governance corporATe governAnce reporT ContInUed the Groups Internal audit department also focuses on facilitating the managing risks and internal control identification of risks and undertakes reviews and testing of the controls the Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process, in place for their mitigation.
the departments resources are augmented its system of internal control and for maintaining and reviewing their with independent, expert external resource where necessary, to review effectiveness.
the Board annually reviews the nature and extent of risk and monitor compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
significant risks identified by management both on a gross as well as Regular reviews of the most important controls are undertaken to ensure a net post mitigation basis, and the status of mitigation plans.
this that key control objectives are achieved.
Reports on the effectiveness of exercise involves the presentation of risk findings to enable the Board to operational and financial controls are presented to management and review and oversee the status of the key risks to the business.
the Board to the audit Committee at each meeting and recommendations are in turn reflects on the level of risk appetite acceptable to the Group in agreed upon with management and implemented.
order to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
In may 2011, the Board reviewed the nature and extent of the significant risks in the the Groups systems and controls are designed to manage risks, Group on a gross and net basis and determined that the risks and their safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure the reliability of information relative priority were appropriate and that actions had been defined used both within the business and for publication.
systems are designed and attributed to owners in order to treat the risks appropriately.
the to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Board also considered the key regional risks that had been identified objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance bymanagement.
against material misstatement or loss.
day-to-day management of risk is overseen by the management Board, the principal risks disclosed opposite represent the significant areas which operates a risk management process involving assessment of which the Board considers could most likely impact the Groups key Group risks twice a year.
the operating regions also conduct financial performance and reputational standing.
assessments of strategic and operational risks within each region.
each risk is assessed in terms of its likelihood to occur and the potential internal control statement financial and reputational impact if it does so.
appropriate mitigation Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of plans and strategies are put in place for those risks that are controllable.
internal control has been delegated to the audit Committee.
the audit Progress on the management of risks is reported to the management Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of Board.
during the year under review, the management Board reviewed internal control for the year ended 30 June 2011, covering all material the progress of high-priority risks, and also considered any new or controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and emerging risks that were identified.
risk management systems and has concluded that it is in compliance with the revised turnbull guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance Risks are further controlled through delegated authorities and other for directors on the Combined Code october 2005 published by the written policies and procedures, which are approved by the Board, Financial Reporting Council.
this internal control statement has been updated as necessary, and overseen by Group functional departments.
reviewed and approved by the audit Committee.
Further details on the the Group Policies and Procedures and Financial Reporting manuals, Groups internal control system are reported in the audit Committee which encompass all of the Groups operations, are designed to ensure Report on page 43. that a minimum level of corporate, accounting, financial and operating controls are in place and allow matters to be appropriately and promptly escalated to senior management and the Board.
the manuals are updated on an ongoing basis to reflect changes in procedures as and when they occur.
the Groups Code of Conduct and ethics Policy outlines the way in which employees are expected to conduct themselves when carrying out their business activities.
the Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting process.
annual budgets are reviewed and approved at business and Group levels.
this process includes the identification and quantification of significant risks relating to markets and operations.
monthly performance is reported against budget and prior year.
the monthly management accounts analyse and explain variances against budget and report on key indicators, with detailed explanations for variances and movements in forecasts provided to the Board.
