Directors report | governance OthER StatutORy infORmatiOn the Board may refuse to register a transfer of shares in favour of more Directors than four persons jointly: The following were directors during the year and held office throughout the year, unless otherwise indicated: where a shareholder has declined to provide certain information 1 3 Bob Lawson, Chairman Paul Harrison requested by the Company in accordance with the Act, the Board 2 3 Alan Thomson Chairman Lesley Knox can in certain circumstances apply to the court for an order directing 3 Alistair Cox, Chief Executive Richard Smelt that the shares in question be subject to restrictions.
If an order is so 3 Paul Venables, Group Finance Director Paul Stoneham made, any transfer of or any agreement to transfer the shares will 3 William Eccleshare be void and no voting rights will be exercisable in respect of them: 1 Retired on 10 November 2010. restrictions may be imposed on certain Group employees who are 2 Appointed 1 October 2010. required to seek approval from the Company before dealing in shares 3 Independent non-executive director.
in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority: and Biographical details for all current directors are shown on pages 32 and 33. awards of shares under the Companys incentive arrangements, the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, are Structure of share capital subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
As at 30 June 2011, the The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its Companys issued share capital of 14,640,965.66 comprised shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares 1,464,096,566 Ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
No shares were allotted and or voting rights.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes During the year from 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011, the Company did not Certain share awards under Company incentive arrangements are held purchase any Ordinary shares of the Company.
in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries.
Except where acting under instruction as a bare nominee, the Trustee of the Hays plc Employee Chapter 6 of Part 18 of the Act allows companies to hold shares acquired Share Trust does not seek to exercise the voting rights on these shares.
by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel No voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to them.
The directors may use the authority to purchase shares and hold individual beneficiaries.
them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted in accordance with the Act rather than cancel them, Restrictions on voting deadlines subject to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
At 30 June 2011, The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for 79,851,635 Ordinary shares of 1 pence each were held in treasury.
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote at During the year to 30 June 2011, 344,692 shares held in treasury were a general meeting.
It is the Companys policy at present to take all transferred to satisfy awards of shares under the Companys employee resolutions at a general meeting on a poll and the results of the poll share schemes and a further 31,603 shares were transferred to the Hays are published on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, shortly after plc Employee Share Trust to satisfy future option exercises under the the meeting.
Hays UK Sharesave Scheme and the Hays International Sharesave Significant direct and indirect shareholdings Scheme.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury As at 30 June 2011, the Company had been notified of the following and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
voting rights attaching to Hays plc shares in accordance with the Rights and obligations of Ordinary shares Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom Listing On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of Ordinary Authority: shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one % of total vote.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy, shall have Nature of voting one vote for every Ordinary share held.
In accordance with the holding rights provisions of the Articles of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are Virtus Trust Limited Direct 5.78% entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available Capital Research and Management Co Indirect 5.13% for such purposes.
On a return of capital on a winding up, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in such a return.
Cedar Rock Capital Limited Direct 5.09% Templeton Global Advisors Limited Indirect 5.00% Restrictions on transfers of securities Baillie Gifford & Co Indirect Below 5% The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as follows: Morgan Stanley Investment the Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer Management Limited Direct Below 5% of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal Majedie Asset Management Limited Indirect 4.98% does not prevent dealing in shares in the Company from taking place Legal & General Group Plc Direct 3.99% on an open and proper basis: Barclays Global Investors Indirect 3.96% the Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if No further disclosures have been received by the Company between stampable, at the Registered Office or at another place appointed 30 June 2011 and the date of this Annual Report.
A further update to by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it significant shareholdings will be provided in the Notice of the 2011 relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require Annual GeneralMeeting.
to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: 44 Directors report | governance Employees Powers of directors The Companys business is dependent upon our employees.
As a The directors are responsible for the management of the business and consequence, our people strategy continues to focus on ensuring that may exercise all powers of the Company subject to legislation, any we have the necessary capabilities, resources and work environment directions given by special resolution and the Companys constitution.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 10 November 2010, shareholders authorised the directors, until the conclusion of the The Group continues to be committed to developing its employees and Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 November 2011, to purchase investing in training tailored to meet the needs of the business, including up to 138,421,332 Ordinary shares of 1 pence each in the Company and both structured training and on-the-job training and briefings.
Our to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,614,044, leadership development programmes for our top global leaders, Fast being approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital.
The Forward and the Advanced Management Programme, continue to be authority to allot shares was not used.
Renewal of both authorities will be implemented to ensure the development of talent in our business.
proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As part of creating a stimulating place to work, there are a number of The Board intends to continue to return surplus cash to shareholders ways we ensure our employees are involved in the business and issues where circumstances allow and it is not required to finance the organic relating to its performance, including senior management briefings, expansion of the business, acquisitions and dividend payments, via the employee briefing groups, email messaging and our global group on-market purchase of its own shares.
Shares will only be purchased if intranet.
To encourage employees to have a stake in the business, to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and it is in the there are also a number of share schemes.
best interests of shareholders generally.
No share purchases are As a responsible employer of thousands of people, the Group is anticipated in the 2012 financial year.
committed to equal opportunities and its policy ensures that everyone The Board will be seeking the approval of the shareholders to renew this has the opportunity to contribute to the business regardless of age, authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as detailed in the gender, ethnicity, sexuality, physical appearance, religion, education separate Circular to Shareholders.
appointment and replacement of directors The Group has a structured approach towards internal recruitment and The Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any individual to the promotion with decisions based on an individuals ability to perform the Board.
The Board may appoint any individual willing to act as a director role.
This means that full consideration is given to disabled applicants either to fill a vacancy or act as an additional director.
The appointee can where they have the right skills and abilities for the role.
Should an only hold office until the next annual general meeting whereupon he employee become disabled whilst working for the Group, every effort she will be put forward for reappointment.
is made to accommodate them or to find a suitable alternative role and to assist with any re-training.
The Groups commitment to training and The Articles of Association prescribe that there shall be no less than five development includes consideration of any special training needs of and no more than 15 directors.
Should the number reduce below five, disabled employees.
the Board shall, as soon as practicable, appoint an individual to fill the vacancy.
The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum More information on the Groups engagement with employees is set number of directors.
out in the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Companys website, haysplc.
The Articles of Association prescribe that at each annual general meeting, not less than one-third of the directors must retire by rotation Payments to creditors and any director who has been in office for three years or more since It is the Groups policy to make payments to suppliers in accordance his her last appointment or reappointment must retire by rotation.
with agreed terms provided that the supplier has performed in A retiring director is eligible for reappointment.
The 2010 UK Corporate accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Creditor days for Governance Code recommends that all directors be subject to annual the Group for the year ended 30 June 2011 were an average of 32 re-election by shareholders.
Therefore, with effect from the Annual 2010: 32.
The Company creditor days for the year ended 30 June 2011 General Meeting to be held on 9 November 2011, all directors will were 32 2010: 32. offer themselves for annual re-election.
Charitable and political donations articles of association Group charitable donations made during the year totalled 219,000 The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a 2010: 183,000.
No payments were made to political parties.
special resolution passed by shareholders at a general meeting of The charitable donations were made to the following good causes: theCompany.
000 Directors indemnities and insurance Cancer research and care 118 The Company continues to maintain directors and officers liability Childrens charities 40 insurance.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, it Disaster relief 37 is the Companys policy for each director and the Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel to be indemnified by deeds of indemnity.
Educational support 22 Humanitarian aid 2 Total 219 45 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011 Directors report | governance Going concern Environment The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern Whilst the Companys business has a low impact on the environment, basis as the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate the Company aims to achieve continuous improvement in environmental resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
performance and to prevent pollution.
Wherever possible, we seek to Further details can be found in note 2b to the Consolidated Financial minimise our impact by reducing our use of energy, water and raw Statements on page 63. materials and increasing efficiency.
More information on the Groups environmental activities is set out Directors responsibilities in the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Companys website, haysplc.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
auditor Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for Deloitte LLP has indicated that it is willing to continue in office.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare reappointment, at a remuneration to be agreed by the directors, will the Group financial statements in accordance with International be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare Change of control significant agreements the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United On 1 July 2010 the Company renewed its unsecured revolving credit Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom facility at a reduced amount of 300 million.
The terms of the Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the agreement include a provision for a lending counterparty to amend, directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are alter or cancel the relevant commitment to the Group following a satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the change of control of the Company.
As at 30 June 2011, 115 million Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
of this facility had not been drawn.
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the directors There are no provisions contained within the service contracts of are required to: executive directors that will trigger in the event of a change of control.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: There are a number of commercial contracts that would alter in the event of a change in control but none is considered to be material in make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable terms of the potential impact on the Group in this event.
andprudent: Certain of the Companys share award plans contain provisions that state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been permit awards or options to vest or become exercisable on a change followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained of control in accordance with the rules of the plans.
in the financial statements: and Conflicts of interest prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless In line with the Act, the Articles of Association allow the Board to it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue authorise actual and potential conflicts of interest and duties that may in business.
arise and to impose such limits and conditions as it thinks fit.
Conflicts In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting of interest and duties can only be authorised by those directors who do Standard 1 requires that directors: not have an interest in the matter being considered, and in making such decision, the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, properly select and apply accounting policies: will most likely promote the success of the Company.
The Company present information, including accounting policies, in a manner has established a procedure whereby actual and potential conflicts of that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable interest and duties are advised to the Company Secretary and are information: reviewed annually.
Appropriate authorisations are sought for any ad hoc notifications of any new conflicts of interest or duties, or any changes to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific existing conflicts of interest or duties.
The Board has undertaken a review requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand of these procedures and considers them to have operated effectively the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions during the year.
on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a goingconcern.
46 Directors report | governance Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records As required by Section 418 of the Act, each of the directors as at that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and 31 August 2011 confirms that: disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements a s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted in otherjurisdictions.
accordance with Section 418 of the Act.
Responsibility statement This Directors Report comprising pages 1 to 47 has been approved by The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge that: the Board and signed on its behalf by: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant alison yapp financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company Secretary liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 31 August 2011 undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Registered Office 250 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF Company Registered in England and Wales No.
2150950 the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
CautiOnaRy StatEmEnt This Annual Report comprising the Directors Report on pages 1 to 47 and the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 57 and the financial statements on pages 59 to 95 Report have been prepared solely in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority.
Certain information and statements are not audited.
No representation or warranty, express or implied, is or will be made in relation to the accuracy, fairness or completeness of the information or opinions made in this Report.
Statements in this Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
Certain statements included or incorporated by reference within this Report may constitute forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and or financial condition.
By their nature, forwardlooking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions and actual results or events may differ materially from those expressed or implied by those statements.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statement.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
The information contained in this Report is subject to change without notice and no responsibility or obligation is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any shares in the Company, nor shall it or any part of it or the fact of its distribution form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or commitment or investment decisions relating thereto, nor does it constitute a recommendation regarding the shares of the Company or any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity under section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Liability arising from anything in this Report shall be governed by English Law, and neither the Company nor any of its affiliates, advisers or representatives shall have any liability whatsoever in negligence or otherwise for any loss howsoever arising from any use of this Report or its contents so otherwise arising in connection with this Report.
Nothing in this Report shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with suchlaws.
47 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
