A summary of the Groups key ongoing risks, as currently identified, together with the measures taken to mitigate against these, is provided below.
Primary risks faced by Heritage during 2011 and recently are highlighted.
descRiption of Risk potential impact m i t igat io n stRategic Risks Incorrect portfolio mix Company could become The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of reliant on certain local assets across a range of geographies and life geographical, political and cycles in order to minimise exposure.
In 2011, cyclical market risks which and early 2012, Heritage diversified the may impact achieving portfolio by gaining entry into Libya, through long-term objectives.
an acquisition, and being awarded two licences in Tanzania.
Lack of acquisitions and Rationalising the portfolio is The Group and its advisers have considerable disposals key to achieving long-term experience in the business environment in sustainable growth.
This experience is applied regularly and carefully to assess potential merger, acquisition and disposal opportunities.
In 2011 Heritage acquired a Company in Libya to gain access to the local oil industry.
opeRational Risks Exploration and development The failure to sustain The Group has experienced management and technical teams with a track record of finding expenditure and success rates exploration success can potentially impact investor major hydrocarbon discoveries and has a diversified portfolio of exploration, appraisal, confidence on generating long-term value.
Considerable technical work is undertaken to reduce related areas of risk and maximise opportunities.
Potential loss of licences or The Group maintains close contact with Factors associated with operating in developing inability to operate which may governments in the areas where it operates and, countries, political and impact on achieving long-term where appropriate, invests in community regulatory instability objectives.
Considerable work is undertaken before commencing operations in any new territory.
Fiscal changes Adverse changes could impact The Group continually reviews fiscal regimes on future revenue streams for and enters into robust, transparent PSCs or the Group impacting on licences.
Unfulfilled PSC obligations Failure to fulfil PSC The Group continually monitors compliance obligations could lead to the with licence obligations and maintains good loss of a licence.
working relations with governments and joint venture partners.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 35
