Pak i s tan Heritage is operator of two licences in Pakistan.
Heritage licence Oil fields Gas fields Existing oil pipeline Existing gas pipeline Islamabad Peshawar Lahore a F G H an i s t an s a n J a W i Quetta Pa k i s ta n i ndi a ir a n z a M z a M a n O r t H s an J aW i Any discovered hydrocarbons could be readily connected Heritage has a 54% interest and is operator of the Sanjawi to the existing infrastructure as one of the main pipelines licence number 30682 in Zone II Baluchistan which runs through the licence.
To the south of, and adjacent to, was awarded in November 2007.
This onshore exploration Zamzama North is the Zamzama Gas Field, a major gas licence covers a gross area of 2,258 square kilometres and field in production.
is considered highly prospective due to an oil discovery to Employees the west of the licence, a number of gas fields to the The current seismic database used to map the Zamzama south-east of the licence and the presence of oil seeps in North licence comprises some 1,000 kilometres of good Our ability to create the licence.
The licence is dominated by a series of broad quality 2D seismic including 350 kilometres of new, very sustainable shareholder east-west trending surface features including the Dabbar good quality data acquired by Heritage in the fourth value is linked to our and Warkan Shah anticlines.
These are large anticlines, quarter of 2010.
On the basis of this data, Heritage has abiltiy to recruit, the Dabbar structure being some 300 square kilometres mapped a number of structural prospects and leads and a motivate and retain high calibre staff.
drilling programme is under consideration.
Operational aim to ensure that activity in the area has been hindered by floods which have relationships between zaMzaMa nOrtH made access to the area difficult.
It is planned to drill a our employees are In December 2008, Heritage obtained a 48% interest in well when access has improved.
cohesive, safe and the Zamzama North licence number 2667-8 and was effective.
The Zamzama North licence is located in the south of Pakistan in the western part of the Sindh In 2011 we continued Province approximately 200 kilometres north-west of to operate with a high Hyderabad and covers an area of 1,229 square kilometres.
percentage of workers drawn from our areas of operation, using expatriates only when their particular skill sets were not available Area Date Heritage Licence sq km awarded equity Partners Operator locally.
We also, where possible, encourage our Sanjawi Permit 2,258 November 54% Hycarbex Heritage contractors to employ 2007 American Energy local labour.
Sprint Energy Trakker Energy Zamzama North 1,229 December 48% Hycarbex Heritage 2008 American Energy Sprint Energy Trakker Energy heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 24
