INTRODUCTION The Directors of the Company are pleased to submit their reports BUSINESS REVIEW including those on corporate governance and remuneration for the year The Business Review includes the financial performance during the ended 31 December 2011.
The consolidated audited financial financial year, future developments, performance of the Group and statements for the Group are included within the Financial Statements principal risks and uncertainties.
A review of the Companys business Report of the Companys 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
is incorporated by reference, forming part of this report, and includes information which can be found in the reports noted below: COMPANY HISTORY AND PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company was incorporated as Heritage Oil Limited on 6 February the Chief Executives Review and Financial Review within the 2008 in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, Annual Review on pages 14 to 33: and the Jersey Companies Law to become the ultimate holding the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report.
Heritage Oil Limited changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
The cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements on page 40 of the Annual Review forms part of this report and is The Company has had a Premium Listing on the Main Market of the incorporated by reference.
The Group has two share classes trading: Ordinary Shares issued by the Company which trade on the Main KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Market of the LSE symbol HOIL and Exchangeable Shares issued by The following KPIs are discussed further in the Annual Review.
Heritage Oil Corporation HOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the 2011 2010 2009 Company, which trade both on the Main Market of the LSE symbol 1 LTIFR 0 0 0 HOX and on the Toronto Stock Exchange symbol HOC.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index.
2 Staff turnover 2% 3% 3% The Group is an independent, international oil and gas exploration, Production from continuing 3 operations 24% 65% 13% development and production company with a focus on Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
It has an exploration, appraisal and Reserves and contingent development asset in Kurdistan, exploration assets in Malta, Tanzania, 4 resources additions 0% 42% 103% Mali, Pakistan, Libya and the DRC and a producing asset in Russia.
5 Average realised price 45% 26% 35% The Group operates through a number of subsidiaries which are profiled on page 16 of the Financial Statements Report.
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 10,000 hours worked.
2 Excludes staff members in Uganda who transferred with the sale of the Ugandan Assets RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS in 2010.
3 Excludes production from Block 8, Oman which was sold in April 2009.
The Groups financial results for the year ended 31 December 2011 are 4 Management estimates.
set out in the Financial Statements Report of the Companys 2011 5 Realised price is a measure of the price achieved for output sold.
The Company has not declared or paid any dividends since incorporation other than a special dividend paid in 2010 to return part of the sale proceeds from the disposal of Heritage Oil & Gas Limiteds 50% interest in Blocks 1 and 3A in Uganda the Ugandan Assets.
The Company does not have any current intentions to pay further dividends in the foreseeable future.
Future payments of dividends are expected to depend on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company consider appropriate.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 08
