VISION C ORP ORATE GOVER N A NCE 20 Heritage Oil Plc is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE symbol HOIL.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and has Exchangeable Shares listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX symbol HOC and the LSE symbol HOX.
Heritage is a versatile organisation, dedicated to creating and increasing shareholder value with a portfolio of quality assets managed by a highly experienced team with excellent technical, commercial and financial skills.
The Company has an exploration, appraisal and development asset in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Kurdistan, exploration assets in Tanzania, Malta, Mali, Pakistan, Libya and the Democratic Republic of Congo the DRC and a producing asset in Russia.
This Corporate Governance Report is a report from the Board of Directors on its role, function and The Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 consists of four documents operation.
It complies with the requirements of the as detailed below.
UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules and aims to achieve best Annual Review EXPLOR E practice reporting on corporate governance and The Annual Review provides an overview of Heritage, its to provide information of use to shareholders.
ANNUA L REVIEW 20 Contents Corporate Governance VISION The Corporate Governance Report provides detailed 2011 Highlights 01 information on all aspects Chairmans Statement 02 of Heritages corporate governance.
Summary of the main changes introduced by the 2010 Code 04 C ORP ORATE GOVER N A NCE 20 Board of Directors 06 Introduction 08 Statement of compliance 09 Corporate Social Report of the Directors 10 COMMITMENT Responsibility Report of the Audit Committee 16 The CSR Report provides Report of the Remuneration Committee 20 detailed information Other Committee Reports 30 concerning Heritages CSR Investor relations, information strategy, policies, systems for shareholders and share capital 34 CORPOR ATE SO CIAL R E SPON SIBILIT Y and performance.
20 Corporate governance glossary 36 Advisers and financial calendar IBC Financial Statements PERFORMANCE The Financial Statements Report provides detailed information on Heritages financial position.
