Under the Articles, Directors are indemnified out of the assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred by reasons of having been a Director of the Company.
EVALUATION The Board undertakes regular evaluations of its own performance as well as that of the various Board Committees and the Chairman and ensures that an external review is carried out at least once every three years.
In 2009 and 2010 the performance review was facilitated by an external party, Hay Group.
In 2011, the review was conducted internally by means of a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the review have been collated and discussed by the Chairman with individual Directors and by the Board as a whole.
The areas covered by the review were: Leadership and effectiveness of the Board setting of strategic aims: management of risk: management of resources: communication with shareholders: and balance and skills of the Board and Committees.
Board procedures quality and timeliness of board papers: and quality of discussion and use of time.
Operation and effectiveness of the Board Committees effectiveness in addressing the Committees remit under its Terms of Reference.
Individual Directors performance contribution of Director: time commitments: development and training needs: and relationships within the Board.
Overall, the evaluation identified that the Board, its Committees and individual Directors continued to perform well and provide strong and effective leadership.
Actions raised will be reviewed as part of next years performance evaluation to ensure that progress is made.
The evaluation of the Chairmans performance is conducted by the Non-Executive Directors, led by General Sir Michael Wilkes as the Senior Independent Director, and also takes into account the views of the Executive Directors.
RE-ELECTION With regard to retirement and re-election of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles, the 2010 Code and the Jersey Companies Law.
Under the Articles, Directors have the power to appoint a Director to the Board during the year but any person so appointed must stand for election at the next AGM.
Having considered feedback and investor sentiment during the year it has been agreed that with effect from the 2012 AGM, all Directors will retire and stand for re-election annually.
Directors re-elected at the AGM will be appointed for a one year term.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
