BOARD OF DIRECTORS 01 02 03 04 05 06 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Reserves Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 06 01.
JOHN G. F. MC LEOD Chairman and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr. Hibberd has extensive international energy project Mr. McLeod is a Professional Engineer with over 40 planning and capital markets experience.
Mr. Hibberd has years of varied resource extraction experience.
He is the been president and chief executive officer of MJH Services president of McLeod Petroleum Consulting Limited, the Inc. a corporate finance advisory company, since 1995, president, chief executive officer and a director of Paris prior to which he spent 12 years with ScotiaMcLeod in Energy Inc. and California Oil and Gas Corp.
He holds the corporate finance and held the position of director and position of chief operating officer and director of Tuscany senior vice-president, corporate finance.
He is chairman Energy Ltd.
He has held positions and has served on of Canacol Energy Ltd. and Greenfields Petroleum various boards including Constellation Oil & Gas Ltd.
Corporation and is co-chairman of Sunshine Oilsands Ranger Energy Ltd. and CanArgo Energy Inc. as president Ltd.
He also currently serves on the boards of directors and chief executive officer of Arakis Energy Company, as of Montana Exploration Corp. Pan Orient Energy Corp. vp, operations of Pengrowth Gas Company, chief executive and Skope Energy Inc. Mr. Hibberd joined Heritage in officer and director of Rally Energy Corp. and Canoro March 2006.
Currently, Mr. McLeod serves as a director of Diaz Resources Ltd. and Kallisto Energy Corp.
He is a member and a Past-President of the Association of 02.
ANTHONY BUCKINGHA M Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of Alberta.
He Chief Executive Officer joined Heritage in 1998.
Mr. Buckingham is the founder of Heritage.
Mr. Buckingham commenced his involvement in the oil industry as a North Sea diver and subsequently became 06.
GENERAL SIR MICHAEL WILKES a concession negotiator acting for several companies Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director including Ranger and Premier Oil plc.
He was previously General Sir Michael Wilkes KCB, CBE, retired from the a security adviser to various governments.
British Army in 1995 as Adjutant General and Middle East Adviser to the British Government.
As Adjutant General, Sir Michael was the most senior administrative 03.
PAUL ATHERTON officer within the Army and a member of the Army Board.
Chief Financial Officer During his distinguished career, he has seen active service Mr. Atherton is a qualified accountant, having qualified across the world while also commanding at every level with Deloitte & Touche, and holds a degree in geology from Platoon to Field Army including commanding the from Imperial College London.
He has a corporate finance 22 Special Air Service Regiment and serving as the background with specific experience in the international Director of Special Forces.
On leaving the army in 1995 mining and resource sectors.
He joined Heritage in 2000 he was appointed Lieutenant Governor and Commander and subsequently joined the Board of Directors in 2005. in Chief of Jersey, where he served until retiring in 2000.
Sir Michael is a non-executive director of AIM listed companies Stanley Gibbons Group and Blue Star Capital 04.
In addition, he holds non-executive positions on a Non-Executive Director number of private companies including Britam Defence.
Mr. Turnbull is the Regional Managing Partner of the He joined Heritage in 2008.
Calgary office of the law firm of McCarthy Ttrault LLP.
Mr. Turnbull has extensive knowledge of corporate governance issues and has acted for many boards of CAR MEN RODRIGUEZ NOT PICTURED directors and special committees in that regard.
Mr. Non-Executive Director Turnbull started his career with the law firm of Appointed to the Board 22 March 2012 MacKimmie Matthews in 1979.
From 1987 to 2001, he Ms. Rodriguez has most recently held the position of was a partner with Gowlings LLP formerly Code Hunter Chairperson and CEO from 2007 to 2012 of Sociedad LLP.
In 2001 and 2002, he was a partner with the law Estatal Espaola P4R, S. A. a Spanish government owned firm of Donahue LLP.
Mr. Turnbull has been a partner consultancy firm specialising in foreign trade, investment with the law firm of McCarthy Ttrault LLP since July and co-operation.
She was also, until recently, a trustee of 2002 and was appointed Queens Counsel in 2010.
He the Spain-China Council Foundation, the Spain-India is a non-executive director of Crescent Point Energy Corp. Council Foundation and Casa Arabe.
She has previously Hawk Exploration Ltd. Hyperion Exploration Corp. held many other senior executive positions including at Online Energy Inc. Porto Energy Corp. Sonde Resources commodities trading companies.
Corp. Storm Resources Ltd. and Sunshine Oilsands Ltd.
Ms. Rodriguez was awarded the prestigious rden fide Isabel la Catlica by King Juan Carlos of Spain in 1990, in recognition of her services to the Spanish people and work with the international community.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 07
