S U M M A R Y O F T H E M A I N C H A N G E S INTRODUCED BY THE 2010 CODE RISK To improve risk management, a companys business model should be explained in the Annual Report and the board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take.
Heritages business model is explained in the Annual Review on pages 6 to 7.
The Board recognises its responsibility for setting the framework within which risks are undertaken and has reviewed its approach to risk during 2011.
The Audit Committee has set a framework for risk management which the Board continues to review.
 pay should be aligned to the long-term interests of the company, its risk policy and systems.
RELATED PAY The Remuneration Committee reviews the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP annually.
The new LTIP the 2011 LTIP, approved by shareholders in 2011, allows for annual grants of performance shares to be made to Executive Directors.
These awards vest subject to three year relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance conditions.
At the end of this period, vested awards are subject to an additional holding period of one year.
Equity awards, measured over a three year period ensure a focus on long-term sustainable performance of the Company and this, combined with the use of TSR as a performance measure helps to further align the financial interests of the Executives with those of shareholders.
Furthermore, the move to annual awards helps manage any risks associated with the attraction and retention of key individuals.
AC C O U N TA B I L I T Y To increase accountability, all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be put forward for re-election every year.
R E - E L E C T I O N O F DIRECTORS All of the Companys Directors will stand for re-election starting with the 2012 AGM, seeking a term of only one year.
To promote proper debate in the boardroom, there are new principles on the PROPER DEBATE leadership of the chairman, the responsibility of the non-executive directors to provide constructive challenge and the time commitment expected of all directors.
Heritage conducts regular meetings with comprehensive papers sent in advance to promote challenging and vigorous discussions.
The Chairman encourages debate from all Directors and time commitment is assessed as part of the performance process.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 04 W E L L B A L A N C E D To encourage boards to be well balanced and avoid group think there are new BOARD principles on the composition and selection of the board, including the need to appoint members on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
The Nomination Committee reviewed composition and Board selection in 2011.
Part of the Nomination Committees mandate is to ensure that new Board members are appointed on merit.
Members of the Nomination Committee are aware of the importance of a well balanced Board and the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee were examined and amended during the year to properly reflect this objective.
Current Board members have wide-ranging skill sets encompassing different geographies and backgrounds to ensure balance.
The Nomination Committee will be giving further consideration over the coming year to preparing a diversity policy, including gender, for the Board.
B OA R D To help enhance the boards performance and awareness of its strengths and weaknesses, the chairman should hold regular development reviews with each PERFORMANCE director and FTSE 350 companies should have externally facilitated board effectiveness reviews at least every three years.
These measures are already in place and an external Board review was undertaken in 2009 and 2010 by Hay Group.
An internal review was undertaken in 2011.
The chairman should review and agree with each director their training and B OA R D T R A I N I N G AND DEVELOPMENT development needs.
The Chairman is already aware of, and will continue to review through performance evaluation, any development needs of the Directors which are discussed as appropriate.
All Directors are encouraged to attend appropriate training courses which the Company will fund.
During 2011, the Directors were briefed specifically on the UK Bribery Act which came into force in July 2011 and provided with an update on corporate governance developments and the Davies Report.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 05
