descRiption of Risk potential impact m i t igat io n financial Risks Oil and gas sales volumes Commodity prices impact on Whilst not under the direct control of the and prices the Companys revenue stream Company, a large movement in commodity and can affect investor prices could have a material impact on the sentiment.
The Group did not hedge oil prices in 2011.
Foreign exchange exposure Could adversely impact the Generally, it is the Groups policy to conduct Companys results.
and manage its business in US dollars, its reporting currency.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in US dollars, but small amounts may be held in other currencies in order to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses or to comply with local currency regulations.
Liquidity risk In the extreme this could A formal budgeting and forecasting process is impact the Groups ability to in place and cash forecasts identifying liquidity continue as a going concern.
requirements of the Group are reviewed regularly to ensure compliance with approved funding plans.
otheR Risks Legal, regulatory and litigation Changes could affect the The Groups activities are subject to various short, medium and long-term laws and regulations around the world.
are mitigated by employing skilled and experienced staff and advisers to conduct proactive assessment, contingency planning and, where necessary, the use of appropriate mitigation techniques.
Investor expectations A failure to meet shareholder The Company maintains a regular dialogue expectations can lead to a loss with the Groups shareholder base and the of shareholder confidence and general public.
A Senior Independent Director reduction in the share price.
has been appointed and the Company employs an investor relations specialist.
The Board is aware of reporting responsibilities and, where necessary, takes advice to ensure that material information is released on a timely basis.
It is the Companys policy not to comment on market rumours or press speculation.
Corporate governance and Failure to comply with The Group recognises the importance of business conduct corporate governance codes maintaining strong corporate governance and practices could result in procedures and processes and continues to negative sentiment towards develop systems in this area, such as those to the Company.
deal with the Bribery Act in 2011.
Generally this is managed by employing the skill, expertise and resources of the Group and its advisers.
The Board reviews compliance with the 2010 Code and other regulatory guidelines regularly.
More information is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 37
