REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED HOW THE BOARD OPERATES The Board approved in 2011 a revised Board Charter which sets out WHAT THE BOARD DID DURING THE YEAR the Directors responsibilities under the 2010 Code relating to the Key items reviewed and actions taken by the Board during the operation of the Board and conduct of Directors, together with Board year include the following: meeting procedures concerning agenda, papers and minutes, conflict of interest procedures and other governance matters.
Leadership and strategy Review of operational reports, business development opportunities, THE BOARD CHARTER budget review and approval, ongoing strategic developments Our Board Charter sets out the Directors responsibilities relating and acquisition opportunities, approval of the share buy back to the operation of the Board and conduct of Directors.
It also covers programme and appointment of bank to undertake discretionary Board meeting procedures concerning agenda, papers, minutes, buy back.
conflict of interest procedures and other governance matters, such as the procedure for Directors to take independent advice if required.
Performance, risk and internal control Review of the financial statements, annual report, half yearly report, BOARD MEETINGS management representation letters, review and approval of new The Board met in formal meetings five times during the year and is whistle-blowing policy, Audit Committee report, assessment and scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
It also engaged informally review of risks and conflicts, review of internal control and in numerous ad hoc information calls which were not convened as procedures, audit findings report, cash investment guidelines, formal meetings.
The Board believes that one of its strengths is in working capital report and reviews against budget.
having open communication channels that enable its Directors to engage informally on a variety of topics.
The Board will continue to Governance meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties by way of scheduled Approval of the Board Charter, review of Board composition and the Board meetings as well as through ad hoc meetings as required.
Davies Report, review of committee reports, Corporate Governance Code compliance, related party transactions, conflicts of interest, The attendance record of each Director at formal Board meetings is consideration of the UK Bribery Act, discussions concerning the shown in the table below.
Only attendance of Board and designated Anti-Bribery programme, the 2011 LTIP, reports of the Senior Committee members is noted in the table, however, attendance of Independent Director and AGM discussions and preparation.
non-Committee member Directors is encouraged at all Committee meetings unless where matters associated with their own interests are Corporate Social Responsibility being discussed.
In addition to the Board meetings detailed in the Review of CSR and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee table, three written resolutions of the whole Board were passed.
As well reports, consideration of Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
as formal meetings, the Chairman, CEO and CFO maintained frequent contact with other Directors to discuss any issues they may have had relating to the Group or as regards their areas of responsibility and to COMMITTEES keep them fully briefed on the Groups operations and initiatives.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Committees in line Additionally, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met and with recommendations of the 2010 Code and to facilitate progressing spoke regularly during the year, and on an ad hoc basis, without the the business of the Company.
These are the Audit, Remuneration, Executive Directors being present.
Nomination, Reserves, Anti-Bribery and Corruption and CSR Committees.
The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee was The Board receives in good time before each Board meeting a Board established in 2011 and met for the first time in June 2011.
The information package including an update on operational and financial duties of these Committees are set out in formal Terms of Reference performance and a review of the performance and future potential of approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website all material assets.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS IN 2011 Anti-Bribery Audit Remuneration Nomination Reserves and Corruption CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 5 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting 2 meetings Michael Hibberd 5 5 2 2 1 2 Anthony Buckingham 5 2 2 Paul Atherton 5 2 1 2 John McLeod 5 5 2 2 Salim Macki 4 5 2 Gregory Turnbull 5 General Sir Michael Wilkes 5 5 2 2 1 HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
