STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The following sections of this report describe how the Company has COMPLIANCE WITH THE 2010 CODE As a company with a Premium Listing on the LSE, the Company is applied the Main Principles of the 2010 Code: subject to the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules and the requirement to explain how it has applied the Main Principles of the Leadership Report of the Directors Effectiveness Report of the Directors, Report of the Audit 2010 Code.
A copy of the 2010 Code is available from the FRCs website, www.
The Listing Rules also require a company to Committee and Other Committee Reports Accountability Report of the Audit Committee confirm that it has complied with all the provisions of the 2010 Code or explain areas of non-compliance.
The Company has reviewed changes Remuneration Report of the Remuneration Committee Relations with Shareholders Investor Relations, Information for made to the previous Combined Code of Corporate Governance 2008 in order to achieve compliance with the 2010 Code, as detailed in the Shareholders and Share Capital table showing the summary of the main changes introduced by the 2010 Code on pages 4 to 5 of this report.
Headings for these themes are highlighted in this report.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the The following statements may be found on page 8 of the Financial Statements Report: provisions of the 2010 Code, save in the following respects.
i Statement of the Directors Responsibilities for preparing the Code Provision D. 1.5: Notice periods for Executive Directors are 24 months.
In the case of two Executive Directors, notice periods were Annual Report and Accounts 2011: ii Responsibility Statement of the Directors that the financial set in place contractually prior to the Companys listing on the LSE.
The Company has discussed Executive Directors employment statements and management report which is incorporated in the Annual Review Report and in the CSR Report give a fair review of contracts with external advisers and internally, within the Remuneration Committee, more details of which can be found on the Companys business: and iii Going Concern Statement.
After reflecting on practical considerations raised in these discussions the Company has decided, for commercial reasons, to For and on behalf of the Board retain the existing Executive Directors notice period structures because of their importance to the business at this stage in its development.
This position is, and will continue to be, reviewed annually: and Code Provision C. 3.1: The Chairman of the Company is a member of, and chairs, the Audit Committee.
The Board believes the Chairman is the most appropriate person to be a member of, and MICHAEL J. HIBBERD chair, the Audit Committee given his extensive financial experience.
CHAIRMAN The Chairman is also considered by the Board to have maintained his independent status.
The Board and Nomination Committee 17 APRIL 2012 have debated the continued chairing of the Audit Committee by the Chairman.
Given the size of the Company and of the Board the decision was reached that this is still the most appropriate Audit Committee leadership role to maintain.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 09
