Membership of the Committees was reviewed and confirmed during THE RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT the year.
Details of attendance at Committee Meetings are shown on Albion Energy Limited Albion, the Companys largest shareholder page 12.
Further details of these Committees and their activities can be and Anthony Buckingham entered into a relationship agreement with found later in their respective reports on pages 16 to 33. the Company on 28 March 2008 the Relationship Agreement as part of the process to list the Company on the Main Market in 2008.
The purpose of the Relationship Agreement was to ensure in the early EFFECTIVENESS days of the Companys development that transactions and relationships An effective board is one that works well together with a balance between the Group, Albion and Anthony Buckingham were at arms between sufficient challenge and support of the executive length and on normal commercial terms.
The terms of the Relationship management team.
Agreement have expired and independence issues are governed by adherence to the 2010 Code, related party transactions and conflict COMPOS I T I O N O F T H E B OA R D A N D of interest provisions.
INDEPENDENCE There are currently seven Directors, five of whom are Non-Executive CONFLICTS O F INTEREST Directors.
The Chairman and three of the Non-Executive Directors are Under the Articles of Association of the Company the Articles, a deemed to be independent under the terms of the 2010 Code.
Director may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement with the Company as long as he has disclosed to the The Board is satisfied that its current composition will ensure that no Directors the nature and extent of any of his interests at the first individual or group of individuals will dominate the decision-making meeting of the Directors at which a transaction is considered or as soon process.
as practical after that meeting by notice in writing to the Secretary.
Where disclosure is made to the Secretary, the Secretary must inform In addition to the requirements of the 2010 Code, the Boards the other Directors that it has been made and table the notice at the assessment of independence and effectiveness includes their total next meeting of the Directors.
Any disclosure at a meeting of the number of commitments, relationships with major suppliers or with Directors must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
charities or other entities receiving material support from the Company.
This assessment is made annually.
The Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics also requires Directors and employees to avoid conflicts of interest which may The Board considers that John McLeod, Carmen Rodriguez, General interfere or appear to interfere with the obligation to act in the best Sir Michael Wilkes and Michael Hibberd are independent in character interests of the Company.
and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect their judgement.
This criteria also applied to Salim Macki whilst Related party transactions with Directors are disclosed in note 22 he served on the Board before his resignation in March 2012.
On of the notes to consolidated financial statements in the Financial appointment, the Chairman was considered to be independent and Statements Report.
The current related party transactions relate continues to be so.
The Board acknowledges that John McLeod does to provision and personal use of transportation services.
not meet the strict independence criteria set out in the 2010 Code as he has served as a Director of HOC, the prior holding company of the APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD Group, for more than nine years and was previously granted options.
It is crucial that the appropriate skills and balance of talents are However, the Board has satisfied itself that neither of these factors represented on the Board.
This is an area of ongoing focus for the impact on John McLeods independence in character and judgement.
Board which has delegated the tasks of reviewing Board composition, His length of service on the Board enhances his ability to perform his searching for appropriate candidates and making recommendations to duties effectively and helps maintain an appropriate balance between the Board on appointment of Directors to the Nomination Committee.
experienced Non-Executive Directors and those more recently In March 2012, Heritage announced the appointment of Carmen appointed to the Board.
Rodriguez to the Board and the retirement of Salim Macki.
The appointments process and role of the Nomination Committee is Gregory Turnbull does not meet the independence criteria set out described more fully in the Report of the Nomination Committee by the 2010 Code as he is a partner of McCarthy Ttrault LLP, the on page 30.
Canadian legal advisers to the Company.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
