aSSet overview Heritage typically focuses on regions which may have been overlooked and where it can participate as an early entrant.
The Company seeks out opportunities with the potential to generate shareholder value.
This includes high-impact exploration targeting the potential for significant hydrocarbon reserves.
cUrreNt portFolio New licence areas in Tanzania, which were awarded in late 2011 and early 2012, provide exposure to areas which The Heritage asset portfolio is geographically diversified across Africa, the Middle East and Russia with assets could be geologically analogous to the Lake Albert Basin in Uganda where Heritage had previous experience and encompassing a mix of exploration, appraisal, development, production and investment.
Work programmes in 2012 are expected to cover reinterpretation of existing seismic Kurdistan remains a core area of focus with exploration data and acquisition of new seismic.
This will form the basis of the forward work programme.
and appraisal drilling continuing throughout 2012.
Results from the Miran West-3 well have, to date, confirmed oil in In October 2011, Heritage announced it had acquired a the Upper Cretaceous and gas in the Lower Cretaceous.
The Miran East-1 exploration well commenced drilling controlling 51% interest in Sahara Oil Services Holdings Limited Sahara Oil which owns the entire share capital of in March 2012.
This is the first well to be drilled on the highly prospective eastern structure which has the Sahara Oil Services Limited Sahara in Libya.
Through this acquisition Heritage believes it is well placed to play a potential to add significant hydrocarbon resources in all of the multiple reservoir intervals.
significant role in the future development of the oil and gas industry in Libya.
The long-term licences to provide oil field Following the discovery of the large Miran Field, the services allow Sahara to drill onshore and offshore and include the ability to hold oil and gas licences.
Company is considering development options with the potential for early production in 2013 and full field Seismic data was acquired in Mali, Malta and offshore development in 2015.
Preparations are now underway for drilling a high-impact exploration well offshore Malta.
1 Licences have been awarded to other companies see details on page 27. oUr aSSetS Malta two blockS 18,000 Sq kM Libya 51% iNtereSt iN Sahara oil Pakistan Mali two blockS two blockS 3,487 Sq kM 64,404 Sq kM 1 The DRC Kurdistan Russia two blockS oNe block oNe block 6,000 Sq kM 1,015 Sq kM 200 Sq kM Tanzania FoUr blockS Production 32,208 Sq kM Exploration heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 03 aSSet overview c o N ti N U e d k U rdi S ta N ta N za N ia Miran block: 75% working interest & operator rukwa North: 100% working interest & operator rukwa South: 100% working interest & operator the Miran block contains two large contiguous structures, kyela: 100% working interest & operator Miran west and Miran east.
well results have established latham: 29.9% working interest & operator that the Miran Field contains two hydrocarbon systems with oil in the shallower Upper cretaceous section and in November 2011, heritage was awarded a production wet gas condensate within the deeper lower cretaceous Sharing agreement pSa covering virtually the entire and Jurassic formations.
exploration and appraisal drilling rukwa rift basin spilt into two separate areas: rukwa North continues on the Miran Field with two rigs currently drilling.
the current work programme is focused on reprocessing legacy 2d seismic data and the acquisition the Miran east-1 exploration well commenced drilling in of c. 600 kilometres of new seismic data which is planned to March 2012 and is the first well to be drilled on the highly commence in the summer of 2012. prospective eastern structure.
it is expected that it will take seven months to drill and test.
in January 2012, heritage was awarded the kyela pSa which covers the entire northern onshore area of the lake in 2011, the acquisition of 2d seismic on the southern portion Nyasa basin that lies within tanzanian territory.
the work of the Miran block was completed and interpretation of the programme will begin with a gravity survey and, based on data indicates a structure, capable of containing additional these results, 2d seismic will be acquired.
potential drilling locations are currently in the process of being identified.
heritage recognises that the rukwa rift basin and kyela both share geological similarities with the lake albert basin the Miran Field is a commercial discovery and a phased in Uganda, thereby providing the company with a key development of oil, condensate and gas is planned.
advantage in assessing the blocks.
M alta M ali area 2: 100% working interest & operator block 7: 75% working interest & operator area 7: 100% working interest & operator block 11: 75% working interest & operator areas 2 and 7 in the south-eastern offshore region of Malta heritage is operator with the right to earn a 75% working are close to, and similar to, a number of producing fields interest in each of blocks 7 and 11 by financing 100% of the offshore libya and tunisia.
minimum work programme of seismic acquisition and the drilling of one exploration well.
the two licences have a gross heritage has an extensive data set of approximately 5,000 area of 64,404 square kilometres in the gao graben.
kilometres of 2d seismic, including data acquired by heritage in July 2011 using greatly improved acquisition parameters previous drilling in the region has encountered oil and gas, compared to the legacy database.
indicating the potential for a working hydrocarbon system.
1,077 kilometres of 2d seismic was acquired over blocks 7 primary targets are recognised as major hydrocarbon and 11 between June and august 2011 and the data has producing zones in the central part of the Mediterranean.
a been interpreted and integrated with legacy data.
prospect has been identified and preparations are underway to drill a well in area 7. heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 04 paki S ta N libya Sanjawi: 54% working interest & operator 51% equity interest in Sahara oil zamzama North: 48% working interest & operator in october 2011, heritage announced it had acquired the Sanjawi onshore exploration licence covers a gross a controlling 51% interest in Sahara oil which owns the area of 2,258 square kilometres.
the licence is considered entire share capital of Sahara, a libyan registered company prospective due to an oil discovery to the west of the licence, providing services to the oil industry.
Sahara, based in a number of gas fields to the south-east of the licence and benghazi, has the rights to own and operate oil and gas the presence of oil seeps on the licence.
through this acquisition heritage believes it is well placed to play a significant role in the future the zamzama North licence is located in the south of development of the oil and gas industry in libya.
pakistan in the western part of the Sindh province and covers an area of 1,229 square kilometres.
the current heritage is exploring ways to assist the National transitional seismic database used to map the zamzama North licence council Ntc and the state oil companies rehabilitate comprises some 1,000 kilometres of good quality 2d seismic.
certain of their existing fields and recommence production.
r USS ia zapadno chumpasskoye: 95% equity interest the licence covers an area of about 200 square kilometres and contains the zapadno chumpasskoye Field, discovered in 1997. the first horizontal well was drilled on the licence in 2011 and the results exceeded pre-drill expectations with the well producing at rates of up to 1,405 bopd during the flow test.
the results of this well will be incorporated into an updated reserves review and development plan.
Further drilling on the licence is expected to continue later in 2012. in 2011, production averaged 673 bopd, an increase of 24% compared to 2010. rpS energy rpS, in an independent evaluation, estimated that zapadno chumpasskoye contains proved and probable reserves of 60.6 MMbbls of oil net to the group as at 30 June 2009. heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 05
