l a c s o i r a p o r r p a p t e a s o c i n a l o r i p e t r s a p o o r d n o s u i l b c p i l t x i i t e y e o c n n a n the business model Heritages business model creates the foundation upon which the Company can, through its strategy, achieve its vision of being a leading exploration and production company.
The Company possesses certain key attributes, discussed overleaf, that provide it with a competitive advantage.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs are used by the Company as one measure of performance and relate to both the underlying business model and the delivery of strategy.
In addition, the Company actively monitors certain risks attached to the business model and strategy which are detailed on pages 34 to 37.
At the core of Heritages business model is an exploration and appraisal process that is supported through high standards of governance, regional knowledge and contacts and an effective Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy framework.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 06 r e d v e o v g r e e g l i o o e n p n a i m l l e k p n n i o t c w s l i e d d g e l a t c i o p n t a a c c t s core e&p business model Exploration and appraisal Production and development Capital discipline Our technical team is responsible for Once the area has been proven, An appropriate capital structure assessing new areas for exploration appraised and confirmed balancing the exploration and campaigns and ensuring that we have commercially viable the development operational demands of the portfolio the ability to continually replenish team is responsible for providing with financing requirements is our exploration portfolio.
The team information to enable the Company required to ensure appropriate will identify core plays and prioritise to best achieve revenue generation funding for long-term sustainable exploration options across the and cash flow by moving the growth.
This can include the portfolio.
After reviewing the initial hydrocarbons into production.
monetisation of assets or accessing exploration programme, the team capital markets.
will propose an appraisal campaign to prove up the size of the discovery.
Further information can be found in the Financial Statements Report.
Further information on the current asset portfolio can be found in this report on pages 18 to 26. supported through Governance Regional knowledge and contacts Corporate Social Responsibility Heritage seeks to achieve and Relationships with national and An effective CSR policy framework maintain the highest standards and regional governments are a key is a key element of long-term success.
Managing relationships with best practice reporting in all areas focus within the business.
relationships provide the Company stakeholders is viewed as important in developing and maintaining a with the ability to assess risk and Further information can be found in provide a competitive edge versus reputation as a preferred partner.
Further information can be found in the Corporate Governance Report.
key perFormance indicators Heritage uses a number of financial Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Reserves and contingent resources and operating KPIs that are closely LTIFR Operationally a top additions The core business model aligned with the underlying business priority is to keep people safe.
This involves replenishing the exploration model and its strategy for delivering includes employees, contractors and portfolio, ensuring the continued long-term sustainable growth.
These local communities where we operate.
growth of the Company and the are some of the indicators by which potential production profile.
Staff turnover Retaining quality Several of these are linked to the staff is important to ensure the Average realised price In Russia, primary business risks of the delivery of the strategy.
the realised price improves, in part, Company which are detailed on pages as production increases due to better 34 to 37.
Production from continuing price negotiation and there being a operations Production is key to wider base of customers.
Prices have revenue and cash generation and not been hedged during 2009, 2010 Heritage aims to achieve levels in and 2011. line5with annual budgeting and market guidance.
2011 2010 2009 1 LTIFR 0 0 0 2 Staff turnover 2% 3% 3% 3 Production from continuing operations 24% 65% 13% 4 Reserves and contingent resources additions 0% 42% 103% 5 Average realised price 45% 26% 35% 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 10,000 hours worked.
2 Excludes staff members in Uganda who transferred with the sale of the Ugandan Assets in 2010.
3 Excludes production from Block 8, Oman which was sold in April 2009.
5 Realised price is a measure of the price achieved for output sold.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 07
