REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMIT TEE ADDRESS FROM THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ACCOU NTA B I LITY CHAIRMA N It is essential for sound operation of the Board that there is in place Against the backdrop of the global economic crises, there has been a system of checks and balances to hold the Board to account.
The an increasing focus on how company boards assess and determine Audit Committee plays a key, and increasingly important role, in the risks they are willing to take to achieve their objectives.
Within ensuring accountability of the Board to the Companys Heritage the role of the Audit Committee in ensuring balanced and shareholders.
accurate financial reporting and reviewing risks and internal controls is well established.
The analysis of risk is embedded in our decisionmaking processes and forms part of our discussions on any major MEM BER S O F T H E AU D I T C O M M I T T E E acquisition or strategic direction.
As we operate in countries at all Michael Hibberd, Chairman 1 stages of development we are particularly aware of the need to Carmen Rodriguez balance entrepreneurial spirit with sound control processes.
John McLeod General Sir Michael Wilkes Our Report of the Audit Committee explains how the financial reporting, risk management and internal control procedures operate MAI N RE SPONS I B I LITIE S and also outlines how it ensures an effective and appropriate to monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including relationship with the Companys external auditor.
annual and interim reports and any other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance: The focus for the Audit Committee during 2012 will continue to be to report to the Board on its proceedings, identifying any matters risk and internal controls monitoring as well as monitoring our new in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is anti-bribery and corruption procedures in conjunction with the needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee and the CSR Committee.
taken: to review the annual audit plan and effectiveness of the external MICHAEL J. H IBBERD audit: to review the Companys procedures to ensure proper books and CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE records are maintained: to review the Groups budgets: to consider the establishment of an internal audit function: to review the Groups internal control procedures and risk management systems, including review of the Groups risk matrix: to oversee the relationship with the external auditors and review the effectiveness of the external audit process: to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, review and removal of external auditors: to approve the external auditors remuneration: to monitor the external auditors independence including reviewing the policy on provision of non-audit services: and to review whistle-blowing arrangements and the Companys procedures to prevent bribery and corruption.
1 Carmen Rodriguez replaced Salim Macki in March 2012.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
