REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED All Directors have the opportunity to update their skills and knowledge COMMITMENT It is in the whole Boards interest to ensure that all Directors have on a regular basis through further briefings on issues, including changes in law and regulation, corporate governance, financial sufficient time to commit to their responsibilities as Directors.
In respect of the Non-Executive Directors, their letters of appointment reporting and operational matters.
For example, during the year the Directors received a briefing on the requirements and developments set out terms of appointment including the agreed expected time commitment.
This is then assessed as part of performance evaluation in relation to the UK Bribery Act, an update on corporate governance developments and the Davies Report.
to ensure they continue to be able to devote sufficient time to their duties.
Prior to appointment, all Directors are expected to disclose Furthermore, Directors are in regular communication with senior their other time commitments in order to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to fulfil their role as a Director.
executives through both formal and informal ad hoc meetings, to ensure a regular exchange of knowledge and experience between It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors are permitted to management and Non-Executive Directors.
accept directorships of other quoted companies provided that they have obtained the prior permission of the Chairman.
However, an Executive INFORMATION AND SUPPORT The Chairman, supported by the CEO and CFO, ensures that all Director will not be permitted to take on more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information to support informed discussions at Board meetings.
A Board portal has recently company.
The Board considers that all the Directors are currently able to devote sufficient time and attention to their duties and been introduced allowing the Directors easy access to Board agenda, papers, minutes and a variety of policy and governance documents responsibilities.
from anywhere in the world.
The Chairmans other significant appointments are disclosed to the Board and may be found in the Directors biographies on page 7 of COMPANY SECRETAR Y Given the size of the Company, the Board feels that it is in the this report.
The Chairman was appointed as a non-executive director of a further external company during the year.
The Board made the shareholders best interests not to employ a full time Company Secretary at this stage in the Companys development.
The current assessment that this would not impact on his time commitment for Heritage.
Company Secretary is a corporate entity based in Jersey that deals with the normal statutory compliance for the Company.
The Board and its D E V E LO P M E N T Committees are, therefore, serviced by the Company Secretary or its nominee.
The other duties that would normally be carried out by the Upon joining the Board, if considered appropriate, a Director will participate in an induction programme covering the principles and Company Secretary, such as the provision of information flows to the Board, are dealt with by the Chairman, the CEO or CFO or their legal and regulatory duties required of them.
This training is tailored to an individuals needs, taking into account their qualifications nominee.
In terms of corporate governance issues, the Board is advised by McCarthy Ttrault, a firm of registered foreign lawyers and experience.
In addition, meetings are arranged with senior management to enable Non-Executive Directors to develop a detailed and solicitors with offices in North America and in London.
The Board monitors the provision of company secretarial duties and takes understanding of the Companys business, its strategy and the key risks and challenges facing the Company.
any action as appropriate to ensure its requirements are met.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for To build on the formal induction programme, Directors are encouraged the Board as a whole.
to meet with senior employees and are offered access to company secretarial services or independent professional advice at the INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE The Board ensures, in line with the Board Charter, that all Directors Companys expense, should this be necessary for them to discharge their responsibilities.
and Committees have access to independent professional advice whenever it is required and at the Companys expense.
The Board believes that the Directors possess a wealth of diverse INSURANCE COVER AND DIRECTORS INDEMNIT Y experience and business skills.
Non-Executive Directors are actively encouraged to question, examine and review the Groups operations PROVISIONS The Company recognises the potential personal liabilities to which and to undertake training applicable to their roles.
Non-Executive Directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders the Directors are subject by acting as a Director of the Company.
The Company, therefore, believes that it is appropriate to protect Directors through various channels including briefings by the Executive Directors and the Senior Independent Director and by information from innocent errors or omissions and maintains a Directors and Officers Liability insurance policy to provide the Directors with an provided at Board meetings on investor relations strategy.
Directors are not covered where they have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
