REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS determining the nature and extent of risks that the Board is willing LEADERSHIP to take to achieve its objectives: We achieve effective leadership by having the best people on the approval of annual budgets, business plans, annual and half year Board supported by an excellent management team, underpinned reports and dividends: by sound governance practices.
review of press releases: reviewing performance in light of strategy, objectives and business plans and ensuring corrective action is put in place if necessary: Directors of the Company who served throughout 2011 and up to the approving changes to the Board: date of the signing of this report are: approval of material acquisitions, disposals and contracts: Appointment dates ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal 1 Michael Hibberd 18 March 2008 controls including managing risks: and Chairman and Non-Executive Director approval of Group policies including the Code of Ethics, AntiBribery and Corruption Code of Conduct, health, safety and 2 Anthony Buckingham 25 February 2008 environmental policies.
Chief Executive Officer 2 Paul Atherton 6 February 2008 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Chief Financial Officer There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the 1 Chairman, Michael Hibberd, and the Chief Executive Officer John McLeod 18 March 2008 CEO, Anthony Buckingham, to ensure an appropriate balance Non-Executive Director of responsibility and accountability.
These responsibilities have Carmen Rodriguez 22 March 2012 been formalised in writing and approved by the Board.
The key Non-Executive Director responsibilities are summarised below.
1 Gregory Turnbull 18 March 2008 CHAIRMANS ROLE Non-Executive Director Governance 1 Upholding the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate General Sir Michael Wilkes 18 March 2008 Non-Executive Director and Senior governance throughout the Group, particularly at Board level.
Independent Director Running of the Board 3 Salim Macki 12 August 2008 Leading the Board and setting its agenda, ensuring adequate time is Non-Executive Director given to matters under consideration and ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information in order to carry out their 1 The Director was appointed on 18 March 2008 and this became effective on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008. responsibilities.
2 The Director was appointed as indicated and this became effective on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
Directors 3 The Director resigned from the Board on 22 March 2012 and was replaced by Facilitating constructive relationships between Directors and Carmen Rodriguez.
induction, training and development needs of Directors.
Biographical details of all current Directors can be found on page 7 Relations with shareholders of this report.
With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Ensuring communication and dialogue is entered into with Carmen Rodriguez, all the Directors were previously, and continue to shareholders and effective use of the annual general meeting.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS ROLE ROLE OF THE BOARD Business strategy and management The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the Development and implementation of Board approved objectives and Company and each Director must make decisions objectively in the strategy and ensuring effective communication with shareholders interests of the Company.
The Boards principal role is to set strategy and other stakeholders.
and objectives and the parameters within which the Group operates to further its objectives.
Investment and financing Recommending annual budgets and business plans to the Board The responsibilities of the Board are set out in a schedule of matters and identifying new business opportunities in line with strategic reserved for its attention which is reviewed on a regular basis.
review was carried out early in 2012 as a result of which adjustments were made concerning the Boards focus on risk.
Risk management and controls Ensuring appropriate risk management and internal control systems The schedule of matters reserved for the Board sets out its are in place.
These include: Executive team and management Leading the management team, ensuring group policies and establishing and communicating the Companys values and procedures are followed and the development of a succession plan standards: for senior management.
approval of Group strategy and objectives: HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
