k urdi s ta n Heritage was one of the first companies to be awarded a Production Sharing Contract PSC in Kurdistan.
Heritage licence Kurdistan is an autonomous region in the north of federal Heritage prospect Oil fields Iraq bordering Syria, Iran and Turkey.
Gas fields Gas condensate field Existing oil pipeline Existing gas pipeline Proposed oil pipeline Proposed gas pipeline Mosul Erbil M ir a n Sulymaniyah i r aq In October 2007, the Group signed a PSC with the KRG production from two fields in Kurdistan was exported to and was appointed operator of the Miran Block, which Turkey by pipeline and in June companies began to receive covers approximately 1,015 square kilometres, in the payment.
The Ministry of Natural Resources in Kurdistan southern part of Kurdistan.
The Miran structure lies expects construction on several pipelines to commence in approximately 65 kilometres from the giant Kirkuk oilfield 2012 to help achieve near-term targets for oil and gas export.
and 60 kilometres from the Taq Taq Field, which is on production.
In April 2009 Genel Energy plc Genel tHE WOrk PrOGraMME tO datE Energy was nominated as the third party participant The Miran Block contains two large contiguous in the Block.
structures, Miran West and Miran East, which were originally mapped using 332 kilometres of excellent As an early entrant in Kurdistan, the Group is strongly quality 2D seismic data acquired by Heritage in 2008. positioned to benefit from development of this significant More recently, Heritage acquired 730 square kilometres of hydrocarbon-prone region especially as the already stable 3D seismic data, the interpretation of which is ongoing, security situation and political environment continue to but which has already enabled the principal structural improve.
Since 2006 approximately 30 wells have been features to be identified with much greater clarity.
drilled resulting in c. 20 discoveries.
Over 40 companies are now present in the region with entrants in 2011 The Miran West structure is believed to be one of the including ExxonMobil.
largest structures in Kurdistan, with an estimated areal extent of up to 200 square kilometres and Miran East has It is generally acknowledged that there is huge potential an estimated areal extent of 130 square kilometres.
Well in Kurdistan for as yet undiscovered hydrocarbons.
It has results have established that the Miran Field contains been estimated by the KRG, in November 2011, that there two hydrocarbon systems with oil in the shallower Upper is approximately 45 billion barrels of oil and 100-200 TCF Cretaceous section and gas condensate within the deeper of gas in the region.
Lower Cretaceous and Jurassic formations.
Federal elections were held in March 2010 and a coalition government, which included officials from Kurdistan, was formed in December 2010.
Subsequently, in February 2011, Area Date Heritage Licence sq km awarded equity Partner Operator 1 Miran 1,015 Oct 2007 75% Genel Energy Heritage 1 Back-in rights exist which, if exercised fully, could result in a minimum holding of 56.25%.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 8 In March 2012, it was announced that the results from Miran WEst structurE Drilling of the Miran West-1 well commenced in detailed wireline log interpretation, observations whilst drilling and gas recovered at surface, confirmed that the December 2008 and reached a total depth of 2,935 metres in March 2009.
Drilling operations were designed to cope Lower Cretaceous reservoir formation is gas bearing.
Detailed work is now being undertaken on the recently with potential high reservoir pressures which, in fact, were not encountered and resulted in the loss of drilling fluid processed 3D seismic and offset well data to establish the Kurdistan CSR areas of effective reservoir for this formation.
and lost circulation material in the highly permeable programmes reservoir fracture systems.
The large volumes of fluids lost Below the Lower Cretaceous reservoir, the well constrained initial testing operations severely.
Testing was In Kurdistan our CSR completed in August 2009 with a flow rate of 3,640 bopd encountered a high pressure interval as well as a loss of programmes have, circulation which resulted in the need to sidetrack the well.
recorded from a single upper reservoir interval.
over the year, been focused on educational In April 2012, it was announced that a reservoir interval The Miran West-2 appraisal well, located approximately support, funding four kilometres north-west of the Miran West-1 discovery above the main Jurassic reservoir had been tested and healthcare initiatives resulted in a flow of up to 17.5 MMscfd of dry gas.
This well, commenced drilling in November 2009 with the aim and upgrading local of appraising hydrocarbons in the Cretaceous formations reservoir interval is separate from the underlying main infrastructure.
We view Jurassic gas bearing interval tested in the Miran West-2 well.
the interaction with the discovered by that well.
Data acquired after drilling local communities as operations commenced indicated that the Miran West-2 integral to our business Further drilling will appraise the Jurassic reservoir intervals well was also optimally positioned to test deeper success and understand exploration objectives with potential for further discovered by the Miran West-2 well.
A number of tests are that it is in the interests planned and drilling is expected to be completed during the substantial quantities of hydrocarbons.
of the Company to second quarter of 2012.
The well is drilling ahead to the consult stakeholders primary Jurassic reservoir targets.
The well was subsequently modified to assess the and find ways to be a exploration potential of these deeper formations and partner of choice.
Miran East structurE was eventually drilled to a total depth of 4,426 metres.
The Miran West-2 well results have confirmed three additional Exploration drilling of the Miran East structure commenced in March 2012 with a second rig and is pay zones within the Lower Cretaceous and Jurassic formations in addition to the pay zone identified in the expected to take approximately seven months with key reservoir intervals being tested as the well is drilled.
Upper Cretaceous in the Miran West-1 well.
This is the first well to be drilled on the highly prospective eastern structure, which has an area of approximately 130 Drilling of the Miran West-3 appraisal well commenced at the beginning of August 2011 with the aim of targeting square kilometres.
The well is targeting exploration potential within the Cretaceous and Jurassic reservoir reservoir sections encountered in discovery wells with the primary objective of appraising the productivity of the intervals of the eastern structure, contiguous with the hydrocarbon bearing Miran West structure.
The well Jurassic reservoir formation in the Miran West structure.
design utilises recently acquired 3D seismic data and the enhanced understanding of the structural configuration Testing of the Upper Cretaceous reservoir, resulted in a maximum measured rate of 1,950 bopd.
Attempts to within the Miran Field that this has provided.
flow the well at higher rates were severely restricted by the capacity of the surface test equipment.
The oil produced on test is c. 15 API with very little associated gas, similar to that tested from the same interval in the Miran West-1 discovery well.
suMMarY rEsuLts OF tEstinG OPEratiOns OF Miran WEst-2 Flow Rates Depth Gross of test thickness Yield interval interval Choke Gas Oil bbl Oil Hydrocarbon ths Reservoir age m MDBRT metres 64 MMscfd bbld MMscf Api type 1 The test rates were Upper Cretaceous 714 to 1,000 436 Pump Trace Oil constrained by the capacity of the surface Lower Cretaceous 2,117 to 2,220 911 24 64 0.2 Trace Wet gas equipment and the well 1 test data indicate that Jurassic 2,992 to 3,115 540 40 64 26.71 432 16.2 60.9 Wet gas lean individual test intervals 1 3,327 to 3,410 40 64 25.51 67 2.6 54.3 condensate could produce at rates of 40 MMscfd with the well 1 Jurassic 3,465 to 3,533 92 40 64 26.01 70 2.7 52.2 Wet gas capable of producing more than 60 MMscfd when placed on production.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 9 k urdi s ta n c O nti n u E d The early production will be paralleled with full field FurtHEr POtEntiaL structurEs Acquisition of 180 kilometres of 2D seismic on the development and the export of gas to Turkey Europe with the full production of blended oil and condensate.
southern portion of the Miran Block to help identify further potential prospectivity was completed in October Independent gas marketing studies have highlighted increasing gas demand in the KRG region, Turkey and 2011 and interpretation of the data has identified a structure capable of containing additional resources.
Europe that can provide valuable markets for the gas volumes.
Further work is being undertaken to identify a suitable drilling location.
Conceptual engineering design studies have focused on 3d sEisMic PrOGraMME the potential for early production of between 80 and 180 MMscfd for local markets commencing in 2013.
This will Acquisition of 3D seismic data, covering 730 square kilometres, across the Miran Block has completed.
The be accompanied by appraisal and full development of approximately 560 to 750 MMscfd in 2015 for gas export.
significant improvement in seismic data quality over the Miran Field is encouraging and assists greatly with the Export requires the construction of a 320 kilometre gas pipeline to the Iraq Turkey border in part running parallel selection of well locations.
An early phase of processing produced an initial dataset covering the core area of to the planned Kurdistan Iraq Crude Export KICE pipeline, for which construction is planned to commence the field which was used to assist in the selection and orientation of the drilling of the deviated Miran West-3 in 2012.
Oil and condensate production of between 5,000 and 12,000 bpd would be trucked to Taq Taq for entry to and the Miran East-1 wells.
The increased coverage and quality of the 3D data enables enhanced mapping of the the KICE pipeline.
This would be followed by construction of a 70 kilometre oil condensate pipeline to tie into the structure and increased ability to identify fault systems.
KICE line for full development production export of between 37,000 and 50,000 bopd.
Initial interpretation of the data is expected to be completed by the end of April which will assist greatly in the estimation of reservoir volumes and the identification of future drilling locations.
dEVELOPMEnt OF tHE Miran FiELd Health and Safety The Miran Field is a commercial discovery and independent engineering studies have confirmed the Health and safety is potential for a fast-tracked, phased development of a priority and a core the field.
element of all of our activities.
We are Options being considered include early gas production pleased to report that to existing and planned cement and power plants for local we have had another markets in Kurdistan, as well as exports to Turkey and to year without any the European market under full field development.
KRG has outlined favoured development options for gas Since the start of utilisation.
The initial priority will be to satisfy local gas drilling operations in demand by supplying gas on commercial terms to local Kurdistan we have cement plants and power stations and other end-users now worked for over in the Sulymaniyah region in 2013.
Development will 1,000 days without be integrated as gas production would also result in incident.
This reflects associated condensate production for blending with our commitment to the oil production.
health and safety and is a reflection of the processes that we use and the people we employ.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 20
