tan z an i a Heritage has been awarded four licences in Tanzania, two of which are considered to be geologically analogous to the Lake Albert Basin in Uganda.
Heritage licence Exploration well Oil and gas shows Oil seep Gas fields Railway Mombasa k E n Y a un i t E d rEPubLic OF ta n z a n i a Dodoma ruk Wa nOrtH Dar es Salaam Tancan-1 L at H a M ruk Wa sOutH Ivuna-1 Galula-1 k Y EL a z a M bi a r u k Wa resulting from oil seeps.
In the event of an oil discovery, In November 2011, Heritage announced the award of a PSA at either Rukwa or Kyela, economic scoping shows the which covers virtually the entire Rukwa Rift Basin, split into commercial viability of either rail export to Dar es Salaam two separate areas, Rukwa North and Rukwa South, and is or export by pipeline depending on exploration success.
Limited exploration activity was undertaken in the blocks in the mid-1980s Heritage recognises that both the Rukwa Rift Basin and Community and which resulted in the acquisition of c. 2,300 kilometres of Kyela share certain geological similarities with the prolific human rights 2D seismic data and the drilling of two wells.
Reprocessing Albert Basin of Uganda where Heritage had previous of legacy 2D seismic data in Rukwa has commenced and the experience and significant success.
We ensure that acquisition of c. 600 kilometres of 2D seismic data is relationships with planned to commence in the summer of 2012.
LATHAM AND KIMBIJI our neighbours and The PSC was awarded to Petrodel Resources Limited local communities are k Y EL a Petrodel by the Tanzanian government in September conducted senstively In January 2012, Heritage was awarded the Kyela PSA 2006 and Heritage entered into a farm-in agreement with and with mutual covering the entire northern onshore area of the Lake Petrodel in April 2008.
Later that year, 207 kilometres of respect.
We promote Nyasa Livingston Basin that lies within Tanzanian 2D seismic was acquired onshore in the Kimbiji licence the sharing of economic territory.
The block has never previously been targeted area.
The acquisition of over 300 square kilometres of 3D benefits created by our for hydrocarbon exploration.
Gravity data over the area seismic offshore Tanzania commenced in December 2010 activities through the suggests the presence of a sedimentary section of sufficient and was completed in January 2011.
Interpretation of the conduct of community thickness to allow for the generation of oil.
The work Latham 3D has been completed and the process of relationships and are programme will commence with the acquisition of a completing geophysical studies of seismic data is underway firmly committed c. 1,500 square kilometre high resolution gravity survey.
in order to finalise the evaluation of mapped prospects in to upholding the principles set out in A 2D reconnaissance seismic programme is planned to order to determine the forward work programme.
After a the United Nations be acquired based on the results of the gravity survey.
technical review it was decided that all capitalised costs in Universal Declarion of respect of the Kimbiji licence area were written off in 2011.
Satellite radar surveys indicate areas of wave-calming in Lake Rukwa and in Lake Nyasa that may be slicks Heritage Licence Area sq km Date awarded equity Partners Operator Rukwa North 10,175 November 2011 100% Heritage Rukwa South 8,745 November 2011 100% Heritage Kyela 1,934 January 2012 100% Heritage Latham 5,056 September 2006 29.9% Petrodel Heritage heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 2
