L i b Ya In October 2011, Heritage acquired a controlling 51% interest in Sahara which holds the necessary long-term permits and licences to provide oil field services in Libya.
Through this acquisition Heritage believes it is well positioned to play a significant role in Exploration well the future development of the oil and gas industry in Libya.
Oil and gas shows Oil fields Gas fields Tripoli Benghazi Sirte a LG E r i a L i b Ya E GY P t n i G E r c H a d Heritage has pursued its strategy of first mover advantage Heritage established a base in Benghazi in the first half of in pursuing participation in the restoration of the Libyan 2011 and has been in discussions with senior members of oil production sector which presents a dynamic and the NTC, the legitimate and recognised government of evolving environment.
Libya has proven reserves of 44 Libya, the Executive Committee which is the executive billion barrels of oil and ranks first in Africa ahead of arm of the NTC and the National Oil Company and 1 Nigeria and Angola.
The dialogue with these parties Training continues through Sahara with Heritage exploring Only one third of the country is covered by exploration ways to assist the NTC and the state oil companies We believe that there and production sharing agreements providing the potential rehabilitate certain of their existing fields and is a strong business for additional hydrocarbons to be discovered.
It is a highly recommence production.
case for investing in attractive oil province due to low cost of oil recovery, the development of high quality oil which is generally sweet with API gravity The acquisition provides diversification to the current our workforce as this can result in efficiency ranging between 32-44, proximity to European markets portfolio through potentially gaining access to some savings, reduce time and well developed infrastructure.
Heritage Energy large producing fields in Libya.
In addition, Heritage is lost through injury and International Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of considering using Sahara to assist with the drilling of its assist in identifying Heritage, acquired a 51% equity interest and control of targets offshore Malta and is actively looking to contract opportunities for Sahara Oil which owns the entire share capital of Sahara, a rig to drill in Area 7. improving our business.
a Libyan registered company providing services to the oil industry, for cash consideration of US$19.5 million.
All employees are provided with the Sahara Oil was established in April 2009 and has been opportunity to develop granted long-term licences to provide full oil field services their potential and, in Libya, including the ability to drill onshore and offshore where appropriate, to and hold both oil and gas licences.
further their careers within the Group.
On the job training and third party training is provided to all local personnel.
1 BP Statistical Review 2011 heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 25
