62 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.1 governAnce reporT Training the induction process contained presentations continued from executive management on: During 2011, the secretariat formalised directors training through regular updates induction presentations to directors on relevant, externally provided XX seminars and discussion forums.
several of Sales and Marketing Processes effecTiveness the Directors attended presentations relating XX Supply chain skills and experience to areas of responsibility.
During 2010, the XX Research & Development the Board keeps its composition and the skills company organised external training for and experience of its members under constant directors on the legal and regulatory landscape.
the Directors believe in the necessity Further training is scheduled for 2012.
XX Legal for challenge and debate in the boardroom the companys brokers and financial XX Manufacturing and consider that existing board dynamics and advisers presented industry and market processes encourage honest and open debate updates to the Board on several occasions XX API with the executive Directors.
these presentations were in addition XX Finance believe that the Boards decision making to the written briefings on regulatory and XX process is inclusive, and is not dominated Information Technology legislative changes presented at each board byany individual or group of individuals.
meeting in the form of a corporate XX Investor Relations Governance update.
this year briefings hikma knowledge covered the Frc consultation on going the induction plan developed will be used as the Directors maintain an appropriate concern, uk corporate Governance code, the model for future induction exercises.
dialogue amongst themselves and senior market abuse, share dealing, insurance, management, which ensures that nonevaluation andvarious aspects of the listing rules.
executive Directors are kept up to date with as required by the code, a formal evaluation theinvestor relations department reported major developments in the Groups business.
of the performance of the Board was tothe Board on its activities and issues arising Board members are encouraged to visit the undertaken during the period under review.
in the market on a regular basis.
business units and to meet management as in previous years, at the request of the teams in order to facilitate a better induction chairman, the process was co-ordinated by understanding of the key issues facing the a new independent non-executive Director thesenior independent Director.
the non-executive Directors joined the Board during the year and, under in 2010, the Board appointed lintstock undertook several operational visits during the the guidance of the chairman and with the to conduct an independently moderated year, and maintain an excellent understanding assistance of the secretariat, underwent an evaluation of the Board and its committees.
of the way the business operates.
this included: lintstock were re-appointed for 2011 and the chairman, mr. ali al-Husry and the reviewed the overall processes and areas induction highlights executive Directors have extensive experience of focus in light of comments from the 2010 of Hikma from the period prior to its listing.
XX evaluation, particularly in respect of group visiting the Jordan facilities and the executive Directors have regular contact conducting one-on-one meetings strategy, approach to risk, board composition with all MENA senior management with all senior management and the chairman and succession.
During the XX lintstock prepared online questionnaires presentations on each functional and year, the entire Board visited the newly geographical area of Group business designed to build on these areas and other acquired injectable facility at cherry Hill, usa.
key governance and management themes.
XX meetings with the Senior Independent the chairman of the audit committee visited lintstock managed the process and reported Director and other Non-Executive Directors the corporate head office in Jordan in order independently to the chairman and the senior XX receipt of a full induction pack explaining for the internal auditors to report on progress, independent Director, following which the Hikmas governance framework, policies their findings and plans for 2012. the chairman results and findings were presented to the full andprocedures of the remuneration committee also attended Board.
the report for each committee was XX a briefing from the General Counsel the corporate head office to review the reviewed by the relevant committee chairman and Company Secretary on the legal, development of the human resources function, and the full committee.
as well as issues governance and control framework including proposals for further development.
specific to Hikma, the evaluation covered XX a briefing from the US CEO to explain robert Pickering also visited the Jordan facilities general topics including board support, access US FDA regulatory and quality issues as part of his induction.
ronald Goode visited to senior management, diversity issues and West-Wards facilities in eatontown, usa as mergers and acquisition processes.
part of his committee chairman level oversight the report to the Board focused on the key of the compliance risk assessment process.
