54 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.
1 g ov e r nA nc e r e p orT BoArD of DirecTors samih Darwazah said Darwazah mazen Darwazah Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice Chairman, CEO of MENA age: 81 age: 54 age: 53 appointed: 8 september 2005 appointed: 1 July 2007 appointed: 8 september 2005 Joined Hikma: 1977 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 1985 nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: samih Darwazah is founder and chairman of said was appointed chief executive officer in July mazen was appointed executive vice-chairman Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc.
samih was employed 2007. said was formerly chairman and chief in2005.
since joining Hikma, he has held various at eli lilly from 1964 to 1976 before establishing executive of the Groups holding company from positions within the Group, including chairman and Hikma Pharmaceuticals in Jordan in 1977.
19942003 and minister of Health for the ceo of Hikma Pharmaceuticals limited Jordan.
samihwas chairman and chief executive of Hashemite kingdom of Jordan from 2003 to 2007. mazen holds a Ba in Business administration from HikmaPharmaceuticals Plc until 2007, when he During his time at Hikma, said has played a key role the lebanese american university and is a graduate relinquished his executive responsibilities.
as chief in the development of the Group strategy, including of the advanced management Programme from executive, samih won ernst and Youngs middle the acquisition of West-Ward Pharmaceuticals in inseaD.
He has previously served as the President east entrepreneur of the Year award in 2007. the usa and the development of the injectables of the Jordanian association of manufacturers of business in europe and the mena region.
a Fulbright scholar, samih holds a masters Degree Pharmaceuticals and medical appliances.
thisincluded the companys facilities in the usa, in industrial Pharmacy from the st. louis college Jordan, and Portugal receiving FDa approval.
other appointments: ofPharmacy, missouri which he obtained in 1964, mazen is a senator of the Hashemite kingdom and from which he was awarded an honorary said has a degree in industrial engineering from ofJordan and the chairman of the Jordan Doctor of science degree in 2010.
He obtained his Purdue university and an mBa from inseaD.
mazen is a Bsc Degree in Pharmacy from the american other appointments: member of the middle east science Fund, which university of Beirut in 1954. said is chairman of the Healthcare accreditation makes educational grants.
He is an advisory samih served as minister of energy and mineral council of Jordan and the Dead sea touristic and member of the university of chicagos Deans resources in Jordan between 1995 and 1996. real estate investments.
He is vice chairman of international council.
Healso founded the Jordan exporters association thecapital Bank of Jordan.
He is also a Director committee membership: and served as a member of the senate of the ofendeavour Jordan, a not for profit organisation nomination committee, compliance, Hashemite kingdom of Jordan.
that assists in the development of entrepreneurs, responsibilityand ethics committee and a trustee of Jordan river Foundation, a not for other appointments: profit organisation that aims to empower Jordanian samih is a member of the Generics advisory Board society.
said is a trustee at the american university of Pictet, the swiss Banks Fund.
the samih Darwazah center for innovation management and entrepreneurship was established at the olayan school of Business at the american university of Beirut.
corPorate Governance 55 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 sir David rowe-ham Ali Al-husry michael Ashton Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director age: 76 age: 54 age: 66 appointed: 14 october 2005 appointed: 14 october 2005 appointed: 14 october 2005 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 2005 nationality: British nationality: Jordanian nationality: australian skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: sir David brings to Hikma wide experience in ali joined Hikma as director of Hikma Pharma michael has over 30 years experience in the financial matters, corporate governance, public limited in 1981 and has held various directorships pharmaceutical industry, holding senior executive affairs, and the development of listed companies.
ali brings great financial positions with Pfizer and merck.
michael was sir David is a former lord mayor of london, and experience to the Board as well as an in-depth chiefexecutive officer of skyePharma Plc from hasheld many senior positions in uk financial knowledge of the mena region and Hikma november 1998 to march 2006 and prior to that institutions including serving as chairman of Pharmaceuticals.
ali was a founder of the capital was chairman, President and chief executive BrewinDolphin Holdings Plc and arden Partners Bank of Jordan, which offers commercial and officer of Faulding.
He has held a number of Plc.
Heis a past President of the crown agents investment banking services, and served as chief non-executive and advisory positions across Foundation and a former regional director of executive officer of the Bank until 2007. thepharmaceutical industry.
ali has a degree in mechanical engineering from michael has a Bachelor of Pharmacy degree from other appointments: the university of southern california and an mBa sydney university, and his mBa degree from sir David is chairman of olayan europe ltd. from inseaD.
committee membership: other appointments: other appointments: audit committee, nomination committee ali is chairman of endeavour Jordan, a not for michael is a non-executive Director at transition chairman, remuneration committee profit organisation that assists in the development therapeutics, a therapeutics biopharmaceutical of entrepreneurs and a director of the microfund company, Proximagen neuroscience plc, a for Women, which provides microfinance to neuroscience research company and Puricore plc.
also, he is He is also chairman of komix, a childrens amember of the Board of trustees of the Jordan educational organisation.
ali is a director of the capital Bank committee membership: ofJordan.
audit committee, nomination committee, remuneration committee chairman 56 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 BoArD of DirecTors continued Breffni Byrne Dr. ronald goode robert pickering Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director age: 66 age: 68 age: 52 appointed: 14 october 2005 appointed: 12 December 2006 appointed: 1 september 2011 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 2006 Joined Hikma: 2011 nationality: irish nationality: american nationality: British skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: Breffni is a chartered accountant with over 30 years ron has spent over 30 years in the international robert spent 23 years at cazenove & co. of experience in public practice, including significant pharmaceutical industry, including roles as President becoming the first chief executive of cazenove international responsibilities.
Breffni served as of international operations at searle andvice Group Plc in 2001.
He subsequently served as themanaging Partner of the audit and Business President of clinical and scientific affairs at Pfizer.
chief executive of JP morgan cazenove, until his advisory practice of arthur andersen in ireland His extensive experience includes leading companies retirement in 2008.
He has extensive experience of andas Director of risk management of andersens as ceo and acting as an adviser to companies capital raising, mergers and acquisitions and of the audit practice in the middle east, india, africa in the pharmaceutical industry.
He also advises relationship between quoted companies and andthe nordic countries.
Breffni has extensive companies involved in nanotechnology andin the investors.
experience in financial reporting, international information technology business sectors.
robert is a qualified solicitor with a law degree operations, corporate governance andgeneral ron was formerly President and chief executive officer from lincoln college, oxford.
He is a former of unimed Pharmaceuticals, inc. and eXegenics inc. non-executive Director of irish life and Permanent other appointments: He is a trustee of thunderbird school of Global plc.
He is considered by the Board to have recent and robert is a non-executive Director of neptune management, which is ranked by the Financial relevant financial experience.
times as the premier international business school.
He is chairman of the trustees of lincolncollege Breffni holds a masters degree in economic ron has a PhD from the university of Georgia and oxford 2027 trust.
science from the university college, Dublin and ams and Bs from the university of memphis.
committee membership: other appointments: audit committee, nomination committee, other appointments: ron is the chairman of the Goode Group, advisers compliance, responsibility and ethics committee Breffni is chairman of ncB stockbrokers, an to the pharmaceutical industry and a Board member independent financial securities company and of cytonics inc. a biotechnology company.
He is aviva insurance europe se, which conducts anadvisory Board member of art recherches et avivas general insurance business in ireland.
technologies avancees inc. a canadian-based supplier He is a non-executive Director of tedcastles of medical equipment.
ron is a director ofmercy Holdings, an oil distribution company, cpl resources ships international, a medical services charity.
He is plc, a human resources company, and coillte a senior Business adviser to thekinsella Group, teoranta, the irish state forestry board.
committee membership: committee membership: audit committee chairman, compliance, audit committee, compliance, responsibility responsibility and ethics committee, andethics committee chairman,  
