sustainability 39 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 SuS ta i na bi l i t y addreSSing maJor health iSSueS SinCe the Company waS founded, hikma haS been providing patientS with high Quality, affordable mediCineS as a leading manufacturer of generic in recent years, we have seen significant oncology products at a dedicated facility in pharmaceuticals, we are in a position to help changes in patient needs in the mena region.
Our global oncology product portfolio address the health issues affecting patients in as life expectancy increases and lifestyles is growing, we are increasing our penetration the markets in which we operate.
Given our change, patients are increasingly being treated of the european oncology market, we have origins in mena, and the regions relatively for chronic illnesses.
the incidence ofheart begun launching our first cancer products in young population, anti-infectives have disease and diabetes has risen dramatically.
the mena region and have received our first dominated our product portfolio for many through our own in-house development oncology approval in the us.
as our business has grown, our andthrough partnering with licensors, we through charitable contributions, we are anti-infective product offering has expanded areworking to address these health issues by also looking to help prevent and treat some in range, complexity and market coverage.
We are ofworlds most challenging health issues.
Hikma is now a key supplier of oral and also working to raise awareness of many of since 2010 we have contributed to the Global injectable cephalosporins and oral penicillins these illnesses in ourlocal communities.
Fund to fight aiDs, tuberculosis and malaria, across the mena, europe and the us markets.
through internal andexternal awareness days which works to fight these diseases.
as we have expanded our geographic and targeted marketing campaigns, we are footprint and sought to meet the changing sharing our expertise in order to help prevent, needs of patients in our local markets, we detect andtreat these chronic diseases.
have also grown our product portfolio in other across all our markets, we are working therapeutic areas.
as of the end of 2011, our tofight the increasing incidence of cancer.
global product portfolio of 667 molecules in Ourmanufacturing facility in Germany, which 1,598 dosage strengths and forms included is dedicated to the production of cytotoxic products in the cardiovascular, oncology, oncology injectables, is now approved for cns, respiratory and pain therapeutic areas, production for the us, europe and mena.
Weare also producing high quality oral
