40 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 SuS ta i na bi l i t y patientS patientS around the world Seek Safe and effeCtive mediCineS at affordable priCeS hikma quality pharmacovigilance Delivering high quality products to our through our robust commitment to patients starts with embedding quality in pharmacovigilance, we ensure that ourmanufacturing process.
Our corporate weremainfocused on patients safety.
compliance Department works to ensure Ourmedical affairs department manages thatall Hikma sites abide by the local apharmacovigilance system for the collection, regulations of the mena region, europe collation, and evaluation of adverse drug andthe us and that we harmonise quality reactions and the implementation of effective across our businesses through adherence corrective and preventive actions.
tointernational GmPs Good manufacturing in 2011, the medical affairs department Practices.
this commitment to quality extends implemented our pharmacovigilence to our employees, who undertake regular systeminsome of our mena countries training to ensure they are working to the andengagedsGD consulting ltD to highest possible standards.
 activities these efforts are supported throughout andrecommend strategies to improve the year with workshops, such as managing efficiency and productivity.
Deviations in compliance with the latest information and patient education regulatory Guidelines held in november in 2011, our excellence in pharmacovigilence 2011, in which employees from across enabled us to manage the impact of concerns Hikmasworldwide operations joined that arose with respect to one of our leading specialists from major pharmaceutical in-licensed products, actos, a treatment companies and regulatory bodies to share fortype 2 Diabetes.
Our pharmacovigilence insights on best practice.
team worked closely with our licensing partnertakeda, a Japanese research-based pharmaceutical company, and regulatory bodies in the mena region, doctors, pharmacists and other stakeholders to ensurethe dissemination of accurate information regarding the contraindications ofthis product.
sustainability 41 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 Clinical research Security of supply making sure that doctors and patients are ensuring the availability of our medicines is confident in the efficacy of Hikma products critical to both fulfilling patients needs and iscritical to their success in the market.
delivering on our corporate performance toachieve this, we work with medical objectives.
critical supply shortages hit the institutions, regulatory authorities, and clinical usmarket, particularly for injectable products, research organisations crOs, through our in 2011.
Our us operation responded by medical affairs department, to develop and accelerating the production of affected drugs conduct clinical and  and by working closely with the FDas drug studies.
the studies support our marketed shortage staff to anticipate and mitigate the products and help in the development of our effects of drug shortages on patients.
product pipeline across growing therapeutic areas i. e. oncology, central nervous system, diabetes, and respiratory system.
Our clinical research related activities during the year included participation in the Jordan FDa-clinical investigation training Program in December 2011. as part of this, Hikma arranged post-marketing surveillance studies in various key therapeutic areas, including oncology, and assisted in the management of medical trials.
