corPorate Governance 81 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 pension Benefits the committees pension Policy the committees benefits Policy position is position is Lower Quartile to Median Lower Quartile to Median.
salary lower quartile Fixed salary pension to lower quartile compensation Fixed median Pension to Benefits compensation median Benefits the company makes available the normal During the year under review, as in previous with the Group, and an additional 10% in benefits in kind for the executive Directors for years, the only pension contributions made by each subsequent year.
the participants interest acompany of this size, such as company cars, the Group in respect of the executive Directors in the Groups contribution fully vests after healthcare and life insurance.
Benefits received were contributions to the Hikma Pharmaceuticals tenyears of employment.
the contributions during the year were: Defined contribution retirement Benefit Plan and their relationship to the comparator Jordan the BenefitPlan.
the executive Group were asdetailed in the table at the BeneFits value Directors do not receive personal pension bottom of this page.
value of contributions from the Group.
the pension contributions made by Director 2011 Benefits the Benefit Plan operates in accordance theGroup for the executive Directors are said Darwazah with the rules relevant to employees of the significantly below the comparator Group.
chief executive $10,536 Group based in Jordan.
under the Benefit Plan the executive Directors have indicated mazen Darwazah the Group matches employee contributions.
thatthey are content with the existing executive vice chairman $nil these are fixed at a maximum of 5% of arrangements and have requested that applicable salary.
Participants are entitled to theirpension remains in line with Group 30% of the Groups contributions to the employment practice by participating Benefit Plan after three years of employment inthesame pension plan as other employeesin Jordan.
Pension contriButions 2010 2011 % of % of policy policy value Adherence to Director salary us$ salary us$ position % of salary policy said Darwazah Below policy chiefexecutive 1.35% 8,505 1.35% 8,505 35% position lower quartile to median mazen Darwazah Below policy executivevice chairman 1.86% 7,818 1.86% 7,818 22% position the information in the above table has been audited by Deloitte llP, our auditors.
