corPorate Governance 63 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 trends emerging from the evaluation.
lintstock meeTings the Board is kept updated on the views presented these results in the context of Hikmas ofshareholders and the market in general information flow business, and that of its peers in the Ftse and through feedback from the investor program the company secretary supports the international markets and provided their and results presentations.
analysts reports are chairman in setting the Board agenda, independent feedback on the results.
as a circulated to board members together with a ensuring appropriate reports from executive result, the Board resolved certain action points monthly investor relations report.
the investor management and advisors are delivered in a to enhance performance.
the results of the relations Director presents an annual investor timely manner and that directors have the evaluation process formed part of the chairmans relations review to the Board.
information they need in order to make appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the company secretary fully-informed decisions.
Board and committee Board and its members.
the review concluded papers are circulated to members in advance all directors have access to the advice and that the Board had functioned well in 2011, services of the company secretary, who under of the meetings.
had built on matters raised in 2010, was well During the year the Board received the the chairmans direction is responsible for supported and had balanced and inclusive ensuring good information flow to the Board following presentations at each meeting: processes which promoted effective and its committees, and that sound board decision-making.
regular Board presentations procedures are followed.
the appointment in 2012, the Board will consider whether XX and removal of the company secretary is a Financial performance against to enhance the externally moderated forecast budget matter reserved for the Board.
evaluation with face to face director interviews and a board meeting review, based on the XX Legal update non-executives continued added value this could bring to the XX Corporate governance update the chairman also holds meetings with Boards operations.
non-executive Directors without the XX Branded operational performance and in addition to the matters set out above, business development executive management present to discuss in respect of all directors, the senior issues affecting the Group.
as in previous XX independent Director met with the nonInjectables division operational years, the independent non-executive performance and business development executive Directors to undertake a formal Directors have met without the chairman appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
XX Generic division operational performance or executive Directors being present on this review addressed the effectiveness of his and business development several occasions during theyear.
leadership, the setting of the Board agenda, additionally, the Board and relevant communication with shareholders, internal communication and board efficiency.
the committees continued to receive reports at appropriate junctures on: non-executives concluded that the chairman gave clear leadership and direction to the Board, Adhoc board reports and that the Board is run in an appropriate and XX effective manner.
Investor relations XX Financial markets performance independent Advice broker update the Board has approved a formal policy for XX Risk management Directors to obtain independent legal advice at the companys expense in the performance of XX Insurance their duties as directors.
the policy is detailed XX Human resources in the Board Governance manual.
XX Compliance XX Research and development XX Tax
