corPorate Governance 57 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.
1 g ov e r nA nc e r e p orT senior mAnAgemenT Bassam kanaan michael raya khalid nabilsi President and Chief Operating Officer President and CEO of the USA Chief Financial Officer for the MENA and EU regions appointed to current role: 2008 appointed to current role: 2011 appointed to current role: 2011 Joined Hikma: 1992 Joined Hikma: 2001 Joined Hikma: 2001 nationality: american nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: michael joined Hikmas us subsidiary West-Ward Prior to assuming his current role khalid held several Bassam is qualified as a certified Public accountant from vitarine Pharmaceuticals where he had senior positions in the Hikma finance department and started his career in 1986 with Deloitte & worked from 1984 until 1992 in various roles, including corporate vice President, Finance and touche los angeles where he held a variety of including vice President, Quality control.
was a key member of the iPo team in 2005. roles prior to joining PaDico in 1994 as cFo.
Priortothis, michael worked at schering-Plough Following qualification as a certified Public Bassam joined Hikma as cFo in 2001 and played and Hoffman laroche.
at Hikma, michael has accountant, he held a variety ofroles in financial aleading role in preparing for the companys iPo previouslybeen responsible for all West-Wards accounting, reporting and financial advisory services, in2005 and in its subsequent m&a activity.
operations as well as quality compliance for all and with atlas investment Group now aBinvest inFebruary 2009, Bassam assumed the additional worldwide Hikma facilities until his appointment where he wasinvolved in mergers and acquisitions responsibility for operations, manufacturing and asPresident and ceo of West-Ward in 2008. advisory services.
Prior to atlas, khalid had managed supply chain management in europe & mena.
severalmultinational audit engagements at inJanuary 2011, Bassam was promoted to the michael holds a masters degree in industrial arthurandersen in amman, Jordan.
position of President and chief operating officer Pharmacy from long island university and a for the mena and eu regions.
Bachelors degree in chemistry from st. Francis khalid is a certified Public accountant and has college.
michael is also a graduate of inseaDs anmBa from the university of Hull.
Bassam has a Ba from claremont mckenna international executive Programme.
college and an executive mBa from northwestern other appointments: university.
khalid is a founder and board member of the Jordan association for management accountants other appointments: and a board member of the Jordan armed Forces Bassam currently holds non-executive Directorships and security apparatuses credit union.
in aqaba Development co. and Jordan Dubai Properties.
He has previously served on the Boards of Zara Holding, capital Bank of Jordan, ceGco and Paltel.
Bassam is active in several non-profit and charity organisations and is currently a member of the Board of trustees of the Welfare association in Jordan.
58 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 senior mAnAgemenT continued riad mishlawi majda labadi henry knowles EU Vice President and Global Head Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and ofInjectables HumanResources Company Secretary appointed to current role: 2011 appointed to current role: 2009 appointed to current role: 2005 Joined Hikma: 1990 Joined Hikma: 1985 Joined Hikma: 2005 nationality: lebanese nationality: Jordanian nationality: British skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: riad joined Hikma as a Project engineer in the majda has held a variety of roles including since joining Hikma, Henry has advised on all aspects engineering department where he was involved Purchasing manager at Hikma Pharmaceuticals of the Groups business, including commercial inthe construction of Hikmas facility in Portugal.
limited, strategy manager at Hikma investment, negotiations, regulatory matters, andcorporate riad spent a significant period in the manufacturing General manager of Hikma Farmaceutica and from governance, as well as contributing tothe execution operations of many Hikma sites, was general 2007, vice President of injectables.
in February of the Groups acquisition strategy.
more recently manager of Hikma italy and became Head of 2009 majda assumed her current position as Henry has been responsible for developing the injectables manufacturing operations before corporate vice President, Human resources.
Groups enhanced strategy and programme for assuming his current role.
riad was an executive shehas been responsible for establishing a central corporate compliance.
Before joining Hikma, Director at Watson Pharmaceuticals from 1998 Hr function and implementing and consolidating Henryworked for the international law firm, to2005, responsible for injectables operations.
anumber of group wide Hr initiatives including ashurst, where he specialised in mergers & Hikmas compensation structure and performance acquisitions, equity capital markets and riad has a Bsc in engineering and a masters in evaluation process.
engineering and management from George Washington university.
majda has completed the advanced management Henry is admitted as a solicitor in england and Program amP at inseaD, holds a Ba from the Wales and holds an ma in social and Political american university of Beirut and masters degree science from trinity college, cambridge.
from Hochschule Fr okonomie in Berlin, Germany.
corPorate Governance 59 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 susan ringdal Dr ibrahim Jalal Vice President, Corporate Strategy Senior Corporate Vice President, andInvestor Relations TechnicalAffairs appointed to current role: 2012 appointed to current role: 2000 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 1979 nationality: american nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: susan joined the company as investor relations ibrahim joined Hikma as technical Director and Director, having previously worked for the hasheld a variety of roles including corporate pharmaceutical distribution and retail pharmacy technical vice President for compliance and group alliance unichem plc as investor relations seniorcorporate vice President for r&D.
she also has experience as an equity Hehasplayed a leading role in Hikma securing analyst at morgan stanley in london.
in early 2012, FDaapproval for its manufacturing units.
susan assumed responsibility for corporate strategy.
ibrahim holds a PhD in Pharmacy from susan holds a Ba in History from cornell university theuniversity of Wisconsin-madison.
and an mBa from the london Business school.
60 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 senior mAnAgemenT continued fadi nassar ragheb Al-shakhshir Corporate Vice President, Active Corporate Vice President, Pharmaceutical Ingredients Research&Development appointed to current role: 2007 appointed to current role: 2009 Joined Hikma: 1988 Joined Hikma: 2000 nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: Fadi has worked in various roles within the Group ragheb joined Hikma as a research & Development including operations, Purchasing and Business manager.
Prior to joining Hikma, he held a variety Development.
He was promoted to corporate of roles including senior scientist at novartis vicePresident, aPi in 2007.
Fadi is a Director of Pharmaceuticals and at alcon labs in the united Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical co. ltd. an active states.
From 20032008 ragheb led the Hikma Pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing company r&D injectable team and from February 2009 in which Hikma purchased a significant minority assumed the responsibility of corporate vice interest in 2011.
Fadi holds a Bsc in chemical engineering from ragheb has a PhD in industrial and Physical newcastle university and an ma in chemical Pharmacy from Purdue university, masters in engineering from leeds university.
Fadi is also engineering from the university of  of inseaDs international executive amherst and a Bsc in chemical engineering from Program.
