92 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.2 commiTTee reporTs going concern Auditors Directors continued the Directors believe that the Group is well each person who was a Director of the diversified due to its geographic spread, product company at the date when this report was diversity and large customer and supplier base.
approved confirms that: the Group operates in the relatively defensive creditor payment policy Director confirmations the companys policy, which is also applied generic pharmaceuticals industry which the Directors expect to be less affected compared XX by the Group and will continue in respect so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which of the 2012 financial year, is to settle terms to other industries.
theGroup has increased the Companys auditors are unaware its year end net debtposition to $421.9 million of payment with all suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to ensure 2010: $101.1million following significant XX the Director has taken all the steps that investment in acquisitions.
operating cash flow he ought to have taken as a Director that suppliers are made aware of and abide to make himself aware of any relevant by the terms of payment.
trade creditors of in 2011 was $126.4 million 2010: $152.5 million.
audit information and to establish that theGroup has $396.4 million 2010: $264.8million the company at 31 December 2011 were the Companys auditors are aware of equivalent to 105 days purchases 2010: 73 days, of undrawn banking facilities.
these facilities that information are well diversified across the operating based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
subsidiaries of the Group and are with a this confirmation is given and should be number of financial institutions.
theGroups interpreted in accordance with the provisions Donations forecasts, taking into account reasonable of section 418 of the companies act 2006.
Group policy prohibits the payment of political possible changes in trading performance, Deloitte llP has expressed its willingness donations.
During the year the Group made facility renewal sensitivities and maturities of to continue in office as auditors and a charitable donations of approximately long-term debt, show that the Group should resolution to reappoint them will be proposed $3.2million 2010:$2.5 million : be able to operate well within the levels of its at the forthcoming annual General meeting.
facilities and their related covenants.
Amount Amount donated in donated in after making enquiries, the Directors DirecTors 2010 2011 believe that the Group is adequately placed the names of the Directors as at the date of Type of donation $ $ to manage its business and financing risks this report, together with details of their roles, local charities successfully despite the current uncertain backgrounds and abilities, are set out in the serving communities economic and political outlook.
the Directors Directors biographies on pages 54 to 56. in which the group have formed a judgement that there is Detailsof the independence of non-executive operates 838,000 1,504,000 reasonable expectation that the Group has Directors are set out in the report on corporate adequate resources to continue in operational medical governance on page 61. other than robert donations in kind 1,662,000 1,694,000 existence for the foreseeable future.
the Directors Pickering, who was appointed on 1 september therefore continue to adopt the going concern 2011, the executive and non-executive political nil nil basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors served the company throughout Total: 2,500,000 3,199,000 theyear.
significant contracts robert Pickering was appointed to the Due to the nature of the Groups business, research and Development Board on 1 september 2011 and will retire and members of the Group are party to agreements the Groups investment in research & seek election at the annual General meeting that could alter or be terminated upon a change Development R&D during 2011 represented on 17 may 2012. in accordance with the uk of control of the Group following a takeover.
Further corporate Governance code, it is the Boards However, none of these agreements is individually details on the Groups r&D activities can be policy that all directors should retire and seek deemed to be significant in terms of its found on pages 13 and 31. re-election on an annual basis.
accordingly, potential impact on the business of the Group samih Darwazah, said Darwazah, mazen related party transactions taken as a whole.
the Directors are not aware Darwazah, sir David rowe-Ham, ali al-Husry, Details of related party transactions are of any agreements between the company Breffni Byrne, michael ashton and ronald included in note 38 of the Financial and its Directors or employees that provide for Goode will retire and seek re-election at the statements on pages 138 and 139. compensation for loss of office or employment annual General meeting.
shareholders are that occurs because of a takeover bid.
there are referred to the nomination committee report no persons, with whom the company has on pages 70 to 72 and the profiles of each of contractual or other arrangements, who are the Directors on pages 54 to 56. deemed to be essential to the business of the company.
