corPorate Governance 65 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 DirecTors operations where there have particular areas Contracts of interest.
consequently, the independent Approval of significant contracts, Terms of Appointment non-executive Directors dedicate substantially investments and projects which meet pre-set monetary thresholds Details of the executive Directors service more time to the company than their arrangements and non-executive Directors appointment requires.
Communication letters of appointment are contained in the the Directors duties are set out in the Approval of certain press releases, remuneration report on page 88. the terms Board Governance manual and the Directors and all circulars and prospectuses of appointment of all directors are made receive regular updates in respect of these duties.
Board Membership and Other Appointments available for inspection before the annual the Directors other obligations are detailed in Approval of changes to board structure General meeting and during business hours at their service contracts and letters of appointment.
and composition, succession, auditors, the companys registered office at 13 Hanover the duties of the committee chairmen are company secretary square, london.
contained in the terms of reference for each Remuneration committee, which are available on the Hikma Determining remuneration policy for senior external commitments website.
each committee chairman makes an management and Directors and officers, the Directors external commitments are individual report to the Board at each board amendingor introducing share incentive plans detailed in their profiles on pages 54 to 56. meeting and reports separately to shareholders responsibility has been delegated to the audit Corporate Governance in this annual report.
Annually reviewing Board, committees and committee to operate, monitor and review individual Director performance, and reviewing the conflicts of interest procedures, which indemnities and insurance corporate governance arrangements have operated effectively during the year.
the company maintains an appropriate level a register of external commitments is of Directors and officers insurance.
the introduction to the committees maintained by the secretariat and is reviewed Directors benefit from qualifying third party the Board has an extensive workload and, and, if necessary, updated at each audit indemnities made by the company which therefore, has delegated the detailed oversight committee and Board meeting.
Where new were in force during the year and as at the of certain items to four committees the: commitments are proposed, these are reviewed date of this report.
these indemnities are in advance by the audit committee and, uncapped in amount in relation to losses and The committees where appropriate, recommendations on liabilities which Directors may incur to third XX Audit Committee necessary controls are made to the Board.
parties in the course of the performance of the chairmans external commitments XX their duties.
Nomination Committee have not changed during the year.
the Board XX Remuneration Committee has continued to keep these commitments DelegATion of AuThoriTy XX Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics under review and considers that they do not matters reserved to the Board Committee CREC negatively affect his ability to perform his role.
the company maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which is each committee has terms of reference which remuneration contained in the Board Governance manual.
were reviewed during the year.
copies are Details of the remuneration of the executive this includes the following items: published on the Groups website and are and non-executive Directors are contained available for inspection at the registered office inthe remuneration report set out on pages matters reserved at 13 Hanover square, london.
Operational Management Approval of strategy, operations oversight, reporting to the Board Duties and commitment performance review the chairman of each committee reports the Directors commit an appropriate amount on that committees business at every Board of time to their roles.
the letters of appointment Structure & Capital Approval of changes to group structure or meeting.
the minutes of each committee require non-executive Directors to commit changes to capital structure are made available to the entire Board.
each 20 days during each year to the execution committee makes a formal annual report of their duties.
time taken for preparation and Financial Reporting & Controls to shareholders in the annual report.
attendance at Board and committee meetings, Approval of financial announcements, accounts, dividends, conducting significant changes to including planned overseas visits, utilises a treasury and accountancy practice For and on behalf of the Board of Directors significant portion of this time.
in addition, ofHikma Pharmaceuticals Plc the committee chairmen spend a significant Internal Controls amount of time on their respective areas of reviewing the effectiveness of the groups henry knowles risk and control processes, including an responsibility and non-executive Directors take annual assessment Company Secretary time to meet with management and visit 13 march 2012
