54 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.
1 g ov e r nA nc e r e p orT BoArD of DirecTors samih Darwazah said Darwazah mazen Darwazah Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice Chairman, CEO of MENA age: 81 age: 54 age: 53 appointed: 8 september 2005 appointed: 1 July 2007 appointed: 8 september 2005 Joined Hikma: 1977 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 1985 nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: samih Darwazah is founder and chairman of said was appointed chief executive officer in July mazen was appointed executive vice-chairman Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc.
samih was employed 2007. said was formerly chairman and chief in2005.
since joining Hikma, he has held various at eli lilly from 1964 to 1976 before establishing executive of the Groups holding company from positions within the Group, including chairman and Hikma Pharmaceuticals in Jordan in 1977.
19942003 and minister of Health for the ceo of Hikma Pharmaceuticals limited Jordan.
samihwas chairman and chief executive of Hashemite kingdom of Jordan from 2003 to 2007. mazen holds a Ba in Business administration from HikmaPharmaceuticals Plc until 2007, when he During his time at Hikma, said has played a key role the lebanese american university and is a graduate relinquished his executive responsibilities.
as chief in the development of the Group strategy, including of the advanced management Programme from executive, samih won ernst and Youngs middle the acquisition of West-Ward Pharmaceuticals in inseaD.
He has previously served as the President east entrepreneur of the Year award in 2007. the usa and the development of the injectables of the Jordanian association of manufacturers of business in europe and the mena region.
a Fulbright scholar, samih holds a masters Degree Pharmaceuticals and medical appliances.
thisincluded the companys facilities in the usa, in industrial Pharmacy from the st. louis college Jordan, and Portugal receiving FDa approval.
other appointments: ofPharmacy, missouri which he obtained in 1964, mazen is a senator of the Hashemite kingdom and from which he was awarded an honorary said has a degree in industrial engineering from ofJordan and the chairman of the Jordan Doctor of science degree in 2010.
He obtained his Purdue university and an mBa from inseaD.
mazen is a Bsc Degree in Pharmacy from the american other appointments: member of the middle east science Fund, which university of Beirut in 1954. said is chairman of the Healthcare accreditation makes educational grants.
He is an advisory samih served as minister of energy and mineral council of Jordan and the Dead sea touristic and member of the university of chicagos Deans resources in Jordan between 1995 and 1996. real estate investments.
He is vice chairman of international council.
Healso founded the Jordan exporters association thecapital Bank of Jordan.
He is also a Director committee membership: and served as a member of the senate of the ofendeavour Jordan, a not for profit organisation nomination committee, compliance, Hashemite kingdom of Jordan.
that assists in the development of entrepreneurs, responsibilityand ethics committee and a trustee of Jordan river Foundation, a not for other appointments: profit organisation that aims to empower Jordanian samih is a member of the Generics advisory Board society.
said is a trustee at the american university of Pictet, the swiss Banks Fund.
the samih Darwazah center for innovation management and entrepreneurship was established at the olayan school of Business at the american university of Beirut.
