80 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.3 remunerATion reporTs ApplicATion continued salary the committees salary Policy position is With the assistance of Lower Quartile to Median.
 llP, the non-executive Directors fees are structured committee undertook a benchmarking into three elements: of executive Director salaries during 2011.
Salary fee elements lower quartile the conclusion was that salaries were Fixed pension to compensation XX Directorship: a base fee for undertaking significantly below the policy range median Benefits theduties of a Director of Hikma, of lower Quartile to median, ascan be chiefly relating to Board, strategy and seen in the table below: shareholder meetings.
salarY BencHmark XX Committee membership: a one-off fee policy position policy value Actual salary 2011 Adherence to policy for taking additional responsibilities in relation toCommittee membership.
said Darwazah lower quartile $791k to Below policy Usually non-executives are members chiefexecutive to median $1,066k $630,000 position of three committees.
mazen Darwazah lower quartile $624k to Below policy XX Committee Chairmanship: committee executive vice chairman to median $751k $420,000 position chairmen undertake additional responsibilities in leading a committee and are expected to act as a sounding board for the executive When determining the base salary of the in relation to 2011, the committee has taken that reports to the relevant committee.
executives, the main points the committee into consideration the following important The chairmanship fee is paid inaddition takes into consideration are: factors in determining that the executive Directors to the membership fee with a higher salaries should be increased by up to 20%: fee paid to the Audit Committee chairman salary reference points toreflect the significant demands of salary increase factors thisposition.
XX salary levels of the Comparator Group XX Being positioned significantly below XX the performance of the Executive Director our policy position from a comparison senior management and the Group perspective the policy for senior management XX the Directors experience and compensation is set in line with policy for the XX There being no change to Executive Director responsibilities executive Directors, with a degree of discretion salaries during 2009, 2010 and 2011 XX pay and conditions throughout the Group for the committee to take into account particular XX Despite the high level of political and issues identified by the chief executive, such economical turbulence across the world the remuneration committee has access to as the performance of a specific individual or in2011, particularly in the Middle East, information on the pay and conditions of thevery strong year for the Company business unit.
other employees in the Group and takes this XX The addition of valuable acquisitions and into consideration when determining the policy for 2012 joint ventures during the year, leading to a compensation packages for executive 2011 was a turbulent year in global markets 22% increase in personnel and significant Directors.
the remuneration committee and in particular in the mena region where increase in operational responsibilities actively considers the relationship between a significant amount of Hikmas business is general changes to employees pay and conducted.
Political upheaval brought pressure 2012 salarY conditions and any proposed changes in the 2009 policy on employment conditions across the region.
2011 2012 increase value compensation packages for executive notwithstanding those significant pressures, Directors.
the aim is to ensure it can be said Darwazah Hikma is a global business and the remuneration $791k to sufficiently robust in its determinations in light committee remains of the view that its existing chief executive $630k $750k 19% $1,066k of the position of the company as a whole.
remuneration policy and comparator Group mazen remain appropriate for the Group.
therefore, Darwazah no change to the remuneration Policy or executive $624k to comparator Group will be made in 2012. vice chairman $420k $504k 20% $751k
