corPorate Governance 79 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 this supports the performance based culture compensation practices in the comparator criteria taken into account by the of the company.
the policy in respect of Group are used to: remuneration committee when selecting long-term incentives and potential thecurrent comparator Group included the: rank hikma compensation compensation value isan extension of the against the comparator group.
This enables the comparator group criteria policy on total short-term compensation.
committee to determine hikmas position in executives will receive amarket competitive XX Type of pharmaceutical specialism relation to other companies and, hence, assess package only if performance is achieved.
the compensation of hikma executives to ensure XX International nature of Hikma that the policy is being met e. g. lower quartile XX Executives will receive to median salary International nature of the executive team a market competitive XX Assess Tsr performance.
Market capitalisation and turnover The Total shareholder return TSR of hikma package only if performance XX Number of employees compared to its comparator group is used as the is achieved performance target in respect of the long-Term XX Consolidation in the pharmaceutical incentive plan LTIP.
only upper quartile industry affecting the number of in formulating the application of its policy performance results in 100% vesting of the Tsr comparable companies for 2011 and future years, the remuneration component of the lTip awards.
XX committee has been cognisant of the evolving UK listing environment landscape in compensation.
the remuneration During 2011, the committee reviewed its throughout this report, references to quartiles committee also believes that many of the comparator Group to ensure that it remained are to quartiles in the comparator Group.
principles proposed by the Department of appropriate for the company on an ongoing the committee has resolved that, having Business, innovation and skills, uk corporate basis, reflecting the increase in size of the taken account of those companies that have Governance code and by institutional company and increasing internationalisation been acquired during the period, the comparator shareholders and their representative bodies of the business.
the constituents of the Group remains appropriate for the Group as are already in operation or embedded within companys comparator Group for 2011 the benchmark for 2012. the companys compensation framework.
wereas follows: non-executive comparator group comparator group the policy for non-executive fees is set by the the committee seeks to benchmark executive XX Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc Board taking into account recommendations compensation against companies of a similar XX AstraZeneca PLC from the chief executive officer and executive status, sector, and performance.
the vice chairman and the limits set by the committee is cognisant of the fact that a too XX BTG PLC articles of association.
slavish devotion to comparators can lead to XX Crucell NV the nature of the companys business executive compensation continually rising XX is international, requiring the non-executive Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings above those of wider employee compensation.
Directors to travel to the us, middle east and therefore, the comparator Group is used as a XX Forest Laboratories Inc europe.
the Board is, therefore, made up of guide to set parameters for compensation and XX Grilfols SA non-executive Directors with a wide range of ensure executives are incentivised to perform XX experience both in the uk and internationally.
Hospira Inc to the best of their abilities for the long-term.
the use of options for non-executive Directors in this context, it is only one of a number of XX Impax Labs Inc is prevalent in the us and also to some extent factors taken into account by the committee XX King Pharmaceuticals Inc internationally.
However, as a uk listed when determining the level and elements of company complying with uk best practice, XX the companys compensation policy.
Merck KgaA it is not considered appropriate to grant options XX Novartis AG to the companys non-executive Directors.
XX Prostraken Group PLC to ensure that the company remains able to attract the appropriate calibre of candidate XX Sanofi Aventis and to take account of its inability to grant XX Shire Pharmaceuticals PLC options, the Board has therefore set its fee XX UCB SA policy at the upper quartile level.
XX Valeant Pharmaceutical International Inc XX Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc companies acquired by other companies during the period under review and, therefore, being removed from the comparator group for 2012.
