GOVERNANCE Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Articles of Association the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2011 the period.
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or Principal activities and business review removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Home Retail Group plc the the Company is the ultimate parent company Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Companys of Home Retail Group the the Group.
A review of the activities of the website at www.
In accordance with the Articles Group, its financial performance during the period and its likely future of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board or business developments, including a description of the principal risks and shareholders in general meeting.
Amendments to the Articles of uncertainties and key performance indicators, is provided within the Association must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or review of the business and the corporate governance report, which are by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
Subject to company law incorporated into this report by reference.
and the Articles of Association, the directors may exercise all the powers There were no material acquisitions or disposals during the period.
of the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of the main Board committees can be found in the corporate governance profit and dividends report on pages 39 to 41.
The Groups consolidated income statement on page 54 shows a pro t for the period of 190.9m.
The directors recommend the payment of Share capital and control a final dividend of 10.0p per ordinary share, to be paid on 20 July 2011 As at 20 April 2011, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 May 2011. class of shares, referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share An interim dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share was paid on 19 January 2011 capital can be found in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements giving a total dividend for the year of 14.7p per ordinary share.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out Directors in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on The names and biographical details of the directors are shown in the Board the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: of Directors and Operating Board section on pages 34 and 35.
On 20 April certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and 2010, Mike Darcey was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director.
regulations such as insider trading laws : and Particulars of directors remuneration are shown in the directors remuneration pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, report on pages 43 to 51.
Details of the service contracts of the directors, and the Company requires certain employees to seek the Companys how a change of control will affect the service contracts of the executive permission to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
directors, are summarised within the directors remuneration report.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which Neither contract for the executive directors provides for extended notice may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
periods or compensation in the event of termination or a change of control.
There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to control of During the period, the Group maintained liability insurance and third the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid party indemnification provisions for its directors, under which the may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its trading Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by subsidiaries is party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
In the context of the law in respect of all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in connection Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be signi cant.
with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the Company and any of its associated companies.
These indemnities Purchase of own shares are Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as dened in Section 234 On 28 April 2010 the Company announced a return of capital to of the Companies Act 2006 and copies are available for inspection at the shareholders through a share buy-back programme.
The share buy-back registered ofce of the Company during business hours on any weekday programme has been completed: 64,000,000 shares have been purchased, except public holidays.
for cancellation, at an average price of 233p and a net cash cost of 150m.
The purchased shares represent 7.3% of the 877,445,001 issued ordinary Directors interests shares at the 27 February 2010 balance sheet date.
The beneficial interests of the directors, together with non-bene cial At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 30 June 2010, interests in Home Retail Group plc shares, are shown below.
There were authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to no changes to these interests as at 20 April 2011: 87,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 June 2011, shareholders will be asked to give the Company Number of ordinary shares authority to purchase, in the market, up to 81,000,000 ordinary shares of at 26 February 2011 10p each, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Terry Duddy 2,497,570 Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements on page 91.
Richard Ashton 708,122 Oliver Stocken 146,094 John Coombe 65,068 Penny Hughes 24,226 Mike Darcey 3,546 36 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 GOVERNANCE Substantial shareholdings Financial risk management As at 20 April 2011, the Company had been notied under Rule 5 of the The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow risk following holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company: are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 68 to 71.
Total number of Percentage of voting rights total voting ordinary shares rights % Creditor payment For all trade creditors, it is, and will continue to be for the next financial Schroders plc 114,555,581 14.08 year, Group policy to: agree and confirm the terms of payment at the commencement of BlackRock Investment Management business with that supplier: UK Limited 63,137,923 7.76 pay suppliers in accordance with applicable terms: and Taube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP 43,983,617 5.41 continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining AXA S. A.
Trade creditor days of the Group at 26 February 2011 were 50 2010: 51, Tradewinds Global Investors LLC 41,793,958 5.14 based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the Legal & General Group plc 34,590,018 4.25 amounts invoiced during the year by trade suppliers.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Employees Political donations The Group has in place measures to provide its employees with information The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of on matters of concern to them as employees, including consulting political expenditure during the period.
employees or their representatives on a regular basis so that the views of employees can be taken into account in making decisions which are likely Relevant audit information to affect their interests.
Various communication routes are made available As at 20 April 2011, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant to employees to give them awareness of the financial and economic audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has factors affecting the performance of the Group and employees are also taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to encouraged to be involved in the Groups performance through a Save as make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to You Earn share scheme.
ensure that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Group has a policy in place for giving full and fair consideration to applications for employment by the Group made by disabled persons, Auditors having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and for continuing The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness the employment of, and for arranging appropriate training for, employees to continue in ofce and a resolution that they be reappointed will be of the Group who have become disabled persons during the period when proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
they were employed by the Group.
The policy also covers the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed Annual General Meeting by the Group.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Jurys Inn Hotel, Midsummer Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2HP, commencing at Employee share plans 11.00 am on Thursday 30 June 2011.
The Notice of Meeting is included in Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on the a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this annual report.
transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described in It is also available on the Companys website at www.
the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors use part of their fees to purchase shares, which may not normally be transferred By order of the Board Gordon Bentley Registered Of ce: during a directors period of of ce.
Secretary Avebury Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, 20 April 2011 489-499 Avebury participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered Boulevard owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner, Milton Keynes at the direction of the participant.
MK9 2NW All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change Company no.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 37
