REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Our product markets Home Retail Group operates in the home and general merchandise market, worth approximately 56 billion in terms of UK retail sales.
We are the leader in this market, with an The total furniture market was estimated to approximate 10% market share.
The overall have experienced a mid single-digit decline in total retail sales, with several major market, which declined by around 4% in calendar year 2010, can be analysed into various product sub-categories continuing to decline by categories.
A summary of these, including where double-digit rates.
products are sold at Argos or Homebase, the Groups overall share position, and the market Home improvement size of each product category during the 2010 The largest part of the home improvement market is the DIY category excluding furniture calendar year, is as follows: and homewares.
During the year, there were Homewares four national retailers B&Q, Homebase, Wickes The homewares market is relatively fragmented, and Focus accounting for over 40% of the according to analysis by Verdict Research, with market according to Verdict Research, with other the ten largest retailers accounting for over 40% national operators selling products in this of the market.
Home Retail Group is the market category being Argos, Wilkinson, Robert Dyas, leader in this category, with Argos holding the The Garden Centre Group, Topps Tiles and overall third position and Homebase adding Dobbies.
Approximately 50% of the DIY market further Group scale.
The competition base is very is estimated to be accounted for by specialist broad across the department stores John Lewis, independents.
Home Retail Group is the second Marks & Spencer, Debenhams, Bhs and House in this market, with Homebase holding overall of Fraser as well as fashion and home retailer second position and Argos adding further Group Next, some national specialists IKEA, Dunelm, scale.
The home improvement market also the supermarkets Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys and includes the kitchens, bathrooms and some broader generalists Wilkinson, Matalan, oorcoverings excluding carpets categories, TK Maxx.
Specialist independents are estimated with additional national competitors in these to account for around one-third of the market.
areas including Magnet, Howden, IKEA and The homewares market was estimated Homeform.
to have experienced a mid single-digit decline The home improvement market was in total retail sales according to Verdict Research.
estimated to have experienced a mid singledigit decline in total retail sales according to Furniture Verdict Research.
The structure of the furniture market shows a fairly close resemblance to the homewares market according to analysis by Verdict Research, with the ten largest retailers accounting for approaching 40% of the market.
Home Retail Group is second in this market, with Argos holding the overall third position and Homebase adding further Group scale.
The competition base has a number of national specialists DFS, IKEA, Homestyle Group, Magnet, Furniture Village, Dreams, with other significant players being B&Q, Marks & Spencer, John Lewis and Next.
10 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Horticulture, garden furniture and PRODUCT MARKETS outdoor living Group Market This market, according to Verdict Research, Argos Homebase position size bn was mainly dominated by the four national DIY Homewares 1 8.7 specialists, with Argos, Wilkinson and the two garden centre retailers, The Garden Centre Furniture 2 7.4 Group and Dobbies, also being signi cant Home improvement DIY tted kitchens bathrooms 2 10.5 retailers of products in this category.
Horticulture, garden furniture and outdoor living 2 3.4 Small domestic appliances 1 1.3 Home Retail Group is second in this market, Consumer electronics 2 14.2 with Homebase holding the overall second Large domestic appliances 3 3.3 position and Argos adding further Group scale.
Approximately one-third of this Toys 1 1.8 market is estimated to be accounted for Jewellery 1 4.0 by specialist independents.
Sports and leisure equipment 2 1.8 The horticulture, garden furniture and Total 56.4 outdoor living market was estimated to have experienced a low single-digit decline in total Note: All market positions are for calendar year 2010 and by retail sales except for jewellery, which is measured by volume.
retail sales according to Verdict Research.
The market sizes and positions quoted above are taken from reports provided by Verdict, Mintel, GFK, and internal management assumptions.
These reports are subject to prior year restatements upon more current data becoming available.
Small domestic appliances This market is relatively concentrated according to GfK.
Home Retail Group is the clear market leader in this market, with Argos holding the number one position with a substantial market The consumer electronics market was estimated share and Homebase adding further Group to have experienced a mid single-digit decline in scale.
Competition is mainly in the form of the total retail sales, according to Verdict Research.
electrical specialists Currys and Comet, Boots This was largely driven by the video gaming in terms of personal care appliances, the category and photography, as well as the of ce supermarkets, and department stores such as and telecoms categories, with a marginal increase John Lewis.
A relatively small proportion of the in the other major areas of consumer electronics.
market would be accounted for by specialist independents.
The small domestic appliances market was estimated to have experienced a low single-digit decline in total retail sales, according to Verdict Research.
Consumer electronics This market is also relatively concentrated according to GfK.
Home Retail Group is second in this market, with Argos holding overall second position and Homebase adding further Group scale.
Currys and Comet are the main competitors, with other competition in the form of John Lewis and other department stores, Tesco and other supermarkets, and national specialists in certain sub-categories such as Game in video gaming, Apple in smartphone and tablet technology and Jessops in photography.
Around one-fifth of the consumer electronics market would be accounted for by specialist independents, while other online retailers represent a small but growing share of this market.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 11 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Our product markets continued Large domestic appliances Jewellery This market is again relatively concentrated Market competitor analysis on the jewellery according to GfK, with the two major electrical market is based on volume sold rather than total specialists Currys and Comet leading in first and retail sales value.
According to Mintel Retail second position followed by Home Retail Group Intelligence, this is a highly concentrated market.
in third, with Argos in overall third position and Home Retail Group, through Argos, is the clear Homebase adding further Group scale.
market leader in terms of volume sold, Department stores such as John Lewis, DIY and followed by H. Samuel.
Other major retailers Find out more about our kitchen retailers and, to a lesser extent the of jewellery volumes include fashion jewellery business, with video and other supermarkets and home shopping businesses, shops, department stores, and specialist information on our new are other significant retailers in this category.
jewellers selling a greater proportion of precious reporting centre, available online Approximately one-third of the large domestic metal jewellery such as Ernest Jones Leslie Davis from our corporate website or at appliances market would be accounted for by and Goldsmiths.
The jewellery market was estimated to have reports The large domestic appliances market experienced a low single-digit decline according was estimated to have experienced a mid to Mintel Retail Intelligence.
single-digit decline in total retail sales, Sports and leisure equipment according to Verdict Research.
This market is relatively fragmented according Toys to analysis by Mintel Retail Intelligence.
Home The toy market is relatively concentrated Retail Group, in particular Argos, is number two according to analysis by Mintel Retail in the market, after Halfords by virtue of Intelligence, with the four largest retailers Halfords cycles position.
Other sellers of equipment include the predominantly sports accounting for over 50% of the market.
Home Retail Group is the market leader with clothing retailers Sports Direct, JJB Sports, Argos being the clear number one, followed JD Sports, the department stores, and Blacks in by Toys R Us and The Early Learning Centre.
The majority Supermarkets such as Tesco and Asda are now of the market is estimated to be made up of prominent toy retailers along with The specialist independents.
Entertainer and the Disney Store.
The sports and leisure equipment market The toy market was estimated to have was estimated to have experienced a low experienced a low single-digit increase in total single-digit decline in total retail sales according retail sales according to Mintel Retail Intelligence.
12 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Expected future development Our businesses are well established but of the competitive landscape continue to evolve to meet changing customer We expect our product markets to remain highly preferences.
Our product range is constantly competitive in the future.
Our supply chain is highly ef cient been growing share in certain parts of the and cost effective.
With all the key determinants non-food, non-clothing market, building on for success in place, we expect to emerge in the their regular footfall and the increased space long run as a stronger competitor in a more given to these ranges.
Online retailers, such as consolidated market.
co. uk, currently represent a small but growing share of certain product categories.
In most categories, the independent specialists will face even greater pressures on their ability to weather the challenging economic environment.
Although retail conditions are likely to remain tough in the near term, the longer-term outlook for market growth remains positive.
A return to long-term growth in the general merchandise and home enhancement markets would be expected on account of population growth and an increasing number of households, a reversion back to the general trend of rising overall household disposable income, technology changes and other new product developments, as well as the need to replace many existing household items.
Home Retail Groups key strengths mean we are well equipped for the future.
Our strong retail brands, multi-channel offering, extensive product choice and competitive pricing, together with a strong financial position, mean we are relatively well placed to trade through the downturn and benefit from renewed consumer confidence later in the cycle.
While we have leading positions in multiple product markets, there remains substantial headroom for growth in many categories.
The more fragmented markets provide growth opportunities, and Our businesses are well established we expect to take market share from weaker competitors and to benefit from any capacity but continue to evolve to meet withdrawal that ensues.
Our product range is constantly expanding.
Our supply chain is highly efficient and cost effective.
With all the key determinants for success in place, we expect to emerge in the long run as a stronger competitor in a more consolidated market.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 13
