REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Who we are and what we do We are the UKs leading home and general merchandise retailer.
Through investing in multi-channel initiatives, expanding choice and developing both product ranges and services, the Group continues to shape the future of shopping for our customers, ensuring that we continue to build successful businesses that bring unrivalled convenience and value to customers every day lives, whether shopping at home or on the move.
53,000 1,092 60,000 195 million colleagues are the foundation stores in the UK and Republic products available across customer transactions of our success of Ireland ROI across the Argos and Homebase last year Argos and Homebase formats Argos, the UKs largest general merchandise Homebase is the UKs leading home enhancement retailer, has an unrivalled offer of choice, value retailer and offers a growing range of home and convenience to meet customer needs.
improvement products and services in a differentiated store environment.
751 400m 341 7m stores in UK and ROI website visits during the year stores in UK and ROI active Nectar customers 35,000 46% 38,000 51% catalogue and branded, own-brand and growth in sales via of sales are multi-channel internet-only products exclusive products Reserve & Collect 4 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 R RE EV VIIE EW W O OF F T TH HE E B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S We have maintained our market share and leadership We have an efficient and integrated approach Our clear scale advantage comes from our well-invested infrastructure position throughout these challenging times which has been built up over a period of many years.
Despite the reduction of around 4% in the home and general merchandise market in 2010, Home Retail Group remains the market leader with approximately 10% of the 56bn market.
We therefore have significant opportunity for growth.
Naturally, there has been some movement within individual product categories and you can read more about this on pages 10 to 13.
Multi-channel shopping Our highly-successful 56bn 10% internet and mobile channels help us meet UK home and general Home Retail Groups consumer demand and merchandise market share of this market make us the market leader in multi-channel retailing.
We have leadership in our main product categories Home Retail Group holds leading positions in each of our ten main product UK-wide coverage categories, holding first position in four of these homewares, small domestic Our store network and appliances, toys and jewellery and second in another five.
We use the extensive home delivery strength of our retail brands to drive leadership in these markets and grow operation bring our multimarket share through expanding our product ranges.
channel convenience within easy reach of our customers.
Our consumers know our brands With over 60 years of market heritage, Argos and Homebase are two of the UKs leading retail brands.
Our own-brand and exclusive brand products have resonance with customers and provide them with confidence when they shop with us.
Our own-brands include Bush and Alba in consumer electronics and, Integrated in toys, Chad Valley, which has become one of the largest toy brands in the infrastructure UK as well as being the top toy brand within Argos.
Our recently acquired Our scale and infrastructure Schreiber and Hygena brands, which offer quality and stylish furniture at enables us to leverage affordable prices, are also proving very popular with customers in both Argos financial benets and and Homebase.
synergies to give a competitive advantage which is difficult to replicate.
Financial Services Our Financial Services business works in conjunction with Argos and Homebase to provide our customers with the most appropriate credit offers to drive product sales.
International sourcing Our Group sourcing operations import products which account for more than a third of our sales.
This provides benets to both businesses and across all major product groups.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 5
