Directors 1 3 4 JM Barry Gibson 59 Richard Harpin 46 Martin Bennett 42 Appointed to the Board in Founder and Chief Appointed to the Board as April 2004 and appointed Executive of HomeServe Chief Financial Officer in June as Chairman on 1 April 2010 which was originally a 2009.
Previously finance following a year as Senior joint venture with South director of UK Membership Non-Executive Director.
Staffordshire Group set having been finance director Also a non-executive director up in 1993.
Appointed of the Warranties business of Playtech plc.
Previously to the Board in May and commercial director.
Previously a brand Prior to joining HomeServe at BAA plc, group chief manager with Procter in 2003 he spent three years executive of Littlewoods & Gamble, followed by as group finance director of plc and non-executive management consultancy Clarity Group and ten years director of Somerfield plc, with Deloitte and his own at Arthur Andersen where National Express plc and company.
he qualified as a chartered William Hill plc.
1 1 2 3 4 1 2 Stella David 48 Mark Morris 51 Andrew Sibbald 44 Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in November 2010.
An experienced chief executive officer audit, business advisory and corporate financier, he is of William Grant & Sons corporate finance with Price senior partner and the having joined them in 2009 Waterhouse before joining co-founder of Lexicon following more than fifteen Sytner Group plc as finance Partners, an independent years with Bacardi where director, later becoming corporate advisory business she undertook a number managing director.
Currently which specialises in the of roles culminating in senior non-executive financial services, utility and four years as global chief director of LSL Property energy sectors.
She also Services plc and a former managing director of the spent seven years as a non-executive director of financial institutions group, non-executive director Christian Salvesen plc and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette at Nationwide Building Maxima Holdings plc.
and a partner of the Phoenix Society.
HomeServe 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance 1 2 3 4 Jon Florsheim 51 Ian Chippendale 62 Jonathan King 50 Appointed to the Board and Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in as Chief Executive of UK January 2007 and as Senior July 2010.
Chief Executive Membership in March 2007. of HomeServe USA since Non-Executive Director on Previously chief marketing 1 April 2010.
Currently an 2005 following four years as officer and managing managing director of the UK independent director of director, customer group Membership business and a Transatlantic Holdings Inc and of British Sky Broadcasting.
also of Aioi Motor and General year as business development Prior to joining BSkyB in 1994, director.
He previously worked Insurance Company of Europe he was marketing director Ltd.
Previously chairman in retail marketing with the of Dixons Stores Group now Boots Company as group of RBS Insurance, group DSG International plc and brand manager for No.
7 chief executive of the Direct had marketing posts with Line Group of companies, Cosmetics.
chief executive of Privilege Insurance and chairman of the Insurance Division of Provident Financial plc.
5 6 Anna Maughan 41 Rachael Hughes 40 Appointed Company Appointed as Chief Secretary in July 2008 Executive of HomeServe following twelve years Europe in 2005 having been as assistant company managing director of Domo, Key: secretary.
Also a trustee HomeServes joint venture 1 Non-Executive.
of and secretary to the with Veolia in France, since 2 Audit Committee Chairman: Mark industry wide Water its launch in 2001.
Andrew Sibbald replaced Barry Gibson on the Committee on 20 Companies Pension managing director of CHEP May 2011.
Argentina SA following a total 3 Nomination Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson.
of seven years with CHEP 4 Remuneration Committee Chairman: Equipment Pooling Systems in Ian Chippendale.
North and South America and 5 Company Secretary.
Member of Executive Committee only.
