02 Howdens exists to serve the fundamental need to have a working kitchen in every home.
The business is centred on the manufacture and sale of kitchens and joinery to small builders who install them in homes in their local area.
Every Howdens kitchen is professionally designed and planned so that as well as looking good it fits perfectly into, and makes best use of, the available space.
We employ over 1,000 skilled designers, based in local depots across the country, who work with builders and their clients to ensure the kitchen meets their needs and fits their budget.
The end-purchaser of the kitchen may be an owner-occupier, a private landlord, a small developer, a housing association or a local authority.
In each case, we help the builder to help them choose the Howdens kitchen, joinery, flooring and appliances that will suit them.
Because Howdens is a local business, everything relating to the kitchen sale is managed locally.
The designer will often make a home visit to the end-user, bringing samples, catalogues and examples of their work.
Many depots have a specially fitted hardware and flooring van that circulates locally, helping builder and end-user to make the right choice and saving time for both of them.
Builders like fitting Howdens kitchens because our cabinets are ready-assembled, easy to install and do not break, all of which saves time and money on site.
Any queries can be quickly dealt with by local staff who have the knowledge and the authority to find the right outcome for all concerned.
03 04 250,000 local builders hold credit accounts with Howdens because we provide the products and services they require in order to run a successful business of their own.
Through our national network of 509 depots we offer the builder a range of well-designed, well-made kitchens and associated joinery and hardware, all of which is available all the time in every depot.
We sell to the builder on a trade-only basis, with a confidential discount that allows him to determine his margin and a nett monthly account that gives him the ability to manage his cash flow requirements.
Howdens has acquired national scale, but it remains a local business, serving local builders who do not want to waste time travelling long distances or dealing with impersonal, centralised operations.
Each depot runs its own customer accounts: employees are engaged locally: and profit-sharing is calculated locally, not centrally.
Howdens customers expect to see familiar faces in their depot and rely on people they know to offer them sound advice.
A typical Howdens depot occupies around 10,000 square feet and employs about a dozen people.
The depot is a low-cost operation, located on a trading estate rather than a high street, with convenient access and parking for 05 the builder.
Rent averages 5 per square foot and the typical depot fit-out cost is around 170,000.
The depot is able to keep everything in stock, and Howdens is able to refine stock levels, because each depot manager can use local knowledge to tailor re-order requirements to suit the needs of his or her customers.
Our main distribution centre, in Northampton, also houses our marketing department, whose role is to spread the news about our product, both within the business and more widely to our customers and end-users, and to gather useful feedback about it from all parties.
06 Howdens employs its own manufacturing workforce in two factories one in Howden, Yorkshire and one in Runcorn, Cheshire where we make 07 all our own cabinets, using raw material from trees grown in managed forests in Scotland.
Howdens rigid cabinet manufacturing capacity is the largest in Europe and our production facilities are among the leading employers in their local communities.
Last year we produced over 3.5 million kitchen cabinets and 860,000 worktops.
Through manufacturing products ourselves, we gain flexibility and speed to market, specialised knowledge, credibility with our customers and end-users, control over product quality and accuracy and security of supply.
Our product design team, based at our Yorkshire factory, is responsible for the look and functionality of all our ranges.
The team works closely with our sales force, our production engineers and our specialist suppliers to make sure all the products we sell meet our demanding specifications and the needs of the builder.
When we buy in kitchen fascias, appliances, joinery and hardware, our aim is to source as cost-effectively as possible while maintaining high standards of product quality and environmental performance.
Our promise to the builder, and to the end-user, is of no-call-back quality.
We have set up a special facility in Orpington where we test products and appliances and think about how to improve their performance and ease of fit and use.
Orpington is a point of reference both for depots seeking specialist product advice and for our manufacturing, planning and marketing people looking to make sure that new product developments are well-founded.
