directors report The directors have pleasure in Corporate governance report There are no specific restrictions submitting their report and the including Going Concern on the size of a holding nor on the audited financial statements for statement on pages 52 to 59. transfer of shares which are both the 52 week period ended governed by the general provisions Audit Committee report on pages 24 December 2011.
Comparative of the Articles of Association and 60 to 63. figures relate to the 52 weeks prevailing legislation.
The directors ended 25 December 2010. are not aware of any agreements The full results for the period are between holders of the Companys shown in the financial statements PRINCIPal GROUP aCTIvITIes, shares that may result in on pages 64 to 116. BUsINess RevIeW aNd ResUlTs restrictions on the transfer of Information about the use of financial securities or on voting rights.
The principal activity of Howden instruments by the Company and its Joinery Group Plc and its Details of employee share schemes subsidiaries is given in note 30 to the subsidiaries is the sale of kitchens are set out in note 28.
and joinery products, along with the by the Howden Joinery Group Plc associated procurement, The subsidiary and associated Employee Share Trust abstain manufacture and distribution of undertakings principally affecting from voting.
Further information the profits or net assets of the on our business and the Howden No person has any special rights Group in the year are listed in the model can be found on pages 2 to 7. of control over the Companys table of parent company and share capital and all issued shares principal subsidiary undertakings The Company is required by the are fully paid.
There have been no Companies Act 2006 to include a 34 significant events since the balance business review in this report.
The With regard to the appointment and sheet date.
information that fulfils the replacement of directors, the requirements of the business review Company is governed by its Articles dIvIdeNd can be found in the following of Association, the UK Corporate sections which are incorporated in The Board recommends the Governance Code, the Companies payment of a final dividend of this report by reference: Act and related legislation.
The 0.5 pence per ordinary share to be Articles may be amended by special Chairmans statement on pages paid on 22 June 2012 to ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
The 8 to 9. shareholders on the register on business of the Company is 25 May 2012 2010: nil.
No interim managed by the Board who may Chief executives statement on dividend was paid during the year exercise all the powers of the pages 10 to 18.
Company subject to the provision of Review of operations and finance the Articles of Association, the on pages 19 to 26 including a sHaRe CaPITal aNd CONTROl Companies Act and any ordinary review of principal risks and Details of the issued share capital, resolution of the Company.
uncertainties and key together with details of the performance indicators and the There are a number of agreements movements in the Companys illustrated business model on that take effect, alter or terminate issued share capital during the pages 2 to 7. upon a change of control such as year, are shown in note 25.
The commercial contracts, bank loan Company has one class of ordinary Corporate social responsibility agreements and employee share shares which carry no right to report on pages 27 to 32 containing plans.
The only one of these which fixed income.
Each share carries environmental matters, social & is considered to be significant in the right to one vote at general community issues and additional terms of likely impact on the meetings of the Company.
business of the Group as a whole, Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 FIxed asseTs is the bank facility as described in In accordance with Article 117 of the note 22 which requires majority Articles of Association, Mark Allen There is no material difference lender consent for any change of will retire at the Annual General between the book value and control.
Should such consent not Meeting and will offer himself for the current open market value be forthcoming, a change of control re-election in accordance with Article of the Groups interest in land would trigger a mandatory 118 of the Articles of Association.
repayment of the entire facility.
In proposing their re-election, the CHaRITaBle aNd POlITICal The directors are not aware of any Chairman confirms that the CONTRIBUTIONs agreements between the Company Nominations Committee has Kitchen and joinery products and and its directors or employees that considered the formal performance services donated to various provide for compensation for loss of evaluation in respect of those charities, as well as charitable office or employment that occurs directors seeking re-election and the donations made during the period because of a takeover bid.
contribution and commitment of the amounted to 814k 2010: 793k.
directors that are required to offer esseNTIal CONTRaCTs themselves for re-election.
He has The Group made no political confirmed to the Board that their The mission of the Group relies on donations during the current performance and commitment is product of no-call-back quality and previous period.
such that the Company should being in stock at all times in order to support their re-election.
service the needs of the builder.
The sUBsTaNTIal sHaReHOldINGs Group benefits from a number of As at 29 February 2012, the Information on the directors service contracts which are key to providing 35 Company had been notified in agreements, options and interests of the volume of product required to accordance with Chapter 5 of the the directors and their families in the enable the Group to fulfil this Disclosure & Transparency Rules share capital of the Company, is set mission but is nevertheless of the following voting rights as a out in the separate Directors confident that other commercial shareholder of the Company: remuneration report on pages 37 to solutions would be available should 51.
Details of indemnity provisions these contracts be terminated.
made for the benefit of directors are Standard Life Investments Ltd 12.89% given in the Corporate governance Contracts with key personnel are Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 5.28% report on pages 52 to 59. discussed in the review of principal Blackrock Inc 5.08% risks and uncertainties on page 24. sUPPlIeRs PaymeNT TeRms JP Morgan Asset Management UK Ltd 4.99% dIReCTORs aNd THeIR The Group and Companys policy, INTeResTs in relation to all its suppliers, is to Cazenove Capital settle its terms of payment when Details of the directors in office on Management Ltd 4.91% agreeing the terms of the transaction 24 December 2011 are shown on Old Mutual Asset Managers and to abide by those terms page 33.
UK Ltd 4.11% provided that it is satisfied that the EES Trustees International All of the directors, with the supplier has provided the goods or Ltd as Trustee of Howden exception of Mark Allen, will retire at services in accordance with the Joinery Group Employee the Annual General Meeting in agreed terms and conditions.
Benefit Trust 3.88% accordance with the UK Corporate The number of days purchases Governance Code and each will Legal & General Assurance outstanding for payment by the Pensions Management Ltd 3.87% offer themself for re-election in Group at the period end was accordance with Article 118 of the 48 days 2010: 44 days and nil Articles of Association.
directors report continued aUdIT INFORmaTION The percentage interest is as stated The Board remains committed aNd aUdITORs by the shareholder at the time of to linking reward to business notification and current interests budgets and targets thereby Each of the persons who is a may vary.
giving employees the opportunity director at the date of approval of to share in the financial success this annual report confirm that: aCqUIsITION OF THe of the Group.
In keeping with the so far as each of the directors is COmPaNys OWN sHaRes structure of the business, the aware, there is no relevant audit Company is committed to At the end of the year, the directors information of which the applying this policy locally and, as had authority under the Companys auditors are unaware: a result, staff of all levels regularly shareholders resolutions of 16 May benefit from achieving local 2011 to purchase through the market the director has taken all the steps targets throughout the year.
The 63,391,533 of the Companys that he ought to have taken as a Board also recognises employees ordinary shares at prices ranging director in order to make himself for their contribution through the between 10p and the higher of aware of any relevant audit use of employee incentive a 105% of the average middle information and to establish that plans and share plans within market quotation for an ordinary the Companys auditors are aware overall remuneration.
share as derived from the London of that information.
Stock Exchange Daily Official List The Group promotes the importance The confirmation is given and should for the five business days of diversity and adopts an Equal be interpreted in accordance with immediately preceding the day on Opportunities Policy under which the provisions of s418 of the which the ordinary share is training and career development Companies Act 2006. purchased and b an amount equal 36 opportunities are available to all to the higher of the price of the last employees, regardless of gender, Deloitte LLP have expressed their independent trade of an ordinary religion or race.
The Group is willingness to continue in office as share and the highest current committed to meeting the code of auditors and a resolution to reappoint independent bid for an ordinary practice on the employment of them will be proposed at the share as derived from the London disabled people and full and fair forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
consideration is given to disabled The authority expires at the applicants for employment.
It aims aNNUal GeNeRal meeTING conclusion of the next AGM or 18 to do all that is practicable to meet The Annual General Meeting is to months from the date of passing.
its responsibility towards the be held at UBS Investment Bank, employment and training of disabled 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, emPlOyees people and welcomes and considers EC2M 2PP on 16 May 2012.
The average number of employees fully, applications by disabled and their remuneration are shown in persons, having regard to their By order of the Board note 8 to the financial statements.
Caroline Bishop At the year end, the Group had It is also the Groups policy to retain secretary 6,397 employees 2010: 6,156 employees who may become throughout the United Kingdom and disabled while in service and to 29 February 2012 overseas and strives to engage its provide appropriate training.
employees wherever possible in its business goals by means of regular regional and local staff meetings.
