Geoff Shingles Hossein Yassaie aged 72 aged 54 CBE, BSc Hons, FIEE, FBCS PhD Chairman Chief Executive Officer Geoff was, until April 1994, After attaining his PhD, Hossein Executive Chairman of Digital was a research fellow at the Equipment Co. Limited, where University of Birmingham.
While at then joined STMicroelectronics Digital, he worked both in the US and Continental Europe.
He Inmos, where he spent eight years, ultimately becoming joined the Imagination Technologies board in 1994 becoming responsible for the system divisions, including research and Chairman in 1996.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Sarantel development, manufacturing and marketing.
After joining Group Plc and is also a Non-Executive Director of a number of Imagination in 1992 as Technical Director, Hossein refocused private companies.
the business on advanced technology development and created Imaginations successful silicon IP business model.
He became Chief Executive Officer in June 1998.
Richard Smith David Hurst-Brown aged 41 aged 62 MBA, MA, FCA BSc Hons, FSI Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Richard holds an MBA from David worked for most of his Henley Business School, career in the securities industry.
is a Fellow of the Institute In 2002 he left UBS, where, of Chartered Accountants for more than ten years he in England and Wales and has an MA in Economics from had worked in Corporate Finance as adviser to a wide range Cambridge University.
His early career included positions of companies.
David now works mainly as a consultant and with Porsche Cars and .
Richard has his Non-Executive Directorships include Anite plc, Ffastfill plc worked in a number of privately held technology businesses as and KeyData AIM VCT plc.
He joined the board of Imagination CFO, and prior to that held senior financial roles at Vodafone.
Technologies as a Non-Executive Director in September 2000 Richard joined Imagination Technologies in May 2011 and was and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 July 2011.
31 Directors and Advisers Ian Pearson David Anderson aged 68 aged 55 Dip Tech Hons, C. Eng, FIEE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ian has over 30 years David has 27 years investment experience with companies banking experience including 17 specializing in semiconductor years at Lazard and six years at design, manufacturing and JP Morgan Cazenove.
He joined management, with director level responsibilities.
These the board of Imagination Technologies as a Non-Executive companies include Inmos and SGS Thompson.
He joined the Director in November 2010 and is a member of the Audit board as Non-Executive Director in 1998.
He is Chairman of the Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee and serves on the Audit Committee.
Ian is the senior Non-Executive Director.
Imagination Technologies Group plc Secretary Registered number Solicitors A Llewellyn 2920061 Olswang Registered Office Financial advisers and Registrars Imagination House stockbrokers Capita Registrars Home Park Estate J. P. Morgan Cazenove Bankers Kings Langley Auditors HSBC Bank plc Hertfordshire KPMG Audit Plc WD4 8LZ 32
