BUSINESS OVERVIEW FLUID TECHNOLOGIES OUR KNOW-HOW We deliver Engineering Advantage to our customers through the unique combination of engineering know-how and uid controls technology.
Throughout IMI, we invest in people and techniques to improve market understanding and customer insight.
We listen and identify the issues facing our STRATEGIC customers and then, most importantly, we apply our acquired know-how and our engineering CONVERGENCE capabilities to provide bespoke solutions delivering clear and measurable benets.
S ST TEAM, GAS, W EAM, GAS, WA ATER TER WA WAT TE ER R Zimmermann & Jansen have designed a new energyTA Hydronics have produced the first in-line differential saving Hot Blast Valve, which requires substantially less pressure controller with integrated pilot operation and cooling water.
Hot blast is compressed air at very adjustable set-point.
It is used for heating and cooling high temperatures.
The valve is used as the shut-off systems and is particularly effective in situations valve between a stove and a blast furnace, with the experiencing high temperatures and or pressure drops.
ow of the hot blast being shut-off by the valve disc.
Larger buildings, such as ofces or hospitals, have The Hot Blast Valve, which can weigh up to 41,000 kgs, complicated heating and cooling systems and require is manufactured with a refractory lining and special more accurate techniques.
To obtain the correct insulation of the body passage, all internal walls and the design ows, TA Hydronics design systems to include disc.
Only the metallic sealing seats of the body and disc, balancing valves and differential pressure controllers.
which are exposed to the hot blast, are water cooled.
Balancing valves allow the measurement of differential pressures which can be used to calculate a ow.
Differential pressure controllers control the pressures in the installation, simplify balancing procedures and enable the installation to be mor enable the installation to be more e pr precise ecisely contr ly controlled.
Platform business: Severe Service Platform business: Indoor Climate Product name: Hot Blast Valve DN 2200 2900 L 800 Product name: Differential pressure controller DA516 DN150 Orice range: 150mm to 3,000mm Water orice: 150mm Temperature max: 1,600C Temperature range: -10C to 150C Pressure max: 87PSI Differential pressure max: 232PSI From 3m orice size and 660bar pressure... 6 Business overview BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The key to our success is in retaining people and knowledge, and creating a network of experts who can be called upon to engineer solutions specic to our customers requirements.
Our five platform businesses all have unique ways of engineering advantage: Severe Service have their Valve Doctors, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate have the Norgren University and Hydronic College respectively, whilst Beverage Dispense rely on their industry-recognised experts and Merchandising lead the way with their Retail Science methodology.
AIR, O AIR, OX XY YG GE EN, EXHA N, EXHAUS UST GAS T GAS, REA, REAG GENT ENT S SY YR RU UP P, W WA ATER, CO TER, CO 2 2 The Cornelius proportional ow control valve is The FAS Chipsol series valves are miniature solenoid designed to precisely control the ratio of syrup to valves for applications that require low energy water for carbonated or still beverages.
consumption, a compact solution and superior performance.
The valve technology performs the following key control functions: The Chipsol is a exible product and is ideal for deployment in applications that need to control Isolates uids and actuates ow as required in s medical micro or pneumatic devices, ranging from the application respirators and diving equipment, to fragrance Once actuated, the valve controls the ow of the s dispensers, to pick and place distribution machinery.
uid in an open loop by modulating ow area in They are incredibly complex due to their small size, proportion to the pressure drop across the valve.
small stroke and tolerances of less than 0.01mm on This modulation is achieved by a precision ceramic elastomer parts.
They are produced using a metal piston that slides linearly in a precision ceramic injection moulding process, and have a patented, sleeve in response to input pressure changes.
In doing this, the valve maintains ow accuracy of The Chipsol series could be used as either a valve to - 2.5% from set points and helps control key control the media directly, such as the dispense of consumer-centric parameters such as taste and medical gases or gas dosing manifolds, or as an visual appearance.
actuator to the pilot distributor or pressure regulator.
Platform business: Beverage Dispense Platform business: Fluid Power Product name: Grappa UFB 1 Product name: FAS Chipsol Water orice: 3mm to 5mm Syrup orice: 1mm to 2.5mm Orice range: 0.5mm to 1.0mm Temperature range: 1C to 41C Temperature range: 1C to 50C Pressure range: 20PSI to 120PSI Pressure range: 1PSI to 115PSI to 0.5mm orice size and 0bar pressure.
