RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS THE IMI WAY It is our desire to become the most admired and innovative engineering solutions business of our size anywhere in the world, and we believe that this admiration comes not only from great products and services but also from being a responsible business.
Our commitment to responsible business starts with the IMI Way, which sets out our core values.
Whenever you meet an IMI person you will nd someone To support this commitment, IMI continues to be a signatory who: to the UN Global Compact, which establishes standards for human rights, labour practices and anti-corruption.
pursues excellence and delivers results s Our continued inclusion in both the FTSE4Good and Dow innovates and provides value to our customers s Jones Sustainability Europe indices is strong evidence acts with integrity s of our responsible business progress and continued As a reection of these values, we take our responsibilities commitment.
to the environment and the communities in which we All of our businesses are required to have their own operate very seriously.
We put particular emphasis responsible business objectives, which are fully aligned to on ensuring that our management of people, social, the Groups four responsible business priorities.
These environmental and economic issues is aligned and key priorities are reviewed annually to ensure they remain integrated with the overall management of the business.
relevant and appropriate, whilst the performance of our We strongly believe that high standards of responsibility businesses is assessed through an annual audit, and impact positively on profitability, returns to shareholders, quarterly reviews where best practice ideas are shared.
All of our employees receive annual IMI Way face-to-face training.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIORITIES FOCUSING ON EXCELLENCE The IMI Way is a driver for responsible growth and directly supports our responsible business priorities: Health and safety s Supporting our customers responsible business s priorities Supply chain risk management s Energy efficiency and carbon management s During 2011, we trained 436 IMI Way trainers to deliver face-to-face training to all our employees worldwide.
28 Responsible business BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY The IMI Way is part of our roadmap to success, guiding our decision making and our ability to bring about strategic convergence.
Our values underpin our responsible business priorities and we are focused not just on what we achieve, but on how we achieve it.
Health and safety promotes a strong culture to protect our people, the environment, adjacent communities and other stakeholders.
In 2011, we continued to make good progress in our health and safety performance with a 28% improvement in our key lost time accident measure.
Supporting our customers responsible business FLUID TECHNOLOGIES NICHE LEADERSHIP priorities is integral to our Key Account Management Precision ow control in Market leadership in and to delivering Engineering Advantage.
We place critical applications: global niches significant emphasis on helping our customers Valves Blue chip clients supported by world class meet their own responsible business commitments Actuators Key Account Management recognising the opportunities for sustainability and Controllers and Customised solutions positioners delivered through developing our respective businesses.
Engineering Advantage Supply chain risk management is fundamental as Extensive aftermarket we work in partnership with suppliers to develop our Engineering Advantage.
IMIs manufacturing plants in emerging economies such as Mexico, China, GROWTH DRIVERS the Czech Republic and India have all been developed Climate change with full attention to health, safety and environmental risks, Resource scarcity energy efficiency, and lean manufacturing techniques.
Urbanisation Ageing population Energy efficiency and carbon management supports our growth drivers of climate change, resource scarcity and urbanisation and is key to delivering responsible solutions.
Integral to this is managing our own facilities and we have various programmes in place to reduce energy consumption and normalised CO emissions 2 across our locations around the world.
DOING BUSINESS THE IMI WAY IS THE RIGHT WAY IMI is pleased to report that it is the first company in the world to be accredited by Investing in Integrity for its commitment to acting with integrity at all times.
The accreditation process was an independent audit process which involved reviewing our policies and procedures, face-to-face interviews with many senior leaders of the worldwide businesses and extensive surveys of our employees in all of our key territories.
The accreditation is a collaboration between the Institute of Business Ethics and the Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment.
