BOARD REPORTS DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report, together with the audited Share capital financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
As at 31 December 2011, the Companys share capital comprised a single class of share capital which is divided Business review into ordinary shares of 25p each.
Details of the share The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present capital of the Company are set out in note 22 to the a business review in this report.
The information that fulls financial statements on pages 119 and 120.
The ordinary the business review requirements can be found on pages 4 shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
to 33 and page 46, which are incorporated into this report The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt by reference.
This includes a review of the development ADR programme for which Citibank, N. A. acts as and performance of the business of the IMI group of depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the US over-thecompanies the Group, including the financial performance counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR during the financial year ended 31 December 2011, key represents two ordinary shares.
performance indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties As at 31 December 2011, 3,831,120 shares are held in an facing the Group and our risk management processes.
employee trust for use in relation to certain executive Principal activities incentive plans representing 1.2% of the issued share IMI plc is a global engineering group focused on the precise capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
The voting control and movement of uids in critical applications.
rights attached to shares held in the employee trust were IMI plc is the holding company of the Group.
The Groups not exercised during the year.
businesses comprise five platforms organised into two During the year, 310,310 new ordinary shares were issued principal activities: Fluid Controls, comprising Severe Service, under employee share schemes: 150,563 under the all Fluid Power and Indoor Climate: and Retail Dispense, employee share ownership scheme and save as you earn comprising Beverage Dispense and Merchandising.
The main plans and 159,747 under executive share plans.
Shares subsidiary companies operating within these two principal acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank activities are listed on pages 130 and 131.
The revenue, equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
profit and capital employed attributable to each of these The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys businesses is shown in note 2 on pages 85 to 87. ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles of Results and dividend association, copies of which can be obtained from The Group consolidated income statement is shown Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company on page 70.
Segmental operating profit amounted to Secretary.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be 374.1m 2010: 319.7m and profit before taxation issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company amounted to 301.4m 2010: 306.1m.
may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specic provision The directors recommend a final dividend of 19.0p per as the Board may decide.
share 2010: 17.0p per share on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 21 May 2012 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Companys report and accounts, to attend, speak and vote at 13 April 2012.
Together with the interim dividend of 11.0p general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to per share paid on 14 October 2011, this final dividend will exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive bring the total distribution for the year to 30.0p per share a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the 2010: 26.0p per share.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Research and development Company or propose resolutions at annual general meetings.
Expenditure on research and development in the year Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are was 43.2m 2010: 41.9m, of this amount 4.4m suspended and the treasury shares carry no rights to receive 2010: 5.0m has been capitalised.
dividends or other distributions of assets.
Shareholders funds Shareholders funds increased from 525.7m at the end of 2010 to 564.8m at 31 December 2011.
38 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with in the Company other than: significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other than those noted above.
certain restrictions as may from time to time be s imposed by laws and regulations for example insider Statement on corporate governance trading laws : and The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby s Governance Report on pages 42 to 47 and are the directors and certain employees of the Company incorporated into this report by reference.
require approval to deal in the Companys shares.
Employment policies The Company is not aware of any arrangements between The Group continues to support employee involvement at shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of all levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each ordinary shares or on voting rights.
None of the ordinary of its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the and individual business developments and to make its Company.
The only restrictions on voting rights are those employees aware of the financial and economic factors that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as affecting the performance of the business in which they described above.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments work, using their own consultation and communication and voting instructions must be received by the Companys methods.
A European Works Council has been in registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting, operation since 2003 and meets at least once a year to or any adjournment thereof.
exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group.
Own shares acquired by the Company At the date of this Annual Report, there are 15 members of At the annual general meeting of the Company held on the European Works Council comprising 13 employee 6 May 2011 authority was given for the Company to representatives nominated from among employees from purchase up to 48,116,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p each of our European businesses, covering 11 countries, each.
The Company did not use this authority to make any with the balance being Company appointees.
The Groups purchases of its own shares during the period.
At the next financial results and important initiatives such as health annual general meeting of the Company, shareholders will and safety, training and development, and employee be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are engagement are communicated through a number of contained in the separate circular.
mechanisms including the Works Council, newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and the Companys As at 31 December 2011, 19,124,700 ordinary shares website and town hall meetings.
nominal value 4,781,175 were held in treasury representing 6% of the issued share capital excluding Share schemes are a long established and successful part treasury shares at that time.
of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership.
Full details of employee share Substantial shareholdings schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages Information provided to the Company pursuant to the 48 to 67 and in note 20 to the financial statements on FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a pages 115 to 118. regulatory information service.
As at 31 December 2011, A number of people development initiatives are cothe following voting interests in the ordinary share capital ordinated across the Group, which are based on the of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Companys values of excellence, innovation and integrity.
Transparency Rules, had been notied to the Company: These initiatives include succession and development BlackRock, Inc. 10.81% planning, leadership development programmes, the IMI Standard Life Investments Limited 9.02% graduate programme and the embedding of the Leadership Blueprint, our competency model, in Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 4.99% recruitment and selection, performance management AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86% processes, and training programmes.
These initiatives and Newton Investment Management Limited 3.96% the Companys approach to employee investment and Legal and General Group plc 3.86% talent development are explained on page 33.
During the period from 31 December 2011 to 1 March 2012 the Company was notied that the interests of BlackRock, Inc. had changed to 9.97%, Standard Life Investments Limited had changed to 8.92% and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. had changed to 5.02%.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 39 BOARD REPORTS DIRECTORS REPORT Our policy on employee diversity and equal opportunity is Directors to comply with relevant legislation in the countries in which The membership of the Board and biographical details of we operate and to actively promote our diversity goal the directors are given on pages 36 and 37 and are to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic incorporated into this report by reference.
Roberto Quarta priorities and to reect the diverse nature of our global was appointed to the Board initially as a non-executive business.
We ensure that our talent pipelines are director with effect from 1 June 2011, before taking over as diverse, for example our Global Graduate Programme Chairman from Norman Askew who retired from the Board includes people from more than 20 countries, with, in on 31 October 2011.
Sean Toomes was also appointed to recent years, over 40% of our graduate intake being the Board as an executive director on 1 June 2011. female.
At all levels we are focused on increasing our The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors diversity as reected in the appointment of our new are set out in the Companys articles of association.
Chairman, Roberto Quarta and our long-standing female Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for non-executive director, Anita Frew.
When recruiting we election at the next annual general meeting following their strive to ensure that our shortlists of candidates are diverse appointment and Roberto Quarta and Sean Toomes will and that our people are trained to avoid bias in the process seek election having been appointed to the Board during in order to ensure fair selection criteria.
In addition, the Companys articles of association programmes for senior and middle management the IMI require each director to stand for re-election at least once Academy, Management Fundamentals and the IMI Leaders every three years.
However, in accordance with the new Boot Camp include selection and interview training.
provision contained in the UK Corporate Governance One way we measure progress is through the Employee Code, all continuing directors will submit themselves for Engagement Survey.
The 2011 survey confirmed that over re-election at the next annual general meeting and are 80% of our employees feel highly valued and respected recommended for re-election.
Changes to the articles of for the diversity they bring to the business and the association must be approved by a special resolution of opportunities they have within our meritocracy.
the shareholders 75% majority required in accordance Health, safety and the environment with the legislation in force at the time.
The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in place regard to the environment.
Information on our key during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual Report performance indicators in this area is given on pages 15 there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in and 30 and further information is available on page 29 respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory and on our website www.
proceedings brought against them, in their capacity as a Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors director, where not covered by insurance and subject always Operating units are responsible for setting terms of payment to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006. when agreeing the terms of each business transaction, Directors powers ensuring that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abiding by such terms, subject to the supplier The powers of the directors are determined by UK performing to its obligations.
IMI plc is a holding company legislation and the articles of association of the Company and has no trade creditors.
in force from time to time.
The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make Donations market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
214,000 was given during 2011 2010: 180,000 for These powers are exercised under the authority of charitable purposes.
The Group supports a range of resolutions of the Company passed at its annual general selected national charities and smaller charitable meeting.
Further details of authorities the Company is organisations operating in communities where the Group seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its has a presence.
Our approach to charitable and other ordinary shares are set out in the separate circular donations is explained on pages 32 and 33.
No political containing the notice of the annual general meeting.
donations were made during the year.
40 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors interests Cautionary statements The interests of the persons including the interests of The business review and other content of this Annual any connected persons who were directors at the end of Report have been prepared for and only for the members the year, in the share capital of the Company, and their of the Company as a body and no other persons.
interests under share option and incentive schemes, are Neither the Company nor its directors or ofcers accept or shown on pages 64 to 65 and on page 67. assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of Essential contracts and change of control this Annual Report pursuant to and for the purposes The Group does not have any single contract or other required by UK legislation.
arrangement which is essential to its business taken Sections of this Annual Report may contain forward-looking as a whole.
statements about the Group, including, for example, The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of statements relating to: future demand and markets for the agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or Groups products and services, research and development terminate the arrangements on a change of control of the relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial and capital resources and implementation of restructuring contracts and employee share plans.
Other than as plans and efficiencies.
Any forward-looking statements are referred to in the next paragraph, none of these is by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties considered by the Company to be significant in terms that could cause actual results to differ materially from those of its likely impact on the Group as a whole.
expressed or implied by such statements depending on a In the event of a change of control of the Company, the variety of factors, including, for example, those described in Groups main funding agreements allow the lenders to this Annual Report under the heading Principal risks and renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all uncertainties.
IMI undertakes no obligation to update any outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
In the forward-looking statements whether as a result of new current economic climate this could have a significant information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this effect on the liquidity of the business.
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company does not have agreements with any director Annual general meeting or employee that would provide compensation for loss of The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton ofce or employment specifically resulting from a takeover, Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, although provisions of the Companys share schemes Birmingham on Friday 4 May 2012, commencing at noon.
include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a and employees under such schemes to vest in those separate circular.
Auditor Going concern Resolutions for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as A statement in relation to the adoption of the going auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to concern basis in preparing the financial statements determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next appears on page 27 and is incorporated into this report annual general meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditor By order of the Board Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, John OShea there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has Company Secretary taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a 1 March 2012 director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant IMI plc is registered in England No.
714275 audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
