GROUP OPERATING REVIEW OUR FIVE PLATFORM BUSINESSES FLUID CONTROLS SEVERE SERVICE FLUID POWER INDOOR CLIMATE Severe Service signicantly strengthen our isolation across the wider Norgren global valve capabilities and our emerging business.
North America, in particular, Our Severe Service business delivered market exposure.
showed strong growth with a number revenue growth of 27% including the of initiatives to support the aftermarket results of Zimmermann & Jansen Z&J The strong order book at the year-end including a new US webstore.
and TH Jansen THJ since acquisition.
gives us confidence that the business Organic revenue increased 2% for the will demonstrate good revenue growth The business has continued to focus on full year, reecting a stronger second in 2012.
Margins in the first half of margin improvement with ongoing half performance with organic growth 2012 are expected to be at similar programmes to transfer more of 5%.
levels to the second half of 2011. manufacturing to low cost sites in Margins should improve in the second China, the Czech Republic and Mexico, Shipments of valves continued to be half with higher new valve margins to optimise pricing, to drive new strong into liqueed natural gas LNG and operational improvements at our product development and to deliver applications, offsetting the weaker facility in Brno.
further savings from value engineering performance in the Fossil Power and supplier rationalisation.
This has sector resulting from the softer order Fluid Power resulted in a further improvement in intake in the second half of 2010, and Fluid Power continued to perform margins with full year margins of 19.6% in Nuclear, where activity levels have strongly with end markets holding and margins in the second half reaching been affected since the incident in up well despite macro-economic our new 20% objective for the first time.
Japan in March 2011. uncertainty increasing as the year We have again surveyed our key Total order intake for Severe Service progressed.
Whilst organic growth in customers across all our markets to was up 2% for the year and the order revenues slowed to 6% in the second gauge their views on the demand book ended the year 16% higher than half of the year against tougher 2010 outlook for 2012.
Within the at the start of the year as order intake comparators, organic growth for the Commercial Vehicle sector we expect once again outpaced shipments.
to see further weakening in Europe, previously indicated, margins were We have continued to see good partially offset by improved demand in impacted by a combination of lower momentum in our key global sector North America.
In Fluid Power markets new valve margins, notably in the business, which focuses on bespoke more generally, demand in Europe Nuclear sector, a less favourable solutions for key original equipment would appear to have stabilised at aftermarket mix and higher operational manufacturer OEM customers in levels similar to last year whilst costs in our new facility in Brno.
This grew at customers are indicating reasonable Overall margins for the year were 14% in the full year, compared to growth in North America and good 15.5% compared to 17.3% in 2010.
9% for the rest of the Fluid Power growth in Asia Pacic.
Based on this Z&J performed well with both order business.
Of the five key global and current demand patterns we intake and shipments showing good sectors Commercial Vehicles, Energy expect the business to show some growth for the full year.
We were and Rail grew strongly up 31%, growth in 2012 with the potential for pleased to announce the acquisition 14% and 9% respectively with Life further progress on margins.
of THJ on 17 October 2011 for an Sciences and Food & Beverage enterprise value of 15.0m.
THJ is Indoor Climate broadly unchanged.
Overall our highly complementary to Z&J and will Indoor Climate revenues were up 2% targeted sectors now represent 43% signicantly enhance Z&Js capabilities of total Fluid Power revenues.
on an organic basis for the full year as a leading global provider of custom with good growth in the first half Our internet, phone and catalogue engineered valve, actuation and offset by a weaker second half based aftermarket solution, Norgren control solutions for critical in-plant performance, which was impacted by Express, continued to perform well, up processes in the Iron & Steel sector.
wholesaler destocking and warmer nearly 10% globally, as we leveraged The acquisitions of Remosa SpA and weather across Europe during the the proven business model in Europe Grupo InterAtiva in February 2012 important autumn heating season.
20 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RETAIL DISPENSE BEVERAGE DISPENSE MERCHANDISING The new construction market in growing the business in emerging European markets are likely to remain Europe remained very subdued and markets and on new product subdued in 2012.
There are a number performance continued to be development.
The ongoing drive for of major new product development underpinned by good refurbishment improved energy efficiency positions us opportunities which have the potential, activity levels.
Overall, refurbishment well for accelerating growth over time.
in time, to both accelerate our growth activity represented more than two and further enhance our margins.
Beverage Dispense thirds of sales in the year, reecting the Merchandising Beverage Dispense continued to drive to improve energy efficiency perform well during the year with Overall organic growth for the year within existing buildings to comply with overall organic revenue growth of 3% was 3%.
As expected, after strong ever more stringent legislation.
We continued to exit a growth in the first half, the second half In line with IMIs aim to accelerate future number of older, more commoditised, was lower mainly due to the large growth, we increased investment in a lower margin product lines which automotive project that shipped in the number of key areas during the year.
accounted for over 4% of revenue second half of 2010.
During the year We continued to invest in educating the indicating an underlying organic we saw good growth in our cosmetics market to help drive demand for our growth of around 7% for the full year.
business and also won a number of energy efficient products and solutions major cosmetics contracts in Europe The strongest markets were in the with around 83,000 customers attending which will ship over the next two to Americas where revenues grew by one of our seminars during the year with three years.
This helped to offset more particular focus on North America, business also performed well and challenging market conditions in Germany and China.
This is an increase the automotive sector, which whilst Europe and in Asia Pacic, where we of 25% on 2010.
We also invested in modestly down reecting the continued to see lower levels of capital a number of centres designed to aforementioned large contract, investment by the major brand owners, demonstrate hydronic control to our continues to show signs of particularly in China.
customers and recruited 50 more improvement with dealers once again hydronic sales engineers.
During the We remain focused on improving the investing in their showrooms.
year we have also made good progress quality of the product mix in the During the year we opened the InVision in developing our new range of business, accelerating growth of retail science laboratory in Milwaukee, balancing and control valves which will higher margin new products for US.
This enables us to demonstrate to expand our overall market opportunity.
dispensing healthier and indulgence customers how we can deliver a sales beverages such as smoothies, water, Operating margins in the second half uplift of their most profitable products juice and frozen beverages whilst of 23.8% were broadly in line with the in a state of the art facility using the continuing the product exits noted underlying margins achieved in the latest immersive 3D technology.
This continued focus delivered second half of the prior year.
Full year number of customers have visited the a 28% increase in operating profit to margins were 22.0%, down from the site, feedback to date has been very 41.1m and resulted in another strong 23.8% achieved in 2010.
We were positive and new product opportunities uplift in returns with an overall successful in recovering higher input have emerged as a result.
operating margin for the year of 13.0% costs and offsetting the impact 2010: 10.2%.
It is expected that Operating margins were sustained at last of exchange rate movements on years record levels.
Whilst 2012 is likely margins will continue to improve our businesses in Sweden and in 2012 based on new product to be a year of further consolidation with Switzerland which affected the first contributions, pricing optimisation, revenues and margins unchanged from half margin performance.
cost management initiatives and 2011, the Group continues to focus Underlying new construction markets in further low margin product exits.
on improving the overall quality of the Europe are expected to remain weak in business by targeting higher margin Whilst North America continues to 2012 and we are continuing to focus project opportunities.
show signs of some improvement, our efforts on refurbishment activity, IMI plc Annual Report 2011 21
