Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 11 Our Strategy A Strategy that Delivers Delivering sustainable shareholder returns Sales Cost Cash Optimisation Growth Utilisation Our Key Assets Market Total Brand People Footprint Tobacco Equity Sales Growth Drivers Portfolio Customer Innovation Pricing Management Engagement Key Enablers Consumer Execution Future Centric Excellence Foundations Measuring our strategy The elements of our strategy: sales growth, cost optimisation In addition to our KPIs, we review our corporate responsibility and cash utilisation are measured by a set of key performance performance via our non-financial performance indicators.
These are the principal measures we use to Ournon-financial performance indicators are on page 41. assess and review our performance and continuous improvement Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results in line with our strategy.
Certain of these are linked to executive are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
Our progress in 2011 and over a three year period is outlined on pages 11 to 13.
KPI KPI Total Shareholder Return Adjusted Earnings per Share 150 188.0p 2010: 178.8p 125 Imperial Tobacco 100 FTSE 100 75 50 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Performance Performance In 2011 we outperformed the FTSE 100 Index by 25 per cent.
We have grown adjusted earnings per share to 188.0 pence, With dividends reinvested, 100 invested in Imperial Tobacco up by 5.4 per cent, as a result of driving growth through our five years ago would now be worth 172, compared to just total tobacco portfolio, while effectively managing our costs 106 if invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Definition Definition Total Shareholder Return is the total investment gain to Adjusted earnings per share is adjusted profit after tax shareholders resulting from the movement in the share price attributable to the equity holders of the Company divided by the and assuming dividends are immediately reinvested in shares.
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period, excluding shares held to satisfy employee share plans and shares purchased by the Company and held as Treasury shares.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 12 Our Strategy continued Our strategy explained Cost Sales Cash Optimisation Utilisation Growth We have industry leading margins and our focus on improving Sales Growth our profitability has been a hallmark of Imperial Tobacco for Sales growth is at the heart of our strategy.
Our commitment to building sales, whilst efficiently managing Over the long term, we have grown our operating cost and cash, creates value for our shareholders and margins and continually focus on realising further margin strengthens our long-term sustainability.
The effective use of our assets, combined with our focus on key sales growth drivers and enablers, is critical to delivering Cash Utilisation sustainable sales growth.
We use our substantial cash flows to maximise returns for Our balanced market footprint, total tobacco portfolio, strong our shareholders.
brand equity and talented people are the key assets of our Our business is highly cash generative due to effective working business.
We have been successful in using these assets to capital controls, disciplined capital expenditure and management enhance our sales performance and we are now focused on of tax and interest costs.
Over the past five years our average accelerating sales to fully realise our potential.
cash conversion has been in line with our target range.
To achieve this we have prioritised four sales growth drivers We manage our working capital to ensure that it is efficient for that we want to excel at: these are portfolio management, our business.
Our capital expenditure and investments are innovation, customer engagement and pricing.
The sales growth drivers are supported by our focus on three Our disciplined investments in new machinery and formats are key enablers: Consumer Centricity, Execution Excellence and supporting our sales growth and have improved quality as well Future Foundations.
as increasing our speed and flexibility to adapt and innovate.
You can find out more about our assets, sales growth drivers We will continue to make disciplined investments to support and enablers in this section of our report, which explains how our sales agenda, including further acquisitions that satisfy our they contribute to our strategy.
strategic criteria and create additional value for shareholders.
In recent years, we have also used our cash to significantly Cost Optimisation reduce our debt which funded several value creating acquisitions.
We focus on managing our costs while investing to grow We grew our dividends per share by 13 per cent in 2011 and our business.
increased our dividend payout ratio to 50.6 per cent of adjusted earnings per share.
We continue to drive cost efficiencies through business simplification and productivity initiatives across the Group.
To further enhance our returns to shareholders we began a 500 million annualised share buyback programme in May 2011.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 13 KPI KPI Tobacco Net Revenue Stick Equivalent Volumes 6.9bn 343.4bn 2010: 6.8bn 2010: 348.5bn 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Performance Performance Our tobacco net revenue was up by 2.0 per cent to 6.9 billion Our stick equivalent volumes declined by 1.5 per cent reflecting with good net revenue growth in Germany, Rest of EU and Rest the difficult market in Spain and trade buying patterns in the UK.
of the World regions more than offsetting declines elsewhere.
Adjusting for these factors, our stick equivalent volumes were flat.
Definition Tobacco net revenue comprises tobacco revenue less duty and Definition similar items, excluding peripheral products.
Stick equivalent volumes reflect ourcombined cigarette and fine cut tobacco volumes.
KPI KPI Tobacco Adjusted Operating Margin Cash Conversion Rate 42.3% 2010: 42.5% 88% 2010: 97% 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Performance Performance Our tobacco adjusted operating margin was down by Our cash conversion was 88 per cent, a particularly strong 0.2 per cent, held back by the difficult market in Spain and result given our investment in the business to support sales.
trade buying patterns in the UK.
Adjusting for these factors Definition our tobacco adjusted operating margin was up by 0.5 per cent.
Cash conversion is calculated as cash flow from operations Definition before interest and tax payments less net capital expenditure Tobacco adjusted operating margin is the tobacco adjusted relating to property, plant and equipment and software as a operating profit divided by tobacco net revenue.
percentage of adjusted operating profit.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 14 Our Strategy continued Our strategy explained Our Key Assets Market Total Brand People Footprint Tobacco Equity Our Key Assets Brand Equity We have great assets to deliver sales growth including a breadth Our portfolio includes some of the best known tobacco brands of geographies, brands and products and an excellent team of in the world, giving us strong brand equity.
Complementing our people committed to delivering excellent results.
global strategic cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and West are important local and regional cigarette brands.
Market Footprint We are the world leader in fine cut tobacco, papers and tubes, Our diverse market footprint spans more than 160 countries and have a growing snus business.
In cigar we are proud to worldwide.
There are growth opportunities in all these markets, offer consumers some of the most prestigious brands available, both in and outside the EU, and with our total tobacco including Cohiba and Montecristo.
approach we are very well placed to capitalise on these growth opportunities.
People Our people are highly skilled and committed to delivering Total Tobacco excellent results.
They are responsible for putting our sales Total tobacco gives us a competitive advantage because we growth strategy into action and have an outstanding track are able to offer consumers a broader range of brands and record of delivering results.
We are building on these strengths products.
This is particularly important as consumer needs by further developing the capabilities of our people to make continue to change due to a number of factors, including sure they have the values, behaviours, knowledge and skills regulation and the economic environment.
to achieve our sales aspirations.
Our total tobacco portfolio is equally appealing to retailers because they know they can rely on us to provide them with what consumers want.
This is good for their business and enables us to build strong relationships with retailers across our market footprint.
Sales Growth Drivers Portfolio Customer Innovation Pricing Management Engagement Sales Growth Drivers Innovation We are focused on accelerating sales growth by excelling at Innovation is essential to achieving our sales ambitions.
We are four sales growth drivers portfolio management, innovation, developing a bigger pipeline of scalable innovations based on customer engagement and pricing.
Applying our expertise consumer needs that will expand our portfolio and accelerate in these areas through fewer, bigger and better initiatives is incremental growth.
crucial to making the most of our assets and realising our Customer Engagement growth potential.
Through customer engagement we focus on developing even Portfolio Management stronger connections with our retail partners to support their Our total tobacco portfolio has a comprehensive range of business and to maximise the availability and endorsement brands and products with broad appeal to consumers.
of our portfolio at the point of sale.
Through effective portfolio management we are able to Pricing build sales by meeting the needs of more consumers in Pricing is a key component of revenue growth.
We want more markets on more consumption occasions.
to maximise these growth opportunities by developing an enhanced approach to the way we evaluate pricing by brand, by pack size and by sales channel.
We also take into account excise structures when considering pricing.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 15 Key Enablers Consumer Execution Future Centric Excellence Foundations Key Enablers Future Foundations Our four sales growth drivers are supported by three key Building Future Foundations by proactively shaping our external enablers: Consumer Centricity, Execution Excellence and environment is critical to achieving sustainable sales growth.
We run our business in a way that is financially, socially and Consumer Centricity environmentally responsible.
This approach is integral to Consumer Centricity is about ensuring our portfolio continually the success of our growth strategy and our stakeholder meets the preferences of our consumers.
To achieve this we are developing deep consumer insights to We seek engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders to enhance our understanding of how consumers are evolving.
encourage balanced debate and an accountable, transparent We then translate this knowledge into portfolio and innovation policy making process.
We support regulation that is reasonable, proportionate Execution Excellence and based on evidence and sound science and particularly Through Execution Excellence we focus on operation and encourage regulators to recognise the relationship between supply alignment, ensuring that our manufacturing and supply regulation, excise and illicit trade.
chain activities effectively support our sales growth strategy.
Rising excise duties combined with excessive regulation Product quality and availability are key priorities, combined with increases the illicit trade of tobacco products, which is a a fast and flexible approach which enables us to respond rapidly significant and growing problem for governments, consumers to changing consumer dynamics.
We are passionate about highlighting how these issues are inextricably linked and welcome every opportunity to discuss our views with stakeholders.
Our engagement activities are supported by the determined efforts we make to combat the illicit tobacco trade, working closely with governments and law enforcement agencies worldwide to drive down these illegal sales.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
