Directors Report: Governance Other statutory information Business review Directors responsibilities The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, can be found in the Operating Review on pages 23 to 30, which the directors report on remuneration and the Financial statements are incorporated into this Report by reference.
Information on in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company the environment, employees, community and social issues is law requires the Directors to prepare Financial statements for given in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37. each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group Financial statements in accordance with International Directors Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the The names of the Directors, plus brief biographical details are European Union, and the parent Company Financial statements given on page 38.
Each Director held office throughout the in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom year except Vicky Bindra who was appointed on 1 July 2011, Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Till Vestring who was appointed on 1 September 2011 and Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not Michael Wemms who retired from the Board on 11 May 2011. approve the Financial statements unless they are satisfied that they In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the all of the Directors will stand for election or re-election at the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In AGM on 10 May 2012. preparing these Financial statements, the Directors are required to: Principal activities r select suitable accounting policies and then apply A description of the principal activities of the Group and likely future them consistently: developments and important events occurring since the end of the r make judgements and accounting estimates that are year are given in the Operating Review on pages 23 to 30. reasonable and prudent: Results and dividends r state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and The Groups audited Financial statements for the year ended applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have 31 December 2011 are shown on pages 62 to 130.
The Board been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed recommends a final ordinary dividend of 7.4p per ordinary share.
and explained in the Group and parent Company Financial If approved at the 2012 AGM, the final ordinary dividend will be statements respectively: paid on 12 June 2012 to shareholders registered in the books of r prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis the Company at the close of business on 18 May 2012.
Together unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will with the interim dividend of 3.6p per ordinary share paid on continue in business.
5 September 2011, this makes a total ordinary dividend for the year of 11.0p per ordinary share 2010 6.6p.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The them to ensure that the Financial statements and the directors Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken report on remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant and, as regards the Group Financial statements, Article 4 of the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the are aware of that information.
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Directors indemnity reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the and other irregularities.
Companys Articles of Association and sections 232 and 234 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companies Act 2006, has been granted by the Company of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom to each of the Directors of the Company.
Under the provisions of governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial the QTPI the Company undertakes to indemnify each Director statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: they are reimbursed to the Company if the Director is found guilty r the Group Financial statements, which have been prepared in or, in an action brought by the Company, judgement is given accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and against the Director.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Going concern the Group: and A full description of the Groups business activities, financial r the Operating Review contained on pages 23 to 30 includes a position, cash flows, liquidity position, committed facilities and fair review of the development and performance of the business borrowing position, together with the factors likely to affect its and the position of the Group, together with a description of the future development and performance, is set out in the Operating principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and Financial Reviews on pages 23 to 31 and in the notes to the accounts on pages 74 to 130.
Charitable and political donations The Company made a charitable donation to Chase Shooting The Group has significant financial resources and the Directors, Star Childrens Hospice of 19,290 during 2011.
In 2010, the having reviewed the Groups operating budgets, investment Company donated 11,769 to Havens Hospice.
plans and financing arrangements, have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and compared this to the No political donations were made during 2011. level of committed facilities and cash resources.
Principal financial risk factors The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company These risks are shown on pages 32 to 33. and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation Events after the balance sheet date for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors are satisfied There have been no events after the balance sheet date.
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
58 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Governance Other statutory information continued Creditor payment policy ordinary shares representing approximately 10.0% of its issued The Company has no trade creditors 2010 nil.
No such purchases were made during 2011. is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions including Articles of Association terms of payment under which business transactions with the The appointment and replacement of Directors are governed Groups suppliers are conducted.
Whilst the Group does not by the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes to the follow any single external code or standard, in line with Group Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders policy, payments to suppliers are made in accordance with in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
The Directors have authority to issue and allot ordinary shares Employees pursuant to article 10 of the Articles of Association and shareholder The Company is committed to a policy of treating all its colleagues authority is requested at each AGM.
The Directors have authority to and job applicants equally and to increasing the involvement make market purchases of ordinary shares and this authority is also of colleagues through engagement activities.
Full details can be renewed annually at the AGM.
found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37.
Conflicts of interest We are committed to the employment of people with disabilities The Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise any and will interview those candidates who meet the minimum matter which would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty selection criteria.
We provide training and career development under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid conflicts of interest.
When for our employees, tailored where appropriate to their specific authorising a conflict of interest the Board must do so without the needs, to ensure they achieve their potential.
If an individual conflicting Director counting as part of the quorum.
In the event becomes disabled while in our employment, we will do our best that the Board consider it appropriate, the conflicted Director may to ensure continued development in their role, including consulting be permitted to participate in the debate, but will neither be them about their requirements, making appropriate adjustments permitted to vote nor count in the quorum when the decision and providing suitable alternative positions.
The Directors are aware that it is their responsibility Directors interests to inform the Board of any potential conflicts as soon as possible The table shows the beneficial interests, other than share options, and procedures are in place to facilitate disclosure.
including family interests, in the ordinary shares of the Company Change of control of the persons who were Directors at 31 December 2011.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that 31 Dec 2011 1 Jan 2011 would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Ken Hanna 70,000 70,000 of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, certain of the Andr Lacroix 507,214 459,158 Groups third party funding arrangements would terminate upon John McConnell 181,038 155,368 a change of control of the Company.
The Groups relationships with its brand partners are managed at Group level, however the Simon Borrows 1,000,000 500,000 relevant contracts are entered into at a local level with day to day Alison Cooper 2,500 2,500 management being led by each operating business.
Certain of the Nigel Northridge 25,000 10,000 contracts may terminate on a change of control of the local Will Samuel 12,000 12,000 contracting company.
David Scotland 11,298 11,298 The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Till Vestring 30,000 employee providing compensation for loss of office or employment There have been no changes to the number of shares held by Directors between that occurs because of a takeover bid, except for provisions in the 31 December 2011 and 12 March 2012. rules of the Companys share schemes which may result in options or awards granted to employees to vest on a takeover.
Employee benefit trust The Executive Directors of the Company, together with other Transactions with Directors employees of the Group, are potential beneficiaries of the No transaction, arrangement or agreement required to be Inchcape Employee Trust Trust and, as such, are deemed to be disclosed in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and IAS 24 Related interested in any ordinary shares held by the Trust.
At 31 December Parties was outstanding at 31 December 2011, or was entered 2011, the Trusts shareholding totalled 1,370,916 ordinary shares.
into during the year for any Director and or connected person Between 1 January 2012 and 12 March 2012 the Trust transferred 2010 none.
33,964 ordinary shares to satisfy the exercise of awards under Annual General Meeting employee share plans.
The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday 10 May 2012 at Share capital Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP.
The notice As at 31 December 2011, the Companys issued share capital convening the meeting and the resolutions to be put to the of 46,347,321.60 comprised 463,473,216 ordinary shares of 10.0p.
meeting, together with the explanatory notes, are given in the Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Circular to all shareholders.
Report and Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their and to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
The shares do willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them not carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
The rights are set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions or limitations on the holding of ordinary By order of the Board shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Shares acquired through the Company share schemes rank Claire Chapman, pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
General Counsel & Group Company Secretary Authority to purchase shares At the Companys AGM on Thursday 12 May 2011, the Company was authorised to make market purchases of up to 46,057,393 www.
