Engineered for performance 2 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Inchcape is engineered for performance and poised to take advantage of the exciting growth opportunities in both emerging and developed markets.
We apply rigorous performance monitoring to a range of operational and customer metrics, allowing us to respond quickly and decisively to global conditions.
We are geared to deliver significant operational leverage across the business.
In this years Annual Report, we emphasise how we deliver performance as we execute our Customer 1st Strategy.
Inchcape is truly engineered for performance and has a competitive advantage in the following areas: 1 Performance track record in all economic cycles.
Page 4 2 Performance discipline through operational focus on Top Five Priorities.
Page 6 3 Performance management with industry leading processes.
Page 8 4 Performance advantage for customers with ever better cars and superior customer service.
Page 10 5 Performance ahead with exciting growth prospects.
com 3 Engineered for performance 1 Performance track record in all economic cycles 4 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 e c n a r u S s e n r i v d i c n e a e c n a D s r e n e f i F v e i n r s d i Inchcapes unique and proven business model has five key components: a broad geographic spread with scale operations: a focused portfolio of world leading luxury and premium automotive brands: a well nanced route to market for our brand partners: growth and defensive value drivers: and empowered local management.
Together, these have secured our performance track record through all economic cycles.
The Inchcape business model Proven business model in global premium car markets with strong performance in all cycles.
Broad geographical Well fi nanced route to spread with scale market for our brand operations partners: Distribution Global and Retail brand partners Diversifi ed revenue streams Portfolio of world leading from growth and defensive luxury & premium brands value drivers Empowered organisation is responsive to market changes and aligned on global processes Broad geographic spread market for our brand partners.
this enables us to capitalise on We operate in 26 markets, with 21 Through our retail route, we provide important margin opportunities.
of these in the worlds fast growing manufacturers with quality brand Growth and defensive value drivers economies of Asia Pacifi c and the representation with scale facilities Our diversifi ed revenue streams are Emerging Markets.
While the mature on a regional basis.
Our competitive balanced to deliver strong margins nations of Western Europe are diff erentiation is the creation of during times of economic growth projected to continue recording a superior customer experience and decline alike.
Our growth steady growth in luxury and premium delivered through the proprietary value drivers are sales of new and car sales from 2012 to 2015 and processes of our Inchcape used vehicles, alongside the fi finance beyond, rapid and sustained growth Advantage programme.
and insurance products that are is forecast from the premiumisation Our distribution route involves associated with them.
Inchcapes in the Asia Pacifi c region and other a wider range of critical functions defensive value drivers are aft ersales, emerging nations.
These markets are carried out on behalf of our brand servicing and parts, which in an set to become the greatest drivers partners, including many activities average year deliver c. 50% of for Inchcapes growth in the next that in other markets would be carried our annual gross profi t. decade, as countries like China out by the manufacturer themselves.
and Russia further cement their Empowered organisation is As the distributor, we operate as place among the top global responsive to market changes and the manufacturers exclusive automotive markets.
aligned on global processes master-franchise partner in a particular Our decentralised management Portfolio of world leading luxury territory.
We carry out all of the structure enables local management and premium brands marketing and sales activities, from teams to use their in-depth personal Our unique portfolio of leading luxury selecting market-specifi c models, knowledge of individual markets within and premium automotive brands setting prices, ordering new cars and a globally aligned group structure.
includes Audi, BMW, Jaguar, Land parts and their subsequent distribution, Our scale enables investments in Rover, Lexus, Mercedes-Benz, Porsche, to appointing and managing the entire world-class Group wide information Rolls-Royce, Subaru, Toyota and dealer network of which we typically systems, shared best practice and Volkswagen.
Luxury and premium own 10-20% ourselves.
We also advanced business processes while brands continue to be the driving undertake national marketing activities, our in-depth market knowledge and force of growth in automotive sales, including brand advertising, public the ability to respond swift ly and outperforming other segments in the relations and customer database decisively to fast-changing conditions majority of markets with innovative management and the fulfi lment of gives us important advantages in our developments in powertrains and back-offi ce functions.
In city-state markets such as Hong Kong organisational model provides the Well nanced route to market and Singapore, we operate both as benefi ts of both global scale and local Inchcape plays a key role in the the exclusive distributor and the agility, enabling us to compete both in automotive value chain, providing exclusive retailer for our brand partners.
local markets and worldwide, through a trusted and well-funded route to Called vertically integrated retail VIR, all stages of the economic cycle.
com 5 v h e t d w r i o r v e G r s s e l a P s a e r l t s c i h e V Engineered for performance 2 Performance discipline through operational focus on Top Five Priorities 6 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Inchcapes organic growth through the downturn, with peak operating cash ow during 2009, strong earnings recovery in 2010 and robust pro t growth in 2011, owes much to the Groups balanced operational focus on its Top Five Priorities, which supports its differentiating Customer 1st strategy.
This performance discipline will remain in place in 2012 and beyond.
Differentiated strategy Commercial initiatives to grow revenues ahead of competitors Growing Growing market share aft ersales Cash initiatives to grow profi t and Improving Controlling Selective capital operating cash margin working capital expenditure faster than revenue Balanced focus on commercial and cash initiatives in every operation Commercial initiatives Cash initiatives Selective capital expenditure Commercial initiatives designed Our cash initiatives are designed During 2011, our strong fi financial to increase both our market share to grow profi t and operating cash position enabled us to maintain our and our aft ersales operations are faster than revenue and these are investment programme in strategic growing Group revenue ahead of driven by focused performance sites to take advantage of growth the competition.
Our local marketing management processes based opportunities in the premium and teams are recognised for their on daily, weekly and monthly luxury segments in Asia Pacifi c and innovative marketing programmes operational and fi financial metrics.
the Emerging Markets, as we which are driving customer traffi c continued to invest in increasing our Improving margin into our showrooms and aft ersales retail and aft ersales capacity in Russia, Gross margin is improved with customers into our service centres.
Poland, South America and China.
careful value driver mix management, In 2012, we will build a new Porsche Growing market share based on rigorous benchmarking, retail centre in Nanchang, China.
We Vehicle sales initiatives dovetail into while overheads are tightly controlled are well placed to take advantage our Inchcape Advantage programme through a constant focus on improving of future opportunities in these high to make the retail visit a special productivity, returns on marketing growth, high margin markets.
experience, from the initial welcome investments and costs.
and a fl exible test drive programme Controlling working capital all the way through to a memorable We remain resolute on our working car handover process.
capital discipline with proven Growing aft ersales processes in place to eff ectively In aft ersales too, creative manage the supply chain to 1.5 programmes, such as our digital months stock cover across the Group.
vehicle health checks, express service and oil and tyre programmes, ensure a diff erentiated customer experience based on trust and integrity.
Our marketing focus on achieving higher customer retention in the post warranty period is proving successful.
com 7 Engineered for performance 3 Performance management with industry leading processes 8 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group has a deeply ingrained performance management discipline both centrally and locally in breadth and in depth.
We consider this to be fundamental to the Groups success.
The processes we operate are comprehensive and completed in a timely manner in order to inform the business for greater operational ef ciency.
It is an approach which combines central governance alongside tools for strong and knowledgeable local management to respond rapidly and effectively to the changing individual needs of their speci c markets.
We apply a consistent approach to operational and financial metrics right across the Group as evidenced by our balanced scorecard, by region, as part of our monthly reporting.
This highlights the key metrics to management and enables rigorous benchmarking alongside performance tracking.
Inchcape Performance Management Cycle Talent 5 Year Yearly 3 9 9 3 CAPEX IA iPOM Board Performance Strategy Plan Budget Forecast Forecast Committee Committee Committee Governance Review Daily, weekly & monthly traffi c & volume data Weekly monthly P&L, Cash Flow & Working Capital reports Monthly balanced scorecard, by site, country and region Monthly performance reviews with each market 12 month rolling forecast Global governance management Inchcape Advantage, portal with real-time customer metrics There is certainly breadth to risk management iPOM Inchcape for both sales and aft ersales for every our performance management Peace of Mind, talent performance single site and fl ows through to approach.
Our strategic, long and and of course, the governance of Group-level weekly and monthly short term fi financial planning sits a strong Board of Directors.
fi financial metrics, monthly business alongside committee structures performance reviews held between Local insights for capital expenditure approval the Group and Market CEOs and The depth of our approach starts and monitoring, customer regional 12 month rolling forecasts.
with our unique Inchcape Advantage c. 50% 1.5 months Growing of gross profi t from Year on year stock cover aft ersales aft ersales Performance market share tracking growth Full year forecast once a year: Q1 actual 9 Inchcape Advantage Committee is Inchcape Peace of Mind Committee months in 3 9: 9 months actual Q4 in 9 3 responsible for the development of this core is responsible for risk management strategic programme www.
com 9 Engineered for performance 4 Performance advantage for customers with ever better cars and superior customer service 10 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Customer service has successfully differentiated us from our competitors through our Inchcape Advantage programme, which enables us to constantly evolve and re ne our operational processes based on the findings of 12,000 interviews that we undertake every month with both customers and non-customers.
This close customer contact additionally provides insight to drive strong marketing programmes to differentiate our value for money propositions.
Inchcape Advantage lies at the heart of our competitive advantage and empowers our core purpose to create the ultimate customer experience for our brand partners.
Our brand partners Technical innovations Attractive value for money Inchcape is unique in the range are driving growth We have proven marketing capability of long-standing and deep brand Ever increasing demand for in our distribution businesses.
Marketing partnerships we enjoy with the worlds innovations that drive down the cost excellence combined with a deep leading premium and luxury motor of ownership is fundamental to the and sophisticated local knowledge in manufacturers.
These companies continuing popularity of the leading the markets in which we operate allows represent the fastest growing sales automotive brands with which we us to leverage the strong pricing power sector in mature and emerging work.
Our brand partners investments of our brands and deliver attractive markets alike, right across the world.
in research and development have value for money campaigns.
In addition, we operate in 21 of the placed them at the forefront of worlds fast growing markets in Asia improvements in environmental Pacifi c and the Emerging Markets.
technologies, safety, reliability These two factors combine to ideally and connectivity.
place us to meet global demands Superior customer service for automotive innovation, a primary Excellent service is key to a customers driver of growth among the fast perception that the value derived from expanding middle classes in a transaction is greater than the price developing countries across the that they have paid, a factor that our Asia Pacifi c region and elsewhere.
research reveals is of increasing importance in the purchase decision.
Our outstanding customer service is proving to be a winning factor in sales conversion and customer retention.
com 11 Engineered for performance 5 Performance ahead with exciting growth prospects 12 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Inchcapes business model and balance sheet strength ideally position us to bene t from five important global trends that will dominate the automotive industry, which is projected for high growth in the years to come, enabling us to return to peak earnings and beyond.
These trends are particularly signi cant for Inchcape as we have the scale and global presence, market leadership position, high quality brand partnerships and the financial strength to fully capitalise on them.
Global TIV m Global car sales are forecast to grow signifi cantly Broad based global recovery 100 30% 80 Structural growth led by wealth 60 creation in Asia Pacifi c and the Emerging Markets 40 20 0 Technology will create value 11 12 13 14 15 16 and accelerate vehicle replacement Uniquely positioned in advanced markets to take advantage Global car parc m of global growth Number of cars on the road globally forecast to increase 16% Car parc growth in both the fast 100 growing and advanced markets 80 60 40 Strongest players will lead industry consolidation 20 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 source: IHS Automotive source: LMC Automotive Broad based global recovery Technology will create value Strongest players will lead It is evident that the global economic and accelerate replacement in industry consolidation recovery will continue to be uneven.
advanced markets The strongest and well capitalised That said, the forecast for the total car In advanced markets, new technology players in the industry will continue market is exciting as the global industry will create value and drive vehicle to lead its consolidation.
Inchcape is is geared for 30% growth over the next replacement.
Inchcapes leading luxury well positioned to gain access to these fi five years source: IHS Automotive.
and premium brand partners are at the expansion opportunities, benefi ting Given our geographic spread, we forefront, with their leading-edge from our long standing and close are well positioned to benefi t from development of hybrid and electric relationships with the worlds leading this uneven recovery.
vehicles and fuel effi cient technology manufacturers, a proven track record for both diesel and petrol engines.
of eff ective brand stewardship across Structural growth led by fi five continents and a strong balance wealth creation in Asia Paci c Car parc growth in both the fast sheet.
This is evidenced by our newly and the Emerging Markets growing and advanced markets won distribution contract with Land Structural growth in the industry Research shows that the global car Rover and Ford in Hong Kong and will be led by wealth creation in Asia parc, comprising new and used cars, Macau and exclusive representation Pacifi c and the Emerging Markets.
is set to grow by 16% over the next fi five of Rolls-Royce in Chile.
With our strong portfolio of luxury and years source: LMC Automotive.
While premium brands, Inchcape is uniquely this is an obvious driver of our continued positioned to take advantage of the growth through the sale of new and premiumisation of these markets as used vehicles, its signifi cance for us consumers increasingly aspire to is further strengthened through the better lifestyles.
opportunities it provides for the sale of fi finance and insurance products and for aft ersales servicing through the whole ownership life-cycle as the car parc increases.
