e c n a r u s S n e i r d v i n c a e e c n s D r a e e n f v i e i F r n d s i Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review continued Looking to other newer markets for Inchcape, we have 22 retail Naturally, as we move forward we will continue to exercise strong centres in Moscow and St Petersburg.
This refl ects predictions that control over our working capital and inventory management as Russia will be Europes largest and the worlds fourth biggest a key aspect of our Top Five Priorities.
But as the global middle class car market within the next fi five years.
Building a portfolio of scale grows in both scale and buying power, we are a company whose businesses with our core brand partners in the fast-growing structure and strategy make consistent growth over the years to premium segment is the right expansion strategy for Inchcape come an achievable reality.
This is the key benefi t to being in markets that are set to become the largest in the world.
During 2011 we were appointed as distributor for Land Rover and Looking ahead to 2012 and beyond, we will benefi t from Ford in Hong Kong and Macau and as exclusive representative fi five unique strengths as we seek to engineer the best possible of Rolls-Royce in Chile, where we have complete responsibility performance for our brand partners, customers and shareholders.
for these brands within the markets.
These successful gains clearly A brief summary of these follows.
show that desirable distribution contracts are available to the Performance track record in all economic cycles right businesses with a proven track record of eff ective brand Our unique business model is based on a number of key strengths stewardship, a disciplined process to integrate acquisitions and and has played a key role in ensuring that the Group has, over a strong balance sheet.
the years, delivered a performance track record during growth, Our strong performance for 2011 gives us a solid platform for downturn and recovery cycles.
We plan to take advantage of growth First, we have a broad geographic spread with scale operations in opportunities that arise in the global industry, leveraging our 26 markets, of which 21 are among the worlds fastest growing Asia fi financial strength and long standing, deep brand partnerships.
In fact, Inchcape is the worlds only A strategy engineered for performance Proven business model in global premium car markets with strong performance in all economic cycles.
Well fi nanced route to Broad geographical market for our brand spread with scale partners: Distribution operations and Retail Global brand partners Portfolio of leading luxury Diversifi ed revenue streams & premium brands from growth and defensive value drivers Our clear vision and strategy aim to generate consistently excellent results for our shareholders.
Empowered organisation is responsive to market changes and aligned on global processes Inchcape is a world leading automotive retailer and distributor.
Vision Across our 26 markets, we operate as distributor in 22 of these, To be the worlds most customer-centric with retail only operations in the UK, Poland, Russia and China.
automotive retail group Furthermore, 21 of our markets are in the fast growing economies of Asia Pacifi c and the Emerging Markets.
Strategy Core Purpose Strategy Strengthen To create the Expand Superior customer ultimate customer Consolidation in value proposition experience high margin high through Inchcape for our brand growth areas Advantage partners Superior customer service both strengthens the performance of our existing assets, enabling us to improve market share and aft ersales service retention and, through the strong brand partner relationships that this creates, also provides us with better access to expansion opportunities in high margin high growth areas.
18 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 v h e t w d o r i r v G e r s s e l a P s a e rt l s c i h e V BUSINESS REVIEW Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review continued automotive distribution and retail Group with scale businesses an even higher proportion of customers following the expiry across fi five continents.
This geographic reach has been key to the six consecutive years Typically, the industry experiences a high proportion of aft ersales of growth and strong returns we achieved prior to the downturn customers leaving franchised centres once the vehicle warranty in 2008, peak operating cashfl ow in 2009, strong earnings recovery expires.
Our approach is to concentrate additional marketing in 2010 and robust profi t growth in 2011, despite challenging UK resource on customer retention, highlighting the tangible value and European markets and the impact of the Japanese of our state of the art onsite equipment, live links to manufacturer earthquake.
diagnosis and resolution systems, and the top level of training our operatives receive directly from our brand partners.
In our Second is the diversity of our revenue streams, covering both Singapore business for example, this approach has resulted in defensive and growth value drivers.
more than double the percentage of customers who make us We generate around 50% of our gross profi t from the defensive responsible for their vehicle servicing for six years and more.
value drivers of aft ersales servicing and parts, which balance our We also leverage our industry leading service standards, based growth revenue streams of vehicle sales alongside fi finance and on our complete transparency with customers, which ensures insurance products.
Looking ahead, however, we believe that we undertake no work without their prior agreement and there is a great opportunity to expand our aft ersales business understanding.
In this way, we demonstrate that there is no signifi cantly by not only growing new aft ersales customer bases better place to go than an Inchcape service centre throughout in our expanding emerging market operations but also the entire life of a vehicle.
by further building on our competitive strengths to retain Strong operational discipline on Top Five Priorities supports Inchcapes differentiating Customer 1st strategy.
Diff erentiated strategy Commercial initiatives Growing Growing to grow revenues ahead market share aft ersales of competitors Cash initiatives Inchcape Advantage is critical Improving Controlling Selective to grow profi t working capital margin capital and operating to driving revenues expenditure cash faster ahead of the competition.
than revenue Ownership Purchase Customer data Balanced focus on commercial and cash initiatives in every operation To deliver organic growth, we execute our diff erentiated Traffi c Enquiries Customer 1st strategy with a strong operational discipline Leads Bookings on what we call our Top Five Priorities.
Test drivers Lead times Capture rate Identify focus areas & recognise progress Superior customer value Delivering superior and diff erentiated customer service is the over-arching strategic goal for the Group.
Inchcape Advantage, our programme to deliver consistently superior customer service in every centre through our proprietary processes, was formed aft er extensive consumer research.
com 19 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review continued A further critical factor behind Inchcapes success is our Performance management with industry decentralised organisation, which enables us to gain from the leading processes empowerment of highly knowledgeable local management who An ethos of rigorous performance management is ingrained can respond rapidly and decisively to changing market conditions.
in Inchcapes culture through the frequent and timely Alongside the global alignment of processes, controls, implementation of key processes: centrally, locally and at every performance measures, governance and the sharing of best level of the organisation.
These include the use of a suite of sales practice across the Group, this enables us to adapt rapidly and and aftersales based customer metrics, which provide leading to tailor our approach precisely to the needs of each local market.
indicators to help manage the business, and the sharing of best practice across the Group.
Performance discipline through operational focus on our Top Five Priorities The way in which Inchcape is structured and the day to day management practices we use throughout the organisation are At Inchcape, we constantly seek to achieve a balance between designed to ensure we grow revenue ahead of our competitors commercial and cash initiatives to ensure we remain focused and grow operating profit and gross margin faster than revenue.
on growth while maintaining a disciplined approach to financial returns.
For example, our commitment to daily, weekly and monthly management reporting and disciplined central governance At the base of our business is the strength we gain through underpins well informed local decision making, in which our close partnerships with the worlds leading luxury and expenditure is only ever justified by its positive impact on our premium automotive brands.
We maximise the opportunities profitability.
This is further supported by our daily analysis of the these represent through focusing on what we call our Top Five metrics we access through our unique customer funnel dynamic Priorities, the elements of which ensure we grow our revenues information relating to the purchase and aftersales process that we ahead of our competitors through increasing market share and glean through live customer contacts at every point in the journey.
aftersales, while successfully growing profit and operating cash This gives us early insights into future customer behaviour that faster than revenue through improved margins, control of our drive performance for every brand in every national market working capital and by being selective about capital and retail centre.
These are examples of our broad and deep range of performance For example, since the global downturn of 2008 we have management measures collectively building strategic planning undertaken a number of separate rationalisations of our and control tools into the heart of our business to deliver an business to manage costs and strengthen our margins across the integrated set of forecasting, budgeting, governance, review, organisation.
These have included the closure of underperforming analysis and talent development tools that enable global policies and non-core retail sites, the move of a number of national head to be tailored for local and regional markets.
offices into cost-effective office suites above showrooms and a more disciplined approach to marketing that involves a greater Performance advantage for customers with ever emphasis on digital advertising with better commercial returns.
better cars and superior customer service Such initiatives have seen us drive a particularly strong profit and Every month, we conduct around 12,000 interviews with our cash performance over the last three years that demonstrates customers and non buyers to provide us with the insight we need the defensive strengths of our business model.
to drive revenues ahead of our competitors and to stay closely in touch with changing consumer behaviour and attitudes.
These Looking ahead, while we recognise the need to invest in the are clearly showing us that consumers have changed since the increase of our revenues and profitability in the years to come, downturn of 2008 and 2009 in markets across the world, and are we will not relax our focus on tight cost and cash controls, even now, more than ever, seeking value for money in their purchases.
in already strong economies or those markets moving out of downturn and into recovery.
This does not mean that they are seeking low cost alternatives to the models they used to buy.
On the contrary, we are witnessing One of the main reasons we were able to improve our competitive the premiumisation of Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific position during the economic downturn, which has seen many of countries as newly middle class customers seek better quality, our competitors either suffer long term damage or fail altogether, innovation and environmental performance from their vehicles.
was the fact that the market intelligence we gain through the In advanced economies, luxury and premium vehicles are gaining leading indicators of our unique Inchcape Advantage portal market share as the brand strength of our manufacturer partners enables us to carry only six weeks worth of stock across the Group.
provide superior value for money.
This enables us to manage our working capital efficiently, so giving us exceptional financial strength and flexibility.
Drawing on the We in turn leverage this pricing power of our brand partners with investments in customer insight that we make, it will continue outstanding customer service to create superior margins, delivering to be a unique advantage for Inchcape as we maintain our value through the right vehicle specifications, warranty support, focus throughout 2012 and beyond.
cost effective marketing, service support and finance options.
20 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives strategic review continued Our manufacturer partners are investing more than ever in green The fourth is the predicted growth of the global car parc in both technologies that are in fast growing demand from perceptive advanced and emerging markets.
The global car parc, comprising buyers.
BMW, for example, has achieved a 63% improvement in new and used cars, is set to grow by 16% over the next fi five years the MPG performance and a 39% reduction in the CO emissions source: LMC Automotive which will drive revenue growth for 2 of its 2011 320d model over its 2005 equivalent, and our other us in both the highly profi table areas of used cars and in manufacturer partners have achieved similar advances.
Customer service is, and has been for some years, our number The fi ft h trend is the fact that in a fragmented global marketplace one competitive advantage.
Not only does it enable the only the strongest players will lead industry consolidation through strengthening of existing assets for improved market share expansion and the erosion of weaker rivals.
Vehicle manufacturers and aft ersales service retention, it also facilitates expansion will want to strengthen both their market coverage and quality opportunities as we leverage our increasingly powerful brand of operations and, as we have demonstrated in 2011, Inchcape partner relationships.
is well positioned to gain access to expansion opportunities, benefi ting from our long standing and deep relationships with Inchcape Advantage, our unique Group-wide programme the worlds leading car manufacturers, a proven track record for continuous improvement, which is now in its fi ft h year, lies of eff ective brand management, customer service excellence at the heart of our strategic commitment to customer-centric and a strong balance sheet.
Its proprietary processes are what drive the organic growth of our business, both through delivering for As a Group we are already focused on positioning ourselves our customers and through the resultant superior relationships to take advantage of and benefi t from these key trends, again with our brand partners.
moving ahead of our competition to seize opportunities as they arise.
To maintain and expand upon our leading position, we intend to constantly raise the bar in every aspect of customer service.
We have a unique and proven business model, a diff erentiated This we have done in 2011, and we will continue to drive further strategy, a strong operational focus and Inchcape people who improvements during 2012 and into the future.
have a genuine passion for performance.
Performance ahead with exciting growth prospects Inchcape is a global industry leader and engineered for performance.
Looking to the future, for many of the reasons I have already outlined, Inchcape is uniquely positioned to take advantage of fi five important trends that are set to aff ect the global car market.
The growth prospects are truly exciting in our industry as we expect the global car market to increase by 30% source: IHS Automotive in the next fi five years.
The fi first key trend is the expected broad based global recovery Andr Lacroix, in the medium term.
Some of our markets have quickly rebounded Group Chief Executive in 2010 and 2011 and are now ahead of their pre-2008 levels.
Some of our markets are slightly below their 2007 peak level and See online: www inchcape.
com ar11 are poised for growth as the ageing of the car parc will accelerate the recovery pace in the years to come.
Thanks to our geographic spread, we are well positioned to benefi t from this uneven recovery.
The second trend is the growing wealth in Asia Pacifi c and the Emerging Markets.
Between 2011 and 2016, these markets will represent 94% of the worlds population growth source: IMF and 72% of GDP growth source: EIU.
As a result, these regions will also be the key drivers of the predicted 16% growth in the global car parc over the same period source: LMC Automotive, responsible for 78% of car industry growth and coming to represent 64% of global car sales by 2016 source: IHS Automotive.
Inchcape is already in 21 such growth markets.
The third trend is of accelerated car replacement in advanced markets thanks to the technological advances pioneered by our brand partners, particularly those that reduce the cost of ownership.
Inchcapes premium brand partners are at the forefront of these advances, with their leading-edge development of hybrid and electric vehicles and fuel effi cient technology for both diesel and petrol engines.
