Directors Report: Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 7 6 8 9 10 1 Ken Hanna 4 John McConnell 8 Nigel Northridge Chairman Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: September 2001 Appointment to Board: October 2009 Appointment to Board: July 2009 Ken became Chairman in May 2009.
He is John was appointed as Group Finance Director Nigel is Chairman of Paddy Power plc also a Non-Executive Director of Tesco plc of Inchcape plc in October 2009, having worked and Debenhams plc.
He spent 32 years with and Aggreko plc.
Ken will become Chairman with the Group since 1999.
John joined Inchcape Gallaher Group plc in sales and marketing roles, of Aggreko plc in April 2012.
Prior to joining Australasia as Chief Financial Officer before becoming the Group Chief Executive in 2000.
Inchcape, Ken was an Executive Director moving to the role of Chief Executive Officer of He was previously a Non-Executive Director of and Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury plc.
Prior to joining Inchcape he worked Thomas Cook plc and the Senior Independent was previously a Partner of Compass Partners with Reckitt and Colman now Reckitt Benckiser Non-Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
International and Group Finance Director and for 13 years in a variety of senior financial roles in Nigel is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chief Executive of Dalgety plc and had previous the UK, Germany and Australia.
experience with Guinness plc now Diageo plc, 9 Vicky Bindra 5 Alison Cooper Avis Europe and Black & Decker.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ken is Chairman of the Nominations Committee Appointment to Board: July 2011 Appointment to Board: July 2009 and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Vicky joined the Board on 1 July 2011.
He Alison is Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco is President of Asia Pacific, Middle East & 2 Andr Lacroix Group PLC.
Alison joined Imperial Tobacco Africa APMEA for MasterCard Worldwide.
Group Chief Executive Group in 1999 and has held a number of Prior to joining MasterCard in June 2009, Appointment to Board: September 2005 senior roles including Director of Finance and Vicky has worked with Bain & Company, Citi Planning, Regional Director Western Europe, Andr is a Non-Executive Director of Reckitt and GE Capital.
He was a member of the Citi Corporate Development Director and Chief Benckiser Group plc and the Chairman of Good Management Committee and held various Operating Officer.
Previously she was with Restaurants AG.
He was previously Chairman senior roles within the company including  LLP.
and Chief Executive Officer of Euro Disney S. C. A. head of SME Business for International, Sales Prior to this he was the President of Burger King Alison is a member of the Audit Committee.
& Marketing for North America Retail.
He was International, previously part of Diageo.
a financial services partner for Bain & Company 6 David Scotland in the New York office.
Andr is a member of the Nominations and Non-Executive Director CR Committees.
Vicky is a member of the CR Committee.
Appointment to Board: February 2005 3 Will Samuel 10 Till Vestring David was previously an Executive Director of Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director Allied Domecq plc and a Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: September 2011 of Photo-Me International plc, Brixton plc and Appointment to Board: January 2005 Thompson Travel Group plc.
He was also a Till joined the Board on 1 September 2011.
Trustee and Director of Winstons Wish, a child Will is Chairman of Howden Joinery Group plc Till is Managing Partner of Bain & Company bereavement registered charity.
and the Ecclesiastical Insurance Group.
Till has a 20 year career at is also a senior advisor of Lazard & Co, a David is the Chairman of the CR Committee Bain & Company of which the last 18 were Non-Executive Director of the Edinburgh and a member of the Remuneration and spent in Asia with postings in Sydney, Hong Kong, Investment Trust plc and a Director of the Nominations Committees.
He has served as head All Churches Trust.
In January 2012, Will was of Bains Automotive & Industrial Practice in Asia 7 Simon Borrows appointed by the Financial Services Authority as well as on Bains global Partner Nomination as its senior advisor on investment banking.
He has extensive He was previously a Director of Schroders plc, Appointment to Board: October 2010 experience advising multinationals on growth Co-Chief Executive Officer of Schroder Salomon strategy across Asia as well as advising Simon was appointed as Chief Investment Smith Barney a division of Citigroup Inc. and leading Asian companies on strategy, Officer of 3i Group plc in October 2011.
He is Vice Chairman, European Investment Bank of M&A and organisation.
also a Non-Executive Director of The British Citigroup Inc and Chairman of H. P. Bulmer plc.
Previously, Simon was the Will is a chartered accountant.
Chairman of Greenhill & Co International LLP Will is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and was a founding partner of Greenhills and Nominations Committees.
Before starting Greenhill he was Managing Director of Baring Brothers International Limited.
Simon is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
38 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
