Directors Report: Governance Executive committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 1 Andr Lacroix 6 Claire Chapman Position: Group Chief Executive Position: General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2006 Appointment to the Executive Committee: March 2007 Please see page 38 for full biography.
Skills and experience: Claire joined Inchcape in March 2007 and is responsible for the Groups legal and compliance programmes, mergers 2 John McConnell and acquisitions, major contracts, corporate projects and restructurings: Position: Group Finance Director effective corporate governance and Board management.
Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2006 Claire was formerly a solicitor at Freshfields Bruckhaus Derringer from 1991 to 1995 before joining the legal team at the Reuters Group PLC Please see page 38 for full biography.
Claire held various roles whilst at Reuters, working for their UK, European and US businesses.
She was General Counsel for the 3 Aris Aravanis UK from 2000 to 2003 and General Counsel for Europe, Middle East and Position: Chairman & Managing Director, Toyota Hellas Africa from 2004 to 2007, advising on a range of matters from major Appointment to Executive Committee: July 2009 commercial and IT contracts, global projects, integration and key corporate projects.
Additionally she advised on company secretariat Skills and experience: During his tenure with Inchcape, Aris has led matters from 2004 to 2007. the establishment and development of Tefin, a finance company that was constituted by Toyota Hellas and EFG Eurobank, to the top of the Claire is a qualified solicitor for England and Wales and Attorney at Law, automotive financing market in Greece.
In February 2000, Aris assumed New York and has a Masters in International Law.
the position of General Manager of Toyota Hellas and then became Deputy Managing Director and member of the Board of Directors.
During his service, 7 Tony George Toyota has established solid and clear leadership in the Greek market.
Position: Group HR Director Appointment to the Executive Committee: February 2007 Before joining Toyota Hellas and Inchcape, Aris had extensive experience in the finance field working in various sectors including the food industry, Skills and experience: Tony joined the Group in February 2007.
He has over electric cabling and banking.
23 years of experience in Human Resources and General Management in International FMCG, chemicals, telecommunications and customer 4 George Ashford service oriented retail companies.
In his previous role he was HR Director, Position: Chief Executive officer, Inchcape Australasia Corporate Functions for Vodafone plc and prior to that, SVP International Appointment to Executive Committee: October 2006 Partner Resources for Starbucks Coffee Company based in the US.
He has also worked with ICI in India and Diageo plc where, at the time of Skills and experience: George was appointed as Chief Executive Officer, the formation of the Company, he was the first Global Management Inchcape Australasia in January 2012.
George joined Inchcape in March Development Director UDV in the UK and latterly was the SVP International 2006 as Director of Implementation, Inchcape Advantage.
In this role HR for the Burger King business.
During his career Tony has lived and George led the implementation of Inchcape Advantage, a Group-wide worked in India, the UK, USA and Australia.
strategic programme putting the customer at the heart of the Groups service initiatives.
In October 2006, George was appointed Managing 8 Jean Van der Hasselt Director European Retail where he led the implementation of world Position: Chief Executive officer, Russia and the Nordics class retail operation programmes across the European retail network.
Appointment to Executive Committee: June 2009 He was also responsible for the integration of businesses acquired in the Baltics and the construction and opening of four greenfield operations Skills and experience: Jean joined Inchcape in 2003 as Chief Executive in eastern Europe.
George was Chief Executive Officer, Toyota Belgium Officer of Toyota Belgium, having been in the automotive industry since from July 2009 to December 2011.
During this tenure the network has been successfully restructured, George joined Inchcape from Yum Restaurants International previously leading to fewer and better retailers whilst improving market share and Pepsi Restaurants International, where he spent 10 years holding several maximising the profitability for Toyota Belgium.
The successful run out senior management positions.
campaign of Toyotas best selling model in 2006 led to an overall best market share performance.
In 2010, Jean was appointed CEO Russia and 5 Stphane Chatal the Nordics and has responsibility for our Russian and Nordic operations Position: Group Chief Information officer that include Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
Appointment to Executive Committee: November 2011 Prior to Inchcape, Jean held several Director positions within the Volvo organisation and was Managing Director for the Volvo Cars operations Skills and experience: Stphane was appointed as Chief Information in Belgium, actively contributing to the set up of the PAG structure, Officer in 2008 and is responsible for the Groups IS strategy, its leading to effective synergies within Fords luxury brand cluster.
implementation and the IS function.
Before joining the Group, Stphane spent over four years with Reckitt Benckiser in senior IT roles, most recently as Global Solutions Director.
Prior to Reckitt Benckiser, Stphane worked for Procter & Gamble for 12 years, where he was responsible for the global implementation of multi-country, single instance SAP systems and centralised shared service centres.
com 39 Directors Report: Governance Executive Committee continued 9 Koh Ching Hong 13 Louis Fallenstein Position: Managing Director, Inchcape South Asia Position: Managing Director, Emerging Markets Appointment to Executive Committee: August 2009 Appointment to Executive Committee: January 2012 Skills and experience: Ching Hong joined Borneo Motors as its Managing Skills and experience: Louis was appointed as the Managing Director, Director in January 2008.
He was appointed as Managing Director, Emerging Markets in January 2012.
He is responsible for the Emerging Inchcape South Asia in August 2009 and is responsible for Borneo Motors Markets region, encompassing all of our retail and distribution activities in and Champion Motors in Singapore and NBT in Brunei.
Prior to joining the Poland, the Balkans, South America and Africa.
He oversees both current Group, Ching Hong was Managing Director of Fuji Xerox Singapore and operations and our future expansion plans in these markets.
an Executive member of Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific Senior Management from Prior to this Louis was Franchise Director BMW in our UK business.
In these roles he led the transformation and restructuring been with the Group since the acquisition of European Motor Holdings plc of its business model and business approach, thereby increasing market in 2006.
Prior to that, he spent the majority of his career in senior roles within share, doubling revenue and leading the organisation into the prestigious the UK automotive industry.
Louis has been a major force in the integration Singapore Quality Class, achieving a high customer satisfaction index.
of the Lind Automotive Group and European Motor Holdings with existing UK retail businesses and has been a key member of the UK leadership 10 Arthur Kipferler team over the last six years.
Position: Group Strategy and Business Development Director Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2011 14 Bertrand Mallet Position: Chief Executive officer, Toyota Belgium Skills and experience: Arthur joined the Group on 1 February 2011.
Appointment to Executive Committee: July 2008 Arthur worked for the Toyota Motor Corporation from 2002 until 2011 with assignments in the European headquarters in Brussels and in national Skills and experience: Bertrand was appointed as Chief Executive Officer, sales in central Europe and the USA.
He successfully led numerous strategic Toyota Belgium in January 2012.
Prior to this appointment he was the projects, among them a new European customer satisfaction programme, Managing Director of the Emerging Markets and previously the Group the streamlining of the European distributor network, the launch of Lexus Strategy Director.
in the Czech and Slovak Republics and major cost reduction efforts.
Before joining the Group in 2008, Bertrand spent over six years with From 1999 to 2002 Arthur was with The Boston Consulting Group, advising Euro Disney in both Strategy and Sales roles, most recently as Managing on strategic, corporate development and operational projects mostly Director for the French market.
During his tenure, a new sales and in the automotive industry.
After becoming a Partner and Director of marketing approach was defined and implemented.
Prior to Euro Disney, the company, Arthur led the Global Automotive Practice Group.
he spent five years as a senior consultant with Bain & Company, both in France and in the US.
His main areas of focus were around retail and 11 Ken Lee distribution.
Bertrand began his career in Sales and Marketing with Position: Group Communications Director Automobiles Peugeot inSweden.
Appointment to Executive Committee: November 2006 15 Connor McCormack Skills and experience: Ken joined Inchcape in September 2003 as Position: Chief Executive officer, Inchcape UK Marketing Director for the UK businesses, where he led the development Appointment to Executive Committee: November 2009 of online car retailing and a pioneering customer experience programme.
In early 2006 he was appointed Customer Strategy Skills and experience: Connor has been with the Group since July 2005, Director to lead the Group-wide identification of customer insights to having initially joined Inchcape as Finance Director, UK Retail.
Connor drive the Companys pioneering Inchcape Advantage programme.
has led the business through the acquisitions and integrations of the Lind In late 2006 he was appointed to the Executive Committee as Group Automotive Group and European Motor Holdings, as well as playing an Communications Director with global responsibility for internal and instrumental part in the right sizing of the UK business in the second half .
of 2008, as the global economy entered the downturn.
Connor was Prior to joining Inchcape, Ken held the position of Group Marketing appointed Chief Executive Officer of the UK business in November 2009.
Director at the RAC from 1999 to 2003 having been part of the team that Prior to Inchcape, Connor held senior positions with B&Q plc, Kingfisher plc, acquired and then led the business post demutualisation.
During his tenure the LOreal Group and the Gillette Company.
the company moved from a car breakdown organisation to a customer focused motoring services group.
Before joining the RAC, Ken worked for Lex Service plc, where as Marketing Director he successfully established the Hyundai brand inthe UK.
12 Patrick S Lee Position: Chief Executive officer, Inchcape North Asia Appointment to Executive Committee: November 2006 Skills and experience: Patrick is in charge of our VIR operations in Hong Kong, Macau and Guam.
Representing Toyota in all three markets, Toyota has maintained the No.
He is also responsible for Inchcapes operations in China.
Before joining Inchcape, Patrick was the Group General Manager, Sales and Marketing of Kerry Beverages Ltd from 1998 to 2006.
Kerry Beverages owned and operated 11 Coca-Cola bottling plants in China.
Patricks experience in auto retailing came from a Toronto Honda dealership where he worked for three years and was awarded the highest honour Sales Master by Honda Canada for two consecutive years.
Patrick started his career in brand marketing with Procter & Gamble and has worked in various locations including Canada, Switzerland, Thailand and Hong Kong.
Patrick holds a BBA and an MBA from the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
40 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
