GOVERNANCE Informa plc Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and Accounts r the results for the year are explained in detail in the Consolidated Financial Statements on the affairs of Informa Financial Review and are summarised in the Consolidated plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group or Income Statement on page 62 and the related Notes.
Informa, together with the financial statements and In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group, a auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2011. review is included within Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are no significant differences between the CORPORATE STRUCTURE market value of any interests in land of the Group and the Informa plc is a public company limited by shares, incorporated amount at which those interests are included in the in Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
It has a primary listing on Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
As a whole the Annual Report provides information about the Groups businesses, its financial performance during the year PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES and likely future developments.
Informa provides academics, businesses and individuals with Other than as described in this report, there have not been any unparalleled knowledge, up-to-the minute information and significant changes to the Groups principal activities during the highly specialist skills and services.
Our AI division publishes year under review and the Directors are not aware, at the date of books and journals with in excess of 81,000 titles available that this report, of any likely major changes in the Groups activities in provide individuals and organisations with the knowledge they the new financial year.
There have been no significant events need to carry out their work.
Our PCI businesses offer since the reporting date, except as outlined in Note 38. structured databases, subscription-based services, real-time news, research and business-critical information creating DIVIDENDS business advantage.
We are the largest publicly-owned organiser of exhibitions, events and training in the world The Directors have declared that a second interim dividend for providing inspiring marketplaces and the opportunity for the year of 11.80p per ordinary share to be paid on 21 May 2012 knowledge to be shared.
The principal subsidiary undertakings to ordinary shareholders registered as at the close of business on affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are 27 April 2012.
Together with the first interim dividend of 5.00p listed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
per ordinary share paid on 16 September 2011, this makes a total for the year of 16.80p per ordinary share 2010: 14.00p.
BUSINESS REVIEW The Company operates a Dividend Access Plan for all its The Business Review includes details of the risks and shareholders and as a result of this pays a second interim uncertainties facing the Company and Group, along with a dividend rather than a final dividend.
Those shareholders who review of the development and the operations and financial hold fewer than 100,000 shares are deemed to consent to performance of the business during the year, and is a true and receive their dividends from Informa DAP Limited, a UK fair review of the business conducted throughout the year.
Those shareholders holding Information that forms part of the Business Review is found over 100,000 shares may elect to join the Dividend Access Plan in the following sections of this Annual Report: by completing an Election Form.
This form is available from the r information about the strategy, development and Companys Registrars whose contact details can be found on performance of the business during the financial year and page 140.
If shareholders holding over 100,000 shares do not future prospects are set out in the Chairmans Statement elect to join the Dividend Access Plan, dividends will be and the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 13: received from the Company which is domiciled in Switzerland and may be subject to Swiss tax regulations.
Shareholders may r key performance indicators of the Group are described elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend on page 22 to 23: allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
r our strategy in action is described on pages 14 to 21: DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS r principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages The names of Directors of the Company are set out on pages 29 to 32: 36 to 37, which includes brief biographical details.
r financial risk management objectives and policies The Non-Executive Directors of Informa, being Derek Mapp, including a description of when hedge accounting has Dr Pamela Kirby, John Davis and Dr Brendan ONeill were all been applied and the Groups exposure to price risk, credit re-elected as Directors at the Annual General Meeting risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are explained in Note 30: AGM held on 10 May 2011.
Stephen Carter was appointed as Non-Executive Director on 11 May 2010, and was elected r information about the Groups Corporate Responsibility as a Director at the 2011 AGM.
There were no changes to the policies, including environmental, employee, and social Board during the year.
and community issues are set out on pages 33 to 35: Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 39 Informa plc Directors Report CONTINUED The remuneration and interests in the share capital of the set out in pages 2 to 59 of this document, forms the Company of the Directors who held office as at 31 December 2011 management report for the purposes of the UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 4. are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 59.
All the Directors offer themselves for re-election by the The notice concerning forward looking statements is set out shareholders at the next AGM.
Details of the contracts of the on page 139.
References to the Company may also include Executive and Non-Executive Directors with the Company can references to the Group.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its Directors and employees providing for ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING compensation for loss of office of employment whether through The Companys AGM will be held on 17 May 2012, at the Radisson resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport, 8058 Zurich-Flughafen, Switzerland, because of a takeover bid.
No Director was materially interested at 9am Central European Summer Time.
The notice is being in any contract of significance.
dispatched as a separate document to all shareholders.
The DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation on each resolution.
The notice is also available Indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed at www.
to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS any liability arising out of, or in connection with, the execution The Group made charitable donations during the year of 0.3m of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the 2010: 0.3m, principally to local charities serving some of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or as a trustee of an communities in which the Group operates.
No political occupational pension scheme for employees of the Company.
The Company has purchased and maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY costs for claims in connection with any act or omission by its Directors and Officers in the execution of their duties.
The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the REGISTRATION AND DOMICILE terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms, The Companys registered office is at 22 Grenville Street, provided that the supplier has provided the goods or services St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX.
The Company is registered in Jersey in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
The Company is domiciled in Switzerland payables of the Group at 31 December 2011 were equivalent to with its head office at Gubelstrasse 11, CH-6300, Zug.
45 days purchases 2010: 45 days, based on the average daily CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
A report on corporate governance, and the ways in which the SHARE INFORMATION Company complies with the provisions of The UK Corporate Substantial Shareholdings Governance Code the Code is set on pages 44 to 50, and As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been notified of the forms part of this report by reference.
following substantial interests over 3% in the issued ordinary share The Directors Report including details of the business, the capital of the Company.
This table details those shares held under development of the Group and likely future developments as discretionary management and therefore total voting rights.
As at 31 December 2011 As at 29 February 2012 Number % Number % Fund Manager of shares held of shares held M&G Investment Management Prudential plc 35,181,919 5.85 29,148,896 4.84 Marathon Asset Management 30,873,477 5.14 31,709,102 5.26 Fidelity Investments 30,712,576 5.11 31,971,590 5.31 Lazard Asset Management 30,268,974 5.03 30,921,878 5.13 Norges Bank Investment Management 29,148,278 4.85 29,328,774 4.87 Legal & General Investment Management 27,205,309 4.53 26,174,243 4.34 Standard Life Investments 22,176,524 3.69 26,515,997 4.40 F&C Asset Management 21,483,715 3.57 21,361,623 3.54 Invesco Perpetual 19,758,583 3.29 20,014,356 3.32 AllianceBernstein 18,970,593 3.16 3% Kames Capital formerly AEGON UK Group of Companies 18,858,145 3.14 18,096,537 3.00 Newton Investment Management 3% 18,280,812 3.03 40 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 GOVERNANCE Informa plc r transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out Share Capital using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a As at 31 December 2011, the Companys issued share capital transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the comprised 601,202,853 ordinary shares with a nominal value regulations governing the operation of CREST: of 0.1p each.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with movements in the issued share capital r legal and regulatory restrictions may be in put place from during the year, are shown in Note 31 of the Consolidated time to time, for example insider trading laws: Financial Statements.
r pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares the Directors and certain employees of the Company The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being require approval to deal in the Companys shares: the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which can be r where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the found at www.
Subject to Jersey law, any share Companys certificated shares has been served with a may be issued with or have attached to it such preferred, disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company deferred or other special rights and restrictions as the with information concerning interests in those shares: and Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such r the Directors may decide to suspend the registration of resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of specific provision, as the Board may decide.
The Directors cannot suspend the is currently in effect.
Subject to the recommendation of the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares Board, holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On without obtaining consent from CREST.
liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to There are no agreements between holders of ordinary shares receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and, that are known to the Company which may result in subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any Shares Held on Trust special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Shares are from time to time held by a trustee in order to satisfy entitlements of employees to shares under the Groups Voting Rights share schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust are no more Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at than sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Groups share GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if schemes for one year.
The shares held by these trusts do not the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representative.
have any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who being While these shares are held on trust their rights are not an individual is present in person or being a corporation is exercisable directly by the relevant employees.
The current present by a duly appointed corporate representative, not being arrangements concerning these trusts and their shareholdings himself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, every are set out on page 58. holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Purchase of Own Shares Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before a shareholders resolution passed on 10 May 2011, to purchase GM.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary at GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure shares as at 29 March 2011 the date on which the AGM notice notice and has failed to provide the Company with information was published.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out AGM of the Company to be held on 17 May 2012. above and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, CHANGE OF CONTROL number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company Restrictions on Transfer of Securities in the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the control following a takeover bid nor any agreements between Company: except that: the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs r the Directors may from time to time refuse to register because of a takeover bid except for the Groups private a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully placement loan notes and facilities described in Note 29 of paid, provided it meets the requirements given the Consolidated Financial Statements.
under the Articles: Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 41 Informa plc Directors Report CONTINUED APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors Since the establishment of the Share Incentive Plan SIP in are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the 2009, all UK employees are eligible to participate in the SIP Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board once they have completed six months service with the upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The SIP is an HM Revenue & Customs Approved All The Company can remove a Director from office, including by Share Incentive Plan offering UK employees the opportunity to passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given by purchase annually up to 1,500 of shares in the Company out all the other Directors.
In addition, from 2008, all US employees are eligible to participate in the Companys US Stock Purchase Plan POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS SPP once they have completed six months service.
The SPP offers US employees the opportunity to purchase annually up The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and to $2,940 of shares in the Company at a 15% discount to the provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the prevailing market price.
Company including to borrow money up to an aggregate of three times a formula based on adjusted capital and reserves.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES The Company may by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and Informa believes in equality of opportunity for all employees cancel shares in accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
based on merit and that no employee or job applicant should receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution gender, sexual orientation, disability, colour, race, religion, approved at a GM.
Informas divisions are all disabled friendly business operations.
EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION The Companys equal opportunity policy not only covers fair The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its recruitment, but also the opportunities given to staff on employees and continues to keep them informed on matters training and development, and the Groups views on equal affecting them and on the various factors affecting the opportunities form a part of the employee induction training.
This is achieved principally through formal and informal meetings, email updates and via the The Groups objective is to provide continued suitable Companys global intranet site.
The intranet site enables staff employment to staff whose circumstances change, with to put anonymous questions to the Executive management.
Informas offices are required Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide to enable access for all abilities and comply with all applicable range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
The Group divisions regularly undertake staff surveys.
In AUDITOR 2011 comprehensive surveys were performed in the Taylor & Francis, Datamonitor and Informa Telecoms and Media Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval Divisions.
Staff in these divisions were provided with of this annual report confirms that: comprehensive feedback from the surveys and each division r so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit created and communicated an action plan to address any information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and highlighted areas for development.
For the second consecutive year the Taylor & Francis response rate improved, r the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to with 90% of staff completing the 2011 survey.
have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish All employees worldwide are also invited periodically to attend that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
webinars, take part in live on-line polls and ask the Executive Directors questions about the business and its future.
The Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in webinars, including the results of the polls, are posted on the office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be Companys intranet so that those employees who are unable proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Employees are invited to ask the Executive Directors questions after the announcement of the GOING CONCERN BASIS Half Year and Full Year Results.
These Q&A sessions are The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely recorded and available for all staff to access.
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 13.
42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 GOVERNANCE Informa plc r properly select and apply accounting policies: As set out on pages 29 to 32 a number of risk factors and uncertainties could potentially affect the Groups results and r present information, including accounting policies, in a financial position.
In particular the current economic climate creates manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and uncertainties over the level of demand for the Groups products understandable information: and services.
The Group adopts an extensive budgeting process in forecasting its trading results and cash flows and updates r provide additional disclosures when compliance with the these forecasts to reflect current trading on a regular basis.
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, The Groups net debt and banking covenants are discussed other events and conditions on the entitys financial in the Financial Review on page 27 and the exposure to position and financial performance: and liquidity risk is discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
r make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Group sensitises its projections to reflect reasonably possible changes in trading performance and cash The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting conversions, taking into account its substantial deferred records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the revenues 327.0m at 31 December 2011.
These forecasts and financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure projections for the period up to 30 June 2013, show that the that the financial statements comply with the Companies Group is expected to be able to operate within the level of its Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the current facility and meet its covenant requirements for a assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for period of one year from the date of the signing of the Groups the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable integrity of the corporate and financial information included expectation that there are no material uncertainties that may on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the cast significant doubt about the Companys ability to continue preparation and dissemination of financial statements may as a going concern.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
going concern basis in preparing the annual report and In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, the Directors confirm that, to the financial statements.
best of their knowledge: DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES r the financial statements have been prepared in The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report accordance with the applicable set of accounting and accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Company and the undertakings included in the statements for each financial year.
consolidation taken as a whole: and Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the r the management report, which is incorporated into financial statements in accordance with International Financial the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European development and performance of the business and the Union.
The financial statements are required by law to be position of the Company and the undertakings included properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Law 1991. description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions Rupert Hopley and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and Company Secretary expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of 23 February 2012 financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors are also required to: Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 43
