Informa plc Board of Directors Below are brief biographical details for each of the Directors and the Company Secretary of Informa plc.
DEREK MAPP ADAM WALKER Non-Executive Chairman 61 Finance Director 44 Nomination Committee Adam Walker joined Touche Ross in 1989.
Following his qualification as a Chartered Accountant he specialised in Derek Mapp joined the Board of Taylor & Francis Group plc corporate finance work.
In 1994 he joined NatWest Markets as a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
He is currently Nonas an Associate Director.
In 1998 his team joined Arthur Executive Chairman of Salmon Developments plc and Andersen where he became a Director of Corporate Finance.
Executive Chairman of Imagesound plc.
He is also Chairman In 2001, he joined National Express Group Plc as Head of of the British Amateur Boxing Association.
Following the Corporate Development, and was appointed to the Board merger of Informa and Taylor & Francis in May 2004, he was as Finance Director in 2003.
He took up his appointment appointed as Non-Executive Director.
On 17 March 2008 as Finance Director of the Company on 28 March 2008. he was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
PETER RIGBY DR PAMELA KIRBY Chief Executive 56 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 58 After graduating from Manchester University, Peter qualified Nomination & Remuneration Committees as an accountant working at Metalbox Company and then Dr Kirby is currently Chairman of Scynexis Inc. a privately held worked at W H Smith.
In 1983 he was appointed Finance chemistry-focused drug discovery and development company Director of Stonehart Publications, which was acquired by IBC based in the US.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Smith Group plc of which he became CEO in 1989.
Since becoming & Nephew plc and Victrex plc and a member of the Board of CEO, Peter has completed two on-market mergers with LLP Simmons and Simmons LLP.
She was previously Non-Executive to form Informa in 1998 and Taylor & Francis which, together Chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited, Non-Executive with the major acquisitions of IIR and Datamonitor and Director of Novo Nordisk A S and was the CEO of US-based substantial organic growth has helped establish Informa as Quintiles Transnational Corporation.
Prior to joining Quintiles, a major international business.
Peter is also Non-Executive Dr Kirby held various senior positions in the pharmaceutical Chairman of Electric Word plc.
Dr Kirby was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Informa in September 2004.
She chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
She was also appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 17 March 2008.
36 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 GOVERNANCE Informa plc JOHN DAVIS STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE Non-Executive Director 50 Non-Executive Director 48 Audit, Nomination & Remuneration Committees Audit Committee Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price Stephen A. Carter CBE is the President Managing Director, Waterhouse, John has worked extensively within the media sector Europe, Middle East & Africa for Alcatel Lucent, and is a most recently as the Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc where member of the Executive Management Board.
He is also he spent over 10 years.
Previous roles include Group Finance Chairman of the Board at the Ashridge Business School, and Director of the FT Group, Chief Financial Officer of Pearson Inc and a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company.
He is a law Director of Corporate Finance and Treasury at EMAP plc.
John has graduate, holds an Honorary Doctorate of Laws, has a Masters in Management from The Stanford Graduate School of completed the Harvard Business School Advanced Business.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with Management Program, and is a Life Peer.
effect from 1October 2005 and is a member of the Audit, Nomination, and Remuneration Committees.
DR BRENDAN ONEILL RUPERT HOPLEY Non-Executive Director 63 Company Secretary 42 Audit & Remuneration Committees Rupert is the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel and joined Informa on 1 November 2011.
He trained as a Dr ONeill is currently a Non-Executive Director of Tyco solicitor at Allen & Overy and worked in their corporate International Inc, Towers Watson Inc and Endurance Speciality finance department before joining Cable and Wireless plc Holdings Limited.
From 1999 to 2003 he was Chief Executive in 2004.
He held various roles at Cable & Wireless, including of ICI plc.
Prior to joining ICI in 1998 he was an Executive Head of M&A and Deputy General Counsel, before joining Director of Guinness plc with responsibility for the Guinness Expedia Inc. in 2008 as their General Counsel EMEA.
He was also NonExecutive Director on Emap plc from 1995 to 2002.
Dr ONeill was appointed as of Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2008.
He chairs the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 37
