REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 ALISON HORROCKS Post-balance sheet events Senior Vice President Details of material post-balance sheet events are included Corporate Governance in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
and Company Secretary Results and dividends The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 56.
A final dividend of 24.96 cents US$ will be paid on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 18 May 2012. Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London market The Directors have pleasure in submitting their four business days prior to payment.
report and the audited financial statements Share capital and control for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Companys ordinary shares of 0.0005 each are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the issued share capital of the Company, together with movements in the issued share capital during the year can be found in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries References to Group include Inmarsat Global, and the Inmarsat no rights to xed income.
On a show of hands, each member Solutions operations unless otherwise noted.
Inmarsat Solutions present has the right to one vote at our general meetings.
includes the operations of Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for each share Principal activities of 0.0005 held.
There are no speci c restrictions on the size of holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by The Group is the leading provider of global mobile satellite the general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing communications services MSS, providing data and voice legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any arrangements connectivity to end-users worldwide.
We have over 30 years of between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the experience in designing, launching and operating a satellitetransfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any based network.
With a fleet of eleven owned and operated special rights of control over the Companys share capital and geostationary satellites, we provide a comprehensive portfolio of all issued shares are fully paid.
global mobile satellite communications services for use on land, at sea and in the air.
We also offer a broad portfolio of remote On-market purchase telecommunications services to end user customers, offering On 4 August 2011, the Company announced an on-market services over mobile and xed satellite systems, at L-band, purchase programme a US$250 million share buy-back.
In the Ku-band or VSAT, and through our owned and operated period to 31 December 2011, 13,907,750 Inmarsat plc shares microwave and satellite telecommunications facilities.
We also had been repurchased for a total aggregate consideration of provide secure, end-to-end telecommunication solutions for US$98.4m.
All shares purchased were subsequently cancelled.
No Treasury shares were held during the year.
Areas of operation Directors We have several branch and regional of ces throughout the The names of the Directors who served during the year, together world.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally with their biographical details and other information are shown affecting the pro ts or net assets of the Group in the year are in the Board of Directors section.
listed in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the Companys Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment next annual return to be submitted to Companies House.
and amount of each element of the remuneration including Business review and state of affairs share awards of each of the Directors can be found in the Remuneration Report.
The Directors are required to provide a comprehensive review of the development, performance and future prospects We do not have agreements with any Director or Of cer that of the Groups operations during the financial year ended would provide compensation for loss of of ce or employment 31 December 2011, and the position at year-end.
The information resulting from a takeover, except legacy employment agreements that ful ls the requirements of the Business Review can be found for certain senior executives of our subsidiary companies in the Chairmans Review of the business and its operations on where a change of control provision was in place at the time pages 2 to 15, the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 16 to of our acquisition of the respective subsidiary companies.
The 27 and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 provisions of the Companys share option schemes and share to 31, all of which are incorporated into this report by reference.
plans may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
The Directors authorities are determined by UK legislation and the articles of association in force from time to time.
At the 2011 AGM, the Directors were 34 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS authorised by shareholders to allot ordinary shares up to agreed Participation in the Groups share plans is encouraged.
Details limits and to have the ability to make market purchases of of employee share awards and option schemes can be found ordinary shares.
Shareholders are being requested to renew on pages 48 to 51 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
these authorities at the 2012 AGM.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors All of the ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share are contained in the Companys articles of association.
Changes Ownership Trust, being 1,265,142 shares, carry voting rights.
to the articles of association must be approved by shareholders Equal opportunities in accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
To adopt good corporate governance, all Directors will retire and We give full consideration to applications from disabled persons put themselves forward for re-appointment at the 2012 AGM.
and to the continuing employment of staff that become disabled, including making reasonable adjustments where appropriate or The Directors shareholding details are disclosed in the considering them for alternative positions.
There is signi cant Remuneration Report.
None of the Directors have at any interest in the United Kingdom currently as to the numbers of time had any interests in subsidiary company shares.
women engaged in management positions in business.
Across the Inmarsat Group, women make up approximately 30% of the Indemnities and insurance workforce, representing about 30% at middle to senior executive Inmarsat plc maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors management grades.
and Of cers liability for itself and its subsidiaries as permitted Health and safety under the Articles of Association.
The insurance covers individual Directors and Of cers personal legal liability and legal defence The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection with and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, contractors and Group business.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity anyone affected by its business activities.
provides cover where the Director Of cer is proved to have Signi cant contracts acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Directors, the Company Secretary, and certain employees serving as directors of The Group has in place several signi cant agreements, subsidiaries at the Groups request have been granted which include, inter alia, its banking and debt arrangements, indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable statutory distribution agreements with its distribution partners DPs, provisions.
No amount has been paid under any of these manufacturing agreements and contracts for the in-orbit indemnities during the year.
Subject to the identity of a third-party bidder, in the event of a change of control following a takeover Employees bid, the Group does not believe that these agreements would Inmarsat has a positive attitude towards the development of suffer a material adverse effect or be subject to termination upon all our employees and we do not discriminate between a change of control.
However, there are customary clauses in the employees or potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic long-term debt funding agreements specifying that in the event or national origin, sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
of a change of control following a takeover bid, the lenders have Our workforce is diverse in that we have more than 50 different the option to have the debt repaid under the speci c terms of nationalities amongst our staff.
We maintain open and productive relationships with our The majority of the space segment revenue of Inmarsat Global employees by effective communication and employee is derived from sales to its DPs who operate in accordance with engagement through the use of intranets and other a suite of agreements regarding the distribution of Inmarsats communication channels.
These include regular brie ng sessions services.
Stratos is one of the DPs to whom these distribution and discussions with groups of employees.
Staff Forums and agreements apply.
Stratos itself has operating agreements with a Works Council are established in some of the operating its own customers.
These contracts vary in monetary value and businesses and, in accordance with local legislative requirements.
Two-way communications between employees and management enable the views of employees to be taken into account in In addition, we have signi cant on-going contracts with our making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
For partners regarding the construction of the Alphasat satellite all our of ces, appropriate employee relations practices are in and its subsequent launch, and for the Global Xpress programme place.
Employees are able to join Trades Union organisations which includes the construction of three Ka-band satellites and if they wish.
its related ground infrastructure: and with third parties for the manufacture and production of our GSPS service.
INMARSAT PLC 35 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2011 CONTINUED None of the current Directors had a material interest in any Interests in voting rights contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary At 6 March 2012, the Company had been noti ed, in accordance undertakings was a party during the financial year.
with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a Financial instruments shareholder of the Company: Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies Percentage of voting rights of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the over ordinary shares of 0.0005 each entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk are given in notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated Lansdowne Partners Limited 13.99% financial statements.
BlackRock Inc. 10.00% KDDI Corporation 4.85% Research and development Legal and General Group plc 3.81% The Group continues to invest in new services and technology Allianz SE 3.09% necessary to support its activities through research and Note: Voting rights are based on the information noti ed as a disclosable interest development programmes.
to the Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 6 March 2012.
Charitable and political donations Auditors During the year, the Group donated in aggregate US$370,889 Each of the Directors has con rmed that: to charities worldwide.
This amount included a donation of US$250,000 to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Tlcoms Sans Frontires and a payment of US$108,700 to the information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and World Maritime University as part of our support for the education of maritime specialists.
In addition, Inmarsat Global ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have provides satellite telecommunication services and equipment, taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant in conjunction with support offered by its DPs and manufacturers, audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor to service providers and customers in support of disaster relief is aware of that information.
management in affected areas of the world.
This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in Our subsidiary companies also made contributions to local accordance with the provisions of s418 of the charitable causes.
No political donations were made during the year.
It remains A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the the policy of the Company not to make political donations or Company and to authorise the Board to determine its incur political expenditure.
However, the Directors recognise remuneration will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
that occasions arise where it may be in the best interests of shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to 2012 Annual General Meeting participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters The Annual General Meeting will be held on 3 May at 10.00am which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of at 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders are which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming asked annually to give authority at the Companys AGM for AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
the Company to make political donations and to incur political expenditure.
By order of the Board Policy and practice on payment of creditors Alison Horrocks FCIS It is our policy to agree terms of payments with suppliers when Senior Vice President Corporate Governance entering into contracts and to meet our obligations accordingly.
and Company Secretary We do not follow any speci c published code or standard on 6 March 2012 payment practice.
At 31 December 2011, the Groups trade creditors represented 66 days equivalent of aggregate amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year 2010: 58 days.
36 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
