RICK MEDLOCK Chairman and Chief Executive Offi cer to 31 December 2011 Chief Financial Offi cer Executive Chairman from 1 January 2012 Date of Appointment: September 2004 Dates of Appointment: Chairman December 2003 Background and relevant experience: Rick is a Chartered Chief Executive Offi cer March 2004 31 December 2011 Accountant.
He served as Chief Financial Offi cer and Company Committee Membership: Chairman of the Nominations Secretary of NDS Group plc, a provider of digital technology Committee solutions listed on Nasdaq and Euronext for eight years.
His previous career has included serving as Chief Financial Background and relevant experience: Andy served as President Offi cer of several private equity backed technology companies and Chief Executive Offi cer of Sprint PCS, a Nasdaq-listed global in the UK and the US.
He holds an MA in Economics from internet carrier for four years and as Chief Executive Offi cer of Cambridge University.
NTL Limited, a broadband and internet provider for three years.
His previous career has included various management positions External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of with US West and AT&T, and as a non-executive director on Cheapfl ights Media Limited.
Mr Sukawaty holds a BBA and MBA respectively from the University of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
SIR BRYAN CARSBERG Independent Non-Executive Director External Appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Ziggo B. V. Date of Appointment: June 2005 2.
RUPERT PEARCE Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and Chief Executive Offi cer Remuneration Committees Dates of Appointment: Executive Director 6 July 2011 Background and relevant experience: Sir Bryan is a Chief Executive Offi cer 1 January 2012 Chartered Accountant.
He spent eight years as Director General Background and relevant experience: Rupert joined Inmarsat of Telecommunications head of Oftel, having served as in 2005 as Group General Counsel and from January 2009, Director General of Fair Trading and Secretary General of the additionally held the position of Senior Vice President, Inmarsat International Accounting Standards Board.
Previously, Rupert worked for Atlas Venture, where he non-executive director of Cable and Wireless Communications was a partner working with the fi rms European and US investment plc and a non-executive Chairman of MLL Telecom Limited.
He has also been a partner at the international law fi rm He was knighted in January 1989.
Linklaters, where he spent 13 years specialising in corporate External Appointments: Chairman of the Council of fi finance, mergers and acquisitions, and private equity transactions.
Loughborough University and Independent Non-Executive Rupert received an MA First Class in Modern History from Director of RM plc and Novae Group plc.
Oxford University and won the 1995 Fulbright Fellowship in US securities law, studying at the Georgetown Law Center.
STEPHEN DAVIDSON been a visiting fellow of the Imperial College Business School, Independent Non-Executive Director London lecturing on the schools Entrepreneurship programme, Date of Appointment: June 2005 and is the co-author of Raising Venture Capital Wiley.
Committee Membership: Chairman of the Remuneration External Appointments: None Committee.
Member of the Audit and the Nominations Committees Background and relevant experience: Stephen was Global Head of Media and Telecoms Investment Banking and subsequently Vice Chairman of Investment Banking at West LB Panmure.
His previous career has included various senior positions in investment banking.
He was Finance Director, then Chief Executive Offi cer of Telewest Communications plc and has been Chairman of the Cable Communications Association.
External Appointments: Chairman of Datatec Limited and Mecom Group plc LSE and holds several other Non-Executive Directorships.
32 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 9 86 10 6.
ADMIRAL JAMES ELLIS JR. RTD 8.
AMBASSADOR JANICE OBUCHOWSKI Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2005 Date of Appointment: May 2009 Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Membership: Member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committees Background and relevant experience: Janice was formerly Background and relevant experience: Jims last military Head of Delegation and US Ambassador to the World assignment was as Commander of the US Strategic Command Radiocommunications Conference and Assistant Secretary responsible for the global command and control of US strategic for Communications and Information at the Department of forces.
He is a graduate of the US Naval Academy, was Commerce.
She held several senior positions both in the designated a Naval Aviator in 1971 and held a variety of sea US Government and in the private sector.
Janices previous and shore assignments in the US and abroad.
career has included serving as Senior Advisor to the Chairman at the Federal Communications Commission in the US.
External Appointments: President and Chief Executive Offi cer of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations.
Non-Executive External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Orbital Director of the Lockheed Martin Corporation, Level 3 Sciences Corporation and CSG Systems, Inc. Communications and of the not-for-profi t Space Foundation.
KATHLEEN FLAHERTY Deputy Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: May 2006 Date of Appointment: January 2005 Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee and member of the Nominations Committee Background and relevant experience: Kathleen has served Background and relevant experience: John has broad on the Board of a number of public companies including experience in emerging energy sources, support services and Marconi Corporation plc and Telent plc.
She was President and manufacturing.
He served as an Executive Director Finance of Chief Operating Offi cer of Winstar International.
Her pervious a number of public companies including British Steel plc Corus career has included senior roles as Chief Marketing Offi cer with Group plc, Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
AT&T and other senior roles with BT and MCI Communications External Appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Diploma Inc. Kathleen was a Non-Executive Director of GenTek Inc plc and Intelligent Energy plc and holds Non-Executive until October 2009. directorships of several other companies.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Yell Group plc LSE.
A member of the McCormick Advisory Board and 10.
ALISON HORROCKS its executive committee of Northwestern University.
Senior Vice President Corporate Governance and Company Secretary Date of Appointment: February 1999 Background and relevant experience: Alison is a Chartered Secretary.
She served as Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide public relations company, for 11 years prior to joining Inmarsat.
INMARSAT PLC 33 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
