40 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued Operational risks continued The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, integrity and confidentiality of information the Group is exposed including, but not limited to, guest and employee credit card, financial and personal data, business to the risks related to performance and financial reporting.
information security The reputation and performance of the Group may be adversely affected if it fails to maintain appropriate confidentiality of information and ensure relevant controls are in place to enable the release of information only through the appropriate channels in a timely and accurate manner.
the Group is exposed to a While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network through activities that do not involve significant amounts of its own capital, the Group does require capital to fund some development variety of risks associated opportunities and to maintain and improve owned hotels.
The Group is reliant upon having financial with its financial stability strength and access to borrowing facilities to meet these expected capital requirements.
The majority and ability to borrow and of the Groups borrowing facilities are only available if the financial covenants in the facilities are satisfy debt covenants complied with.
Non-compliance with covenants could result in the lenders demanding repayment of the funds advanced.
If the Groups financial performance does not meet market expectations, it may not be able to refinance existing facilities on terms considered favourable.
Governmental regulations affect countless aspects of our business ranging from corporate the Group is required to governance, health and safety, environmental, bribery and corruption, employment law and diversity, comply with existing and disability access, relationships, data privacy and information protection, financial, accounting and tax.
changing regulations across Regulatory changes may require significant changes in the way the business operates and may inhibit numerous countries, the strategy including the markets we operate in, brand protection, and use or transmittal of customer territories and jurisdictions data.
If the Group fails to comply with existing or changing regulations, the Group may be subject to fines, prosecution, loss of licence to operate or reputation damage.
The Group could be at risk of litigation from many parties, including guests, customers, joint venture the Group is exposed partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, franchisees and or the owners of hotels it to the risk of litigation manages.
Claims filed in the US may include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory damages.
Exposure to litigation or fines imposed by regulatory authorities may also affect the reputation of the Group and its brands.
the Group is exposed The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the perception of stakeholder groups such as the communities in which the Group operates.
to risks related to The social and environmental impacts of business are under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is corporate responsibility exposed to the risk of damage to its reputation if it fails to demonstrate sufficiently responsible practices, ethical behaviour, or fails to comply with relevant regulatory requirements.
The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its ongoing obligation to the Group is exposed to provide current and future pensions for members of its UK pension plans who are entitled to defined funding risks in relation benefits.
The contributions payable by the Group must be set with a view to making prudent provision to the defined benefits for the benefits accruing under the plans of the Group.
under its pension plans In particular, the trustees of IHGs UK defined benefit plan may demand increases to the contribution rates relating to the funding of this plan, which would oblige relevant employers of the Group to contribute extra amounts.
The trustees must consult the plans actuary and principal employer before exercising this power.
In practice, contribution rates are agreed between the Group and the trustees on actuarial advice, and are set for three-year terms.
The funding implications of the last actuarial review are disclosed in the notes to the Group financial statements on pages 106 to 109.
Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels determined to be appropriate in light of the the Group may face cost of cover and the risk profiles of the business in which it operates.
However, forces beyond the difficulties insuring Groups control, including market forces, may limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain and the its business Groups ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other forces beyond the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure.
Inadequate or insufficient insurance could expose the Group to large claims or could result in the loss of capital invested in properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from properties, and could leave the Group responsible for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to such properties.
