42 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 The BoARd oF diRecToRS David Webster David Kappler # # Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Director in June 2004.
IHG on the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Appointed A Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
A qualified accountant and Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2004.
Also Non-Executive formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc and Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, a capital markets advisory Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc.
Also served as a firm, a Non-Executive Director of Amadeus IT Holding SA, a Non-Executive Director of Camelot Group plc and HMV Group plc.
transaction processing and technology solutions company for the A member of the Trilantic Europe Advisory Council.
Age 64. travel and tourism industry, a member of the Appeals Committee Graham Allan of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and a Director of Temple # Bar Investment Trust PLC.
Formerly Chairman of Safeway plc Independent Non-Executive Director and a Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Became Chief Executive Officer of Yum!
Restaurants International YRI, a subsidiary of Richard Solomons Yum!
Brands, Inc. in 2010 after serving as President of YRI since Chief Executive 2003.
Previously Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Appointed Chief Executive in July 2011.
Previously Chief Financial Officer of YRI and Managing Director of YRI in Europe.
Has over Officer and Head of Commercial Development.
Joined the Group 20 years experience in brand management, marketing, franchising in 1992 and held a variety of senior financial and operational roles, and retail development.
Age 56. including Chief Operating Officer of The Americas Hotels division.
Jennifer Laing Became Finance Director of the Hotels business in October 2002 # in anticipation of the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Independent Non-Executive Director A chartered accountant and a member of the Executive Committee Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council.
Was Associate Dean, External Relations at London Business School, until 2007.
A Fellow of the Thomas Singer Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, Chief Financial Officer has over 30 years experience in advertising including 16 years Appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2011.
Prior to joining with Saatchi & Saatchi.
Also a Non-Executive Director of Hudson the Group, he was Group Finance Director and a main board member Highland Group, Inc. a US human resources company.
Age 64. of Bupa, a global healthcare provider.
Previously Group Finance Jonathan Linen Director and Chief Operating Officer at William Hill PLC and Finance # Director at Moss Bros Group PLC.
Responsible for corporate and Independent Non-Executive Director regional finance, Group financial control, strategy, investor relations, Appointed a Director in December 2005.
Was formerly Vice Chairman tax, treasury, commercial development and procurement.
Age 48. of the American Express Company, having held a range of senior positions throughout his career of over 35 years with American Kirk Kinsell Express.
Brands, Inc. and President, The Americas Modern Bank, N. A. a US private banking company.
Also serves Appointed a Director in August 2010.
Has over 29 years experience on a number of US Councils and advisory boards.
Age 68. in the hospitality industry, including senior franchise positions Luke Mayhew with Holiday Inn Corporation and ITT Sheraton.
Joined the Group in 2002 as Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer for # Independent Non-Executive Director The Americas region.
Became an Executive Committee member in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee September 2007 and was previously President, Europe, Middle East Appointed a Director in July 2011.
A Non-Executive Director of and Africa until June 2011.
Responsible for the business development Brambles Limited, a global provider of supply chain and information and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in The management solutions.
Previously served for 12 years on the Board Americas region.
Age 57. of John Lewis Partnership, including as Managing Director of the Department Store Division.
Was a Non-Executive Director of Tracy Robbins WH Smith PLC and Chairman of Pets at Home Group Limited.
Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Age 58.
Head of Operations Support Appointed a Director in August 2011.
Has over 26 years experience in line and HR roles in service industries.
Joined the Group in December 2005 from Compass Group PLC, a world-leading food service company, where she was Group Human Resources Leadership & Development Director.
Previously Group HR Director for Forte Hotels Group.
Has global responsibility for talent management, leadership development, employee reward strategy and implementation, organisational capability and operations support.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Board of directors and other members of the executive committee 43 Dale Morrison Ying Yeh # # Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in June 2011.
A founding partner of TriPointe Appointed a Director in December 2007.
Was formerly Vice Capital Partners, a private equity firm.
Was previously President President and Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco Company and Chief Executive Officer of McCain Foods Limited and and Chairman and President, North Asia Region, President, President and Chief Executive Officer of Campbell Soup Company.
Business Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, A Non-Executive Director of International Flavors & Fragrances Eastman Kodak Company.
Also a Non-Executive Director of AB Inc. a producer of flavours and fragrances.
Volvo and ABB Ltd. Was, for 15 years, a diplomat with the US Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing until 1997.
Age 63. oTheR memBeRS oF The execuTive commiTTee Keith Barr Jan Smits Chief Executive, Greater China Chief Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa Has over 19 years experience in the hospitality industry.
Joined the Has 30 years experience in the hospitality industry.
Following senior appointments including Vice Group in 2002 and held various senior positions in the Asia and President of Sales and Revenue Management, Vice President of Australasia region.
Became Managing Director, Asia Australasia Operations and Chief Operating Officer, Australia, New Zealand and in June 2009.
Following the amalgamation of our Middle East South Pacific, he was appointed Managing Director, Greater China and Africa region with our Asia Australasia region, became Chief in June 2009 and became Chief Executive, Greater China in April Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa in August 2011.
Responsible for the business development and performance for the business development and performance of all the hotel of all the hotel brands and properties in the Greater China region.
brands and properties in Asia, Middle East and Africa.
George Turner Angela Brav Executive Vice President, General Counsel Chief Executive, Europe and Company Secretary Has over 23 years experience in the hospitality industry, Solicitor, qualified to private practice in 1995.
After 12 years with including hotel operations, franchise relations and technology Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, where he was Deputy Company solutions.
Joined the Group in 1988 and held various senior roles Secretary, he joined the Group in September 2008.
Appointed in the Groups US and European businesses prior to becoming Chief Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary Operating Officer, North America.
Was appointed Chief Executive, in January 2009.
Responsible for corporate governance, risk Europe in August 2011, responsible for the business development management, insurance, data privacy, internal audit, legal and and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Europe.
corporate responsibility and public affairs.
Tom Conophy The Board of Directors and members of the Executive Committee together comprise the IHG Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer Leadership Team.
Has over 31 years experience in the IT industry, including While the Directors have certain specific legal and management and development of new technology solutions within regulatory duties and responsibilities, they work with the travel and hospitality business.
Joined the Group in February and rely on the detailed knowledge and experience of the 2006 from Starwood Hotels & Resorts International where he held Executive Committee members to secure the effective the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer.
running of the business in support of IHGs core purpose Responsible for global technology, including IT systems and to create Great Hotels Guests Love, and its Vision to information management throughout the Group.
Age 51. become one of the worlds great companies.
A m ember of the Audit Committee # A member of the Nomination Committee A m ember of the Remuneration Committee A member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee A member of the Executive Committee Not a main Board Director
