THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review 9 Our strategy With a portfolio of preferred brands in the best developed and emerging markets, our talented people are focused on delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and executing a clear set of priorities to achieve our Vision of becoming one of the great companies of the world Where we compete How we win Appropriate business model Portfolio of preferred brands Best developed and emerging markets Best-in-class delivery Relevant consumer segments Talented people achieved through strategic priorities Profitable market share Growing our core business in the largest markets where scale really counts, and also in Progressive margins key global gateway cities and resort destinations Sustainable investment Seeking opportunities to leverage our scale in new business areas Responsible business Strategy is about making distinct and clear choices about where IHGs strategy determines a set of choices to balance the quality and how to compete in order to achieve a set of business goals.
of our hotels and the speed at which we grow.
We measure this through key performance indicators KPIs such as growing our In addition, an organisation needs to be able to execute these RevPAR, our system size and our margins.
In addition, we ensure choices with focus and measure its success using a clear set we continue to improve employee engagement and increase the of comprehensively aligned metrics.
proportion of hotel room demand that we generate for our owners through our proprietary distribution and reservation systems.
Delivering the elements of our strategy Competing with an appropriate business model Our business model has a clear focus on franchising and managing Choosing not to own hotel assets means the focus of our business hotels, rather than owning them, enabling us to grow at an is on: accelerated pace with limited capital investment.
This enables developing preferred brands that offer a unique set of guest IHG to focus on building strong, preferred brands, leaving asset experiences: management and real estate to our local partners with the building global demand delivery systems, such as our branded necessary expertise.
With this asset-light approach, IHG also hotel websites and call centres: and benefits from the reduced volatility of fee-based income streams, building relationships with existing and prospective owners as compared with the ownership of assets.
who can utilise these systems to create enhanced returns.
A key characteristic of the franchised and managed business Across the industry, hotel ownership is increasingly becoming model is that it is highly cash generative, with a high return on separated from hotel operations, with hotel owners using 1 capital employed.
Currently 87 per cent of operating profit is third-parties, such as IHG, to manage their hotels and run their derived from franchised and managed operations.
In some demand delivery systems.
We are well-positioned to benefit from situations, IHG supports its brands by using its capital to build or this trend with our focus on franchising and managing hotels support the funding of flagship assets in high-demand locations.
We plan to recycle capital by selling these assets when the time is right and to reinvest elsewhere in the business and across our portfolio.
Recent examples of this include the sale of our InterContinental Buckhead property in Atlanta and the Hotel Indigo San Diego, both of which are now managed by IHG under long-term management agreements.
1 Before regional and central overheads and exceptional items.
10 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued The key features of our business model are represented in the following table and charts: bRAnd mARketInG And Hotel owneRSHIP dIStRIbutIon StAFF owneRSHIP IHG CAPItAl IHG InCome FRanCHISeD IHG IHG Third-party Third-party None Fee % of rooms This is the largest part of our revenue business: 3,832 hotels operate under franchise agreements ManaGeD IHG IHG IHG usually Third-party Low none Fee % of total supplies revenue plus We manage 637 hotels General % of profit worldwide Manager as a minimum OwneD anD LeaSeD IHG IHG IHG IHG High All revenues and profits We own 11 hotels worldwide less than one per cent of our portfolio IHG continuing operating profit IHG global room count by ownership type for the year by ownership type at ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2011 Franchised Franchised Managed Managed Owned and leased Owned and leased Before regional and central overheads and exceptional items.
Competing in the best developed and emerging markets In China, IHG sees the greatest opportunity for growth within any single country and our strategy has been to enter the market early, Globally, supply of hotel rooms has grown at approximately to develop our relationships with key local partners and grow our three per cent per annum over the past five years to approximately presence rapidly.
In a country with 0.5 million branded hotel rooms, 20 million rooms in 2011.
Competition for this new rooms supply IHG is the largest international hotel company with over 55,000 include other branded hotel companies, both large and small, rooms across our brands and another 50,000 in the planning phase international and domestic, and independently owned hotels.
This rapid pace of openings for IHG, which Taking into account rooms supply in open hotels and those under was the first international hotel chain to expand into the country, development, we have a leadership position in 13 of the top 20 has been planned against a back-drop of increasing demand markets, globally.
These markets alone account for over 80 per drivers for hotels, such as a large emerging middle class and cent of global lodging spend.
They include large developed markets growing domestic and international travel flows.
such as the US, United Kingdom UK and Germany, as well as IHG is also focused on developing in large markets such as the emerging markets like China and India.
UK and Germany, where we rank second and third, respectively.
Key economic metrics, such as GDP and travel flows, generally We anticipate that these markets will remain significant sources indicate current and future levels of hotel demand and we continue of hotel demand and seek to develop lasting relationships with to forecast these trends so we can focus on the largest markets.
owners and build our brands awareness and presence.
Concentrating growth in the largest markets means IHG and In certain markets, IHG is able to benefit from and maximise owners can operate more efficiently and benefit from enhanced regional similarities and travel patterns by clustering operations revenues and reduced costs.
Our predominantly managed The US is the largest market for branded hotels, with 3.4 million operations across the Middle East and Asia, which have become rooms, accounting for 64 per cent of all US rooms available.
significant contributors to our global performance, are examples of The segment in the US with the greatest share is midscale, with clustering operations across multiple brands, owners and markets.
1.3 million branded hotel rooms, and IHGs Holiday Inn brand family, Outside the largest markets, we focus on achieving presence for which includes Holiday Inn Express and Holiday Inn Club Vacations, our brands in key gateway cities with the potential for high demand along with Holiday Inn itself, is the largest in this segment.
from business and leisure guests and where our brands can generate revenue premiums.
