4 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 chieF executiveS Review our focus is on driving high-quality growth.
we will achieve this by further strengthening our existing brands, launching new brands and ensuring our hotels are known for industry-leading guest experiences delivered by talented people and best-in-class delivery systems.
the global economy remained uncertain throughout 2011, but the strength of ihGs preferred brands, underpinned by our global systems and scale, drove good growth in revenue and operating profits.
One of my immediate priorities on being 1.
PReFeRRed BRAndS the next phase of ihGs journey appointed Chief Executive was to ensure In a competitive world, preferred brands will be characterised by that IHG was optimally structured to derive are a prerequisite to deliver market high-quality growth, measured maximum benefit from our scale and share growth.
Our brands are already by gains in both market share expertise in each geographic region.
As a some of the best recognised in the and margins.
where appropriate, result we have reorganised the business into industry, but in order to drive meaningful and as opportunities arise, we four regions: The Americas: Europe: Asia, increases in share, we have to make Middle East and Africa: and Greater China.
will invest our free cash flow in them work harder.
the business to accelerate this The Holiday Inn relaunch continues to dRivinG hiGh-quAlity GRowth growth and raise the awareness drive results for both IHG and our owners.
The next phase of IHGs journey will be of our brands.
In 2011, the brand once again grew its characterised by high-quality growth, industry segment premium and for the measured by gains in both market share Richard Solomons first time ever was awarded Highest in and margins.
Where appropriate, and as chief executive Guest Satisfaction among Mid-Scale opportunities arise, we will invest our Full Service Hotel Chains in the coveted free cash flow in the business to J. D. Power and Associates see page accelerate this growth and raise the 129 2011 North American Hotel Guest awareness of our brands.
We will keep We will continue to drive market share improving the experience for guests and in two ways.
We will use our powerful building brand awareness.
In 2012 revenue systems and innovations to drive Holiday Inn is the official hotel provider to growing revenues into IHG branded hotels.
the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic We will also add new and rebranded hotels to Games, which will also coincide with the our system.
In 2011 we delivered 6.2 per cent brands 60th birthday, so we have plenty global RevPAR growth, beating the industry of opportunity to talk about the brand to in key markets, such as the US and Greater existing and future guests.
We grew our system size by two per We are now applying the same approach cent in the year and our industry-leading we used with Holiday Inn to deliver the 13 per cent of the active new-build global Crowne Plaza repositioning programme.
pipeline demonstrates our ability to continue Crowne Plaza has been a great success to increase our share of room supply.
story for IHG and is already the worlds We will achieve progressive and sustainable fourth largest full-service upscale hotel margin growth and higher returns for brand, generating $3.9 billion in total gross owners by capitalising on benefits of scale revenues per annum.
It does suffer from some inconsistencies, however, especially and efficiency.
Our fee-based margin was up nearly five percentage points in 2011, in North America, and a three-phase, and we expect to continue to drive up our multi-year programme will address this, raising all Crowne Plaza hotels to the same margins over time whilst continuing to standard around the world.
There are three clear priorities we have We also see the opportunity to leverage the value of the IHG family of brands set to achieve our growth strategy and through select partnerships.
The first deliver Great Hotels Guests Love:
