12 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 buSIneSS RevIew continued Winning with our best-in-class delivery hotels and drive incremental revenues.
This extensive marketing and technology support ranges from the Stay You campaign for the The major benefit IHG brings to guests who stay with us, and Holiday Inn relaunch and the Best Price Guarantee campaign to owners who invest with us, is the extent of our global hotel network promote booking through IHGs proprietary distribution channels, and the demand we deliver through our system.
Our system is the such as IHG.
com, to sophisticated technology combined efforts of our scale and networks, websites, call centres, allowing for improved targeted marketing, communications, and loyalty schemes and sales and marketing expertise to help guests innovative booking technologies.
During 2011, these innovations book and stay with us, and then maintain the relationship with them were best showcased by our leading mobile booking platforms after they leave.
Together, these tools form one of the largest such realising $148m in revenues by 31 December 2011 up from $2.5m systems in the industry and are the engine of our business, in 2009.
These mobile platforms, which are tailored to each of delivering on average 69 per cent of total rooms revenue.
our brands, are supported on the major mobile device operating With continued focus on the success of this global system, we have platforms and demonstrate IHGs efforts in anticipating how developed best-in-class marketing and technology to support our guests will interact with hotels and book rooms in the future.
SCAle bRAnd PoRtFolIo PRIoRIty Club RewARdS web mobIle 4,480 hotels Seven preferred 63 million members, 11 language sites hotel brands contributing over $6.9bn to 153 million guests annually Eight language apps global system rooms revenue Revenue mAnAGement Food And beveRAGe World-class Over $4.6bn of Food & 69% systems Beverage revenue and room revenue delivery over 4,500 outlets worldwide ReSeRvAtIonS SyStemS mARket CoveRAGe SAleS FoRCe SyStem Fund 11 call centres Leadership in 13 17,600 sales professionals Annual fund totalling $1.2bn of top 20 markets to maintain marketing and 12 languages 3,500 accounts systems that generate demand for our hotels Winning with our talented people and business relationships Our talented people create our culture, and IHG is aligned around with others great values which are consistently brought to life through a suite of five IHG behaviours, the Winning Ways: IHG believes talented and passionate people at all levels of the business are a key competitive advantage to delivering Great Hotels do the right thing: Guests Love and enhanced shareholder returns.
Part of this show we care: process is empowering our people to deliver our branded guest aim higher: experience.
To do this we need a culture which champions our celebrate difference: and brands and effectively articulates what our brands mean and who they are for.
We have begun this with a focus on being work better together.
For IHG, BrandHearted is about fostering a See pages 27 to 30 for more information.
collaborative culture to improve our brands performance by IHG maintains effective relationships across all aspects of its ensuring the brands are at the heart of all decision-making and operations.
The Groups operations are not dependent upon any actions, and helping our people to bring our brands to life.
single customer, supplier or hotel owner due to the breadth of its IHG recognises that a large proportion of its staff will not come brands, market segments and geographical coverage.
For example, under direct IHG employment and we have initiatives in place IHGs largest third-party hotel owner controls just two per cent of to help our owners deliver our brands and fulfil guests needs.
the Groups total room count as at 31 December 2011.
We have extensive induction, communication, development and IHG continued to enhance relationships with suppliers and recognition programmes aligned under our employment brand streamline its procurement processes during 2011.
With a focus on Room to be yourself.
These programmes provide a supportive sourcing high-quality goods and services at the most competitive environment that help our people to be successful and realise our prices and employing best-practice throughout the Group, IHG Vision of becoming one of the great companies of the world by strives to ensure enhanced value for the Group, our hotel owners delivering the right experiences to our guests through shared and shareholders.
values and living our brands.
