THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review 11 The number of hotels in planning and under construction, known Hotel Indigo is our boutique and youngest brand, launched in 2004, in the industry as the pipeline, reflect the future supply of hotels.
and focused on a guest who appreciates art and design and who wants to experience something different.
Hotel Indigo provides During 2011, we opened 44,265 rooms in 26 countries and guests with the refreshing design and service experience territories, and signed a further 55,424 rooms into our development synonymous with a boutique hotel.
Each hotel is unique and reflects pipeline across 32 countries.
As part of our ongoing commitment to its local neighbourhood with design elements such as murals, maintaining the quality of our brands, we removed 33,078 rooms a vibrant colour palette and locally sourced and seasonal menu during the year.
As at 31 December 2011, IHG had the largest items.
During 2011, Hotel Indigo was awarded Highest in Guest pipeline in the industry, with 180,484 rooms in 1,144 hotels across Satisfaction Among Upscale Hotel Chains in the J. D. Power and 59 countries.
This represents a market share of 13 per cent of all Associates 2011 North American Hotel Guest Satisfaction Index hotels under development, including those that are independent SM Study.
Hotels under this brand are mostly operated under or unaffiliated.
franchise agreements: Our pipeline ensures continued growth in new and emerging The Holiday Inn brand family, which comprises Holiday Inn, markets that best suit our strengths and anticipates the future Holiday Inn Express and Holiday Inn Club Vacations, was the needs of customers.
We have committed development teams worlds largest midscale hotel brand by number of rooms at across both developed and emerging markets ensuring a sizable 31 December 2011, and is IHGs most significant operation.
pipeline in developing markets: during 2011 we opened 8,084 rooms Focused on creating an atmosphere where guests can relax, the in Greater China, representing nearly 20 per cent of all new rooms brand is designed to support both business and leisure travellers.
opened by IHG across the globe.
Working with our owners and through their continued investment, Winning with a portfolio of preferred brands focused on the Holiday Inn brand family has all but completed a $1bn refresh, relevant consumer segments updating its image by upgrading facilities, service and amenities, We offer hotel brands that appeal to guests with different needs and and ensuring the brand family continues to remain competitive tastes and have built a portfolio of global brands, growing alongside within its midscale markets.
Recently, J. D. Power and Associates innovative new brands.
ranked Holiday Inn Highest in Guest Satisfaction Among Mid-scale Full Service Hotel Chains in their 2011 North American Hotel The hotel industry is usually split into segments based upon price SM Guest Satisfaction Index Study.
The Holiday Inn brand family point and consumer expectations.
IHG is focused on the three adds to IHGs record of firsts, being the first international hotel segments that together generate over 90 per cent of branded hotel chain both to open in China in 1984 and to launch a direct bookings revenues, namely: midscale broadly three star hotels, upscale website in 1995.
The brand family operates predominantly under mostly four star, and luxury five star.
franchise agreements: To reflect emerging consumer trends, during 2011 IHG developed Staybridge Suites is our upscale extended stay brand for guests on two new brands, with one focused on the sizable US midscale longer trips, offering studios and suites complete with full kitchens market, and the other tailored towards Chinese guests.
We expect and separate sleeping and work areas in a sociable, family-like to launch these brands in 2012, with the first hotels to open atmosphere.
It was the fastest upscale extended stay brand to from 2013. reach the 50-hotel and 100-hotel milestones and in 2008, opened As at 31 December 2011, IHGs portfolio of brands included: its first hotel in Europe, in Liverpool, UK.
Since then, Staybridge InterContinental Hotels & Resorts is IHGs five star brand located Suites has expanded its footprint with locations including Cairo and in key cities and resort destinations across more than 60 countries Abu Dhabi in the Middle East and, most recently, in St Petersburg worldwide.
With over 60 years of experience, our talented people, in Russia.
Staybridge Suites is playing its role in IHGs sponsorship supported by outstanding facilities, help us differentiate in a of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games by opening the competitive segment by understanding that well-travelled and Staybridge Suites London Stratford property.
Located on the affluent people want to be connected to what is special about a doorstep of the Olympic Village and at the heart of Europes largest hotel and its destination.
The brands ethos is to empower our shopping centre, this property will be one of the onsite hotels for people to share their knowledge so guests further enjoy great the Games.
Properties under this brand are operated under a experiences that enrich their lives, broaden their outlook, and mixture of franchise and management agreements: and make the most of their time with us.
Hotels under this brand tend Candlewood Suites, acquired by IHG in 2003, is our North to be managed by IHG: American-focused midscale extended stay brand that gives its Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts, in the upscale four star segment, guests all the essentials they need for a home-like stay at great specialises in offering modern business and meeting facilities with value.
Candlewood Suites has the most properties under a unique service style to provide productive and energising development in North American midscale extended stay lodging experiences to guests who live life to the fullest and believe travel and continues to keep its look and feel fresh.
During 2011, the is essential for their journey to success.
IHG is committed to the brand began a programme to develop a new and refreshed look sustainable evolution of each of its brands, and as such, is working and design to ensure its guest experience remains competitive and hard to strengthen Crowne Plazas position in the market over the attractive.
Properties under this brand tend to be operated under coming years.
A multi-year brand development programme was franchise agreements.
announced in 2011 to reflect the commitment of IHG and owners to improve the guest experience.
The majority of hotels under this brand tend to be operated under franchise agreements in the US and Europe, and are managed by IHG elsewhere in the world:
