THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION business review 39 Tactical risks continued The Group is reliant upon certain technologies and systems including IT systems for the running the Group is exposed to of its business, particularly those which are highly integrated with business operational processes.
inherent risks in relation Disruption to those technologies or systems could adversely affect the efficiency of the business, to changing technology notwithstanding business continuity or disaster recovery processes.
The Group may have to make and systems substantial additional investments in new technologies or systems to remain competitive.
Failing to keep pace with developments in technologies or systems may put the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
The technologies or systems that the Group chooses may not be commercially successful or the technology or system strategy employed may not be sufficiently aligned with the needs of the business or responsive to changes in business strategy.
As a result, the Group could lose customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial costs or face other losses.
Operational risks the Group is reliant on the Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more of the Groups brands and or fails to sustain the appeal of the Groups brands to its customers may have an adverse impact on the value of reputation of its brands that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business.
and the protection of its In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to its safety or operating and quality intellectual property rights standards, or the significant regulations applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its franchise and management contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon brand reputation or customer perception and therefore the value of the Groups brands.
In addition, the value of the Groups brands is influenced by a number of other factors, some of which may be outside the Groups control, including commoditisation whereby price and or quality becomes relatively more important than brand identifications due, in part, to the increased prevalence of third-party intermediaries, consumer preference and perception, or other factors affecting consumers willingness to purchase goods and services.
Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups business, the Group has invested considerable resources in protecting its intellectual property, including registration of trademarks and domain names.
However, the controls and laws globally are variable and subject to change.
Any widespread infringement, misappropriation or weakening of the control environment could materially harm the value of the Groups brands and its ability to develop the business.
In order to remain competitive, the Group must employ the right people.
This includes hiring and the Group requires the retaining highly skilled employees with particular expertise or leadership capability.
The right people, skills and implementation of the Groups strategic business plans could be undermined by failure to build capability to manage resilient corporate culture, recruit or retain key personnel, unexpected loss of key senior employees, growth and change failures in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure to invest in the development of key skills.
Some of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing economic growth and the Group must compete against other companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for suitably qualified or experienced employees.
Some emerging markets may not have the required local expertise to operate a hotel and may not be able to attract the right talent.
Failure to attract and retain employees may threaten the success of the Groups operations in these markets.
Additionally, unless skills are supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
the Group is reliant upon its The value of the Groups brands is partly derived from the ability to drive reservations through its proprietary HolidexPlus reservations system, a central repository of the Groups hotel room proprietary reservations inventories linked electronically to multiple sales channels including IHGs own websites, call centres system and is exposed to the and hotels, third-party intermediaries and travel agents.
risk of failures in the system Lack of resilience and operational availability could lead to prolonged service disruption and may result and increased competition in in significant business interruption and subsequent impact on revenues.
Lack of investment in these reservations infrastructure systems may also result in reduced ability to compete.
Additionally, failure to maintain an appropriate technology strategy and select the right technology partners could erode the Groups long-term competitiveness.
