THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION headlines and chairmans statement 3 chAiRmAnS StAtement dear Shareholder December 2005.
She retains her PeRFoRmAnce responsibility for global talent Revenue increased nine per cent to management, leadership development, $1.8 billion, with operating profit before employee reward and group operations exceptional items of $559 million, up 26 per support.
Adjusted earnings per share increased both Tracys exceptional capabilities and 32 per cent from 98.6 cents to 130.4 cents.
the critical importance of attracting, The Board is recommending an 11 per developing and retaining top talent as we cent increase to the final dividend for 2011, implement our ambitious expansion plans.
This will give a We made two Non-Executive Director full-year dividend of 55.0 cents per share, appointments during the year.
Dale 15 per cent higher than 2010.
This converts Morrison, formerly President and CEO to a sterling full-year dividend of 34.5 pence, of McCain Foods Limited, joined the up 15 per cent compared with 2010.
Board on 1 June 2011 and on 1 July 2011 Subject to shareholder approval, the final Luke Mayhew joined as Chairman of the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2012.
Remuneration Committee, a role he has fulfilled at Brambles Limited since 2005.
BoARd ihG has a business model which He replaces Ralph Kugler who has retired On 30 June 2011 Andy Cosslett stepped has proven to be resilient, a wide from the Board after over eight years at IHG.
down from his role as Chief Executive of geographic spread and a strong I would like to welcome both Dale and Luke IHG.
We were very sorry to see Andy leave balance sheet, meaning we are to the Board and thank Ralph for his highly and I would like to thank him for his valuable contribution to the Board and in confident in our ability to outstanding leadership during his six-year particular his exemplary chairmanship continue to deliver strong results.
Richard Solomons was appointed of the Remuneration Committee.
Formerly David Webster Chief Financial Officer and Head of FinAnciAl PoSition And chairman Commercial Development, Richard has ShAReholdeR RetuRnS been a member of the Board since IHG Careful control over cash has enabled us listed as an independent company in 2003. to reduce our overall net debt position by He has a proven track record as a business $205 million to $538 million.
In November leader and a deep understanding of IHG 2011 we refinanced our bank debt, putting drawn from his time in a number of senior in place a five-year $1.07 billion facility, roles and he has impressed me greatly in providing certainty over funding until his first six months as Chief Executive.
No returns above normal Taking over from Richard as Chief dividends were made to shareholders in Financial Officer is Tom Singer, who joined 2011.
Total funds returned since March us on 26 September 2011 from global 2004 amount to more than $6 billion.
healthcare group Bupa, where he had been Group Finance Director since 2008. outlook His broad commercial and international The hard work of our people is central experience makes him an ideal addition to IHGs success.
On behalf of the Board, to the team, and I am pleased to welcome I would like to thank everyone in IHG for him to the Board as an Executive Director.
their focus, dedication and commitment On 13 June 2011, Jim Abrahamson, during the year.
President, The Americas and an Executive 2012 is likely to be a year dominated by Director of IHG since 1 August 2010, left the economic and political uncertainty in Company to take up a role as the CEO of an several geographies.
IHG has a business independent US lodging company.
He was model which has proven to be resilient, succeeded by Kirk Kinsell, who has held a wide geographic spread and a strong a number of senior leadership positions balance sheet.
This means we are at IHG, including President, Europe, confident in our ability to continue to Middle East and Africa, and has been an deliver strong results.
I am pleased to welcome three additional new Board members to IHG.
Tracy Robbins was promoted to Executive Director on David Webster 9 August 2011 having been an Executive Committee member since joining IHG in chairman
