08 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Our strategy International Power is a world leading independent power generator with a strong competitive position.
We are focused on operating efficiently and responsibly to maximise the value from our current portfolio and to deliver growth in shareholder value.
Our strategy to realise this growth is based upon: building new generation capacity in fast growing emerging markets capturing the benefit from recovery in merchant markets delivery of synergies and efficiency improvements from the Combination recycling of capital selective acquisitions Rugeley UK 09 Business model Our strategy Generating value for the long-term is central to our business model.
To achieve this we use a portfolio management approach, which involves maintaining a balanced portfolio in terms of geographical spread, fuel, technology and contract International Power Capacity under construction type.
This provides access to multiple opportunities, whilst mitigating the risks through diversification.
Geography 48% Latin America 7% North America In addition to operations in power generation, International 24% Middle East, Turkey & Africa Power seeks to create industrial synergies through investing 21% Asia in closely linked businesses such as downstream LNG, gas distribution, desalination and retail.
The electricity industry is critical for any economy and governments decide carefully whether to liberalise this sector or maintain a more regulated framework.
Trading and commercial skills required for operating in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised contracted markets are very different and we have deep experience in both.
Our presence in both types of market provides the Group with a stable platform of longterm contracted earnings and cash flow, overlaid by merchant generation which offers potential for superior returns when market conditions are favourable.
We optimise the operation of our power plants through several means, including managing all of our sites to high standards of safety and operating performance, closely co-ordinating plant operations with trading to maximise the value of our output, Fuel 39% Gas standardising management reporting for all investments and 9% Coal investing in improved plant efficiency.
7% Renewable 38% Hydro 6% Oil A key objective of the portfolio approach is to maximise value 1% Pumped storage through knowledge sharing across the business.
As our energy operations are primarily local activities, local knowledge is essential.
However, these operations can benefit immensely from being part of a worldwide organisation.
A focus for the business is to continue to capture the value offered by this local-global combination.
In summary, our business model is based on maintaining a diversified portfolio and maximising the value inherent within that portfolio to ensure we are well placed to pursue strategic objectives to grow the business and create further value for all our stakeholders.
Contract 23% Short-term uncontracted 70% Long-term contracted 7% Wind Note As at 31 December 2011 on a net capacity ownership basis.
10 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Generation capacity growth GW net ownership Strategy for growth in operation at 31 December 2011-2013 Growth is core to International Powers strategy and we are well placed to expand our international portfolio, with a wide 48.4GW geographic footprint, in-depth market knowledge and strong 45.7GW 43.3GW customer, partner and stakeholder relationships.
The five key factors for delivering attractive growth are outlined below.
Building new generation capacity in fast growing emerging markets We have significant generation capacity under construction in emerging markets.
The successful delivery of these projects, which are all backed by long-term offtake contracts, is a key priority for International Power.
The ongoing construction programme represents substantial invested capital and upon 2011 2012 2013 completion is expected to make a material contribution to performance.
International Power has delivered numerous new projects in the last five years and, as a result, has very considerable experience in managing the construction of large In the US, tightening environmental legislation may lead to projects across all key technologies.
It is this deep experience retirements against a backdrop of limited new-build plans.
and knowledge that underpins our management of the Following the Combination, in the US we are benefiting from construction programme.
a downstream LNG business that is complementary to our generation business.
We also have a greater presence in retail, In addition to the current programme, our strong position in which offers another route to market for our merchant emerging markets means that we are well placed to capitalise generation capacity.
Demand for new generation capacity in emerging markets is driven by a combination of Delivery of synergies and efficiency improvements growing economies, young and growing populations and rising from the Combination per capita electricity consumption as these economies Synergies and efficiency improvements as a result of the develop.
Together these offer us multiple growth opportunities Combination will continue to contribute to our performance.
through development of greenfield projects and, more We are focused on maximising value from the enlarged portfolio organically, expansion of existing sites.
We are also reviewing and enhancing our competitive position.
Our increased global opportunities in new markets where we believe we can create presence offers the benefit of economies of scale in terms of fuel, value and these offer an additional source of growth.
We have new equipment procurement and maintenance expenditure, a robust investment appraisal process to ensure that only the which will continue to drive operational synergies.
Our business most value-creating projects, with an appropriate risk reward development teams have also been enhanced and benefit from balance, are taken forward.
a broader network of commercial and technical expertise, and access to a wider knowledge and talent pool.
Capturing the benefit from recovery in merchant markets Our asset portfolios in three key merchant markets of the Recycling of capital UK, the US and Australia are well positioned to capture value We will continue to review opportunities to recycle capital from an improvement in market conditions.
Although these through divestment of non-core assets and to redeploy capital developed markets are generally experiencing tougher into projects that offer superior returns.
economic conditions, there are factors that we believe will contribute to an uplift in the current pricing environment.
Selective acquisitions The drivers of recovery are principally industrial demand, Another vehicle for growth is through selective M&A activity.
given that domestic demand has been resilient, and enforced Any potential acquisition would be assessed using strict and plant retirements as a result of environmental regulation.
Our comprehensive investment criteria with the central objective efficient and flexible plants are well placed to benefit as the that any new business acquired creates value and benefits market recovers.
For example, in the UK significant capacity the portfolio.
is expected to be retired in the coming years combined with uncertainty on the timing of new nuclear plants coming on line.
Capital allocation process Growth vehicles Opportunities across Balanced portfolio sources value chain markets Rigorous investment new projects generation technologies Strategic guidance process expansion of LNG contract types ICC existing projects gas distribution partners Board review new markets retail etc acquisitions Post investment reviews continuous appraisal 11 Our strategy Our role in the energy value chain Fuel procurement Fuel distribution including downstream LNG Power generation portfolio Acquisitions Trading long-term Retail industrial financing power contract expertise and commercial asset management plant operations Greenfield brownfield Construction development management Delivering the strategy Greenfield and brownfield development We have excellent experience of developing large capitalInternational Powers high quality asset portfolio and the intensive infrastructure projects across a range of sites.
capabilities of our teams around the world form a strong Processes are in place, from selecting the most appropriate platform for performance optimisation, effective risk site, leveraging infrastructures already in place, securing management and future growth in earnings and cash flow.
multiple stakeholder approvals, negotiating the most competitive contract and project managing the construction The Group has in-depth experience in plant operations, programme, through to successful commercial operation.
This helps to ensure excellent operating performance across all areas of the business, and Acquisitions an understanding of operational and technical issues relating to We have demonstrated our ability to execute acquisitions and the potential acquisition and upgrade of assets or development to integrate newly acquired businesses quickly and seamlessly of new power plants.
The Group has the skills to execute power into the portfolio.
Historically, International Power has delivered projects from inception through to the delivery of power in the a number of successful acquisitions, which have met or most advanced and complex traded markets in the world.
exceeded financial and operational performance targets.
Our core capabilities for implementing our strategy can Construction management be categorised into the following areas: Managing our construction programme to ensure that current projects are being executed to plan, as well as maintaining our Fuel procurement and distribution including strong development pipeline, is central to our success and to downstream LNG meeting our future growth ambitions.
The enlarged organisation In long-term power purchase agreement PPA markets, our has delivered a large number of diverse projects in recent years in-depth knowledge of fuel supply and pricing has enabled throughout our regions.
The experience and expertise we have us to put in place fuel procurement contracts, which as far as built up as a result of delivering on these projects underpins our possible, mirror the PPA terms, with the cost passed through construction management programme and will help us meet and hence no price risk for the business.
In merchant markets, our growth objectives.
we have extensive experience of short-term contracting from multiple sources and associated logistical expertise, to match power sales with fuel procurement and lock in margins.
In some cases, we have upstream investments, such as our coal-fired power stations, which allow more control of our cost base and supply risks, and we also develop LNG solutions through our re-gasification terminals in Chile and the US.
Our extensive international experience leaves us well placed to provide project support as required to the growing business.
12 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Financing Long-term power contract expertise Given the very capital-intensive nature of our business, we We have strong commercial skills to structure and negotiate maintain access to multiple sources of finance, which include long-term power and water contracts in regulated markets, the significant undrawn 2.1 billion 2.6 billion package of such as Asia and the Middle East, Turkey & Africa META.
Under loans and facilities from GDF SUEZ, non-recourse project these contracts, the majority of our income is delivered in return finance, corporate borrowing facilities, capital from our partners for our plants being available when required.
Fuel supply and and strong free cash flow generation from our existing portfolio.
turbine maintenance are usually mitigated through long-term Non-recourse project finance remains very important to hedging and supply arrangements.
Availability and other International Powers business model and financing strategy, operational bonuses incentivise us to keep the plants well particularly for long-term contracted plants.
This provides the maintained in order to generate superior returns.
Overall, the opportunity to raise an appropriate level of debt for individual contracts provide visibility and stability of both earnings and assets or portfolios and represents strong risk mitigation for cash generation over the long-term.
The Combination has significantly strengthened International Powers capital structure and credit ratios, and Retail underpins the Groups growth ambitions.
This strengthened We are a supplier of gas and electricity principally to commercial credit profile has enabled us to obtain an investment grade and industrial customers.
In the UK, the US, Mexico and credit rating.
As a result, the Group benefits from significantly Thailand we have retail businesses to service commercial improved access to capital at an attractive cost.
In Australia, in addition to commercial and industrial customers, our retail business, Simply Energy, provides gas and electricity to residential customers.
We offer Asset management a range of energy supply products including fixed price and All our investments are expected to deliver specific performance flexible options.
We have a strong focus on risk management targets.
Regional offices and corporate headquarters together and our long-term experience in the energy markets enables monitor the performance of each business in the portfolio us to work in partnership with businesses to deliver targeted to ensure that we maximise efficiencies and deliver on our energy solutions.
The retail businesses work closely with the commitments.
This is carried out through the setting of budgets merchant generation portfolio to manage energy price risk and asset management plans, the use of key performance and provide a valuable additional route to market.
indicators and regular, robust technical, commercial and financial reviews.
This co-ordinated approach helps us to manage operational risk and extract portfolio benefits.
Plant operations We have comprehensive power station operational experience and skills.
Through-life engineering and maintenance plans, meticulously implemented, enable plant availability and efficiency to be maximised across our portfolio.
Effective plant operations are enhanced by an integrated operations team, which enables information to be shared across the portfolio with senior operational staff rotated on a regular basis.
Safe behaviour and environmental best practice are cornerstones of International Powers operations and we share this across the portfolio to enable our plants to operate to the highest possible safety and environmental standards.
In addition, we have Board and global Health, Safety and Environment Committees which co-ordinate the Groups activities and enable best practice to be adopted at all plants.
Trading We operate in a number of merchant markets and have the skills necessary to maximise our returns in these markets, with a particular focus on closely co-ordinating trading and plant operations to optimise value.
We have trading and risk teams in all of our merchant markets, co-ordinated by Group trading and risk functions.
For us, trading predominantly means selling the physical output generated by our plants, which we call asset-backed trading.
Our traders operate within strict guidelines and risk policies to ensure our traded position is carefully monitored and managed.
This includes matching fuel purchases with power sales within predefined limits and carrying out only a limited and closely controlled, non assetbacked trading.
We forward sell our output when we consider the commercial returns are favourable, but we often retain some uncontracted capacity as mitigation against unplanned outages and to benefit from upsides in the short-term market.
