Tony Concannon Executive Team CEO and President, Australia Tony Concannon is responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the Australia region including plant operations, finance, energy trading and business development.
Prior to this he was a Director of International Power plc from January 2004 to February 2011 with responsibility for Australia.
Tony is a Jan Flachet Chartered Engineer and joined the industry in 1982.
He has CEO and President, Latin America previously worked in a number of business areas including Jan Flachet is responsible for overseeing and managing power station operations, trading and international business all aspects of performance in the Latin America business, development in Asia.
including electricity and gas operations, finance, energy sales and business development.
Prior to this he was President and Penny Chalmers Chief Executive Officer of GDF SUEZ Energy Latin America.
Executive Vice President, Strategy and Communications Jan is a Civil Engineer and has worked in the industry for more Penny Chalmers is Head of Strategy and Communications than 30 years.
He is President of the boards of E-CL and Enersur for International Power.
Prior to this she was the Director of and Vice-President of Tractebel Energia.
Global Resources, responsible for Group Human Resources, Information Technology and Corporate Communications, Zin Smati a position she held from 2003 to January 2011.
Penny joined CEO and President, North America National Powers business development group in 1997, having Zin Smati is responsible for managing the Groups position previously spent ten years working in the energy sector for within the energy markets in the US, Canada and Mexico BP plc and BG plc.
She worked as a business development including power generation, natural gas, LNG, marketing and manager in Asia, focusing on power generation opportunities in Thailand, before moving back to Europe with the Company.
trading and retail energy sales and related services.
Prior to this he was President and Chief Executive Officer of GDF SUEZ Philip fide Cnudde Energy North America, Inc. and before joining SUEZ, he held Executive Vice President, Business Development a succession of executive positions with international energy Oversight companies both in the US and the UK.
In January 2012, Zin Philip fide Cnudde is Head of Business Development Oversight Smati became the chairman of EPSA the Electrical Power for International Power.
Prior to this he was Executive Vice Supply Association of the US.
President Business Development Oversight of GDF SUEZ Energy Europe & International.
He began his career in 1985 at Steve Riley Santens Engineering Services in Oudenaarde, where he held CEO and President, UK-Europe a variety of engineering posts, before moving to the US in 1989 Steve Riley is responsible for managing all aspects of performance to become the General Manager overseeing the start-up of the in the UK-Europe region including plant operations, finance, Santens American operations.
In 1993 he returned to Belgium retail sales, energy trading and business development.
Prior to work for Electrabel as Head of Operations at the Monceauto this he was a Director of International Power from January sur-Sambre power plant and in 1998 he was appointed Head of 2004 to February 2011 with responsibility for Europe.
Steve the Internal Audit Department, before moving to Tractebel EGI is a Chartered Engineer and joined the Company in 1985 GDF SUEZ Energy International in 2001 as Head of Business holding senior positions in two UK power stations before Control, Consolidation and Accounting.
being appointed Managing Director, Australia in January 2000.
Steve is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks Group plc, Franois Graux a leading European waste management company.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Franois Graux is the General Counsel and Company Secretary Shankar Krishnamoorthy of International Power.
Prior to this he was General Counsel for CEO and President, Middle East, Turkey & Africa GDF SUEZ Energy Europe & International, a position he held from Shankar Krishnamoorthy is responsible for managing all July 2009 until January 2011.
In 1997, he left private practice aspects of the Groups business in the Middle East, Turkey to join Tractebel as Legal Counsel working on generation and & Africa region, including plant operations, finance, energy transmission operations.
In 2000, he moved to Tractebel Asia trading and business development.
Prior to this he was the Bangkok to become Senior Legal Counsel and General Chief Executive Officer for GDF SUEZ Middle East and North Counsel for the Asia-Pacific region.
Shankar has over 25 years of experience in the industry.
Brussels in 2003 and became General Counsel of SUEZ Energy International.
Willem Van Twembeke CEO and President, Asia Geert Peeters Willem Van Twembeke is responsible for the Groups Deputy Chief Financial Officer operations and development activities in Asia.
Willem joined Geert Peeters joined International Power on 3 January 2012 as Tractebel Energy Engineering as a project manager in 1991.
Deputy Chief Financial Officer, with a view to being appointed In 1997 he was transferred to South America where he held to the Board as Chief Financial Officer at the AGM on 15 May different executive positions, including CEO of Electroandina 2012.
Geert was previously Senior Vice President and Chief from 2001 to 2004 and CEO of EnerSur, Gas Natural fide Financial Officer at GDF SUEZ Global Gas & LNG.
Prior to that, Lima y Callao and Suez Energy Peru from 2004 to 2006. he worked with GDF SUEZ Energy International for 12 years In 2006, he returned to Brussels as Deputy General Manager in senior financial and operational roles in Latin America, the Trading and Portfolio Management in Electrabel.
Prior to taking Middle East and North America.
Between 1992 and 1996 up his current position in June 2011 Willem was the Chief Geert worked for KBC Bank in Brussels and New York.
Operations Officer in the Latin America region.
86 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Jan Flachet Zin Smati CEO and President, CEO and President, Latin America North America Steve Riley Shankar Krishnamoorthy CEO and President, CEO and President, UK-Europe Middle East, Turkey & Africa Willem Van Twembeke Tony Concannon CEO and President, CEO and President, Asia Australia Penny Chalmers Philip fide Cnudde Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Strategy and Communications Business Development Oversight Franois Graux Geert Peeters General Counsel and Deputy Chief Company Secretary Financial Officer 87
