26 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Key performance indicators Key performance indicators KPIs enable us to manage the business and to measure the delivery of our key strategic objective: growth in shareholder value.
Paiton Indonesia 27 Key performance indicators KPIs Financial KPIs pro forma results We use a range of performance indicators, both financial The pro forma results which follow assume that the and non-financial, to manage the business and to measure Combination, which completed on 3 February 2011, occurred the delivery of our strategic objective, which is growth in on 1 January 2010.
The financial information presented shareholder value through the efficient operation, financing includes the pro forma 2011 full year impacts of purchase price and trading of output from our portfolio, whilst maintaining allocation adjustments in both the current and prior periods.
the highest levels of safety and environmental performance.
The pro forma results are discussed in more detail on pages 34 to 37.
An explanation of their basis of preparation and full The most important of these measures are considered KPIs results are included on pages 222 to 227. and their targets are determined annually during the business planning process.
The KPIs are used by management to During 2011 management reviewed the results of the KPIs on a compare actual performance during the year, and the latest pro forma basis as this allowed better year-to-date comparisons forecasts, against the annual budgeted targets and prior against budgets and prior year results, given that the year performance.
Our KPIs for 2011, both financial and Combination occurred part way through the year.
non-financial, are set out here.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Financial KPIs EBITDA 4,339m 4,013m Our financial KPIs address two key aspects of the business: Adjusted current operating income 3,055m 2,810m its profitability and its cash generation Underlying EPS euro cents 27.6 24.9 ROCE 7% 7% Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and Free cash flow 2,691m 2,586m amortisation EBITDA Adjusted current operating income In order to allow a better understanding of the Groups underlying business performance, financial KPIs exclude Underlying earnings per share underlying EPS those items that are inherently difficult to predict due to their Return on capital employed ROCE unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature, collectively described as exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark Free cash flow to market movements.
Such items include asset impairments and disposals, restructuring costs and mark to market on Non-financial KPIs commodity contracts other than trading instruments.
The Our non-financial KPIs address other key performance KPIs are presented on this basis as they: aspects of the business: safety, environmental and operational performance e xclude significant items which, by virtue of their size or incidence, could potentially distort year-on-year Accident frequency rate AFR comparisons Significant technical environmental non-compliance a llow a better understanding of the financial information Significant TENC presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business Technical availability performance, by excluding fair value movements on certain economic hedges a ssist shareholders and analysts who, for the reasons set out above, have expressed a preference for the reporting of results without the inclusion of the effects of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Presenting the Groups segmental results, EBITDA, adjusted current operating income, underlying EPS and ROCE excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, is consistent with the way management measures performance in the Groups budgets, forecasts and management accounts on a day-to-day basis.
28 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview The consolidated financial statements on pages 118 to 122 Adjusted current operating income include the reported results rather than the pro forma results.
Current operating income is a measure of the operating The reported results for the year ended 31 December 2011 profitability of the Group.
In addition to EBITDA it includes constitute the results of the enlarged business with effect from depreciation, amortisation, non-cash movements in provisions the date of the Combination.
The reported results prior to the and charges related to share-based payments.
Combination relate only to GDF SUEZ Energy International.
The reported results of the financial KPIs are included in notes Adjusted current operating income also includes the share 3, 8 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
in net income of associates, excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, and is therefore The financial KPIs are calculated from data included within a good measure of total operating performance.
the financial consolidation system, the results of which are presented and discussed within this Annual Report.
Pro forma adjusted current operating income has grown by 9% between years reflecting strong financial performance over The financial KPIs are used as measures to evaluate Executive the period.
The pro forma results for the current and prior year Directors performance when quantifying their annual are also presented in the financial highlights.
More information can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
Financial highlights Pages 34 to 45 Directors remuneration report Pages 97 to 114 EBITDA EBITDA is a measure of the operating profitability of the Group.
It excludes the impact of all non-operating costs from subsidiaries and joint ventures, such as financing costs and income tax expense, and significant non-cash items, such as depreciation, amortisation, non-cash movements in provisions and charges for share-based payments.
It also excludes the share in net income of associates.
Pro forma EBITDA has grown by 8% between years reflecting strong financial performance over the period.
The pro forma results for the current and prior year are also presented in the financial highlights.
Monte Redondo Chile 29 Underlying EPS Key performance indicators Underlying EPS is a measure of the overall profitability of the Pro forma results Group and shareholder return.
It is defined as the underlying net income Group share attributable to each ordinary share in the Company, expressed in euro cents.
Growth in underlying EPS over time is indicative of the Groups ability to add value.
Adjusted current Pro forma underlying EPS has grown by 11% between years.
operating income The pro forma results for the current and prior year are also presented in the financial highlights.
3,055 million For 2011 this KPI was also used as a performance condition 3,055m in the Executive Directors long-term incentive plans.
2,810m In the financial highlights, pro forma underlying EPS is reconciled to pro forma basic EPS which includes exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Free cash flow Power generation is a capital-intensive business and hence it requires the assets within the Group to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the initial investment in those assets, to provide returns for shareholders and to provide funds for future investment opportunities.
We define free cash flow as cash flow 2011 2010 from operating activities less maintenance capital expenditure, interest paid on net debt, and cash flows relating to other financial income and expenses.
We consider this measure of cash flow to be a key indicator Underlying basic earnings per share of performance as it measures the cash generated from the underlying business performance of continuing operating activities.
This is consistent with the way management 27.6 euro cents measured performance against the Groups budgets and prior year results on a day-to-day basis during 2011.
27.6c 24.9c Free cash flow has grown by 4% between years reflecting strong operational and financial performance over the period.
Cash flow from operating activities is presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
A reconciliation of pro forma cash flow from operating activities to pro forma free cash flow is set out on page 37.
A reconciliation of cash flow from operating activities to free cash flow on a reported basis is set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
2011 2010 Financial highlights Pages 34 to 45 Free cash flow 2,691million 2,691m 2,586m The pro forma results assume the Combination between International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International 2011 2010 occurred on 1 January 2010.
30 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview ROCE Before the Combination, profit from operations was used by ROCE measures the financial performance of the Groups International Power as a KPI of the financial performance of its capital investments.
It is based principally on adjusted current business.
This performance indicator was similar to adjusted operating income after tax divided by average capital employed.
current operating income which is currently used as a KPI, but Capital employed principally includes total shareholders equity, it reflected International Powers pre-Combination accounting including non-controlling interests, net debt and derivatives.
policy of applying the equity method of accounting to joint ventures.
The consolidated results of International Power plc It is the Groups aim to achieve a ROCE which demonstrates for the year ended 31 December 2011 reflect the accounting that investments are adding value over time.
Pro forma policies of GDF SUEZ Energy International which applies the ROCE has remained constant at 7% between years reflecting proportionate consolidation method to joint ventures.
significant amounts of assets in construction and the growth potential in merchant markets.
The reported results for capital EBITDA and adjusted current operating income are the KPIs employed are set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial which replaced profit from operations.
Changes to financial KPIs in 2011 For accounting purposes, the Combination is treated as a reverse acquisition under IFRS 3, the International Financial Reporting Standard on business combinations.
The transaction is accounted for as the acquisition of the Company by GDF SUEZ Energy International on the basis that, after the Combination, the shareholders of GDF SUEZ Energy International have power over more than half of the voting shares of the Company.
Therefore, the consolidated financial statements reflect the continuation of the activities of GDF SUEZ Energy International.
Pego Portugal 31 Non-financial KPIs pro forma results Key performance indicators Pro forma results Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Accident frequency rate AFR 1.11 0.81 Significant technical environmental non-compliance Significant TENC 1 6 Technical availability 89.3% 87.9% Accident frequency rate Notes: 1.11 The pro forma results presented above assume that the Combination, which completed on 3 February 2011, occurred on 1 January 2010.
The reporting perimeter comprises all plants where we have control or joint control over financial decisions and operational activities.
This includes subsidiaries and joint ventures but excludes associates.
The data is reported on a 100% basis, regardless of percentage ownership.
A list of International Power subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is shown on pages 205 to 207 of this report.
The European wind 0.81 portfolio is excluded from this reporting.
Accident frequency rate AFR Health and safety is of vital importance to our business.
It is our duty to provide all personnel at our sites with a safe place to work and any accident is disruptive to the running of the business.
Our AFR definition for 2011 has been adjusted slightly to be consistent with the GDF SUEZ group definition.
The AFR is now the number of lost time accidents LTA divided by the number of hours worked by employees at the Company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, multiplied by one million.
2011 2010 We define an LTA as a person being absent from work for one or more subsequent working days or shifts excluding the day or shift when the accident occurred due to injury or ill health Significant TENC sustained at work.
This is a much tighter definition than the UK legal requirement of three days absence from work.
6 The majority of the injuries sustained during 2011 were relatively minor and resulted from slips, trips and falls, or incorrect lifting and handling.
The pro forma AFR for employees in 2011 was 1.11.
This can be compared with 0.81 for pro forma 2010.
Although this is a slight increase, it remains a very low AFR.
We do not tolerate unsafe behaviour our overriding target is zero LTAs.
In 2011 the CEO, the COO and all Regional CEOs had a common personal, non-financial objective, relating to health and safety.
1 2011 2010 Technical availability 89.3% 87.9% The pro forma results assume the Combination between International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International 2011 2010 occurred on 1 January 2010.
32 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Significant technical environmental non-compliance Technical availability Significant TENC Technical availability measures when a plant is available Our plants are issued with environmental licences by the for dispatch.
Each of our plants will generally be unavailable relevant statutory authorities.
These require that breaches during some periods in the year due to a combination of of the conditions of the licence are reported.
During 2011 planned outages for maintenance and unplanned outages.
we measured our ability to comply with permit requirements by recording the number of Significant TENCs at plants An important aspect of our business is ensuring that our where we have control or joint control over financial decisions merchant power trading and power purchase agreements and operational activities.
These are defined as higher than PPAs are closely aligned with our operational activities, permitted emission or pollution levels, or a lack of precautions and availability planning is a key factor in this regard.
The which could potentially result in a risk to the environment, year-on-year variance in the profile of planned outages and for which the budget for remediation exceeds 150,000 influences the technical availability.
This definition excludes the more minor events previously included as reportable environmental incidents, Technical availability is calculated by first determining such as the late filing of reports, and short-term emissions the potential maximum amount of electricity that could be spikes associated with plant start-up operations.
generated in the year if our plants were operated at full output for the entire year.
We then deduct from this maximum amount In 2011 there was one Significant TENC, which is an the electricity that could not be produced due to planned improvement over last year on a pro forma basis.
We expect and unplanned outages at the plants throughout the year.
our plants to reach the highest standards of regulatory This number is then expressed as a percentage of the potential compliance and our aim is for all plants to be in full compliance maximum electricity that could be generated, where all these with permit conditions.
quantities are calculated in terms of electrical energy GWh.
This calculation is performed using data submitted by individual plants directly into the corporate reporting system.
We use technical availability to measure performance of thermal plants.
Non-thermal technologies, such as wind and hydro power, are excluded from the value presented.
In 2011 we achieved technical availability of 89.3% on a pro forma basis, a slight increase from the 87.9% achieved in 2010.
This technical availability compares favourably with industry benchmarks.
