Board of Directors Dirk Beeuwsaert Philip Cox Chairman Chief Executive Officer Mark Williamson Guy Richelle Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Sir Neville Simms FREng Deputy Chairman 82 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Bernard Attali Anthony Tony Isaac Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director David Weston Sir Rob Young Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Michael Zaoui Grard Mestrallet Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jean-Franois Cirelli Isabelle Kocher Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director See over page for full biographies 83 Board of Directors Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Dirk Beeuwsaert 64 Sir Neville Simms FREng 67 Dirk Beeuwsaert was appointed Chairman of International Deputy Chairman Power in February 2011 following the Combination.
He is Sir Neville Simms became a Non-Executive Director of National Executive Vice President of GDF SUEZ, in charge of the Power in August 1998 and was Chairman of the demerged Business Line Energy International, and has been heading International Power from October 2000 to February 2011.
He up these activities for the last 11 years.
He began his career in was appointed Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent 1971 with the Belgian power company Intercom and has held Director following the Combination.
He is Chairman of various management roles within the GDF SUEZ business Bombardier Transportation UK Limited, Chairman of the BRE over the years.
Trust and a member of the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director of the Bank of England Executive Directors from 1995 to 2002, Chairman of the Governments Sustainable Procurement Task Force from 2005 to 2007 and Deputy Philip Cox 60 Chairman of Ashridge Management College from 2006 to 2011.
Chief Executive Officer Philip Cox joined the Company on 1 May 2000 as Chief Bernard Attali 68 Financial Officer and was appointed Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director of International Power in December 2003.
He is responsible Bernard Attali was appointed a Non-Executive Director of for the overall management of International Power, and International Power in February 2011 following the Combination.
implementing the strategies approved by the Board.
Philip is He is a well-known French businessman and has been a member a Chartered Accountant and prior to joining the Company he of a number of boards of significant undertakings, such as was a Senior Vice President at Invensys.
He is a Non-Executive Air France, Eurotunnel SA, BNP, Socit Gnrale and SNCF.
Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC and Chairman of its Audit Committee, and he is a member of the Presidents Anthony Tony Isaac 70 Committee of the CBI.
Philip was also a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Glow Energy Public Company Limited Thailand until March Tony Isaac became a Non-Executive Director of International 2012 and he is a Non-Executive Director of Tractebel Energia Power in October 2000.
Following the Combination in SA Brazil, each a publicly listed subsidiary of International Power.
February 2011, he was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Tony was the Senior Independent Director until Mark Williamson 54 February 2011 and was previously Chairman of the Audit Chief Financial Officer Committee from October 2000 to March 2008.
He is the Mark Williamson joined the Company in September 2000 as Senior Independent Director of Schlumberger Limited and Group Financial Controller and was appointed Chief Financial of Hogg Robinson Group plc and was previously the Chief Officer of International Power in December 2003.
He works Executive of The BOC Group plc.
closely with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer in the overall management of the Group and his specific David Weston 53 responsibilities include financial control and reporting, tax and Non-Executive Director risk management.
Mark is a Chartered Accountant with David Weston became a Non-Executive Director of considerable international experience and prior to joining the International Power in August 2009.
He is a member of the Company he was the Group Financial Controller at Simon Group Group Management Committee of Anglo American plc where plc, the engineering and bulk chemical storage group.
He is a he is Group Director of Business Performance and Projects, Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco plc and Chairman a position he has held since November 2009, having previously of its Audit Committee.
As announced in December 2011, been Anglos Group Technical Director and Chief Executive of Mark Williamson will be stepping down from the Board and the Tarmac Group and Anglo Industrial Minerals.
David is also as Chief Financial Officer at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
a member of the Kumba Iron Ore Board and a Trustee of the Anglo American Group Foundation.
Prior to joining Anglo Guy Richelle 56 American in 2006, David spent 25 years with Shell and held Chief Operating Officer a number of senior management positions including President Guy Richelle was appointed Chief Operating Officer of of Shell Canada Products, Chief Executive Officer of Shell International Power in February 2011 following the Combination.
Aviation Ltd. and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of He is responsible for health, safety and operations, construction, Shell Pakistan Ltd.
markets and sales, HR and IT.
Prior to this role, he was Chief Executive Officer and President of Middle East, Asia & Africa Sir Rob Young 67 for GDF SUEZ Energy Europe & International.
Guy is a nuclear Non-Executive Director engineer and has held various positions with Schlumberger, Sir Rob Young was appointed a Non-Executive Director Westinghouse, Eskom and GDF SUEZ, which have included of International Power in February 2011 following the international assignments in North Africa, the US, South Africa, Combination.
Sir Rob spent his career in the Foreign and Sweden, the Middle East and Thailand.
Guy is also a NonCommonwealth Office.
From 1999 to 2003, he was British Executive Director of both Glow Energy Public Company Limited High Commissioner to India.
Thailand and E. CL S. A. Chile, each a publicly listed subsidiary of International Power.
84 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Michael Zaoui 55 Ranald Spiers 56 Non-Executive Director Executive Director, Middle East and Asia Michael Zaoui was appointed a Non-Executive Director Ranald Spiers was appointed to the Board of International Power of International Power in February 2011 following the in May 2008 and resigned from the Board in February 2011 Combination.
He has an investment banking background in following the Combination.
He was the Executive Director European mergers and acquisitions and was Vice Chairman of responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the the Institutional Securities Group of Morgan Stanley until 2008.
Middle East and Asia regions, including plant operations, finance and the development, financing and construction of power and GDF SUEZ appointed Non-Executive Directors water desalination assets.
He was responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the Asia region following the Grard Mestrallet 62 Combination until he left the Company in June 2011.
Non-Executive Director Grard Mestrallet was appointed to the Board of International Non-Executive Directors Power in February 2011 following the Combination.
He has held the position of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alan Murray 58 GDF SUEZ since SUEZ merged with Gaz fide France in July Non-Executive Director 2008, prior to which he was Chairman and Chief Executive Alan Murray became a Non-Executive Director of International Officer of SUEZ.
Power in July 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2008.
He resigned in February 2011 following the Jean-Franois Cirelli 53 Combination.
In 2010 Alan joined the Supervisory Board Non-Executive Director of Heidelberg Cement AG, having previously been on the Jean-Franois Cirelli was appointed to the Board of companys Managing Board until the end of 2008.
Prior to this, International Power in February 2011 following the he was the Chief Executive of Hanson PLC from April 2002 to Combination.
A former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer October 2007. of Gaz fide France, he was appointed Vice Chairman and President of GDF SUEZ in July 2008.
John Roberts 65 Non-Executive Director Isabelle Kocher 45 John Roberts became a Non-Executive Director of International Non-Executive Director Power on 18 May 2006.
He was Chairman of the Remuneration Isabelle Kocher was appointed to the Board of International Committee.
He resigned in February 2011 following the Power in December 2011.
She has been Executive Vice Combination.
He was previously Chief Executive of United President, Chief Financial Officer of GDF SUEZ since October Utilities PLC, a position he held for over six years.
Before that, 2011, prior to which she was Managing Director of Lyonnaise he was Chief Executive of Hyder Utilities and of Manweb.
She joined the SUEZ Group in 2002, in charge of a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Institution of strategic overview.
Engineering and Technology, and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
John is Chairman of the Royal Bank of Additional Directors who served during 2011 Canada Europe Limited and Halite Energy Group Limited.
John is also the Chairman of BlackRock New Energy Executive Directors Investment Trust.
Tony Concannon 48 Executive Director, Australia Struan Robertson 62 Tony Concannon was appointed to the Board in January 2004 Non-Executive Director and resigned from the Board in February 2011 following the Struan Robertson became a Non-Executive Director of Combination.
He was the Executive Director responsible for International Power on 1 October 2004.
He was Chairman of managing all aspects of performance in the Australia region, the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
He resigned in including plant operations, finance, energy trading and business February 2011 following the Combination.
He was Group Chief development.
He remains a member of the Executive Team.
Executive of Wates Group Ltd until January 2004.
Before that he was Executive Chairman of BP Asia Pacific.
He is Senior Bruce Levy 56 Independent Director at Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust Executive Director, North America plc and Salamander Energy plc, Chairman of Eredene Capital Bruce Levy was appointed to the Board in June 2005 and plc and a Non-Executive Director of Group 5, which is listed on resigned in February 2011 following the Combination.
He was the JSE in South Africa.
the Executive Director responsible for all aspects of performance in North America, including plant operations, finance, energy Grard Lamarche 50 trading and business development.
He continued to provide Non-Executive Director consultancy to the Company on its North American business Grard Lamarche was appointed to the Board of International until he left the Company in November 2011.
Power in February 2011 following the Combination.
He was Chief Financial Officer of GDF SUEZ from July 2008 to Steve Riley 50 September 2011, prior to which he was Senior Executive Vice Executive Director, Europe President and CFO of the SUEZ Group.
Grard Lamarche was Steve Riley was appointed to the Board in January 2004 appointed as a Director of the Board of Groupe Bruxelles and resigned from the Board in February 2011 following the Lambert GBL in April 2011 and joined the Executive Combination.
He was the Executive Director responsible for Management of GBL as Managing Director from 1 January managing all aspects of performance in the European region, 2012.
He resigned as a Non-Executive Director of International including plant operations, finance, energy trading and Power in December 2011. business development.
