2011 has been a successful year for International Power with Statement from Philip Cox the completion of the Combination with GDF SUEZ Energy International.
Following the Combination, our enlarged portfolio Chief Executive Officer of assets has performed well and our financial results were of International Power plc in line with expectations, demonstrating the strength of our international portfolio.
We also made good progress on our growth projects, with several new projects commencing operation during the year and we continue to develop our strong pipeline of new projects in fast growing markets.
Our merchant markets in the more mature economies generally saw both relatively low power prices and margins, driven by continued low industrial demand and low gas prices, particularly in North America and the UK.
We did see some encouraging signs in two of our key North American markets, Texas and PJM, where exceptionally hot weather in the summer drove very high air conditioning demand, resulting in good margins for our flexible and efficient generation in both the short-term and year ahead markets.
Our retail business and our LNG business in North America also did well, the latter benefiting from LNG sales into the higher priced Asian markets.
Australia has proven a relatively robust economy, but again electricity demand from customers was impacted by mild weather, resulting in lower prices.
The carbon legislation in Australia has now been passed by parliament as expected, meaning that the carbon trading scheme is scheduled for introduction in July 2012.
Our long-term contracted capacity, located principally in the emerging markets of Latin America, the Middle East and Asia, all achieved high levels of plant availability, which is the primary driver of profitability in these markets.
These emerging markets are characterised by a combination of growing economies, young and growing populations, and rising per capita electricity consumption as these economies develop.
The key priorities for our Group going forward are to continue to maintain excellent operating and safety standards, to complete our projects under construction successfully, to deliver synergies from the Combination, to create value from further growth in the most attractive projects across our global markets and to realise value from recovery in our merchant markets.
Operational excellence is a constant focus for all our regional teams and we ensure best practice is shared across the entire portfolio.
The integration of the two businesses has progressed very well and, through good and detailed planning, we have been operating as one business from the date of the Combination.
04 International Power Annual Report 2011 Group overview Our major construction programme represents some 5.9GW Growth in value will come not only from expansion in generation of net capacity and will be largely completed by the end of capacity, but also from recovery in our merchant markets.
Our new build programme is principally focused in have strong positions in selected markets, principally in North Latin America, the Middle East and Asia, and comprises hydro, America, the UK and Australia.
All three are at a relatively low gas, coal and onshore wind technologies.
We have extensive point in their market cycles, and this in itself represents a future experience in managing large-scale construction programmes, material earnings upside.
The drivers of recovery are principally and overall we continue to make good progress.
We reported industrial demand, given that domestic demand has been a delay at the Jirau hydro project in Brazil but construction reasonably resilient, and enforced plant retirements in response is progressing and the phased commissioning of units is to environmental regulation.
We have efficient and flexible expected to start in the second half of 2012. plants that are well placed to benefit from market recovery.
The forecast synergies target of 103 million in 2011 was A strong balance sheet is very important to be successful in our exceeded by some 30%, delivering 135 million in synergy capital-intensive industry, particularly at this time of global financial savings.
For 2016 our target of 215 million was raised by some uncertainty.
We are well positioned, with a high quality earnings 5% to 225 million and we expect to deliver this revised target stream, consistently strong free cash flow generation, and a high within our original cost estimate.
The integration of the two level of corporate liquidity.
This has resulted in an investment businesses has progressed well and, through good and grade credit rating from both Standard & Poors and Moodys.
detailed planning, we have been operating as one business from Together with the committed credit facility from GDF SUEZ and the date of the Combination.
We continue to explore all ways of our strong bank relationships, this means that we have excellent maximising efficiencies and value from the wider GDF SUEZ group.
access to competitively priced finance.
This not only enables us to create value within our existing business, but also represents Our business development teams continue to be very active a competitive advantage in terms of growth opportunities.
in pursuing growth opportunities as we look to leverage our strong regional market positions.
We continue to see growth The success of the Combination is testament to the opportunities in the emerging markets.
It is within emerging commitment of all our employees, who responded superbly to markets, backed by secure long-term offtake contracts, that the challenges during 2011.
I would like to thank all employees we expect to concentrate our greenfield new-build programme, for their continued hard work and enthusiasm over the last year.
alongside carefully targeted renewable investments in a We have outstanding international experience and operational number of our markets.
Selective acquisitions will also be expertise across the business and this depth of talent is a very reviewed across our regional markets where we are confident important factor for the sustained success of the Group.
We continue to maintain a disciplined process to evaluate the performance of our existing portfolio, in order to identify opportunities to recycle capital and redeploy it at superior Philip Cox returns.
Our investment review process is rigorous and encourages a healthy competition for capital where we target only the best projects, focusing on risk adjusted financial returns, after careful evaluation of the regulatory, market, and operational environment.
Our prime focus will be projects which offer the best financial returns, in markets which provide long-term growth potential and encourage inward investment, and where we can add value from our in-depth operational experience.
