G N I N N A L P C R E 10 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew our worK Delivering every day around you DuCAB-Hv AlBert BrIDge To satisfy the UAEs continued Albert Bridge is one of only 12 bridges development and demand for power, the across the Thames in central London, region had become dependent on imported used by 16,000 vehicles a day.
How did we help to address this we keep the bridge open when corrosion issue, using entirely local resources?
DUCAB-HV is a joint venture comprising three key national Located in the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, stakeholders.
It was established to develop a high-voltage cable Albert Bridge has been a vital transport link - and London manufacturing plant in Jebel Ali, 35km south-west of Dubai.
The 220m-long structure was beautiful but not strong, and had been subject to traffic load restrictions The 40 million construction project has been delivered entirely for much of its life.
To stay open, new regulations demanded an through our associate company in the UAE, Khansaheb Civil upgrade from its 2-tonne limit to 7.5 tonnes.
Located on a 22,000m waterfront area the this challenge.
development consists of factory buildings, offices, an extra-highvoltage test laboratory, utility buildings, two large substations A 3-D analysis of the structure revealed the corrosion to be housing 19 transformers and associated infrastructure.
At even more severe than previous assessments suggested.
We the heart of the facility are two cable-manufacturing towers needed a strengthening and repair solution that would both approximately 45m and 150m 44 storeys high respectively, save the bridge and overcome a number of constraints.
These making this what is believed to be the tallest industrial included limitations on materials and strengthening details imposed structure in the region.
Unlike other high-rises, the buildings by the Grade II listed status and handling of contaminated are each effectively just one large core, with slabs inside the waste including existing lead paint.
We also had to ensure that structure rather than around it.
Building them involved a unique Londoners could go about their business around us, including construction process, enabled by the design expertise of our working over and adjacent to other works and keeping the Equipment Services division and the use of its Tru-Lift selfbridge open to pedestrians throughout the repairs.
lifting core-forming system for the first time in the Middle East.
The repair programme involved several key stakeholders The completed Ducab High Voltage Cable Systems plant can including Transport for London, the Port of London Authority now manufacture enough high-voltage cables to meet the and English Heritage.
We made 750 separate steelwork repairs demands of the whole UAE and the wider Gulf region in times and replaced the entire running surface with new steelwork.
Its main customers include the utilities providers, big then repainted the bridge three coats of paint in seven different industrial users of cables, and oil and gas companies.
colours and replaced the old electrical fittings with over 4,000 lights and more than 6km of cabling.
This substantial project has provided an essential facility for the region and demonstrates our ability to deliver local projects with The work was completed with minimum disruption and we local expertise and our continued commitment to commercial are proud to have restored this historic bridge to its original growth in the Gulf.
splendour, fit for modern-day use and for generations to come.
A T I N G G N I G A N A M ovERvIEw BUsINEss REvIEw GovERNANCE fINANCIAL sTATEMENTs Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew our worK 11 we can be proud of the level of workmanship in the restoration of Albert Bridge.
It proved even more challenging than we originally thought as we discovered much worse corrosion to the iron and steel.
the amount of work has been truly monumental with over 10,000 bolts, 40,000 litres of paint and 1,000 tonnes of grit used.
I hope that residents and all bridge-users now appreciate the need for the work we carried out for surely, when lit up, the Albert Bridge is one of the most beautiful night-time sights in london.
CoUNCILLoR NICk PAGET-BRowN DEPUTy LEADER AND CABINET MEMBER foR TRANsPoRT, RoyAL BoRoUGH of kENsINGToN & CHELsEA G G N N I I N N N N A A L L P P C R E 12 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew our worK Delivering every day around you sIno Iron projeCt DeFenCe InFrAstruCture orgAnIsAtIon Mining iron ore requires significant upfront British military bases are located all over investment in infrastructure and the speed the world, defending our overseas of return on the capital outlay is critical.
territories and playing a major role in so how do you help get a new mine ready global security.
But who takes care of for operations in the shortest time possible the essential services the military needs especially when its 1,500km away from to carry out its role protecting us?
Interserve has been trusted for a number of years to support With an estimated value of $5.2 billion, CITIC Pacifics SINO Iron British military bases on Ascension Island, Cyprus and the project is the largest magnetite mining and processing facility in Falklands on behalf of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Australia.
Time is money and CITIC has deadlines to meet whilst DIO - part of the MoD responsible for managing and maintaining building the mine.
At peak construction there were around 4,000 the military estate.
Our record in delivering mechanical, electrical people on site.
and building-related support services gives more than 50,000 personnel the reassurance that theyll always receive the specialist We were awarded the contract based on the excellent support they need, sometimes in very challenging circumstances.
productivity levels of our Alshor Plus falsework system in Our ability to respond to emergencies and unexpected changes is conjunction with our formwork designs.
These were used to fundamental to the peace of mind we provide.
speed up construction of the Area 20 Concentrator Stockpile Tunnel.
The main core of this tunnel is approximately 325m long, Our strong track record and in-depth understanding of both the with six 55m feeder tunnels running perpendicular to the core requirements of the serving soldier and the MoD were key factors and two approach tunnels each 40m long.
when we won a new set of contracts in 2011 to continue our work in these locations and to take on similar activities in Gibraltar as Our greatest challenge, however, was the logistics involved in well.
The contracts are worth some 300 million over five years getting materials and equipment to the mine.
The project is with the possibility of extensions for two more.
located at Cape Preston, 100km from the nearest town and 1,500km from our Perth depot.
Perth sourced equipment from In addition to our core support services, in Gibraltar we will also throughout Australia and our worldwide network of depots, and deliver additional specialist marine work and nuclear services.
delivered it in time to meet the clients strict time frames on the On Ascension Island our extended role includes provision of build.
facilities management services including logistics, catering, aircraft handling, flight planning and site security.
When construction on the mine is completed it will produce in the region of 140 million tonnes of magnetite each year.
We are Equally important for the MoD, we are providing value for money delighted with the role we have played in getting the site ready and delivering More for Less.
By delivering a single, strategic, UKfor operation on time.
based management structure and a bundled package of services for all the territories, we have created efficiencies and significant cost savings to the DIO.
A T I N G G G N N I I G G A A N N A A M M ovERvIEw BUsINEss REvIEw GovERNANCE fINANCIAL sTATEMENTs Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew our worK 13 our strong track record and in-depth understanding of the Defence Infrastructure organisations requirements enables us to carry out their activities in sometimes very difficult circumstances.
ADRIAN RINGRosE CHIEf ExECUTIvE, INTERsERvE
