06 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew our mArkets Interserve operates in the outsourced services and construction markets in the uk and internationally.
our markets UK InTErnaTIonal outsourCeD servICes The FM market which represents almost all international markets for The market includes facilities only a fraction of our addressable outsourcing are significantly less management FM i. e. activities support services market is the developed than the UK.
UK providers concerned both with maintaining largest in Europe.
It is estimated at therefore have an opportunity to buildings or estates and with 19 billion, with a further 13 billion use their experience to enter these supplying services to people of services still currently undertaken markets at an advantage.
using the facilities as well as in-house source: Frost and Sullivan.
a broader range of services We have capitalised on our presence for specific groups, such as In a fragmented market with many in the Middle East construction employment assistance, waste small players, Interserve is among the market, using it as a base from which management, prison operation leaders Frost and Sullivan estimated we have been able to introduce our and training.
support services in several countries.
These include conventional building The UK leads the way in the adoption repairs, plant maintenance, health Our particular skills are in of modern outsourcing and coand safety training, and assurance the design, management and sourcing concepts.
The trend is services in the oil and gas field.
towards both bundling where a single provider provides several services The Middle East outsourcing market and integrating where the provider is only now emerging, following the also manages the whole package and significant increase in infrastructure advises the client on how best to run development over recent years.
ConstruCtIon UK InTErnaTIonal as a contractor we undertake a range our main international markets are Our focus is on long-term, of projects, from large strategic in the Middle East and australia.
repeat business with clients developments such as Sandwell We have construction operations in who know they can rely on us to College see page 18 to framework Qatar, the UaE and oman, and our deliver what they need.
agreements where we deliver a Equipment Services business is also We have two areas of expertise: programme of work spread across present there, as well as in Saudi several locations and over a period of arabia, australia and a number of as a contractor, taking time.
responsibility for the construction of buildings and We are thus insulated to some although we are active across a infrastructure: and extent from the effects of the current variety of sectors in all our locations, contraction in the UK construction our focus in our primary markets is: as a designer and provider of market.
specialised shoring equipment Qatar: buildings and infrastructure used in creating concrete The UK construction industry is worth supporting the oil and gas industry structures.
some 83 billion, over 5 per cent of UaE: infrastructure: hospitality and the countrys GDP source: Business leisure Monitor International.
approximately 16 per cent of this is in infrastructure Saudi arabia: government buildings and 84 per cent in building.
and infrastructure australia: mining and infrastructure OvervieW business revieW gOvernance Financial sTaTeMenTs Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew our mArkets 07 our markets where our growth comes from our market outlook UK InTErnaTIonal Both central and local government, Given their relative immaturity, as well as large private sector Middle Eastern outsourcing markets organisations, are increasingly should grow substantially over the looking to comprehensive coming years.
outsourcing certainly outsourcing arrangements as a way in relation to the built environment of reducing costs while maintaining or and infrastructure tends to follow improving service levels.
construction, and the extent of construction that has taken place The trend towards integration in over the last few years is driving an outsourcing is likely to lead to more increasing requirement for planned contracts being awarded to the major asset management and maintenance.
suppliers of which Interserve is one.
By virtue of our construction-based presence in a number of markets, we have the opportunity to introduce support services more widely and emulate our success in Qatar.
UK InTErnaTIonal Market forecasts vary.
The consensus Qatars construction output is is for a decline during 2012 and into forecast to grow at a compound 2013 and recovery thereafter.
Private rate of 7.9 per cent per annum up sector recovery is expected to lead to 2016 source: Business Monitor the public sector.
We anticipate an increase in demand from 2013.
The We believe that our strategy compound forecast for the UaE is of working through long-term 5.5 per cent for the same period, relationships and of maintaining our Saudi arabia 4.5 per cent and oman capabilities through the short term 6.4 per cent source: BMI.
will leave us in good shape to benefit from the resumption of growth when We expect that the solid construction the market turns.
demand in the australian mining and infrastructure sectors will continue in the short-to-medium term, while the commercial sector is likely to remain subdued.
