44 38 Interser Interserve Annu five AnnuA Al l r repor eport 2011 t 2011 Govern GovernA Ance nce DI DIrectors rectors repor report t No shares were issued during the year.
The Companys issued Directors report share capital at the end of the year stood at 125,804,346 2010: 125,804,346 ordinary shares of 10p each The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable 12,580,434.60 2010: 12,580,434.60.
There has been no assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
It uses change since the year end.
the Chairmans Statement and the explanation of the Companys business model, markets and strategy on pages 2 to 9, the Details of outstanding awards and options over shares in the Business Review which includes the Chief Executives Q&A, Company as at 31 December 2011 are set out in notes 25 and Operational Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, Financial 27 to the financial statements on pages 99 and 100 respectively.
Review and Sustainability Review on pages 14 to 35 and the Section 618 of the 2006 Act provides the rules governing the Corporate Governance report on pages 44 to 51 which are sub-division and consolidation of shares.
incorporated in and form part of this Directors Report to assist with this.
Issue of shares The directors responsibility for the preparation of the Annual Section 551 of the 2006 Act provides that the directors may not Report and Financial Statements and the statement by the allot shares unless empowered to do so by the shareholders.
A auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out on resolution giving such authority was passed at the AGM held on pages 63 and 64, respectively, of this Annual Report.
This authority was not used during the year.
Group results AnD DIvIDenDs In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, the directors propose Resolution 18 set Financial reporting out in the Notice of AGM to renew the authority granted to them The Groups Consolidated Income Statement set out on page 65 at the 2011 AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal shows an increase in Group profit before taxation to value of one-third of the Companys issued share capital plus a 67.1 million 2010: 64.1 million.
The detailed results of the further one-third i. e. two-thirds in all where the allotment is in Group are given in the financial statements on pages 65 to connection with a rights issue.
107 and further comments on divisional results are given in the Under section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the directors wish to Operational Review on pages 16 to 21.
There have been no post allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to an balance sheet events that require disclosure or adjustment in the employee share scheme they must first offer them to existing financial statements.
shareholders in proportion to their holdings a pre-emptive offer.
Dividends Resolution 19 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as a special resolution in order to renew the directors authority An interim dividend of 6.0p per 10p ordinary share 2010: 5.6p to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights to existing was paid on 25 October 2011.
By restricting such authority to an aggregate final dividend of 13.0p per 10p ordinary share, making a total nominal value of no more than 5 per cent of the Companys distribution for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 19.0p total issued equity capital, the Company will be in compliance per 10p ordinary share 2010: 18.0p.
Subject to approval of with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on Principles.
16 May 2012, the final dividend will be paid on 24 May 2012 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business Shareholders should note that the Listing Rules of the Financial on 10 April 2012.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on Services Authority do not require shareholders specific approval 4 April 2012. for each issue of shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis to the extent that under section 570 of the 2006 Act the provisions The Companys dividend reinvestment plan will continue to be of section 561 are disapplied generally.
If given, this authority available to eligible shareholders.
Further details of the plan are will expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company.
The set out in the Shareholder Information section on page 128.
Principles also request that in any rolling three-year period a EES Trustees International Limited, the trustee of the Interserve company does not make non-pre-emptive issues for cash or of Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, waived its right to receive equity securities exceeding 7.5 per cent of the companys issued a dividend over 1,089,702 shares held by the Trust in the name share capital without prior consultation with shareholders.
The of Greenwood Nominees Limited in respect of the dividend percentage of shares issued by the Company on a non-prepaid in June 2011 June 2010: 2,665 shares and 1,083,263 emptive basis in the period 2009 to 2011 pursuant to employee shares in respect of the dividend paid in October 2011 share schemes calculated by reference to the Companys closing October 2010: 1,092,328 shares.
issued share capital at 31 December 2011, was 0.63 per cent.
shAre cApItAl Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share schemes, the directors have no current plans to make use of General the authorities sought by Resolutions 18 and 19 although they The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act abolished the consider their renewal appropriate in order to retain maximum requirement for companies to have an authorised share capital flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they and shareholder approval was obtained at the 2010 AGM to arise.
take advantage of this deregulating measure.
Accordingly, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2011 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
All shares rank equally and are fully paid.
No person holds shares carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce DIrectors report 39 repurchase of shares The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the 2006 The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person.
He passed at the 2011 AGM to repurchase up to 12,580,434 of she may, however, have a right under an agreement with the the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The shares may registered shareholder holding the shares on his her behalf to be purchased at a price ranging between the nominal value be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
for each share and an amount equal to the higher of i 105 per Alternatively, if a Nominated Person does not have such a right, cent of the average of the middle-market price of an ordinary or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under share for the five business days immediately preceding the date such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest independent current bid on the London Stock In accordance with section 327 of the 2006 Act, in order to be Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
This authority valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM on 16 May 2012. or any proxy registered electronically in relation to any general No shares have been repurchased by the Company under the meeting must be delivered to the Companys registrars not later authority granted at the 2011 AGM.
than 48 hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
In calculating the 48 hour period no Resolution 20 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working a special resolution in order to renew this authority.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in the directors have no immediate plans to do so, they believe respect of the 2012 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM.
it is prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to be able to act if circumstances were to arise in which they Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached considered such purchases to be desirable.
This power will to any class or classes of shares and to any other provisions only be exercised if and when, in the light of market conditions of the Articles of Association or statutes, on a vote on a prevailing at that time, the directors believe that such purchases resolution at a general meeting on a show of hands every would increase earnings per share and would be for the benefit shareholder present in person, every proxy present who has of shareholders generally.
Any shares purchased under this been duly appointed by one or more shareholders entitled to authority will be cancelled unless the directors determine that vote on the resolution and every authorised representative of they are to be held as treasury shares and the number of a corporation which is a shareholder of the Company entitled shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
to vote on the resolution, shall have one vote.
If a proxy has been duly appointed by more than one shareholder and has Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in treasury, been instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares purchased by for the resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to the Company out of distributable profits to be held as treasury vote against it, that proxy shall have one vote for and one vote shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used against the resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder present in to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
The authority sought by this resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting shall be shares in accordance with the Treasury Shares Regulations.
decided on a show of hands unless the notice of the meeting specifies that a poll will be called on such resolution or a poll is rIGhts AttAchInG to shAres before the resolution is put to the vote on a show of hands or General on the declaration of the results of the show of hands directed by the Chairman or demanded in accordance with the Articles The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the of Association.
2006 Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles can be obtained on request from the Company If a person fails to give the Company any information required Secretary.
The Articles may only be changed by special by a notice served on him by the Company under section 793 of resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on a show the 2006 Act which confers upon public companies the power of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders or proxies to require information to be supplied in respect of a persons present at the meeting to be in favour of the resolution or, on a interests in the Companys shares then the Company may, no poll, at least three-quarters in nominal value of the votes cast by sooner than 21 days later, and after warning that person, serve shareholders or their proxies to be in favour of the resolution.
a disenfranchisement notice upon the shareholder registered as the holder of the shares in respect of which the section A shareholder whose name appears on the register of 793 notice was given.
Unless the information required by the members may choose whether those shares are evidenced by section 793 notice is given within 14 days, such holder will not share certificates certificated form or held in electronic form be entitled to receive notice of any general meeting or attend uncertificated in CREST.
any such meeting of the Company and shall not be entitled to exercise, either personally or by proxy, the votes attaching to voting such shares in respect of which the disenfranchisement notice Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder has been given unless and until the information required by the is entitled to attend or appoint another person as his section 793 notice has been provided.
representative a proxy to attend and to exercise all or any of his rights to speak, ask questions and vote at any general meeting of the Company.
A shareholder may also appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
40 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce DIrectors report MoDIFIcAtIon oF rIGhts General meetings No business may be transacted at a general meeting unless a If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different quorum is present consisting of not less than two shareholders classes of shares, the rights attached to any class or any of such present in person or by proxy or by two duly authorised rights may be modified, abrogated, or varied either: representatives of a corporation.
Two proxies of the same a with the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of the issued shareholder or two duly authorised representatives of the same shares of that class: or corporation will not constitute a quorum.
b with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate An AGM must be called on at least 21 days clear notice.
All general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
other general meetings are also required to be held on at least 21 days clear notice unless the Company offers shareholders The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
class or by the terms upon which such shares are for the time The directors are proposing Resolution 21 set out in the Notice being held be deemed to be modified or varied by the creation of AGM to renew the authority obtained at last years AGM to or issue of further shares ranking pari passu therewith.
reduce the notice period for general meetings other than AGMs The Company may, by ordinary resolution, convert any paid-up to at least 14 days.
It is intended that this shorter notice period shares into stock, and reconvert any stock into paid-up shares will only be used for non-routine business and where merited in of any denomination.
the interests of shareholders as a whole.
trAnsFer oF shAres The business of an AGM is to receive and consider the accounts and balance sheets and the reports of the directors and There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in auditors, to elect directors in place of those retiring, to elect the Company, or on the size of a shareholders holding, which auditors and fix their remuneration and to declare a dividend.
are both governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
In accordance with the Listing, Prospectus, and Providing that notice is given to the Company no later than six Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services weeks before an AGM or no later than the date on which the Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of notice of an AGM is given, shareholders representing at least the Company to deal in its shares.
5 per cent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders who have a right to vote at the AGM or at least 100 shareholders who The Company is not aware of any agreements between have that right and who hold shares in the Company on which shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of there has been paid up an average sum per shareholder of at securities or on voting rights.
least 100, may require the Company to include an item in the Subject to the 2006 Act, the directors may refuse to register any business to be dealt with at the AGM.
transfer of any share which is not fully paid whether certificated Dividends or uncertificated, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealing in shares in the Company from taking place on an open Subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, the Company may, and proper basis.
by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the shareholders but the amount of the dividend may not exceed The directors may also decline to register the transfer of any the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly also pay interim dividends on any class of shares on any dates stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate and in any amounts and in respect of any periods as appear of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as to the directors to be justified by the distributable profits of the the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the Company.
transferor to make the transfer.
liquidation Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted through CREST and the directors can refuse to register transfers in If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the sanction accordance with the regulations governing the operation of of a special resolution of the Company, and any other sanction CREST.
required by law, divide amongst the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, for such All share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any property AppoIntMent AnD replAceMent oF DIrectors to be divided and may determine how such division shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes of The Board must comprise of not less than three and no shareholders.
The liquidator may also transfer the whole or any more than twelve directors.
Directors may be appointed by part of such assets to trustees to be held in trust for the benefit shareholders by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
No shareholder can be compelled to accept information regarding the re-election of directors can be found any shares or other securities which would give him any liability.
on page 47 in the Corporate Governance report.
No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand, the Company has been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election together with a notice executed by that person of his willingness to be elected.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce DIrectors report 41 The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special The directors do not have any interest in any other Group notice has been given in accordance with section 312 of the company, other than as directors.
No director has, or has had, 2006 Act, remove any director before the expiration of his period a material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during the of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person year under review in any contract significant to the Companys in his stead.
DIrectorAte AnD DIrectors Interests On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension AnD InDeMnItIes Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the The following unless otherwise noted have been directors Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme throughout the year: indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken out by the trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities cannot Lord Blackwell Group Chairman be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out by the Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive 1 trustee.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity remains in Patrick Balfour force at the date of this report and is available for inspection by Les Cullen shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Steven Dance Tim Haywood In January 2011 an indemnity was given to the trustees of the Keith Ludeman Douglas Group Compass Pension Plan for any claim, costs, Bruce Melizan loss, damages and expenses which may be made against David Paterson them or which they may pay or incur save as a consequence Dougie Sutherland of breach of trust committed knowingly and intentionally or as a David Thorpe result of negligence in connection with the administration of the David Trapnell Senior Independent Director Plan and the winding-up of the Plan.
Two of the trustees were Non-executive director.
also directors of one or more Group subsidiary companies.
This 1 Mr Balfour retired from the Board on 18 May 2011.
Plan was formally wound up on 7 January 2011.
On 1 January 2011, David Paterson and Dougie Sutherland were In January 2012 an indemnity was given to the trustees of appointed as executive directors and Keith Ludeman as a nonthe Interserve Retirement Plan against all and any claims, executive director.
costs, damages and expenses which may be made against them or which they may pay or incur in connection with their Patrick Balfour retired from the Board following the conclusion administration of the Plan and the winding-up of the Plan other of the 2011 AGM.
He was succeeded as Senior Independent than liabilities arising as a consequence of breach of trust Director by David Trapnell, and David Thorpe took over from committed knowingly and intentionally.
One of the trustees was Mr Trapnell as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
also a director of various Group subsidiary companies.
This Plan The directors acknowledge the new Corporate Governance was formally wound up on 31 January 2012.
Code provision which encourages board members to stand for substAntIAl shAreholDInGs annual re-election at the AGM and for the first time at the AGM on 16 May 2012 each director will submit himself for re-election.
As at 31 December 2011 the Company had been notified of the following interests in the voting rights over shares, as shown in The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, the table below.
ordinary shares in the Company at the year end are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 62 of this Between the year end and the date of this report, the Company Annual Report and Financial Statements.
has been notified that the interest of Standard Life Investments Ltd in the voting rights over shares has decreased to 6,260,305 Between the year end and the date of this report, Steven Dance, shares 4.98 per cent of total voting rights.
David Paterson, Adrian Ringrose and Dougie Sutherland have notified the Company that they have purchased an additional 82 shares each pursuant to the Interserve Share Incentive Plan 2009.
Further details are disclosed on page 59 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There have been no further changes in the shareholdings of the directors who held office at the year end.
substAntIAl shAreholDInGs As At 31 DeceMber 2011 Number of % of total Nature of Name of holder ordinary shares voting rights holding Henderson Global Investors Ltd 9,779,596 7.77 Indirect JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 6,907,455 5.49 Indirect Sageview Capital MGP, LLC 6,408,365 5.09 Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 6,325,629 5.03 Direct and indirect Prudential plc group of companies 5,711,710 4.54 Direct Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 5,312,017 4.22 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 4,550,350 3.62 Direct and indirect 42 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce DIrectors report DIversIty sIGnIFIcAnt AGreeMents chAnGe oF control provIsIons our Diversity policy states: The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling Diversity in all its forms is fundamental to the Groups business.
the counter parties to exercise termination rights in the event of a We operate in a variety of environments and geographies, in change of control in the Company: numerous roles, for a wide range of clients.
To do this effectively Under the terms of the banking facility agreements listed we need an equally diverse workforce that understands our on page 26 of the Financial Review, if any person, or group customers needs and stimulates innovative solutions.
of persons acting in concert, gains control of the Company Interserve values the benefits it gains from an international any lender i is no longer obliged to fund any loan, save for workforce with a rich diversity of skills, cultural backgrounds a rollover loan: and ii may, by not less than 15 days notice, and gender.
Our goal is to recruit, motivate, develop and retain cancel its commitment under the facility and declare its outstanding people that reflect that diversity.
We are committed participation in all outstanding loans, together with accrued to ensuring that every employee has equal opportunity to interest and all other amounts payable under the facility, develop and progress at every level in the organisation based immediately due and repayable.
on personal contribution and ability, with the aim over time of realising the benefits of diversity in the development of our The Groups share schemes also contain provisions relating to management and executive leadership.
We will continue to the vesting and exercising of awards options in the event of a monitor the extent to which our staff believe we are meeting this change of control of the Group.
objective and are committed to taking action where necessary There are no provisions in the directors service agreements nor or helpful to promote equal opportunity.
in any employees contracts providing for compensation for loss of office or employment occurring because of a takeover.
The Group Board believes that diversity can bring insights and behaviours that make a valuable contribution to its performance.
chArItAble AnD polItIcAl DonAtIons In considering new members, we will aim to select individuals best able to contribute to an effective, challenging and cohesive Charitable donations made by the Company during the Board by blending a diversity of skills, experience, knowledge, year amounted to 40,610 2010: 40,785.
Details of the independence, cultural background and gender.
Given beneficiaries of donations are given on page 33 in the charitable constraints on the size of the Board, this will be achieved by giving section of the Sustainability Review.
taking into account the overall contribution to diversity alongside No political donations were made during the period other desired characteristics in new appointments rather than by 2010: nil.
It is not the Companys policy to make cash setting specific targets on any single dimension of diversity.
We donations to political parties.
This policy is strictly adhered to would expect this to lead to greater diversity on the Group Board and there is no intention to change it.
However, the definitions and divisional boards over time.
We will monitor our success used in the 2006 Act for political donation and political in developing the diversity of the Board as part of our annual expenditure remain very broad, which may have the effect of evaluation of Board effectiveness.
covering a number of normal business activities that would not be considered political donations or political expenditure in the Our Construction business was the first construction company usual sense.
These could include support for bodies engaged to be awarded the Investors in Diversity accreditation by the in law reform or governmental policy review or involvement in National Centre for Diversity.
seminars and functions that may be attended by politicians.
AuDItors To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the 2006 Act, the directors are again seeking shareholder authority at the Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys AGM Resolution 17 to ensure that the Company acts within auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their the provisions of current UK law when carrying out its normal remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
statement on information to auditors creDItor pAyMent polIcy Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms with report confirms that: its suppliers and abide by those terms.
Payment becomes due a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of when it can be confirmed that goods and or services have been which the Companys auditors are unaware: and provided in accordance with the relevant contractual conditions.
The Groups trade creditor days at 31 December 2011 were b he has made such enquiries of his fellow directors and of the 82 days 2010: 76 days.
The Companys trade creditor days Companys auditors and has taken such other steps as at 31 December 2011 calculated in accordance with the 2006 were required by his duty as a director of the Company to Act were 19 days 2010: three days.
This represents the exercise due care, skill and diligence in order to make himself ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Company in the year by its suppliers and the amounts due, at that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
the year end, to trade creditors falling due for payment within one year.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce DIrectors report 43 AnnuAl GenerAl MeetInG resolutIons The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on 16 May 2012, together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders and which is also available on our website at www.
Interserve House Approved by the Board of Ruscombe Park directors and signed on Twyford behalf of the Board Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU t bradbury company secretary 29 February 2012 cautionary statement The Directors Report the Report set out above is the management report for the purposes of paragraph 4.1.
8R of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Report has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Listing, Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in the Report.
The directors liability for the Report is limited, as provided in the 2006 Act.
The Companys auditors report to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given in the Report is consistent with the financial statements, but the Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
The Report contains forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forward-looking statements, and such differences may be significant.
Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any forwardlooking statement, resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in this Annual Report and Financial Statements shall be governed by English law.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
