Other Statutory Information In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Directors indemnities the Act and UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to Rules, the following section describes the matters that are attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced required for inclusion in the Directors Report and were approved directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including by the Board.
Further details of matters required to be included the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the in the Directors Report that are incorporated by reference into applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third-party indemnity this report are set out below.
provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act, were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year Directors ended 31 December 2011, for the benefit of the Directors The Directors who held office during the year are set out below.
and, at the date of this report, are in force in relation to certain Vanni Treves Chairman retired 31 December 2011 losses and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer in connection with their duties, powers or office.
Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial Officer Principal activities and business review David Allvey Senior Independent Director The Groups principal activities, business and principal risks and retired 31 December 2011 uncertainties are contained in the Business Review, on pages 6 Edward Astle Non-Executive Director to 35 and the Corporate Governance section, on pages 38 to 44 Alan Brown Non-Executive Director which are incorporated by reference into this report.
appointed 15April 2011 Dividend Gavin Darby Non-Executive Director The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 23.0p per resigned 20May 2011 ordinary share 2010: 18.8p making a full year dividend of 33.7p Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director per ordinary share 2010: 28.1p which will, if approved at the Debra Rade Non-Executive Director AGM, be paid on 22 June 2012 to shareholders on the register retired 31 December 2011 at close of business on 8 June 2012.
Sir David Reid Non-Executive Director appointed 1 December 2011 Share capital Michael Wareing Non-Executive Director The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the appointed 15April 2011 movements in the Companys share capital during the year, are shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
Appointed Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2012.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys report and accounts, The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to set out on page 37. appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
A waiver of dividend The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating exists in respect of 414,770 shares held by the Intertek Group to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors but, Employee Share Ownership Trust at 31 December 2011.
There in accordance with best practice, all directors will stand for are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Directors powers and Articles of Association The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by The Directors are responsible for the management of the the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced Company and their powers to do so are determined by the by means of a special resolution of the Company in a General provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the legislation and by the Companys Articles of Association.
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights Board and general meetings.
Copies are available upon request except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a from the Group Company Secretary and are available at the share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
Further powers are granted by members in There are no arrangements known to the Company by which general meeting and those currently in place are set out in detail financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by within the appropriate section of this report.
a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are there any Directors interests arrangements between holders of securities that may result in Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights Company had a personal interest in any business transactions known to the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid.
of the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange service contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and and may be traded through the CREST system.
share awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 57 Other Statutory Information Allotment of shares Material interests in shares At the AGM held in 2011 the shareholders generally and The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights have unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant been made and have not been amended or withdrawn to the securities up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount Company pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing of issued share capital.
It is the Directors intention to renew Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: this authority in line with guidance issued by the Association t BlackRock Inc. gave notice on 2 December 2010 that they of British Insurers.
The resolution will be set out in the Notice had an indirect interest on 30 November 2010 in 7,965,320 ofAGM.
ordinary shares, representing 4.99% of the ordinary shares Also at the AGM in 2011 the Directors were empowered by in issue at that date.
the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the t Capital Research and Management Company gave notice Companys issued share capital, for cash under section 570 on 1 November 2010 that they had an indirect interest on of the Act.
It is intended that this authority be renewed, up 29 October 2010 in 8,064,491 ordinary shares, representing to 5%, at the forthcoming AGM.
5.06% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
t Legal and General Group plc gave notice on 18 November Purchase of own shares 2009 that they had a direct interest on 17 November 2009 Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company in 6,340,736 ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market ordinary shares in issue on that date.
purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
The Directors will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% Charitable and political donations During 2011 the Group made charitable donations of 117,000 of the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
2010: 103,000 to a wide variety of charities.
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary At the AGM in 2011 shareholders passed a resolution, on a share capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly, that precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
The Directors will donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company expenditure as such terms are defined in the Act not exceeding and its general financial position.
Any shares purchased in this 90,000.
During the year the Group did not make any political way may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, will donations 2010: nil.
It is the Companys policy not, directly or provide the Company with flexibility in the management of its through any subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded share capital.
Where treasury shares are used to satisfy share as donations to any political party.
However, at the forthcoming options or awards, they will be classed as new issue shares for AGM of the Company, shareholders approval will again be the purpose of the 10% limit on the number of shares that sought to authorise the Group to make political donations and or may be issued over a ten-year period under our relevant share incur political expenditure as such terms are defined in Sections plan rules.
Further details of this will be contained Policy and practice on payment of suppliers in the Notice of AGM.
The Group does not follow a single standard on payment Auditors practice but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed with each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with is made accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions being Section 489 of the Act.
The holding company, Intertek Group plc, does not trade and therefore has no trade payables.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the AGM, to be held on 17 May 2012, Significant relationships will be available for download from the Companys corporate The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships website at www.
The Notice will detail the with any single party which are essential to the business of the business to be conducted at the meeting and include information Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed.
concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in Social and community issues relation to voting rights.
We encourage our local managers to foster community links Statement of Disclosure of information to auditors appropriate to the businesses they manage.
Further details The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this are given in our Sustainability and CSR Report on page 35.
Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
