Financial Policies Statement of accounting policies Interest rate risk Translation exposure The Groups Financial Statements The Group is exposed to risk arising from The majority of the Groups operating havebeen prepared in accordance with the effect of changes in floating interest capital is employed in overseas locations International Financial Reporting Standards rates on the level of interest it receives on and is denominated in foreign currencies, IFRSs in issue that are endorsed by the its cash deposits.
As a consequence, European Commission and effective at changes in exchange rates affect both net As at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010, 31March 2011.
The Groups accounting asset values and reported results.
This risk inline with the Group having a net cash policies under IFRSs are set out in the is not hedged directly but, to the extent position, Invensys had no significant accounting policies section in the Group that the Group has debt, any that is held borrowings.
Financial Statements on pages 73 to 80. inforeign currencies would reduce the The Parent Company Financial Statements level of net assets exposed to currency Currency risk have been prepared in accordance with fluctuations.
The interest expense related Transaction exposure UKGenerally Accepted Accounting to such debt would also reduce the level Currency transaction exposure arises when Practice UK GAAP and include details ofearnings exposed to exchange rate the units facerevenue or costs inacurrency ofthe Companys accounting policies.
Theincidence of this risk varies across the Group and is subject Credit risk Treasury policy to change.
However, the majority of The Group monitors the identity of the The Groups treasury policy is approved revenue and costs will usually be in counterparties with whom it deposits cash bythe Board and seeks to ensure that: thefunctional currency of thebusiness and transacts other financial instruments appropriate financial resources are undertaking the transaction.
Where this is soas to control exposure to any territory or available for the maintenance and not the case and the exposure is significant, institution.
As far as it is both feasible and development of the Groups divisions: it is the Groups policy for theunits to hedge practical to do so, cash is held centrally by the financial risk of currency, interest their exposure.
TheGroup predominantly the Treasury department.
Risk is assessed rateand counterparty credit exposure uses forward currency contracts to manage using ratings from major credit rating isunderstood, measured and managed transaction exposure.
The Group is also agencies.
appropriately: and subject to exchange risk when making bids, Further information on the risks arising the Treasury department operates as particularly on major contracts, where from financial instruments is included in acost centre and that no speculative movements against the specific exchange Note 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
rate assumed within abid would lead to a change in the anticipated margin on the Funding, liquidity and treasury contract should the bid be successful.
management Thisexposure to contract risk is hedged Operating within the strict controls of ifsignificant.
theGroups treasury policy, the Treasury department manages this financial risk, ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity are available tomeet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cashflow and bank guarantee variability.
Inaddition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts a flexible approach to liquidity management using a mixture oflong-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Funding is provided by bank facilities whichmature inJuly 2013.
The undrawn level of these facilities together with the Groups cash balances are the key measures of the Groups liquidity.
| 22 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
