Business Review Invensys Controls Markets  electronic NorthAmerica, as customers adjusted For the past four years, Invensys Controls controllers and monitoring system for theirdemand as a result of a slowdown has been successful in managing its therefrigerated cabinets that are used inconsumer demand in the appliance business despite significant reductions extensively by supermarkets.
New segment in the second half.
inproduction volumes in the global products accounted for 10% of revenue Operating profit was 56 million appliance and other markets.
2010:53million, up 3% at CER with the year, we have not seen the major declines As well as capturing the benefits of the effect ofincreased revenue and savings of recent years: indeed, we have seen some restructuring activities that have taken from restructuring being partially offset stabilisation in demand overall, although place over the past three years, the division byraw material price inflation.
Operating demand patterns remain unpredictable has been working with suppliers to alleviate margin was 9.9% 2010: 9.8%.
across several segments and geographies.
some component shortages, some arising Again this year, Invensys Controls The North American appliance and as a consequence of the recent earthquake produced strong operating cash flow of wholesale markets showed significant in Japan, and actively managing raw 74 million 2010: 63 million as a result improvement in the first half of the year material supply costs, particularly for oftight management of working capital.
butthis was followed by a decline in the metals and plastics.
This resulted in a further improvement second half as a fall in consumer The division recently opened a new incash conversion for the year to 132% confidence was exacerbated bysome research and development centre and Asia 2010:119%.
customers reducing inventory in their Pacific regional head office in Shanghai.
However, the North This new centre will help drive our valueAmerican commercial market remained engineering strategy and will support robust throughout the year.
In Europe, regional customer design centres.
theappliance market was broadly flat but we saw some good improvements in the During the year, we disposed of a commercial and wholesale segments.
smallEuropean business that produced South America was down slightly mainly pumpsfor coffee-making machines due to the ending of tax incentives in Brazil.
The Asia Pacific was also broadly flat.
businessproduced annual revenue and Revenue by sector % operating profit of around 15 million Developments .
Appliance 60 Wholesale 22 The divisions focus upon applying its Commercial 18 value-engineered solutions to help its Performance customers produce the most advanced, Invensys Controls produced a resilient efficient and consumer-friendly appliances performance against a backdrop of and products has been reinforced by the weakerthan expected consumer markets creation of a global engineering team.
in the second half of the year.
Order Thisteamis working to create common intakewasdown 3% at CER at 554 million global platforms for certain product 2010:560 million, resulting from a higher lines, capturing the best technology order book at the start of the year in what Revenue by destination % fromeachofits regions.
For example, ismainly a short-cycle business.
Revenue theHydraWater Valve for the global wasup 2% at CER at 567 million 2010: UK 9 residential washing machine market 543 million, reflecting a strong start Rest of Europe 26 North America 45 hasbeen launched andhas been well tothe year, a good performance in South America 12 received by several customers.
Other commercial and wholesale, and the Asia Pacic 7 product lines, such as refrigerator controls benefitof a high level of new product Africa Middle East 1 and electric range controls, are now being introductions.
This was primarily offset developed as global platforms.
In another byaweaker than expected second segment, we have launched a series of halfofthe year, particularly evident in % change % total Year ended 31 March 2011 2010 at CER change Orders m 554 560 3 1 Order book m 59 78 21 24 Revenue m 567 543 2 4 Operating profit m 56 53 3 6 Operating margin % 9.9% 9.8% Operating cash flow m 74 63 14 17 Operating cash conversion % 132% 119% Employees at year end numbers 7,404 7,782 5 | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
