Our Divisions Invensys is a global technology group focussed upon industrial automation, rail transportation and controls.
Invensys Operations Invensys Rail Invensys Controls Management 46% of revenue 31% of revenue 23% of revenue Invensys Operations Management Invensys Rail is a multinational Invensys Controls designs, is a leading global technology, technology leader, providing engineers and manufactures software and consulting business state-of-the-art software-based products, components, systems that creates and applies advanced signalling, communication and and services used in appliances, technologies to enable the safe control systems that enable the heating, air conditioning cooling and efficient operation of safe and efficient operation of and refrigeration products across industrial and commercial trains in mainline and mass transit a wide range of industries in operations such as oil refineries, networks across the world.
residential and commercial fossil fuel and nuclear power markets.
plants, petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites.
com | 04 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview 01.
Invensys Operations Management Invensys Operations Management is Our team ofexperienced systems To address these dynamics we are aleading global technology, software integrators is fundamental to our success combining all our technologies into a andconsulting business that creates inproject delivery and in meeting the single Enterprise Control System ECS.
andapplies advanced technologies to needs of our customers, in particular This industry-first system integrates all enable the safe and efficient operation thosewith the largest and most aspects of plant operations, spanning ofindustrial and commercial operations complexprojects.
DCS, safety systems, decision-support, such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and execution and visibility, in much the same Advanced applications nuclear power plants, petrochemical way that Enterprise Resource Planning Our advanced applications use industryworks and other manufacturing sites.
ERP platforms havedone for back office leading software, technology and systems.
It enables the linking of strategy We offer a holistic and cost-effective way engineering solutions to help our with execution in ways that lead to an tooptimise our customers operational customers to improve and optimise improvement in business performance.
performance and overall profitability theirperformance.
Our SimSci-Esscor byimproving the performance of key simulation software allows existing and Our InFusion ECS, based on our resources including people, equipment, new operators to practice dealing with world-leading Wonderware operations energy and materials in real time and with different scenarios without affecting the management software and over 20years measurable results.
We do so at the same plant, and our Avantis asset management ofexperience in applying it, leverages an time as maintaining our absolute software monitors equipment in a plant open architecture to seamlessly integrate commitment to safety.
toenable predictive maintenance and the Invensys Operations Management replacement to prevent unexpected portfolio, aswellas new andlegacy We have a large global installed base.
Our Wonderware offerings third-party offerings.
Ourcustomers are principally large, provide the platform for open connectivity globalindustrial companies with complex to plant floor systems.
A key factor of many How do we generate revenue?
Our solutions are of our advanced applications is that they Our revenue can be broken down as used by more than 40,000 customers in can operate within plants that use our follows: 60% control and safety, including over 200,000 plants and facilities around competitors systems.
our systems integration capabilities: the world.
We enable the generation of 20%advanced applications: and 20% 20% of the worlds electricity, the refining Equipment equipment.
Our ECS offering is spread of 17% of the worlds crude oil, 36% of the Invensys Operations Management sells across all three product categories.
worlds nuclear energy generation, and the abroad range of equipment used in production of 64% of the worlds liquefied industrial plants, including measurement In recent years, we have been particularly natural gas.
and instrumentation products from our successful in winning large greenfield leading Foxboro brand and our contracts in the oil and gas, petrochemicals Our products and solutions are divided Eurotherm recorders and controllers.
The proportion of into the following categories: our revenue from large contracts, defined Enterprise Control System Control and safety by us as in excess of 10 million, has been In a changing world, profit management Our Foxboro I A Series distributed increasing.
During the year 16% of the isbecoming increasingly challenging.
It is control system DCS, is a world leader in divisions revenue was from large contracts often made all the more so by the different meeting the automation needs of complex compared with 3% in 2010. needs and priorities of the various user integrated systems that control critical or groups within a plant or site: maintenance Our route to market varies by product: hazardous operations and require nonpersonnel focussed on improving asset ourcontrol and safety solution sales are stop operation.
We have a top three effectiveness, operators looking to direct: equipment sales are direct or position in the worlds DCS market based maximise production, and executives indirect: and our advanced applications on the strength of this core brand.
Our looking to achieve visibility across the sales are direct, indirect, or, for our Triconex system is the worlds leading enterprise.
As a consequence, our Wonderware software, often via safety system and is used extensively in customers are experiencing a growing systemsintegrators.
nuclear power stations, petrochemical need to manage their operations plants and oil refineries.
The Triconex holistically and in real time.
system will automatically take over the plant in the event of a problem and bring itback quickly to a safe state.
Our customers include Amcor PET Bodycote Hot Isostatic Chevron Oronite Company Daifuku Co. Ltd. Elbe Tunnel Hanover Compressor Pressing Plant LLC Company AngloGold Ashanti Limited Datang Power ENI Boots UK Limited China Huaneng Group Hawaiian Commercial & Anton Paar Delta BioFuels Eskom Lethabo Power Sugar Company BP China Ministry of Railways Station Aracruz Celulose Pulp Mill DiGeronimo Aggregates Hendrick Motorsports Cairns Water China National Petroleum ExxonMobil Ash Grove Cement Duke Power Corporation Hydro Aluminum Castle Peak Power Gazprom Auto-Bake Eastman Chemical City of Toronto Infineum CF Industries Global Water Management, Bayer CropScience Echelon Corporation Codelco LLC Los Alamos Neutron Chevron Beam Global Spirits & Wine ECM Technologies ConocoPhillips Great Lakes Luminant BEKUM | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
Invensys Operations Management continued What is our strategy?
Expand customer base Our network of technology and Invensys Operations Managements A key tenet of our strategy is to secure distribution partners increases our ability strategy is to support its existing newgreenfield contracts that expand our to develop and deliver value-adding customers, expand its customer base and installed base and provide opportunities technology to our customers.
tobroaden the geographic profile of the tosell additional solutions.
Currently 77% Realise synergies within Invensys division by focussing on high-growth of Invensys Operations Managements It is a strategic aim of the Group to economies.
We will focus on our worldrevenue derives from the oil and gas, capitalise on the technologies within class control and safety systems and on petrochemicals, utilities and power, and Invensys Operations Management to high-margin and faster-growing segments general industries sectors.
Our aim is to broaden our rail capability further.
of themarket such as advanced expand thereach of the division into a applications and in leading the industry broader range of adjacent industries.
Acquisitions inthe rapidly developing market for ECS.
We will continue to make bolt-on Expand geographically The ECS provides the platform to integrate acquisitions to deliver unique technologies Invensys Operations Management is the real-time plant floor into the enterprise that increase the breadth of our offerings, targeting a greater proportion of revenue systems and is a unique differentiator particularly in the areas of control and safety, from the faster-growing economies of Asia forour business.
advanced applications and applications Pacific, the Middle East and South America.
Support existing customers As at 31 March 2011, 60% of the Invensys Continuing to ensure that our installed Operations Management order book was base of existing customers receives to emerging markets.
outstanding service and solutions will be Leading technology an important source of future revenue.
The development of world-class There will be significant opportunities to technology remains core to our strategy.
replace or upgrade controls and safety During the year, Invensys Operations systems, as well as up-sale opportunities Management spent 6% of revenue on toprovide advanced applications and research and development in areas ECS-based solutions.
including enhancements to our DCS and safety platforms, advanced applications and our ECS.
Our customers include continued Meteng Pty Ltd. Orley Foods Puerto Rico Water & Sewage Reliance Texas Instruments Vacuum Furnace Authority Engineering Ltd Mount Packaging Systems PDVSA Salt River Project Thames Valley Police PVC Compounders LLC Valero Energy Corporation Nanjing Rail Pemex Sanofi Pasteur The Body Shop Qatar Petroleum Westshore Terminals New Belgium Brewing Pepsi Bottling Ventures of Sasol The Go Ahead Group Company Idaho R&D Carbon Wuxi Transportation Saudi Aramco The South African Breweries Tunnel System NRG Huntley Power Station Petrobras Rabigh Refining and Limited Shell Petrochemical Company Yamatake Nucor Steel Philadelphia School District The Venetian and Palazzo Southern Nevada Water Petro Rabigh Resort Hotels & Casino Yellow River Conservancy Ontario Clean Water Agency Portland General Electric System RasGas Commission Tucson Electric Power Ontario PG Nanticoke Spokane Water Department Company YPF S. A.
| 06 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview 02.
Invensys Rail Invensys Rail is a multinational How do we generate revenue?
Technology development technologyleader, providing stateRail control is a specialist market within the With signalling and rail control having of-the-art software-based signalling, rail product business as a whole and is a anincreasing role in meeting the communication and control systems that higher-margin segment compared with growingdemands for rail resulting from enable the safe and efficient operation rolling stock and infrastructure.
In the urbanisation and a need for a reduced oftrains in mainline and mass transit majority of cases, the business is projectcarbon footprint, new technology networks acrossthe world.
based and involves long-term contracts implementation remains critical for spread over a number of years.
Our systems and solutions enable our are bid directly with customers, either customers to control rail networks safely, The success of Invensys Rail will independently or through consortia.
increasing capacity at the same time as increasingly be judged on the operational lowering their cost of ownership.
Invensys Rails revenue can be broken value we provide to our customers by down as follows: 47% mainline engineering managing the whole railway system: We operate in a highly regional rail and contracting: 31% mass transit driving up capacity and reducing journey industry, where different geographies engineering and contracting: and 22% times, energy usage and operational costs, frequently have their own operational products.
During the year, 56% of the while maintaining an absolute commitment andsignalling requirements.
Within our divisions revenue was generated from tosafety.
traditional core markets of the UK, Iberia, contracts in excess of 10 million.
North America and Australia we are a We continue to invest in state-of-the-art major supplier of railsignalling systems.
technology and spent 7% ofthe divisions What is our strategy?
revenue on research and development In recent years, we have successfully Invensys Rail has established a leadership during the year.
expanded our business into new markets, position through sustained investment including Brazil, Venezuela, Singapore, inthe research and development of Realise synergies within Invensys Malaysia, China, India, New Zealand and state-of-the-art technology solutions and We will continue to leverage Invensys Turkey.
Our technology is now in use by acommitment to the highest standards Operations Managements technology.
over 100 rail and mass transit operators ofproject execution.
This dual approach Examples to date include safety systems inover 30 countries, including 10 of remains at the heart of our strategy.
We forinterlockings, asset management theworlds 20busiest metropolitan willalso continue to expand geographically fortrains and track, and the use of railsystems.
and realise synergies within Invensys.
Wonderware technology for control roomdisplays andpassenger Our broad systems offering ranges from Expand geographically informationsystems.
highly complex integrated control centres Our four traditional core markets of the that supervise and control complete UK, Iberia, North America and Australia Acquisitions railways, to leading-edge systems for mass account for78% of the divisions revenue: Invensys Rail will seek to make bolttransit for example Communication Based this compares with 90% in 2010. onacquisitions that deliver unique Train Control CBTC, and systems for technologies and or improved Developing countries continue to mainline and high-speed lines for example marketaccess.
accelerate rail investment and over European Rail Traffic Management System thecoming years we expect to increase ERTMS that automate train operation significantly the contribution from other, and protection, to the latest generation faster-growing markets.
44% of the interlockings that ensure safe running divisions order book at 31 March 2011 across a network.
We also provide a related to projects outside our core complete range of trackside products, markets 2010: 44%.
including crossings, point machines, relaysand track circuits.
Our core strengths lie in the breadth and sophistication of our technology, our domain knowledge and our record for commissioning and delivery ofprojects.
Our customers include ADIF MTR Corporation CN Network Rail CPTM QR National KiwiRail RENFE Land Transport WestNet Rail Authority London Underground Madrid Metro | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
Invensys Controls Invensys Controls is a leading global Wholesale Broaden addressable market provider of control devices for products In the wholesale segment, we distribute Invensys Controls plans to expand its inresidential homes and commercial avast array of commercial and residential addressable market by continuing to applications, with strong positions in the products and replacement products for provide a cutting-edge product range.
It has been providing original equipment manufacturers OEMs, During the year, approximately 10% of the customers with leading technology and encompassing thermostats, valves, divisions revenue was derived from new engineering since the early 1900s.
product introductions, up from 9% in 2010.
Our products measure variables, including Working closely with our customers, How do we generate revenue?
temperature and pressure, and control wewillincrease our investment and focus Invensys Controls revenue is generated theoperation and optimisation of the onthe higher-margin commercial and from the sales of OEM components and performance of our customers appliances.
wholesale segments, while also continuing aftermarket replacements.
We supply the to invest inthe appliance segment.
Invensys Controls customers are midto high-end of the home appliance principally comprised of global residential market.
Our successful restructuring and and commercial appliance manufacturers, productivity programme has enabled us but also include wholesalers and What is our strategy?
toprice competitively by increasing our distributors of heating, ventilating, air The heart of our strategy is to drive growth efficiency and lowering cost.
conditioning and refrigeration HVACR through value-engineered solutions and controls and services.
best-in-class global products, manufactured to deliver value toour customers.
By utilising Appliance proven technologies, our innovative designs We design, engineer and manufacture differentiate our solutions in our industries.
components and systems that control the operation of kitchen and other appliances, Support existing customers including cooking, refrigeration, laundry Invensys Controls principal customers and dishwashing, in both the residential operate in the competitive global appliance andcommercial sectors.
We help these customers to maintain a competitive advantage in the We help our customers delight consumers delivery of market-leading appliances.
by enhancing the features of their Wesupply all of the worlds top seven appliances while also exceeding the appliance manufacturers.
energy-saving standards set by the regulating agencies and reducing the Expand geographically rawmaterial content of their products.
Our focus will continue to be on fastgrowing regions such as Asia Pacific Commercial andSouth America where we can We develop products used in commercial maximiseengineering capabilities, refrigeration, cooking, heating, ventilation, optimise products and grow market air conditioning, water heating and share.
Wewillalso expand our wholesale transportation.
We are a leading designer channels furtherinto Europe.
and manufacturer of  products that use the latest inelectronic and mechanical controls toregulate temperature, pressure andhumidity inresidential and light commercial applications.
Our customers include Alladio Crosslees H&V Controls Samsung Arcelik Eliwell Iberica Haier Sub-Zero Wolf B&Q Esmaltec Hydralectric Watkins Spa Berker Fisher & Paykel Jaga Whirlpool Corporation British Gas Frigoglass Johnstone Supply Services Limited Gira Merten Candy GIS Calorex Metalfrio Criotec | 08 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Our Global Reach Invensys is a global technology group supplying solutions, software, services and equipment to monitor, control and automate processes in a wide range of environments and across almost every sector.
From oil refineries to power stations and from railways to domestic appliances, we help our customers to optimise their processes and improve their performance.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
