Governance Directors Report The directors submit their report and Board of directors Directors indemnity and insurance theaudited accounts for the year ended The current directors of the Company In accordance with its Articles of 31March 2011 as set out on pages 66 to andtheir biographical details are given Association, the Company has provided 152 and page 157.
This report should be onpages 38 and 39.
A statement of their toall the directors an indemnity to the read inconjunction with the Corporate remuneration and interests in the ordinary extent permitted by the Companies Act Governance Report on pages 40 to 47. shares of the Company are set out in the 2006 inrespect of liabilities incurred as a Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 60. result oftheir office, and the Company has Principal activities taken outan insurance policy in respect of As previously announced, Ulf Henriksson The principal activities for the year are thoseliabilities.
Neither the indemnity nor stepped down as Chief Executive and as a contained in the Business Review on pages the insurance provides cover in the event director of the Company on 24 March 2011.
The principal subsidiaries which that a director is proved to have acted Wayne Edmunds, who had been Chief contributed to the Groups profit or net dishonestly or fraudulently.
Financial Officer and director of the assets in the year are listed on page 157.
Company since 1 June 2009, succeeded Acquisitions and disposals MrHenriksson as Chief Executive.
David Business Review On 21 April 2010, the Group acquired Thomas was appointed as Acting Chief The Company is required by the 100%ofthe share capital of Skelta Financial Officer on 24 March 2011, but Companies Act 2006 to set out in this Software, aprivately held software hehas not been appointed a statutory report a fair review of the business of the company headquartered in Bangalore, director of the Company.
Group during the financial year ended India, for acash consideration of 31March 2011 and the position of the Deena Mattar will join the Board as a 6.4million.
On 31December 2010, Group at the end of the year.
This review is nonexecutive director and member of theGroup disposed of asmall European contained in the Business Review section theAudit Committee on 19 May 2011. business thatproduced pumps for ofthe Annual Report and Accounts pages coffeemaking machines for acash The rules governing the appointment and 17 to 36, with further commentary onthe consideration of 5.0million.
retirement of directors are contained in the Groups strategy, performance and future Companys Articles of Association, which development in the Chairmans Statement Capital structure provides that any director appointed pages 12 and 13 and the Chief Executives Details of the issued share capital, during the year holds office only until the Statement pages 14 to 16.
The Business togetherwith details of movements in next years AGM and is then eligible for Review includes a description of the theissued share capital of the Company election by the shareholders and that, in principal risks and uncertainties facing during theyear, are shown in Note 27 any case, one third of the directors or if theGroup pages 32 to 36, a discussion of onpages118and 119. their number is not a multiple of three the key financial performance measures pages number nearest to one third shall retire The Company has one class of ordinary 18 to 21, information on our use of financial from office and, if they wish, put themselves shares which carry no right to fixed income.
instruments and a description of our up for reelection by the shareholders.
Each share carries the right to one vote at financial risk management objectives and Thenew UK Code, applicable in respect general meetings of the Company.
The Business Review ofthe Companys financial year beginning Whether or not a shareholder intends to contains the information required for a 1April 2011, recommends that all directors attend the AGM, votes on the resolutions management report as set out in the should seek reelection by shareholders are to be lodged by no later than 48 hours Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Board intends to implement before the meeting takes place.
There are this provision with effect from the AGM no specific restrictions on the size of a Dividend tobe held on 28 July 2011.
Further holding nor on the transfer of shares save The Board has recommended the payment information can be found in the Corporate as detailed on page 62, both of which are of a final dividend for the year of 2.5 pence Governance Report on pages 41 and 43. governed by the general provisions of the per share which, subject to approval by Articles of Association and prevailing shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2011, The Chairmans Letter andNotice legislation.
will be paid on 5 August 2011 to ofAGMexplains the Boards reasons shareholders on the register at 24 June 2011.  regarding The Company operates an employee With an interim dividend of 1.5 pence per thereelection of all directors.
benefit trust in Jersey called the Invensys share paid during the year, the total No.
2 Employee Benefit Trust EBT which The powers of the directors are dividends payable in respect of the year may be used to deliver ordinary shares determined by UK legislation and the ended 31 March 2011 are 4.0 pence per inthe Company under certain executive Articles of Association of the Company, share 2010: 3.0 pence per share.
The EBT together with any specific authorities has an independent trustee which waives We have decided to introduce a dividend thatmay be given to the directors by its rights to dividends and to vote on the reinvestment plan DRIP, beginning with shareholders from timetotime, such as shareholding.
Details of executive share the final dividend, which will enable thepower to allot shares and the power to schemes and shares held by the EBT are shareholders to reinvest their dividends make market purchases of the Companys setout in Notes 27 and 29 on pages directly into Invensys shares.
Further information regarding 118to119 and 120 to 130 respectively.
theDRIP are contained in separate matters reserved for the Board is set out documentation mailed to shareholders.
inthe Corporate Governance Report on page40.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 61 Directors Report continued Shares acquired through the Companys The percentage interests stated are as Charitable and political contributions executive share plans rank pari passu with disclosed at the date on which the interests During the year, Group donations to other shares in issue and have no special were notified in accordance with DTR 5. charities and community causes worldwide rights or restrictions, save that certain were 0.3 million 2010: 0.2 million, shareawards involve retention periods Supplier payment policy withUK charities receiving nil 2010: nil.
Further information is set It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary TheBoard is of the view that it is not outin Note 29 on pages 120 to 130.
The companies should develop longterm appropriate for the Company to make nonexecutive directors use a proportion relationships with suppliers and establish charitable donations given that the of their fees to purchase shares in terms of trade consistent with established Company only resumed the payment of the Company which may not normally practice in their country of operation, and dividends in recent years.
However, many betransferred during a directors to ensure that suppliers are aware of the of theGroups subsidiaries are influential period ofoffice.
terms of payment and that such terms are companies and important employers in followed.
The Company is a holding their own countries or localities, and it At the 2010 AGM, the directors were company and has no trade creditors.
istherefore believed to be in the best authorised to issue relevant securities interests of the Group for those companies uptoan aggregate nominal amount of Employee policy and development community involvement to be maintained 26.7 million approximately one third Invensys has active policies ofequal at reasonable levels.
ofthe issued ordinary share capital as at opportunity ranging from selection and 27May 2010.
Inaddition, the directors At the 2010 AGM, shareholders passed recruitment to training and development were authorised toallot an extra third of aresolution, on a precautionary basis, which meet the needs of its operations theissued share capital in respect of a fully toauthorise the Company to make around the world.
If necessary, reasonable preemptive rights issue.
Renewal was also politicaldonations and or incur political adjustments will be made forthe benefit sought for the directors authorisation to expenditure as such terms are defined ofdisabled employees.
Disabled people allot relevant securities andto allot equity insections 362 to 379 of the Companies are given full and fair consideration for securities for cash up to a maximum Act 2006, in each case in amounts not employment and subsequent training aggregate nominal amount of 4.0 million exceeding 25,000 in aggregate.
The including, if needed, retraining for on a preemptive basis.
The directors did definitions used in the Companies Act alternative work where employees have not use this authority during the year under 2006 are broad in nature and this authority become temporarily orpermanently review, other than to issue shares to satisfy was sought to ensure that any activities disabled, career development and awards under the Companys share undertaken throughout the Group, which promotion on the basisof their incentive plans.
The directors will seek to could otherwise be construed to fall within aptitudesand abilities.
renew allotment authorities at the 2011 these provisions, could be undertaken AGM inline with revised guidelines issued The Group recognises the need to consult without inadvertently infringing them.
by theAssociation of British Insurers.
and systematically provide information on During the year the Company granted matters of concern to employees.
To satisfy paidleave in the amount of 8,000 to one Substantial shareholders that need, the Group provides employees of its employees who, during the course At the date of this Report, the Company has with published financial and economic ofthatleave, campaigned for election been notified, in accordance with the DTRs, information through its consultative asacandidate for the UK Labour Party.
of the following interests in the ordinary procedures.
Invensys encourages share capital of the Company: employees involvement in the Companys Research and development performance through the Invensys Savings The Group carries out research and Name % interest in issued Related Share Option Scheme.
Invensys also development in support of its activities.
share capital encourages the involvement of professional During the year, expenditure on the Ameriprise 4.565% indirect interest and managerial level employees in the research and development of new 0.160% direct interest Groups performance through the Invensys products and processes amounted 1 0.01% nominal interest Performance Management System, which to150million 2010: 130 million.
reinforces the links between the Groups BlackRock 4.84% indirect interest business goals, the employees contribution 1 0.12% nominal interest and his her remuneration.
Elaboration on Legal & General 4.98% direct interest these topics and further information concerning employees is set out in the Prudential 10.05% direct interest Corporate Social Responsibility report, 0.055% indirect interest which begins on page 28.
Schroders 5.105% indirect interest Standard Life 3.647% direct interest Investments 2.332% indirect interest 1 This interest is a contract for difference and does not carry any voting rights.
| 62 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Significant agreements development services to theInvensys in office as auditor and, in accordance The Company is required to disclose any Operations Management division and withthe recommendation of the Audit contractual or other arrangements which alsoto Invensys Rail from December 2009, Committee, resolutions proposing its itconsiders are essential to its business.
would become terminable at the option reappointment and to authorise the Invensys critical relationships are with ofthe Company.
directors to determine its remuneration itsmajor customers and its suppliers of willbe proposed at the 2011 AGM.
Wayne Edmunds service contract contains services, components and raw materials, provisions which would take effect in the asdiscussed in the Business Review on Annual General Meeting event of a change of control.
Whilst the loss of or The AGM of the Company will be held ofamaterial adverse change to his title, disruption tocertain of these arrangements onThursday, 28 July 2011 at 11.00am at responsibilities or status following a change could temporarily affect the operations of TheQueen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, of control of the Company, he would be the Group, none of these arrangements Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London entitled to terminate his employment and areconsidered to be essential.
The Chairmans Letter and receive a payment equalto the termination Notice of AGM gives full details of the The Company is also required to disclose payment set out inthe Remuneration Report meeting and the resolutions to any significant agreements that take effect, on page 55.
The service contracts of a small be proposed.
alter or terminate on a change of control number of other key employees also contain ofthe Company.
Pursuant to section 992 provisions entitling them to terminate ofthe Companies Act 2006, the directors employment and receive compensation disclose that in the event of a change of inthe event of a change ofcontrol.
control in the Company: i the banking facilities described in Note 21, totalling Auditor By order of the Board of directors 425 million at 31 March 2011, could cease In accordance with section 418 2 of the to be available to the Group: ii a Master Companies Act 2006, each of the directors Service Agreement dated 15 May 2007, at the date of approval of this Report made with Genpact International, Inc for confirms that, so far as they are aware, there the provision of outsourced business is no relevant audit information of which services in relation to certain finance the Companys auditor is unaware, and that Victoria Hull andrelated functions, would become the directors have taken all the steps that Group General Counsel and terminable at the option ofthe Company: they ought to have taken as directors in Company Secretary and iii a Master Service Agreement order to make themselves aware of, and dated3July 2009, made with Cognizant toestablish that the auditor is aware of, any Invensys plc Technology Solutions U. S. Corporation relevant audit information.
Ernst & Young Registered in England & Wales forthe provision of certain research and LLP has expressed willingness to continue number166023 | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
