Our Board of Directors The Company is committed to high 1.
Francesco Caio MBA MSc 53 standards of corporate governance Chairman Non-executive director andbelieves that effective practices Appointment Appointment areessential to business integrity, Appointed a non-executive director Appointed a non-executive director on performance and accountability to andDeputy Chairman on 1 January 2009 18July 2009. shareholders.
The Board recognises andbecame Chairman on17 July 2009. thatgovernance should be enhanced by Committee membership better interaction between boards and Committee membership Member of Audit Committee shareholders and that to do this, boards Chairman of Nominating Committee Member of Remuneration Committee must think deeply, thoroughly and on a Member of Remuneration Committee Skills and previous experience continuing basis about their role and Skills and previous experience Resigned as Vice Chairman of Investment overall tasks.
Key to this is the leadership Retired as Chairman from Pendragon PLC Banking Europe at Nomura in April 2011. of the Chairman, the support to and from inOctober 2010.
He was formerly Chairman Formerly Chief Executive ofMerloni Eldo theChief Executive and the culture of ofAlliance Boots plc, Pilkington plc, S. p. A. and Chief Executive ofCable & theBoard.
WilliamsHoldings plc and Kidde plc: Wireless plc.
Formerly a member of the DeputyChairman of Barclays Bank PLC: and European Advisory Board of Air Products.
This section of the Annual Report non-executive director of BAE Systems plc.
Formerly an adviser to the Italian and British andAccounts sets outthe governance governments on telecommunication framework for the Company and, in the Current external appointments matters.
following pages, weintroduce the Board Chairman of BAA Limited: non-executive ofdirectors, corporate governance director ofSappi Limited: and Chairman of Current external appointments proceduresand Board practices, the advisory board of Barclays Private Bank.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer of andremuneration policy.
InMarch 2011 he became non-executive AvioGroup with effect from May 2011 Chairman of the Business Growth Fund andappointed non-executive director which is financed by the large UK banks to ofIndesit Company in April 2010. provide equity for smalland medium-sized businesses.
Bay GreenFCA 67 ofDerbyshire and Chancellor of Non-executive director Loughborough University.
Appointment Appointed a non-executive director on 2.
Wayne Edmunds MBA 55 1January 2005 and became the Chairman of Chief Executive the Audit Committee on 6December 2006.
Appointment Committee membership Appointed a director and Chief Financial Chairman of Audit Committee Officer on1June 2009 and became Member of Nominating Committee ChiefExecutive on 24March 2011.
Skills and previous experience Committee membership Retired as Vice Chairman of Dresdner None.
Kleinwort inJuly 2009, where he specialised Skills and previous experience in advising on mergers and acquisitions and Formerly CFO of Invensys Process Systems, other activities.
He retired as a non-executive having joined the Group from Reuters director of RPC Group plc in June 2009.
He previously held senior Current external appointments financial roles in the technology sector, Non-executive director of Axis-Shield plc, including 17 years at Lucent Technologies, where he serves as Chairman of the audit Inc. committee: and trustee of Help the Current external appointments Hospices.
He is also a specialist adviser to None.
the Wholesale and Institutional Markets Business Unit of the Financial Services Authority.
Balance of executive and Board sector experience How the Board spends its time non-executive directors Chairman 1 Industrials 57% Strategy 26% 1 Executive 1 Financials 22% Operating and 2 financial performance 36% Non-executive 6 Materials 14% Governance 5% Telecommunications 7% Committees 33% 1 On permanent appointment the Chief Financial Officer will become a director of the Board.
2 Deena Mattar will join the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 19 May 2011.
| 38 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance 5.
Paul Lester CBE 61 Skills and previous experience 9.
Pat Zito 62 Non-executive director Group Chief Executive of British Nuclear Non-executive director Fuels Limited BNFL from 2003 until his Appointment Appointment retirement in June 2009.
Formerly President Appointed a non-executive director on Appointed a non-executive director on and Chief Executive Officer of TheDow 1January 2010.
Committee membership Committee membership Current external appointments Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Audit Committee Non-executive director of PV Crystalox Member of Nominating Committee Skills and previous experience Solarplc and SNC-Lavalin Group Inc: Chief Executive of VT Group plc, the support Skills and previous experience Chairman of Liverpools economic services company, from 2002 to 2010.
Held senior executive roles within Pilkington development regeneration company, Formerly Group Managing Director of plc and subsequently Nippon Sheet Glass Liverpool Vision: atrustee of the Royal Balfour Beatty plc and Chief Executive of Company for 33 years.
Before retirement Society for the Prevention of Accidents: Graseby plc.
He was a non-executive heheld the role of President, Worldwide andChairman of Street Leagues Board director ofChloride Group plc until Automotive Original Equipment and ofTrustees, a charity which helps September 2010.
Aftermarket operations of Pilkington and disadvantaged young people through the Nippon Sheet Glass Company.
Formerly a Current external appointments use of football and education programmes.
director on the board of Pilkington plc and Chairman of Greenergy, Chairman of John subsequently Nippon Sheet Glass Company.
Laing Infrastructure Fund and Chairman of 8.
Dr Martin Read MA D. Phil FIET 61 Marine Current Turbines.
Current external appointments Non-executive director None.
Deena Mattar BSc FCA 45 Appointed a non-executive director and Non-executive director Other attendee at Board meetings Chairman of theRemuneration Committee Appointment on 18 July 2009.
David ThomasMA Oxon ACA 56 Will be appointed a non-executive director Acting Chief Financial Officer Committee membership on 19 May 2011.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee Appointment Committee membership Member of Nominating Committee Appointed Acting Chief Financial Officer Will be a member of the Audit Committee on 24March 2011.
Mr Thomas has not Skills and previous experience with effect from 19 May 2011 been appointed a statutory director of Chief Executive of Logica plc from 1993 to theCompany.
Formerly on the boards of British Group Finance Director and member of the Airways Plc, Siemens Holdings Plc, Boots Skills and previous experience board of Kier Group plc from 2001 to 2010.
Group PLC and Asda Group plc.
He ledaUK Joined Invensys in 2002 as Group Formerly a senior manager of the Property Government Review on back office and IT Controller, he has worked across many of and Construction Division of KPMG.
efficiency across the public sector which the businesses and has held CFO and CEO reported in2009.
He was latterly Current external appointments Senior Vice President Business Risk with None.
Current external appointments responsibility for risk management across Appointed as Chairman of the the Group and additional responsibility Remuneration Consultants Group in 7.
Michael Parker CBE MBA BSc 64 forthe Groups pension schemes.
Non-executive director Senior Independent Director formerly a senior partner at Ernst & Young ofAegis Group plc and Lloyds of London, Appointment LLP specialising in long-term industrial and senior adviser to the Indian company Appointed a non-executive director on contracting businesses.
16May 2006 andbecame the Senior Current external appointments Independent Director on 6 December 2006.
Member of the Auditing Practices Board.
Committee membership Member of Audit Committee Member of Nominating Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Governance framework 1, 3 Board Chairman, one executive director and six non-executive directors 3 Audit Committee Chief Executive Remuneration Committee Four independent non-executive directors and Four independent non-executive directors Chairman Risk Committee Group Leadership Team GLT Nominating Committee Chief Executive Acting Chief Financial Officer Four independent non-executive directors and Acting Chief Financial Officer Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Chairman Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Group Human Resources Director Group Human Resources Director CEO Invensys Operations Management EVP Finance CEO Invensys Rail VP Risk Management and Insurance CEO Invensys Controls VP Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 3 Deena Mattar will join the Board and Audit Committee with effect from 19 May 2011.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
