Our services In whichever market or sector, the range of services Engineering provided to our customers is the same.
We design, Our engineering services are at the heart of our project deliver and maintain their strategic and complex delivery to our customers.
We have a global network assets, offering total life of asset support from of engineering centres delivering high performance, feasibility planning right through to decommissioning.
cost-effective technical solutions to our customers worldwide.
Our approach to engineering the AMEC Our Natural Resources markets: oil & gas, minerals & Way see next page means a common user metals and Power & Process market: clean energy experience, independent of location.
We can deploy the divisions provide engineering and project management best mix of our capabilities through a well-integrated services across the asset lifecycle.
The Environment & work share and technical performance management Infrastructure division operates across all of AMECs system.
We have a particular expertise in undertaking markets, providing a highly complementary range of large and complex projects in remote areas and in environmental and engineering consulting services extending the life of assets in the mid-late stages of which bring competitive advantage.
Our core services include: Recent examples include: GDF SUEZ: front end engineering design for the Consulting Cygnus gas field development in the North Sea Business consulting: provided to the oil, gas and BP: engineering and project management services mining industries, helping support our customers in for the main platform design for Clair Ridge, west of achieving maximum value from their assets.
Shetland, following the completion of the conceptual Commercial: provided by commercial consulting and engineering studies and the 'define' phase of the cost management companies Rider Hunt International same project and Aquenta Consulting.
MWCC: designing and delivering components of MWCC's expanded containment system in the Gulf Environmental: full service capabilities covering a of Mexico wide range of disciplines, including environmental EDF: supporting their architect engineering engineering and science, geotechnical engineering, operations on the UK nuclear new build programme water resources, materials testing and engineering, Compaa Minera del Pacfico S. A. : EPCM for the engineering and surveying, and programme management.
US$574 million Cerro Negro Norte iron ore project in Chile.
Technical: delivering projects and solving problems.
Construction management For example, in the minerals & metals market we are The services provided by AMEC are designed to involved in ore resource estimation, mine planning and enhance the quality and value of construction projects feasibility studies.
by focusing on the quality of materials, the construction Recent examples include: practices, and the level of care and quality control Northumbrian Water: multidisciplinary engineering, in the construction process.
We focus on project contract supervision services and associated management, construction techniques, subcontractor environmental support as well as contract and cost management, health and safety, quality assurance and management services, UK quality control.
ArcelorMittal: investigation, design and Recent examples include: implementation services, from annual dyke raises Sappi: EPCM services for its GoCell project in for the tailings disposal facility, to a culvert South Africa replacement programme across their rail line, Fortescue Metals Group: AMEC JV working on an Canada EPC contract for the Cloudbreak ore handling plant Sellafield: radiological, environmental and site wet front end project, Australia characterisation support in Cumbria, UK.
16 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Kruger Energy: with our JV partner, Black & Production operations: including production MacDonald, engineered and constructed the optimisation services provided by Performance Chatham Wind Power project in Ontario, Canada.
Improvements Ltd PI Duty holder: operating and maintaining Project management infrastructure on behalf of our clients.
This is one of our core services, helping to deliver our Recent examples include: consulting, engineering excellence and construction ConocoPhillips: AMEC Clough JV providing services to our customers.
We provide construction operations and maintenance services to the management advice and support, health, safety, Bayu Undan facilities located in the Timor Sea sustainability, environmental and quality HSSEQ direction and support, and commissioning and Fairfield Energy: we have provided duty holder start-up.
We have developed and refined state-of-theservices on the Dunlin platform, North Sea since art systems, procedures and specifications for the 2008 management and control of engineering, procurement, Teesside Gas and Liquids Processing TGLP : EPC construction and commissioning of process and contract for the modification and extension of the industrial facilities worldwide.
The AMEC Way defines a Teesside Gas Processing Plant, UK.
common approach to executing projects within AMEC.
It combines an assurance framework for project Decommissioning delivery with access to a comprehensive reference We have substantial experience of nuclear framework of guidance, tools such as Convero our decommissioning and waste management in the UK, integrated project management system and best Canada, Eastern and Western Europe and the former practice examples.
Together these processes provide Soviet Union.
We can be involved from initial concept a standard approach to complete, successful delivery through to hands-on decommissioning and clean-up, of projects to our customers.
and also provide in-house specialist services, such as safety case and health physics support.
These skills Recent examples include: are highly transferable to mature oil and gas assets, Project management contractor for the development such as those in the North Sea.
of a new  diphenylmethane diisocyanate facility at Changshou, Chongqing, Recent examples include: China, providing project management services and Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA : AMEC interface coordination as part of an integrated project plays a key role as part of Nuclear Management management team Partners in managing the decommissioning of the Over 100 AMEC employees based in Canada, Sellafield complex in the UK Mongolia, Australia and the US are involved in six Magnox Limited: ACTUS, an AMEC JV, awarded a separate projects associated with the Phase 2 contract involving decommissioning across three underground expansion of the Oyu Tolgoi mine site waste streams in North Wales, UK.
Other services Operations and maintenance We also offer a range of other specialist and Once built, we support the operation of our customers sustainability services.
assets and seek to extend their life through enhanced production, recovery and reduced operating costs.
com and our sustainability report.
Services include: Asset support: comprehensive specialist shutdown overhaul, maintenance, M&E Mechanical & Electrical construction, tankage and special engineering services AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 17
