Our markets and sectors AMEC operates in four key markets: oil & gas, long term, supported by global fundamentals.
AMEC is carefully and deliberately positioned across sectors minerals & metals, clean energy, and environment & infrastructure.
These markets can be sub-divided into so as to benefit whatever the relative weighting in the 11 sectors, as shown in the table below.
provided to customers in each market are very similar There is no one competitor operating in the same and run right across the lifecycle of the asset, from markets and with the same geographic footprint as consulting, engineering and construction management AMEC.
Further details on the competitive landscape to project management, operations and maintenance by market can be found in our introductory investor and decommissioning.
They are explained in more presentation on amec.
This section looks in more detail at these markets and sectors, explaining their growth Global market trends characteristics and how we are positioned for delivery According to the International Energy Agency IEA of the Vision 2015 growth strategy see page 18.
In World Energy Outlook 2011, global primary energy each, the strength of customer relationships and demand rebounded by 5 per cent in 2010.
Since then, proven ability to deliver successfully, even in harsh or the importance of a reliable energy supply has been remote environments, is what enables us to win new reinforced by the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi business.
nuclear power plant in Japan and turmoil in parts of AMEC has considerable experience and capability in the Middle East and North Africa.
In addition, concerns the worlds main energy sectors.
We are well placed to about sovereign debt levels have shifted attention away respond to the increasing demand for clean energy, the from energy policy, with a knock-on impact on global need to improve the efficiency of mature assets and the climate change objectives.
Looking to the future, world requirement for increased flexibility.
Each of the areas primary energy demand is predicted to increase from in which AMEC operates is forecast to grow over the 12,150 million tonnes of oil equivalent Mtoe in 2009 to Projected market and sector growth to 2015 Markets and sectors Sector growth Divisions NR P&P E&I Oil & Gas Conventional Oil & Gas 8-10% l l Unconventional Oil & Gas 5-7% l l Minerals & Metals 6-8% l l Clean Energy Nuclear 5-7% l l Renewables Bioprocess 8-10% l l l l Power 3-5% Transmission & Distribution T&D 4-6% l l Environment & Infrastructure Water Municipal 5-6% l Transportation Infrastructure 4-5% l Industrial Commercial 3-6% l Government Services 3-5% l Key: NR: Natural Resources, see page 28.
AMEC estimates of market growth potential in our accessible markets CAGR 2010 2015 based on a mid-cycle assumption.
8 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 16,950 Mtoe in 2035, a 40 per cent increase.
At the We will continue to supplement our external resourcing same time, developing new sources of energy is activities with internal development activities.
These becoming a more complex challenge, with resources are discussed in more detail on pages 18 and 24, in our often in harsh or remote regions.
The forecast IEA sustainability report and on our website.
They include: New Policies Scenario assumes that recent AMEC Academy: improving the technical and government policy commitments are implemented managerial skills of our people in a cautious manner.
Increasing the existing resource pool: graduate and As ExxonMobil states 2012 The Outlook for Energy: A trainee recruitment and development programmes View to 2040, population and economic growth are the Improving the future supply pool: educating key factors behind the increasing demand for energy.
schoolchildren about careers in engineering ExxonMobil expects the world's population to grow by more than 25 per cent between 2010 and 2040, to Accessing the best skills anywhere: using our global nearly nine billion people.
The balance and mix of mobility programmes.
energy type may change both locally and globally but the pressure for more is an ever-upward trend.
The AMECs markets energy market is increasingly determined by countries Oil & Gas outside the OECD, which are responsible for 90 per The market cent of energy demand growth.
The IEA forecasts primary oil demand increasing from To meet this demand, IEA believes a global investment 87 million barrels per day mb d in 2010 to 99 mb d by in energy supply infrastructure of $38 trillion is 2035.
The increase is driven by the transport sector in required between 2011 and 2035, with oil and gas emerging economies and occurs despite gains in fuel collectively accounting for almost $20 trillion of this.
economy in Europe and the US.
Most of the balance is power, especially 40 per cent for transmission and distribution networks.
Demand A change in the production mix is expected over the same period, with a greater share being taken by for all fuels is expected to rise, though the proportion of the total made up by fossil fuels is expected to fall.
natural gas liquids and unconventional sources.
The fastest growing major energy source will be natural In the power sector, renewable energy technologies led by hydropower and wind account for half the gas, with ExxonMobil suggesting that global demand will rise by about 60 per cent from 2010 to 2040. new capacity installed to meet growing demand.
Production of conventional crude oil is forecast IEA The skills challenge to remain at current levels before dipping slightly to This growth in the markets in which AMEC operates around 68 mb d by 2035.
The gross additional capacity will inevitably put further pressure on the availability of required to maintain current production levels is 47 suitably qualified engineers, consultants and project mb d by 2035 and this is assumed to come from fields managers.
already discovered but yet to be developed, largely in OPEC countries.
As just one example, the Chairman of the UKs National Nuclear Skills Academy said in December 2011 that he The IEA forecasts an upstream oil and gas capital expected the nuclear sector workforce will need to spending requirement between 2011 and 2035 of about grow by about 68 per cent before 2025.
He predicted $620 billion per annum on average, compared with that by the same date some 8,500 people will leave the over $550 billion in 2011.
UK industry due to retirement, equivalent to about JP Morgans latest Global Exploration and Production one-third of the current nuclear-specific workforce.
spending analysis suggests that in 2012, organic Continuing to attract and retain those with experience upstream spending could be 9 per cent higher in successfully delivering complex projects will remain than 2011. important as we look to satisfy our Vision 2015 growth aspirations.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 9 Our markets and sectors continued The IEA forecasts suggest that unconventional oil & booster stations, gathering centres, tank farms and gas supply will grow from 2.6 mb d in 2010 to 10 mb d gas-oil separation plants, and pipelines.
In Canada, Alberta has proven oil reserves AMEC has global experience of delivering large and of 171.3 billion barrels and estimates capital complex projects, with capabilities in deepwater and expenditure of some Cdn$218 billion over the next hostile conditions including Arctic environments and 25 years.
Two main extraction techniques are used earthquake-prone regions.
We have developed a strong in the Canadian oil sands: surface mining, which position in frontier regions including the Caspian, South currently accounts for around one half of production, East Asia and West Africa and have a good track record and in-situ, which is expected to increase its share of in proactively helping customers deal with the market over the next 10 years.
used to extract deeper reserves, utilise steam injected into reservoirs to mobilise the oil.
In the opex arena, AMEC is a leading international provider of asset support services.
We are the market BP, in their Energy Outlook 2030, forecast that shale leader in UK North Sea brownfield services and also gas and coal bed methane will account for 63 per provide duty holder services and more integrated cent of North American production by 2030.
They solutions to new entrant operators in the region.
AMEC expect unconventionals to play a growing role in is increasingly providing more sophisticated solutions: other countries in the long term, as current for example, adapting existing facilities to cope with technical and regulatory hurdles recede.
both mature reservoir conditions and new 'tie-backs' In general, oil & gas resources are increasingly difficult developments.
Projects have become larger and more Unconventional Oil & Gas complex and environmental pressures have increased.
AMEC is the market leader in the provision of project As existing infrastructure ages and reserves are being management and engineering services to the depleted, ever more sophisticated performance and upstream surface mining Canadian oil sands sector.
efficiency improvement solutions are required.
Oil & From helping to build the worlds first oil sands plant gas producers want oil services companies, such as in 1967 to the worlds largest plant in 1978, AMECs AMEC, to provide expert consultants, engineers and operations have matured along with the industry, with project managers with a proven experience in participation in most recent oil sands developments.
delivering projects on time, on budget, without Of particular significance in recent years has been harming people or the environment.
Imperial Oil's Kearl project, which has just moved into AMECs position the expansion phase.
Historically AMECs focus was on Further details on the customer base and recent mineable oil sands, with the acquisition of BDR in 2008 project wins can be found on pages 28 and 32. bringing in-situ expertise.
This positions AMEC for the anticipated shift in activity as the new technology is Conventional Oil & Gas increasingly being used, and on larger projects.
AMEC offers a wide range of capex and opex services to a broad range of customers, which includes AMEC has also started working on shale gas and coal International Oil Companies IOCs, National Oil bed methane projects, providing services such as Companies NOCs and independent operators in environmental impact assessments and water table Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, the Caspian, management.
South East Asia and China.
We do not operate in early AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns cycle exploration or drilling, but are involved in every raised by these activities.
The full capability of the part of the project delivery phase.
Offshore, we support Environment & Infrastructure division see page 32 fixed platforms and floating production units, largely can be used to ensure that customers meet and, where 'above the water'.
Recently and as a part of Vision 2015, possible, exceed local legislation, providing them with we have been expanding our subsea engineering solutions to environmental challenges.
We also support onshore oil and gas fields, 10 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials South American EPCM Engineering, Procurement Minerals & Metals and Construction Management markets, where we The market have provided services for many of the worlds Demand for commodities continues to grow, stoked by leading mining companies.
strong growth in emerging markets.
Both BHP Billiton and Anglo American recently reaffirmed November The acquisition of GRD Minproc in November 2009 2011 that the long term supply demand fundamentals added world-class technical capabilities in a number remain intact.
Goldman Sachs, in a note entitled Time of key commodities, including copper, gold, nickel, to dig deep for the miners September 2011 state that uranium and iron.
It also delivered critical mass in supply is increasingly constrained as development Australasia and enhanced AMECs presence in Africa projects become more complex and are typically in and South America.
It is now fully integrated into our more remote, unfamiliar territory.
PwC's 8th Annual core activities and has successfully facilitated the Review suggests that the capital programmes planned winning of new business, which was not previously by the top 40 mining companies amount to more than accessible to either company.
US$300 billion, of which the US$120 billion planned for AMECs historic focus has been largely on surface 2011 was more than double the 2010 spend.
In line with Vision 2015, this expertise has now In general, fewer easy-to-produce resources are also been applied to underground mining, including leading to more challenging, complex and expensive work on Oyu Tolgoi LLCs copper and gold mining developments, in more remote and riskier locations.
Going forward, we are looking to Rio Tinto, in their 'Outlook for Copper 2010', suggested increase our position with major mining firms and on that while over half of all development in 2010 were in large scale developments.
lower risk areas, by 2020 only 44 per cent would be.
Further details on the customer base and recent Increasingly new mining projects are underground project wins can be found on pages 28 and 32. rather than surface mines, and more logistical infrastructure and environmental controls are required.
Clean Energy As in oil & gas, the mining majors who dominate mine development capital investment are looking for The market suppliers, such as AMEC, with proven ability in project Clean energy provides an increasingly key part of the delivery.
Growth in this market is driven by the increasing demand for energy, energy security AMECs position requirements, environmental regulations and AMEC has long sought to mitigate the impact of government mandates.
If targeted reductions in economic volatility by positioning itself to support a greenhouse gas emissions are to stand any chance diverse range of commodities and service markets.
of being met, alternatives to fossil fuels have to be We offer mining consultancy including ore resource implemented alongside energy efficiency measures.
estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies, design, project and construction management services In 2011, global investment in clean energy reached to global mining customers who are producing a new high of $260 billion Bloomberg New Energy commodities including potash, gold, diamonds, base Finance.
metals, coal, iron ore and uranium.
We believe this provision of consulting and environmental services Nuclear provides a distinct competitive advantage.
The market Prior to the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear The business is a recognised leader in environments plant in March 2011, nuclear power capacity worldwide where projects have significant logistical challenges had been projected to increase to 630 GW in 2035, associated with remote location and difficult access.
Several governments are now AMEC occupies a top-tier position in international reconsidering their policies towards nuclear power, consulting and a leading position in the North and either abandoning plans to build new nuclear plants AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 11 Our markets and sectors continued Italy or accelerating or introducing timetables to long-term relationships based on partnering to phase out nuclear plants Germany, Switzerland.
support their major assets and have significant However many more are expected to continue with experience in effectively managing complex their plans, though with delays as safety standards are stakeholder relationships.
major utilities, governments, national regulators and other significant stakeholders and we have a Although the prospects for nuclear power are inevitably particularly strong presence in the UK and Canada.
more uncertain, the latest IEA projections still show Other key geographies for AMEC include Central capacity growing to 630 GW in 2035.
About 60 per cent and Eastern Europe and South Africa.
of the nuclear capacity forecast to be added in OECD Principal activities include: countries is to replace ageing nuclear plants which will have been retired.
Hence capacity in this region is Providing pre-licensing and architect and owner forecast to increase by only 16 per cent.
engineer services ensuring support for project construction management on new build Growth in the use of nuclear power continues to be programmes worldwide.
During the year, AMEC supported by the need to reduce greenhouse gas continued supporting EDFs architect engineer emissions and by security of supply concerns, as it operations on its UK nuclear new build programme is less subject to economic or political uncertainty.
Supporting major reactor re-start programmes The UK Government continues to support the such as Bruce Power in Ontario, Canada replacement of the existing UK fleet of nuclear power Providing key technical and project management stations.
The Weightman report, issued by the Office services to support the continued operation, for Nuclear Regulation, confirmed that there was enhancement and life time extension of existing no fundamental weakness in the UK's licensing reactor fleets programme and stressed that nuclear power is safer Managing UK decommissioning and waste than it has ever been.
Importantly, AMEC In Canada, nuclear power is used to generate holds a key position within Nuclear Management approximately 15 per cent of electricity requirements, Partners NMP for the management of the with 18 reactors in three provinces generating 12,600 Sellafield complex on behalf of the Nuclear MWe of power capacity.
Broad support remains for the Decommissioning Authority NDA further expansion of nuclear capacity, with the World Providing project management, engineering and Nuclear Association Nuclear Century Outlook safety assurance services to nuclear suggesting that a further seven to 17 GWe could decommissioning programmes across Europe be put in place by 2030.
Providing licensing and regulatory support for the Many of the worlds nuclear facilities will be reaching complete asset lifecycle from engineering, through the end of their active life over the next 20 years.
The commissioning and operation to decommissioning.
clean-up and management of the nuclear legacy is one Further details on the customer base and recent of the most demanding challenges facing the industry.
project wins can be found on pages 30 and 32.
AMECs position Renewables Bioprocess AMECs nuclear capability has been developed over 50 The market years.
We are deliberately positioned to support the full Growth in the renewables sector is driven by the lifecycle of nuclear energy: from new build to reactor requirement for energy security, the need to meet support including lifetime extension and finally to national and international emissions control and nuclear decommissioning and waste management.
pollution control legislation, incentive mechanisms Our expertise remains technology independent and including short-term stimulus packages and improving our experience ranges across all four generations of technology.
The market was previously dominated by nuclear technology.
We work with our customers in technology developers but more recently utility, power 12 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials and oil & gas companies have all started to build Power positions.
At the same time, technology improvements This sector comprises generation of electricity from and rapid innovation are driving down unit costs.
A conventional sources other than nuclear, such as review by Ernst & Young Renewable Energy Country natural gas, oil, hydro and coal.
Attractiveness Indices, February 2011 suggested that The market the US has a total capacity of 58 GW, balanced across The IEA expects both the demand and supply of clean energy technologies and supported by a range electricity to increase over the period to 2035.
The opportunity in each of Canada and increase will be particularly pronounced in non-OECD the UK is smaller, at about 7 GW, and focused on countries but will also be seen elsewhere.
policies, particularly those relating to the use of carbon The IEA forecasts that renewable based electricity pricing and subsidies to renewables, are expected to generation worldwide will almost triple, from 3,900 influence the costs and hence the relative mix of TWh in 2009 to 11,100 TWh in 2035.
The bulk of the different technologies and fuels used to satisfy this growth is expected to come from wind, hydro onedemand.
Further, in the OECD alone, almost 800 GW of third each, biomass and solar PV and amounts to an operational coal, gas, and oil-fired capacity is expected investment of some $5.9 trillion.
Of this, over US$2.1 to be retired in the period to 2035, with an equivalent trillion is invested in wind, US$1.5 trillion in solar and amount of replacement capacity more heavily biased US$664 billion in biomass.
ExxonMobil expect modern towards gas.
renewable fuels to account for about 7 per cent of AMECs position global energy demand in 2040, compared to around AMEC has expertise in the delivery of state-of-the-art 3 per cent in 2010. boilers, gas turbines, gasifiers and turbine generators AMECs position with high efficiency and low emission technology, as AMEC's focus is on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels well as air quality control systems technologies for projects and our customers include power utilities, particulate, NOx, SOx, mercury, CO and other 2 financial institutions, government agencies, technology hazardous pollutants.
developers, OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers The majority of services are performed for major and specialist consultants.
We are able to draw on our energy providers, governments, developers and considerable experience and expertise in areas such independent power producers, primarily in Europe as the power and pulp and paper sectors to assist our and the Americas.
customers in implementing new technologies.
For example, AMEC has considerable expertise and Transmission & Distribution T&D experience in wood handling, storage and conveyance, This sector covers power transmission and distribution boiler technologies and co-firing of biomass in for medium, high, and extra high voltage transmission industrial boilers within the conventional power sector lines and cables, substations and interconnectors.
It which is readily transferable to biomass.
We are also also includes gas transmission and distribution.
a leader in the development of cellulosic ethanol, and have contributed to high-profile demonstration plants.
The market Our customers appreciate the flexibility our technology The sector is characterised by medium-term, neutrality brings, our focus and our ability to provide sustainable growth which will be resistant to major a full service EPC Engineering, Procurement and cyclical swings.
Projects may range from consultancy support during technology development Increasing global power demand creates the for carbon capture and storage CCS in the UK to wind requirement for increased interconnection EPC in Canada.
Shifts in supply and demand points, with the transition to low carbon generation and renewable Further details on the customer base and recent energy in remote locations, drive system project wins can be found on pages 30 and 32. configuration changes AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 13 Our markets and sectors continued T&D networks in AMEC current and future the second year running Environment Analyst, October territories require major asset renewal to replace 2011 after two decades of uninterrupted growth.
life-expired assets following many years of Nevertheless, in AMEC's opinion the underlying drivers underinvestment.
of market growth remain strong.
Growth in the UK market in 2011 has been estimated at 0.5 per cent.
Gas investment will continue to grow in the short term, driven primarily by the issues of security of supply and The top dozen international consultancies make up the need to increase storage capacity in Europe and around a quarter of the global market, with the balance North America.
IEA World Economic Outlook 2011 suggests a total of AMECs position $7.1 trillion needs to be invested in T&D infrastructure AMEC operates in four sectors within this market: between 2011 and 2035.
Of this, more than one-third water municipal, transportation infrastructure, is in OECD countries, where more than half the government services and industrial commercial.
The requirement will be spent on refurbishment and range of services provided is described in more detail replacement of existing assets as they reach the end on pages 32. of their technical lifetime.
Much of the work done by the Environment & AMEC's position Infrastructure division is in these four sectors, though Our major customers are T&D system owners with 27 per cent of the division's revenues now come from which we have had long-standing relationships.
They AMEC's other markets.
Examples of projects on which include National Grid including involvement in the AMEC has worked can be found on our website at Electricity Alliance West and in the M1 Gas Alliance, amec.
The skills used are highly both in the UK and Wales and West Utilities.
In January transferable across sectors and customers and are 2012, we announced a five-year extension to the increasingly being used across AMEC's activities.
Water Municipal Water is a scarce resource, with less than 1 per cent of Environment & Infrastructure the worlds fresh water readily accessible for direct The market human use.
Similar to energy, growth in the water The environmental consulting and engineering market sector is driven by demographic, economic, social and is both large and highly fragmented.
In Charting our Water Future 2010 the Water Resources Group suggests that water An Environmental Analyst report 'Global Environmental 3 3 usage will grow from 4,500 billion m to 6,900 billion m Consulting Strategies and Competitor Analysis 2011' by 2030, 40 per cent above the current accessible, states that the global market was worth over US$25 reliable supply.
Closing this gap is estimated to require billion in 2009 10 and forecasts growth to US$30 billion an increased annual capital expenditure of some $50 by 2014 15.
In particular, the climate change and 60 billion, even with efficiency savings.
Some 70 per energy services sub-sector is expected to grow by 50 cent of water withdrawals are for agriculture: industrial per cent as a result of strong underlying legislative withdrawals are expected to increase from 16 to 22 per and political drivers.
Those economies led by natural cent of the total by 2030. resource industries, namely Australia, Brazil, Canada and South Africa, are expected to be more buoyant.
Similarly, in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch BAML The report also states that large private sector report Water Crisis, water is described as the 'oil of clients are increasingly looking for seamless global the 21st century'.
The current market size is estimated service provision.
to be US$500 billion, with compound annual growth of 6 per cent anticipated.
BAML believe that the sector Despite the strong, long-term market drivers, public offers numerous growth opportunities for sector spending cuts have had some impact in recent those with exposure to the industrys value chain, years.
For example, the UK market declined in 2010 for particularly in Asia and South America and in the 14 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials areas of water treatment, water management and The design, installation and operation of road water infrastructure.
weather information systems, which enable transportation agencies to optimise winter AMECs position maintenance activities AMEC provides a multi-disciplinary approach to water Specialised marine weather forecasting services, projects at all stages of planning, study, design and providing operational support to offshore oil construction, seeking to provide sustainable and companies, major marine contractors and vessel environmentally sound solutions for our government, operators.
business and industrial customers, whether the water source is above or below ground.
Our primary areas of Government services focus are: A broad range of services are provided, including to the US Federal Government, which is the largest Water supply - including managing the transition procurer of environmental services in the world.
Here, from agricultural to municipal uses in semi-arid customers include the US Air Force, US Army and regions, managing aquifers beneath competing US Navy, where services range from remediation agency boundaries, and planning for anticipated programmes to fixed price design and delivery of water shortages airfield facilities at bases in the US and around the Storm water - including both water quality and world.
quantity services, ranging from site-specific to watershed-wide solutions Again, work is often completed in diverse and Water quality - protection and enhancement, challenging environments.
Examples include soil including contaminant removal services, modelling, washing lead bullets and fragments from the crater and design treatment options such as lake aeration of Hawaiis Diamond Head volcano: and successfully and wetland restoration installing an in-situ remediation system at Barnes Air National Guard Base.
Water treatment - including detail design of treatment systems as well as construction and Industrial Commercial environmental management.
AMEC serves clients in the commercial, financial and legal community as well as manufacturing and Water services are also commonly provided to industrial clients.
Compliance and due diligence customers in AMEC's other markets, including services are provided, ranging from geotechnical and minerals & metals and oil & gas.
environmental to materials and water resources Transportation Infrastructure consulting.
AMECs knowledge of regulatory AMEC has provided programme management, environments is used to apply a risk-based approach to planning and design, project and construction environmental liability assessment and management.
management, asset development and long-term For example, since 1998 AMEC has provided asset support to government transportation agencies, environmental services to Home Depot Canada on national and local customers and private developers over 100 project sites.
These services have included in Canada and the US for over 50 years.
environmental site assessments ESA, report peer We use our expertise to provide sustainable solutions review, remediation supervision, site specific risk which maintain, improve and increase the capacity assessment, as well as support to Home Depot's of transportation infrastructure, whether highways overall Environmental Management Program.
and roads, ports and marine, or rail.
Work is often AMEC formerly MACTEC has supported Honeywell completed in extreme conditions.
under an alliance agreement since 2005 and has For example: worked on more than 80 environmental remediation Pavement management work involving hot and cold and stewardship projects.
in-place recycling, which reduces the consumption of natural resources and minimises carbon emissions AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 15
