O Ou ur r b bo oa ar rd d o of f d di ir re ec ct to or rs s Term of office Samir was appointed Chief Executive John Connolly 61 Chairman of the board and in October 2006 and has no fixed term of office.
His Chairman of the nominations committee service contract is terminable on six and twelve months' Biography a chartered accountant, John spent his notice by himself and the company respectively.
career until May 2011 with global professional services External appointments Samir is a director of the firm Deloitte, was Global Chairman between 2007 and st United Kingdom-Japan 21 Century Group, co-chair of 2011, and prior to that, Global Managing Director the UK-UAE CEO Forum, chair of the steering board of between 2003 and 2007.
He was Senior Partner and CEO the World Economic Forum Disaster Resource of the UK Partnership from 1999 until his retirement Partnership, a member of the steering committee of from the Partnership.
the UK-Korea Forum for the Future and a member of John continues to be a Special Adviser to Deloitte, and the Advisory Board of Stena AB.
In February 2010 is also chairman of a number of private companies.
Samir was appointed a UK Business Ambassador by Beyond commercial business roles, John is on the Board the Prime Minister.
of Governors of London Business School, a member of the Strategic Advisory Council of CityUK, member of the Ian McHoul 52 Chief Financial Officer IBLF Leaders Council, Chairman of the Chairmans Biography prior to joining AMEC, Ian was Group Group of London 2012 sponsors, a member of the Finance Director of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Advisory Board of the Mayor of London, and a member of the British American Business International Advisory Term of office Ian was appointed Chief Financial Board.
He is also Chairman of the appeal board for The Officer in September 2008 and has no fixed term of Centre for Childrens Rare Disease Research at Great office.
Ians service contract is terminable on six and Ormond Street Hospital.
twelve months' notice by himself and the company respectively.
Term of office John was appointed as non-executive Chairman on 1 June 2011.
In accordance with the External appointments Ian is a non-executive articles of association of the company, John will retire director and Chairman of the audit committee of from office at the forthcoming annual general meeting Premier Foods plc.
and offer himself for election by shareholders.
Neil Bruce OBE 51 Executive Director Committee membership John is Chairman of the nominations committee and a member of the Biography Neil is AMECs Chief Operating Officer and remuneration committee.
He attends audit committee has over 30 years' experience in energy and process and ethics committee meetings by invitation.
He joined AMEC in 1997, having previously been construction and field development director with Samir Brikho 53 Chief Executive Arco British.
A chartered engineer, Neil also has a Masters degree and a Doctorate in Business Biography Prior to joining AMEC, Samir was a Administration.
member of the Group Executive Committee of ABB Ltd. Switzerland, Head of the Power Systems Division Term of office Neil was appointed Chief Operating and Chairman of ABB Lummus Global, ABBs Officer in August 2010 and has no fixed term of office.
international projects and services business.
Samir Neils service contract is terminable on six and twelve holds an engineering degree, a Master of Science in months' notice by himself and the company Thermal Technology from the Royal Institute of respectively.
Technology in Stockholm, Sweden, and completed the YMP Program at INSEAD in France in 1991.
In 2000 he also completed a Senior Executive Programme in Stanford, US.
Samir speaks Swedish, Arabic, English, German and French fluently.
40 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials External appointments Neil is Chairman of UKTIs Tim Faithfull 67 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration committee.
Oil & Gas Sector Advisory Group and an adviser to the Scotland Office on trade and economic growth.
He is a Biography Tim was President and Chief Executive of fellow of both the Energy Institute and the Institute of Shell Canada Limited from 1999 to 2003, having joined Directors, where he won an award for developing young the Royal Dutch Shell Group in 1967.
Neil is a trustee of the Engineers Against executive director of Canadian Pacific Railway, Poverty charity and patron of Clan Cancer Link TransAlta Corporation and Canadian Natural Aberdeen North-East.
He is also an Honorary Resources Limited, and a director of Shell Pensions Professor of Aberdeen Business School at The Robert Trust Limited.
Term of office Tim was appointed a non-executive director in February 2005 and became the Senior Neil Carson 54 Non-Executive Director Independent Director in May 2009.
Tims term of office was extended in February 2011 to the date of the 2014 Biography Neil has held a number of senior annual general meeting.
management positions in both the UK and the US and since 2004 has been Chief Executive of Johnson Committee membership Tim is Chairman of the Matthey Plc, the FTSE100 speciality chemical remuneration committee and a member of the audit, company which he joined in 1980 after completing nominations and ethics committees.
Term of office Neil was appointed a non-executive Simon Thompson 52 Non-Executive Director director in August 2010 for an initial three-year term.
and Chairman of the ethics committee Committee membership Neil is a member of the Biography Simon was previously an executive audit, remuneration, nominations and ethics director of Anglo American plc and Chairman of the committees.
Tarmac Group, and has held positions with S G Warburg and N M Rothschild.
Simon is non-executive chairman of Tullow Oil plc and a non-executive director Colin Day 56 Non-Executive Director and of Newmont Mining Corporation USA and Sandvik AB Chairman of the audit committee Sweden.
Biography Colin was appointed Chief Executive Term of office Simon was appointed a non-executive Officer of Filtrona plc on 1 April 2011, prior to which he director in January 2009.
His initial three-year term was Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group of office expired in January 2012 and, subject to his plc.
Colin is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming annual Certified Accountants and holds an MBA from general meeting, his appointment has been extended Cranfield School of Management.
Colin is also a for a further three-year term until the date of the non-executive director of WPP Group plc.
Term of office Colin was appointed a non-executive Committee membership Simon is Chairman of director in October 2010 for an initial term of three the ethics committee and a member of the audit, years.
Committee membership Colin is Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the remuneration, nominations and ethics committees.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to re-election at each annual general meeting of the company.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 41
