Natural Resources 1 Description of business Change Underlying 3 million 2011 2010 % % Principal activities: Operates in three sectors: oil & Revenue 1,742 1,603 9 4 gas, unconventional oil & gas and minerals & metals.
Further details on each are shown on pages 8 to 15.
EBITA 192 179 7 7 Total life of asset services provided, ranging from EBITA margin % 11.0 11.1 -10bps engineering design through to asset support and Order book bn 2.2 1.9 17 decommissioning.
Examples can be found on page 16.
Average number 2 of employees 12,239 10,704 14 71 per cent of 2011 revenues were generated by asset development capex services, with the remainder in 1 Growth measured against 2010 as restated for material acquisitions and movements in material currencies.
Oil and gas activities are 2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
concentrated mainly in the upstream sector some 3 2010 figures restated as explained on page 71.
90 per cent of 2011 revenues, with the balance being in downstream.
Revenue split by sector: Business model: AMEC has a low-risk business model, with the majority of services being provided on a cost reimbursable basis.
Contracts may include 24% 24% Oil & Gas Oil & Gas additional payments if key performance indicators Unconven t ional Unconven t ional 53% KPIs are met.
These KPIs are agreed in advance and 53% Oil & Gas Oil & Gas 23% based on the priorities of that specific customer.
They 23% Minerals & Metals Minerals & Metals might typically include finishing on time, on budget and without causing harm to people or the environment.
Some limited lump sum or fixed price work is also Revenue split by geography: undertaken, where the customer and type of work are well-known to AMEC.
This represented just 4 per cent of the division's revenues in 2011.
22% 22% UK Europe 30% UK Europe 30% Customers include: Agip KCO, Apache, Azerbaijan Americas Americas International Operating Company AIOC, Barrick Gold, Rest of world Rest of world BG Group, BP, CEPT, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Detour 48% 48% Gold, ExxonMobil, Fairfield Energy, Fortescue, INPEX, Kuwait Oil Company, Marine Well Containment Company, PotashCorp, SABIC, Shell, Teesside Gas & Principal locations: AMEC has operations in Liquids Processing.
mature markets and frontier regions, with major offices in Aberdeen, London, Great Yarmouth, Significant new contracts in 2011 included: Darlington UK : Atyrau Kazakhstan : Oil & gas - Teesside Gas and Liquid Processing: EPC Baku Azerbaijan : Calgary, Toronto, Saskatoon, construction contract for the modification and Vancouver Canada : Houston, TX US : Kuala extension of Teesside gas processing plant, UK.
BP Oil Lumpur Malaysia : Kuwait City Kuwait : Perth, UK Ltd: engineering, procurement, construction Brisbane Australia : Shanghai China : Santiago management EPCM contract for the clients Chile : Belo Horizonte Brazil : Lima Peru : investment projects for existing oil storage terminals, Singapore: Johannesburg South Africa.
BASF Polyurethane Specialities China and Chongqing Chemical and Pharmaceutical Holding Company: project management services for the development of a new US$5 billion diphenylmethane diisocyanate facility, China.
Marine Well Containment Company MWCC : design and delivery of the MWCCs 28 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials expanded containment system, Gulf of Mexico, US.
due to the phasing of work on Imperial Oils Kearl BP: extended scope of engineering and project project, which peaked in 2010 at the height of the management services to include onshore projects, first phase.
together with extension of the contract life, Azerbaijan.
EBITA 192 million was up 7 per cent, and the EBITA Centrica: asset support contract for a mixture of margin remained broadly stable at 11.0 per cent.
manned and unmanned offshore assets as well as onshore gas terminals, UK.
ConocoPhillips: two-year Contract wins in 2011 reflect continued customer contract extension to provide operations and spending in core energy and commodity markets, the maintenance services to the Bayu Undan facilities, strength of UK North Sea activity and AMECs work on Indonesia East Timor Sea.
Further details can be found on our website.
In the North Sea BP Exploration and Production: programme management for BPs existing portfolio Order intake has improved with oil and gas and mining of on and offshore projects.
BG: five-year services activity driving the increase.
The order book at contract for all BGs North Sea upstream assets.
BP: 31 December 2011 was up 17 per cent at 2.2 billion.
engineering and project management services for the main platform design for Clair Ridge, west of Shetland, The outlook for growth in 2012 is good.
This is driven by following the completion of the conceptual engineering positive trends in the oil and gas market, particularly studies and the 'define' phase of the same project.
GDF within the UK North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, and SUEZ: front end engineering design for the Cygnus gas the minerals and metals market, with oil sands field development.
volumes also expected to improve.
Minerals & Metals Paladin Energy: definitive The shift in business mix and the increase in feasibility study for the Kanger Heinrich uranium procurement activities for strategic customers will project, Namibia.
Bannerman Resources: definitive impact margins.
feasibility study for the Etango uranium project, Namibia.
Southdown Magnetite JV: definitive feasibility study for iron ore project, Australia.
Fortescue Metals Group: AMEC JV awarded EPC contract for the Cloudbreak ore handling wet front end project, Australia.
Other on-going projects include: ConocoPhillips: detailed engineering, procurement and hook up services for the Judy and Jasmine fields, UK North Sea.
KOC: long-term project management contract PMC, Kuwait: and work in the oil sands for Imperial Oil, Syncrude, Teck, Suncor and Connacher, among others.
In addition, in January 2012 AMEC was awarded extensions to two asset support contracts worth 70 million over three years for SABIC.
2011 performance Revenue in the Natural Resources division improved 9 per cent to 1,742 million through a mix of organic growth and acquisitions.
The oil and gas and mining sectors were the primary drivers, both up compared to 2010.
This was offset by a decline in oil sands activities AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 29
