Implementing Vision 2015 AMEC is a focused supplier of consultancy, engineering previously only supported the Armada platform.
and project management services to the worlds oil and In addition, we won a number of new or expanded gas, minerals and metals, clean energy, environment contracts from BP, including engineering and project and infrastructure markets.
Our vision is that by management services for the main platform design continually delivering excellence, we inspire trust for Clair Ridge: programme management of BP's and loyalty in our customers.
North Sea on and offshore projects: and a five-year US$600 million engineering and small projects In our Vision 2015 strategy, first announced in contract for on and offshore assets in Azerbaijan.
We December 2009, we showed how we expected to also expanded our position with other customers, achieve growth towards our vision.
We believe growth including Magnox and Sapphire Energy will come from the strength of our customer Added new customers including: GDF SUEZ front relationships: the skills of our people and the way in end engineering design for Cygnus field in Southern which they deliver successful projects: the markets in North Sea, URENCO three-year contract for full which we are positioned see pages 8 to 15 : and the range of nuclear services in UK, Paladin, strength of our balance sheet.
Bannerman, MWCC design and deliver elements of the Marine Well Containment System in the Gulf of In financial terms, we expressed our Vision 2015 goal Mexico and TGLP.
as being to achieve earnings per share of greater than 100 pence in 2015, more than double the starting point Further details on these and many other contract in 2009. wins can be found on pages 28, 30 and 32.
2011 achievement Received a number of awards, details of which can EPS was 70.5 pence, up 13 per cent on 2010 be found on our website amec.
We now expect to achieve our targeted EPS before 2015 Our people We have identified a number of areas of focus which, Our success lies in the success of our employees and combined, will enable us to achieve our Vision 2015 the way in which they deliver to our customers, as we strategy.
During 2011 significant progress has again do not own significant plant and equipment or been made towards our long-term goals.
Our customers It is vital that we recruit, develop and retain the best We want our customers to recognise our engineering, people, ensuring they are engaged with AMEC and project management and consultancy expertise committed to the companys success.
We want to and to trust us to deliver their projects successfully.
provide a safe working environment and encourage Such a reputation does not come overnight, but is our people to take this same thinking home and into a key cornerstone of future growth.
Our history their communities AMECs Beyond Zero approach.
demonstrates the importance of the long-term relationships we have built with many of our 2011 achievements included: customers.
Only by understanding their business, Over 8,000 gross new hires, of whom almost 3,000 their objectives and their values can we identify how were recruited to work on UK North Sea projects best to use our expertise to help them deliver.
Record number of new graduates hired c. 280 2011 achievements included: More than 200 people returned to AMEC as a result Further expanded existing customer relationships.
of the alumni programme: nearly 500 joiners were For example, BG awarded us a three-year contract referred by AMEC employees for engineering, procurement, construction, Over 25,000 people have now benefited from the commissioning and project management for all their AMEC Academy development programmes since upstream North Sea assets, including the Armada, launch North Everest and Lomond platforms.
We had 18 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Customers People Growth The AMEC Way Sustainability Financial Latest global employee survey shows employee Selected by INEOS Bio to be its global license engagement remains good support engineering firm, as it rolls out its licensing programme for the INEOS Bio advanced bioenergy Strong HSSE performance: 15 lost time incidents technology compared with 22 in 2010: lowest ever total recordable injury frequency rate, at 0.37 per 200,000 Work on the Oyu Tolgoi mine site in Mongolia exposure hours Underlying revenue growth in 2011 was 3 per cent.
Around one-third of our people participate in AMEC With a year-end order book of 3.7 billion, doubleshare ownership schemes.
The 2011 sharesave digit underlying revenue growth is expected in 2012. scheme was again fully subscribed.
Delivering the AMEC Way See also the Key Performance Indicators on page 26.
Even the best of employees will struggle to deliver high quality work if they are not provided with the right tools Further details on each of these items can be found and support.
The AMEC Way is how we work together in the 2011 sustainability report amec.
com aboutus across the company to deliver successful projects for sustainability.
our customers, supporting our 2011 achievements and our future growth.
Achieving growth To achieve our Vision 2015 strategy, we need to not 2011 achievements included: only build on our existing market positions but The successful integration of MACTEC and the other also to enhance our capabilities and expand our acquisitions made during 2011 geographic coverage.
We see this expansion as coming from a combination of acquisition and organic growth.
Reissuing AMEC's Code of Business Conduct and In terms of capability, we have been looking to expand introducing a Supply Chain Code of Business our service offering in areas such as subsea Conduct engineering, underground mining, renewables and Simplifying AMEC's values see inside back cover water services.
As well as building our presence in our established geographies of the UK and North Establishment of the project delivery policy, which mandates a common global approach to project America, we are looking to expand in the Middle East, Australasia and South America.
At the same time, by delivery.
By using common project processes, anyone in AMEC can start work from any location on careful positioning and rigorous attention to customer relationships and project delivery, we see opportunities any new project and understand the requirements immediately.
to outperform the general market.
Improving financial metrics 2011 achievements included: Vision 2015 also looks at financial metrics, recognising The acquisition of MACTEC, a 2,600-person, that AMEC needs a more efficient capital structure and US-based engineering and environmental services that the tax rate can be reduced while continuing to company which is highly complementary to AMEC's exercise due corporate responsibility.
existing Environment & Infrastructure business, in terms of geographic footprint, customer base and 2011 achievements included: service offering A total of 263 million was spent on acquisitions The completion of three other acquisitions during during the year the year: Zektingroup, an Australian-based specialist The dividend declared and proposed increased by engineering consultancy with exposure to coal seam 15 per cent to 30.5 pence methane and the  market: The tax charge for continuing businesses before qedi, a UK-based project delivery company: and BCI amortisation, impairment and exceptional items and Engineering, a US-based environmental consultancy including joint venture tax reduced further, from Winning our first biomass project in South Africa, for 25.9 per cent in 2010 to 24.1 per cent in 2011 paper producer Sappi AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 19 Implementing Vision 2015 continued A share buyback programme of 400 million was announced on 21 February 2012.
2012 outlook The priority for 2012 remains to grow the business by continuing to deliver for customers whilst investing in AMEC's people.
AMEC is on track to deliver double-digit underlying revenue growth in 2012, despite the continued macroeconomic uncertainty.
The strength of the order intake during 2011, the continued demand for AMEC's services and the on-going customer investment in AMEC's core markets are driving growth expectations.
The full-year impact of acquisitions made in 2011 will further boost revenue growth.
In addition, the pipeline for further acquisitions in 2012 remains strong.
Overall margins are expected to reduce somewhat, impacted by a shift in business mix and an increase in procurement activities for strategic customers.
Management remains focused on the Vision 2015 strategy and now expects to achieve earnings per share of greater than 100 pence ahead of 2015.
20 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011
