O Ou ur r g gr ro ou up p m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t t te ea am m Samir Brikho Franois-Philippe Champagne Chief Executive Strategic Development Director Samir Brikho was appointed Chief Executive in 2006.
Franois-Philippe Champagne is Strategic He is a director of the United Kingdom-Japan 21st Development Director and acting General Counsel.
He currently sits on the Advisory Board He is responsible for mergers and acquisitions activity, of Stena AB.
He also chaired Offshore Europe in 2011 strategy and legal matters.
He was previously Group and the World Economic Forum's Engineering and Vice President and Senior Counsel of ABB Ltd, based Construction Board in 2009.
From May 2008 to May in Zurich, Switzerland.
Franois serves on the board 2010, he held the position of Chair of UK Energy of a few non-profit organisations in Canada and was Excellence, a strategy board tasked by the UK selected by the World Economic Forum as a Young Government with demonstrating the UKs worldGlobal Leader 2009.
He joined AMEC in 2008. leading position in energy.
In February 2010 Samir was appointed a UK Business Ambassador by the Prime Tony Cruddas Minister.
He was previously a member of the Group President, Growth Regions Executive Committee of ABB Ltd. Switzerland and Tony Cruddas is President, Growth Regions and is Chairman of ABB Lummus Global.
responsible for the oversight and direction of business in North East Asia, Commonwealth of Independent Ian McHoul States, Middle East and North Africa, Australia and Chief Financial Officer South East Asia.
A Chartered Engineer and European Ian McHoul joined AMEC and was appointed Chief Engineer, he was previously Director of Global Financial Officer in September 2008.
A Chartered Upstream Projects for AMEC Oil & Gas, having joined Accountant, he was previously Group Finance Director AMEC in 2001. of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Timothy Gelbar Neil Bruce OBE President, Power & Process Americas Chief Operating Officer Tim Gelbar has been President of Power & Process Neil Bruce became Chief Operating Officer for AMEC Americas since 2006.
He has more than 30 years of group in August 2010, having been Chief Operating experience leading and managing engineering and Officer for the Natural Resources division since 2006, construction operations in the power, process and and Power & Process since December 2009.
He is on the Advisory Board of the appointed an executive director for AMEC plc in Construction Industry Institute CII, and is a member January 2009.
Since March 2009 he has been of the Construction Users Roundtable CURT.
Chairman of the UK Oil & Gas Sector Advisory Group of UK Trade & Investment UKTI.
He is an Honorary Professor at Aberdeen Business School at the Robert Gordon University.
He was previously Managing Director of AMEC Oil and Gas, having joined AMEC in 1997.
We need to be sensitive to our customer needs and able to mobilise our people to provide the right solutions at the right time.
Samir Brikho Chief Executive 38 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Dr Hisham Mahmoud Mike Saunders President, Environment & Infrastructure President, Power & Process Europe Dr Hisham Mahmoud joined AMEC in October 2010 Mike Saunders joined AMEC in 2007 to head up its as President, Environment & Infrastructure.
Prior to global nuclear business.
He was previously Senior Vice joining AMEC, Hisham worked for URS Corporation President of the Global Nuclear Fuel business at and its predecessor companies for 19 years.
He has a Westinghouse Electric Company.
He has more than 30 Bachelor of Science degree in Civil Engineering from years' experience in the nuclear power industry having the University of Qatar and a Masters and a PhD, both held a number of senior positions including managing in Civil Engineering, from Arizona State University in nuclear licensed sites in the UK, Europe and the US.
the US, and is a registered professional engineer in He is a member of the board of the Sellafield parent multiple US states.
company Nuclear Management Partners and sits on the board of the National Skills Academy for Nuclear and the UK Governments Nuclear Development Simon Naylor Forum and Carbon Capture & Storage Development President, Natural Resources Americas Forum.
Mike has an MBA and is a graduate of the Simon Naylor has been President of the Natural Wharton Advanced Management programme.
He is Resources Americas business since 2007 and has led a chartered engineer and a Fellow of the Nuclear the growth and successful development of positions in Institute.
the core market sectors of mining, oil & gas and oil sands.
Since joining AMEC in 1993 he has worked across the project lifecycle: from consulting to Sue Scholes engineering and project management: and his Director of Communications experience includes project development, asset Sue Scholes has been Director of Communications support, strategy, customer relationship management since joining AMEC in 2007.
She was previously Head and operations leadership.
of Investor Relations at Brambles Industries plc.
Sue is a Chartered Management Accountant and sits on the board of the Investor Relations Society.
John Pearson Managing Director, Natural Resources Europe and Will Serle West Africa Group Human Resources Director John Pearson was appointed to his current role in 2007.
He joined AMEC from Chevron in 1990 and Will Serle is Group Human Resources Director and is also responsible for sustainability at AMEC.
He joined has worked in a variety of engineering and project management roles in Aberdeen, San Francisco, AMEC in 2000 as Human Resources Director for the Oil and Gas business, moving to the Natural Resources Baku and London.
He is currently Chairman of the Offshore Contractors Association and a board member role in 2006.
In 2009 he assumed the role of Human Resources Director for Natural Resources and Power of Oil & Gas UK.
& Process: in 2010, after all three divisions merged, he became Human Resources Operations Director.
Excellent delivery, focus on customers, and most of all, our people.
Neil Bruce Chief Operating Officer AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 39
