40 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Board of Directors 123 4 5 6 7 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 41 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1.
Iain Paterson 64 5 Michael Hartley 62 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Remuneration & Nomination Committees Audit, Remuneration & Nomination Iain Paterson was appointed a Director and Committees Non-executive Chairman of the Company in Michael Hartley was appointed a Non-executive May 2002.
He has 41 years of international Director of the Company on 21 October management experience at a senior level, most 2003 and is currently Chairman of the Audit particularly in the oil industry.
He was a Board Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Member and International Director of Enterprise He brings extensive international management Oil plc.
Previously he spent 14 years at British experience to the Board, having spent 16 years Petroleum plc.
He is currently a Non-executive with Coats Viyella plc, for the last three years Director of Mol Nyrt the Hungarian energy as Chief Executive of the Viyella division.
He company, Enteq Upstream plc and Chairman of has worked extensively in Asia, Australasia and AnTech Limited.
He is a member of the Advisory Africa.
Mr Hartley was until recently Chairman Committee for Oman Oil Company Exploration of Dawson International plc and is currently and Production.
Chairman of privately owned recruitment business Hartley Resourcing Limited.
He holds 2 Russell Taylor 53 an MBA from Manchester Business School.
Chief Executive Officer Russell Taylor was appointed Chief Executive 6 Edward Strachan 47 in May 2008 having joined ITE in March 2003 Executive Director as Finance Director.
Russells earlier career Edward Strachan joined ITE in 1993 when he included roles as Finance Director of Air Miles launched ITEs local business in Kazakhstan.
International Group, and previously as Finance Since then he has opened and managed ITEs Director Halls and then Managing Director at operations in St Petersburg, Turkey, Kazakhstan, Earls Court Olympia Group.
He is a qualified Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan and currently lives Chartered Accountant, having trained at Touche abroad in the CIS.
He became a main Board Ross & Co, where he became a Manager in the Director in July 2003 and brings to the Board his Corporate Finance Department.
He holds a BA extensive experience of the exhibition industry in Economics.
in Russia and the CIS regions.
3 Neil Jones 45 7 Neil England 57 Finance Director Non-executive Director Neil Jones was appointed as Finance Director in Audit, Remuneration & Nomination November 2008.
He has held senior financial Committees positions within the exhibitions industry Neil England was appointed a Non-executive for over ten years.
He was formerly Finance Director of the Company in March 2008 and Director at Tarsus Group plc, which specialises is currently Chairman of the Remuneration in the organisation of trade exhibitions in Committee.
He has a breadth of sales and Europe, America, UAE and Asia.
Prior to that, he marketing experience and an extensive was European Finance Director for Advanstar knowledge of ITEs key geographic markets.
Communications, one of the largest US media He was formerly Vice President for Mars groups.
Neil is a member of the Institute of Incorporated with responsibility for all the CIS Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, countries and he built a market-leading business qualifying with Price Waterhouse in 1990. there.
More recently, he was Group Commercial Director on the main board of Gallaher Group 4 Linda Jensen 47 Plc.
He is currently Non-executive Chairman of Non-executive Director the Eastern European Trust Plc, an emerging Linda Jensen was appointed a Non-executive market trust investing in Eastern Europe: NonDirector of the Company on 7 July 2011.
She is executive Chairman of Silverstone Holdings CEO of HBO Central Europe, a position she has Limited and is Senior Independent Director of held since February 2005, and is responsible for Wincanton Plc.
Neil is a Fellow of the Chartered all business operations of the HBO channels in Institute of Marketing.
the Central European region, currently covering 13 markets.
From 2000 to early 2005, she was the President of MTV Russia, based in Moscow.
Prior to MTV Russia, she gained valuable experience in the central European region as the Director of Development at Central European Media Enterprises CME.
Fluent in Russian, she holds a Masters degree in Political Science from Columbia University.
