12 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Delivering strategic value We are committed to maximising shareholder returns through a mixture of increasing dividends and re-investment in the business Key Performance Indicators The key performance indicators that ITE uses to measure progress against its objectives and the performance this year are set out below: To increase revenues from existing exhibition portfolio Sterling revenues from existing products have increased by 18% in the year under review.
This reflects an economic recovery in the Groups principal markets.
To increase the annually recurring volume base of ITEs The annually recurring volume base of the exhibition business 2 2 exhibition business increased by 35% in 2011 from 434,000m to 587,000m.
The net increase in volume sales is comprised of a 15% increase in 2 2 like-for-like sales of 63,000m, and an additional 90,000m from the new acquisitions made in the year.
Additional volume was 2 added through 43,000m of acquired events in Moscow MVK 2 and 33,000m of new events in Krasnodar.
In addition to events taking place in the year the new acquisitions are expected to 2 generate another 40,000m of annually recurring exhibition sales in the next financial year when the full year effect of the new businesses is reported.
To make incremental bolt on acquisitions in support of the In December 2010 the Group acquired a portfolio of Groups objectives complementary exhibition subjects in Moscow through the acquisition of MVK, a Moscow based exhibition business.
In March 2011 the Group acquired an exhibition organising business in Krasnodar, South Russia.
The acquisition is complementary to ITEs existing Russian exhibition organising offices in St Petersburg, Moscow and Novosibirsk.
In July 2011 ITE acquired Yapibuild, a portfolio of leading construction events in Turkey.
Secure forward venue rights for significant exhibitions Of ITEs top ten exhibitions and conferences, three have secured rights for three years, five for two years and two for one year.
The Groups management are engaged in an ongoing process of agreeing venue terms to ensure this objective is met.
These ten exhibitions represent 52% of revenues.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 13 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Achievements Strategic priorities Acquisition of MVK in December 2010 for 33m Acquisition of Krasnodar Expo in March 2011 for up to 10m 01 Build and strengthen on existing market leadership Launch of Interfood Delhi in March 2012 1,203,000 visitors in 2011 970,000 in 2010 02 Leverage our business model into new markets and geographies Acquisition of Yem Fuar in July 2011 for up to 32m giving the Group access to the construction sector in Turkey Successful launch of Delhibuild in September 2011 03 Grow and develop our portfolio of international brands Group Human Resources Director appointed Establishment of an internal online business network Internal management development programme for 2012 04 Invest in the development of our management Turkey 14 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 01.
Build and strengthen our existing market leadership.
ITEs strategy targets new sectors and regions within its existing markets where there is potential to increase the participation of international exhibitors.
ITE strengthens building portfolio with 60% acquisition of leading Turkish events The principal Turkeybuild event, held in Istanbul, celebrated its 34th edition in April May 2011 and covered more than 35,000m2 net.
It also attracted an attendance of over 110,000.
The Ankara and Izmir Turkeybuild events are held annually in September and October respectively.
2 35,000m 2 6,000m 2 4,000m Russia Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 15 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The acquisition of The acquisition of MVK further Krasnodar Expo strengthens ITEs business expands ITEs presence in Russia and extends it into in Russias regions.
Krasnodar Expo is a significant exhibition ITEs acquisition of Moscow based MVK business based in the south of the country.
provides the Group with access to new industry Its portfolio consists of more than twenty annual sectors such as furniture manufacturing, printing, 2 exhibitions that collectively cover over 50,000m packaging and industrial products net.
The largest events serve the construction and agriculture industries.
Sq m sold 2 60,000m 2 50,000m 16 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 02.
Leverage our business model into new markets and geographies.
Geographies ITEs business is about creating Sectors the opportunities for buyers and sellers of products to meet in a face-to-face environment.
Over the past 20 years the Group has built its relationships with all parties involved in establishing a successful exhibition such as exhibitors, visitors, venues, staff and local businesses.
All parties trust ITE to deliver events of the highest quality this trust affords the Company a unique opportunity to leverage those relationships and continue to grow its business in new markets and geographies.
The expansion of the Group over the past years has opened up opportunities for the Groups exhibitors in several new sectors, including furniture manufacturing, printing and packaging in new regions of the world, including Southern Russia, Siberia and India.
The ability to take existing brands to those new territories such as build and food to India is a compelling part of the ongoing relationship ITE has with its customers.
JVs Security Automotive Mining Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 17 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Customers Staff ITE Brands 18 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03.
Grow and develop our portfolio of KyivBuild international brands.
In the last two decades, ITE has developed a number of successful brands that are renowned for providing effective marketplaces for business.
ITE has established leading brands in a number of key sectors, in particular the Build brand TurkeyBuild in construction, but the Group also leads in Oil & Gas, Travel and Food.
The Group is continuing to establish and enhance further brands through their extension into new geographies, these include Aquatherm, which the Group are now running in Moscow, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.
Product enhancement is designed to accelerate the speed at which ITEs events develop by focusing on delivering an improved customer experience to help maintain market leading status.
For example, MosBuild has recently introduced a series of initiatives that expand the event into a more progressive 365 model where it continues to produce business opportunities before and after the exhibition itself.
The new MosBuild website supports the full range of interactive functions that are associated with the worlds leading trade events.
The site will become the fulcrum of the MosBuild community, members of which will have access to MyMosBuild which contains exhibitor profiles, product databases, the facility to request meetings, create personalised floorplans and set reminders for attending conference sessions, seminars and presentations.
Access to MyMosBuild is also available via mobile devices and apps are in development and will be tested in spring 2012.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 19 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 MosBuild BalticBuild Interstroy Expo YugBuild AtyrauBuild SibBuild BakuBuild AstanaBuild KazBuild UzBuild DelhiBuild 20 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 04.
Invest in the development of our management.
The management support structure has ITE is committed to investing in staff development been strengthened in recent years with the throughout the Group and in particular, the introduction of a Senior Management Board SMB.
The SMB consists of a small group of management team that supports growing events senior managers who represent the business by territory and job function.
They meet quarterly and the continued expansion of the business.
and discuss a range of strategic and operational issues, sharing ideas, improving best practice and developing a strong sense of unity as each part of the Group strives to deliver better events The Group employs a management structure that for its customers year after year.
encourages creativity, promotes responsibility and In 2011, ITE created the new position of Group facilitates the change that is required to maintain HR Director in order to continue improving the programme of management and staff and strengthen ITEs position as a market leader.
training and development across all parts of the Company.
New communication tools have This structure relies on experienced and skilled been employed so that valuable information managers who are either nurtured through the ITE and ideas can be shared across the Group and more specialist roles have been created to system or recruited for their ability to contribute develop greater levels of expertise in key areas of the business such as branding, database towards the development of the business.
management, business development and digital.
ITE has talented staff and the Company will continue to invest in the development of its workforce by creating the right environment, Over two decades, ITE has built a reputation for the right opportunities and the right level of producing effective and respected trade events support for that talent to flourish.
in growing and developing markets.
This has been achieved by setting standards that exceed customer expectations as well as the standards delivered by rival organisers.
Staff numbers per office As competition naturally intensifies and 1 5 expectations grow, ITE has to meet the challenge of constant improvement.
The 4 Company recognises that this doesnt happen by chance it happens because of the skills, qualities and commitment of the Groups staff.
3 Job satisfaction and staff retention have always been strengths associated with ITE.
2 The Company encourages staff to seize career Staff Offices development opportunities.
Staff can switch 1 Russia 482 4 job functions if they possess the necessary 2 UK & Western Europe 173 4 skills and drive to succeed in another role.
3 Central Asia & Caucasus 157 7 Others move offices, relocating to a new city or 4 Southern & Eastern Europe 147 6 country in order to progress.
There are no fewer 5 Rest of world 57 5 rewards for those who chose to stick with their profession of choice, because working for ITE provides the variety of products, markets and As at 30 September 2011. projects for people to constantly develop and test their talents.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 21 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Anatoly Sushon Ruzanna Sarkisova Anatoly joined ITE in Ruzanna joined ITEs London in 1994 to sell Moscow office ten years sponsorship packages ago to sell exhibition Colette Tebbutt Yuri Borodikhin and delegate places space for TransRussia and Managing Director of Yuri is a prime example for security industry the broadcasting sector ITEs Moda business, of an employee whose conferences.
In 2004, she Colette joined ITE via an potential has been spending time working was promoted to work acquisition in 2001 and nurtured by ITE, on oil & gas and industrial on Russias largest trade has overseen a period progressively taking on events, Anatoly became exhibition, MosBuild.
of sustained growth in additional responsibilities Divisional Director for After a period as Sales the UKs leading fashion and consistently ITEs food industry events Manager, Ruzanna is retail trade event.
A delivering impressive and is now General now the MosBuild Event member of ITEs Senior results.
Having joined Director of Premier Director as well as Sales Management Board, Iteca Kazakhstan in 1997, Expo in Ukraine.
His and Operations Director Colette has been at the he is now Executive vast experience and for a number of other forefront of a number of Director of ITEs Kazakh knowledge of working events such as MIPS, ITFM complementary show business with in the events industry and Aquatherm.
launches and acquisitions responsibility for offices in emerging markets is and she provides in Almaty, Astana and helping ITE to restructure valuable experience that Atyrau.
He is also and grow its Ukrainian is used to improve and General Director of operation.
develop ITEs leading KazExpoMontage, the events in other markets Iteca-owned stand around the world.
Robert Buckley Robbie joined ITE in October 2000 as an Accounts Data Input Clerk and was promoted in June 2011 from Head of Group Management Information in London, to Finance Director for Russia.
He Bahruz Hidayatzadeh is now based in Moscow Bahruz joined ITE in 2001 and his role will further working on the telecoms improve communication, exhibition, BakuTel.
His develop local talent, assist talents were identified with the application of early in his career and Group policies and raise he was sent to work standards of reporting for ITE in London to and financial analysis.
further his experience ITE has encouraged before returning to and funded Robbies Baku where he is now professional studies.
Sales Director at Iteca He now has a CIMA Caspian.
In addition Accounting degree and to his achievements in is studying for a Masters the workplace, Bahruz Degree in International holds a UFI Exhibition Corporate Finance.
