ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 08 Performance Dashboard Reporting Progress against our five year Transformation Plan: 1 2 3 4 Create a lean, Maximise audience Drive new revenue Build a strong creatively dynamic and revenue share streams by exploiting international and fit-for-purpose from our existing our content across content business organisation free-to-air broadcast multiple platforms, business free and pay Milestones achieved Milestones achieved Milestones achieved Milestones achieved New senior leadership Increased variety and quality Investment in technology New team in place driving team delivering within programme budget infrastructure online creative renewal Employee engagement up Four out of top five new Improved quality and Invested 8m in creative to 85% 2010: 75% dramas on ITV1 distribution of ITV Player talent and developing new ideas and pilots Restructuring across ITV Investment of 10m in 376m long form video driving out waste and brand defining content views in 2011, up 44% 111 new commissions in complexity 2011 Major sports rights deals 9% of VOD viewing in 20m of cost savings renegotiated with savings December on mobile Developing new partnerships More coordinated Successful launch of ITV1 1 3m downloads of ITV rights negotiation and Player App New dramas being sold ITV1 wins Terrestrial management successfully internationally Channel of the Year Online revenues up 21% Investment in technology ITV Studios ITVS now ITV2 and ITV3 largest Growing engagement with producing 55% of ITV1 Manchester move to digital channels our viewers output MediaCity under way ITV Family SOV up 1% ITV2, 3, 4 pay HD channels ITVS revenues up 10% Progress in simplifying on Sky performing in line Digital channels growing network arrangements with expectations ITVS EBITA before key audiences exceptional items up Pension longevity swap New VOD deals with Sky, ITV NAR up 1%, 2m to 83m Netflix and Lovefilm 339m bond buy-backs outperforming the market Focus for 2012 Focus for 2012 Focus for 2012 Focus for 2012 Focus on delivering the Maintain ITV Family SOV Improve ITV Player Continue to build strength Transformation Plan of creative team and talent ITV programme budget Drive online viewing and c. 1bn for 2012 Continue to build strength in confirmed at revenues Invest in developing and the team across ITV piloting further new ideas Outperform the television Launch ITV Pay Player and Drive out further waste and advertising market pay products Focus on long running complexity returnable series Refresh and enhance channel Increase pay VOD deals Deliver further cost brands ITVS to grow its share of Renegotiate existing efficiency target of 20m ITV1 original commissions Continue to invest in brand VOD deals Strengthen collaborative defining content Target off-ITV and Development of potential creative process international commissions Build and develop non-spot pay channels Further investment of advertising revenues Increased focus on Ensure ITV Player available 25m behind our strategy international co-productions Ongoing implementation of on connected TV sets and roll-out of ITVS formats Capex of 7080m as we news review Launch YouView implement site moves and Develop and invest in the Focus on long running, Roll out Total Value technology improvements ITVS international network returnable series exploitation Read more on Page 09 Read more on Page 13 Read more on Page 17 Read more on Page 21 www.
com Stock code: ITV 09 Strategy In Action 1 1 Create a lean, creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose organisation ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 1 Create a lean, creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose organisation Our people remain key to ITV and to the appropriate cost base across the business Employee engagement delivery of the Transformation Plan.
Our and have identified a further 20 million of % management team have now been in place for savings in 2012.
Our continued commitment over a year and, together with the wider to the tight management of cash and costs 100 leadership team, are driving the Transformation has helped us move into a positive net cash Plan forward and continuing to facilitate position of 45 million at the end of 2011.
We cultural change at all levels of the business.
We have also improved the efficiency of our 80 are very pleased to see that our employees are balance sheet with 339 million of bond embracing the changes, with engagement buy-backs.
We continued our long-term having risen to 85% in 2011 2010: 75%.
We strategy of managing the costs and risks 60 have also brought our recruitment operation associated with the pension schemes through in-house and the team have launched a brand our longevity swap and an extension to the new careers website to ensure we continue to SDN pension partnership.
40 attract and retain the best talent.
In 2011 we launched our investment We have continued to restructure ITV where programme in technology in order to make appropriate to drive out waste and complexity the business fit-for-purpose.
We have begun in the business.
During 2011 we delivered cost to roll out our desktop refresh, which is aimed savings of 20 million, ahead of the targeted at giving all of our people the best tools for 15 million.
These savings follow on from the the job, and we will continue this refresh 40 million delivered in 2010.
We are now taking steps focused on costs to ensure that we have the towards complete digital production for all of Your questions answered Q.
What have been the main achievements in delivering against Priority 1 in 2011?
We have been focused on making the business fit-for-purpose, driving out waste and inefficiency and delivering 20 million of cost savings.
We have also been changing the culture of the organisation and ensuring that we get the right people working for ITV.
What areas is ITV particularly targeting with its investment?
We want to give our people the right tools to do their jobs.
We have launched a desktop refresh, consolidated our Emmerdale studios in Leeds, and we have begun our investment in moving the Manchester site to MediaCity.
com Stock code: ITV 11 Our people remain key to ITV and to the P P Pr rio o or rit t ty y y 1 delivery of the Transformation Plan.
As such we are pleased that employee engagement has risen to 85% 2010: 75% our shows by implementing plans for tapeless content.
Significant technology projects are being implemented across the organisation we are aware that they will take time to accomplish but we are We launched our new careers confident that they will lead to great website in May, winning three RAD improvements to the way in which we Recruitment Advertising Design operate.
awards including Best Employer Website and Best Use of Social We remain committed to our producerMedia, and increasing the visibility broadcaster model and want to gain of available jobs both internally maximum benefit from it.
Recruiting the rights negotiation and management very best people is critical to our process which we introduced has Transformation.
strengthened the collaboration between Broadcast and Studios and allows us to secure rights at the best value.
com Your questions answered Andy Doyle Q.
How do you measure success?
We are driving significant change throughout the organisation and taking our people with us: employee engagement is up to 85% from 65% in 2009.
We are targeting a further 20 million of cost savings in 2012, we will be continuing to roll out our desktop refresh programme to all areas of the business and we will see the first people moving into our new offices in MediaCity.
We will also continue to focus on getting the right people to work for ITV.
com andydoyle Strategy & Operations Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 1 The move of the Companys Manchester During 2011, we made progress in base from Quay Street to MediaCity is now simplifying the network structure through well under way and will deliver a bespoke, the acquisition of Channel Television.
state-of-the-art production facility for Coronation Street as well as providing Significant progress has been made towards modern offices for everyone working in creating a lean, creatively dynamic and Manchester with improved technology.
This process will first move for staff in Manchester into the be ongoing as we prepare for the next stage new site will take place later this year.
We continue to look for ways in also be moving all staff in Leeds to one site which we can improve the business and and modernising a number of our regional make it work more efficiently.
As a result of our investment in technology and property, there is expected to be an increase in capital expenditure in 2012 to 7080 million.
Our recent investment in the new ITV Meridian studios ensures that our people are working with the latest HD technology.
com Stock code: ITV 13 Strategy In Action 2 Emmerdale 40th anniversary in 2012 Emmerdale website relaunched 2 Maximise audience and revenue share from our existing free-to-air broadcast business ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 2 Maximise audience and revenue share from our existing free-to-air broadcast business Although we delivered significant growth in ITV Family share of commercial impacts ITV Family SOB non-NAR revenues in 2011, we still have a high SOCI was down 1% in 2011 with ITV1 Adult % degree of reliance on advertising revenues.
We SOCI down 4%, although we saw stronger therefore remain firmly focused on performances from many of our key 50 maximising our audience and revenue share sub-demographics Housewives, Adult ABC1s, 40 from our free-to-air broadcast business.
1634s which have a bearing on the contract rights renewal mechanism.
Our digital 30 Our performance relative to the market is an channels SOCI was again strong, up 9%.
important metric for us and this is reflected in 20 our share of broadcast SOB one of our key ITV1s on-screen successes in 2011 have performance indicators.
ITV Family net included Vera, Marchlands, Scott and Bailey, 10 advertising revenue NAR was up 1% in 2011, Strangeways, the Rugby World Cup, Doc 0 ahead of the television advertising market for Martin, and Downton Abbey, which won a the fourth consecutive year, with SOB Golden Globe for best mini-series, as well as increasing from 45.1% to 45.3%.
This winning the Christmas ratings battle with a outperformance was driven by an improved consolidated audience of 12 million.
Four of ITV Family SOV second half performance as advertisers the top five performing new dramas were % concentrated spend around our autumn on ITV1 in 2011 and ITV1 also won the schedule of sport, drama and entertainment.
Terrestrial Channel of the Year Award at the 25 Edinburgh Television Festival.
In 2011, ITV Familys share of viewing SOV was 20 up 1%, driven by the continued strong growth Our soaps continued to perform strongly 15 of our digital channels which were up 10%.
ITV1 with Emmerdale average 7.6 million SOV, which benefited from the successful viewers per episode increasing SOV by 3% 10 launch of ITV1 1, was down 2% this is below during the year, while Coronation Street 9.4 where we want it to be and we will work to million viewers was only marginally down 5 improve performance in 2012.
-1% despite the tough comparative of the 50th anniversary year in 2010.
0 Your questions answered ITV Family SOCI % Q.
What have been the main achievements in delivering against Priority 2 50 in 2011?
We had four of the top five performing new dramas on British television, ITV1 won 40 the Terrestrial Channel of the Year award at the Edinburgh Television Festival, our big entertainment shows continued to play to huge audiences on ITV1 and our 30 digital channels continued their strong growth.
What is happening to programming spend in 2012?
We will spend around 1 billion on programming in 2012 which will give the schedule the variety and quality we need for our viewers and advertisers.
We will 0 also continue to invest in brand defining content for our digital channels.
com Stock code: ITV 15 Four of the top five performing new P P P P Pr r riio o o o or r riit t t ty y y y 2 dramas in 2011 were on ITV1 Scott and Bailey, The Jury, Marchlands and With or Without You Some of our key shows, including X Factor and Im a Celebrity, did not perform as well as in 2010, but they remain very important brands for us as they still drive large, diverse audiences, which appeal greatly ITV News at Ten was awarded a to advertisers.
We remain committed to BAFTA in 2011 for its coverage of these programmes and continually look at the Cumbrian murders.
We are fully ways of refreshing them to improve their committed to providing high quality on-screen performance.
ITV1 continues to news regionally, nationally and online, deliver some of the largest audiences on and our news review is an important television.
The average X Factor audience part of our Transformation Plan.
across the series was 12.3 million, which made it the largest entertainment format on UK television in 2011, as it has been for three of the last four years.
It was also the third Top: Scott and Bailey was the most most successful series ever of the show in watched new drama on any channel last terms of audience.
year with a peak audience of 9.4 million.
Bottom: Monroe, produced by Mammoth Our digital channels continue to perform in which ITV has a 25% stake, was view more information @ watched by a peak audience of 6.9 million.
com news largest digital channels in the UK and saw SOV rise 8% and 11% respectively, while ITV4 saw a 13% rise in SOV making it one of the fastest growing digital channels.
ITV2, which won Channel of the Year and Best Entertainment Channel at the Broadcast Broadcast Digital Awards Digital Awards, has seen particular success Entertainment Channel with the BAFTA award-winning The Only Your questions answered Peter Fincham Q.
How is ITV benefiting from its producer-broadcaster model?
We want our doors to be open to the best ideas from independent producers but we also generate ideas within ITV, where we own the rights thats extremely good for business.
We see that as a growing part of what we do at ITV it has been over the last couple of years and will continue to be so.
How is ITV planning to deliver against this priority in 2012?
By continuing to come up with great programme ideas, develop and produce them, retain the rights and then exploit them on different platforms, on different media, in different countries.
Above all, it comes back to great content and great programmes in all the genres.
If we can do that well be in a good place.
com peterfincham Strategy & Operations Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 2 Way is Essex TOWIE and Celebrity Juice, welcomed this decision as we had always both of which will be returning in 2012. maintained that a lengthy market review, at TOWIE averaged 1.8 million viewers up 21% a time of such rapid change and increasing across the series while Celebrity Juice competition, would not be beneficial for UK averaged 2.2 million viewers up 12%, with consumers or the UK television industry.
one episode peaking at 3.1 million 14% share making it the most-watched nonTelevision is a long-term business and terrestrial programme of the year.
We are Peter Fincham and his team continue to continuing to invest in brand-defining make plans for the schedule several years content for our digital channels with new in advance.
In 2011, we spent just over 1 drama commissions for ITV2 and rights to billion on programming and we continue to the French Open, Europa League and the ensure that our programming investment is African Cup of Nations for ITV4.
made as efficiently as possible, while maintaining variety and quality.
Our Our channel brands are increasingly programme budget for 2012 will remain at important in the constantly evolving digital around 1 billion we believe this is a market.
Those channels linked to a strong sufficient level to provide the breadth, variety mother brand ITV, BBC, C4, C5 and Sky and freshness that audiences and advertisers have recorded growth in SOV this year while require.
We recently secured c. 35 million of other independent digital channels have savings from 2013 onwards when we seen a marked 9% decline.
To consolidate this renegotiated a number of rights deals strength and build upon it we will be including the Champions League and FA Cup.
rebranding all of our channels during the Some of these savings may be reinvested Top: This Morning launched a voting competition, Dog for the Dales, a cross second half of 2012 to position them for the back into the schedule.
collaboration with Emmerdale to find a dog challenges and opportunities which lie ahead.
We will continue to work at delivering Bottom: The Rugby World Cup was In December, Ofcom announced that it maximum value from our free-to-air watched by 6.4 million 52% share on 8 would not be referring the advertising business while at the same time building October 2011 for the quarter final game England vs France.
trading model to the Competition and developing new non-spot advertising Commission.
While our strategy is not revenues.
dependent upon regulatory relief, we Downton Abbey won a Golden Globe for best mini-series as well as winning the Christmas ratings battle with 12 million viewers.
com Stock code: ITV 17 Strategy In Action 3 ITV Player Launched on new platforms Long form video views up 44% 3 Drive new revenue streams by exploiting our content across multiple platforms, free and pay ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 3 Drive new revenue streams by exploiting our content across multiple platforms, free and pay We are continuing to execute our strategy of platforms to 376 million 2010: 261 million.
Long form video views developing new revenue streams that are This is a key performance indicator as we seek m more balanced between pay and free to monetise our online traffic.
television through building our programme 400 brands and platform offerings.
As well as the While our pay revenues are still relatively latest programmes, ITV has a huge archive of small in the context of ITV, they are derived content and the technical advances of the from an increasing number of sources and 300 digital market have opened up great our pay strategy is beginning to gain opportunities for monetising this archive momentum.
across the many devices on which people 200 now consume content.
2011 was the first full year of the pay HD channels ITV2, ITV3 and ITV4 on the Sky Online revenues grew by 21% in 2011 to 34 platform, and they performed in line with 100 million, which contributed to the 13% growth in our expectations.
In early 2012 we signed non-NAR revenues within Broadcasting and archive video on demand VOD deals with Online to 310 million 2010: 275 million.
Lovefilm and Netflix and a VOD and catch Online revenues While this represents encouraging growth we up deal with Sky.
These are non-exclusive m are still aware of the need to build scale within deals which enable us to retain the option Online.
Our challenge is to choose the best of doing similar deals with other parties 40 monetisation strategy for our content and to should opportunities arise.
We will also be continue to innovate, to open up new revenue launching a pay version of ITV Player later streams.
this year, which we will start to test 30 internally in the second quarter of 2012.
As part of this strategy, ITV Player is now While this is slightly later than originally available on more platforms, including PS3, anticipated, we want to guarantee the 20 Android, iOS and Freesat.
This improvement in quality of the user experience before the distribution of ITVs content has driven the launching to the public.
44% growth in long form video views across all 10 Your questions answered Q.
What have been the main achievements in delivering against Priority 3 in 2011?
We have delivered strong growth in non-NAR of 11% or 93 million.
We have reorganised our whole sales team to become much more customer focused.
Online revenues are up 21%, while long form views are up 44%, driven by the increased distribution and quality of ITV Player.
How is ITV driving new revenue streams?
Our strategy is to exploit our content across multiple platforms, both free and pay.
We have announced content deals with Netflix and Lovefilm and a content and catch up deal with Sky, exploiting ITVs archive.
We will continue to look at pay opportunities across many platforms both in the UK and internationally.
com Stock code: ITV 19 ITV Player is now available on more P P P P Pr riiio o o or rit t t t ty 3 platforms including PS3, Android, iOS and Freesat.
We are continually looking at ways in which Watching television has become a we can develop closer engagement with our much more social and interactive viewers in order to provide greater value to experience.
Viewers of Dancing on advertisers.
While we are starting from a Ice can now Score the Stars in real small base, we have seen significant increases time at home via their second screen in audience engagement via the 15.4 million eg: on a PC or ipad adding to the Facebook fans which we have across all of our shows live feeling while also having pages 2010: 7.4 million.
We have also now access to other exclusive content via collected 3.6 million contactable email the website.
The programme now addresses 2010: 1.6 million.
These has over 375,000 fans on Facebook interactions are indicative of the power of the and Twitter and the 2011 app was ITV brand and aid the exploitation of our one of the top five free apps in the content across multiple platforms as part of iTunes store upon launch, surpassing our Transformation Plan.
the total downloads of the 2010 app within the first 10 days of release.
Mobile viewing has increased rapidly in 2011, representing 9% of all VOD viewing of ITV content in December, comparable with the BBC iPlayer.
This enables us to view more information @ engage ever more closely with consumers.
com dancingonice In the first seven months following its launch the ITV Player app had more than three million downloads.
Top: X Factor has driven strong online engagement in 2011 with 26 million catch up views, 4 million Facebook fans and over 1 million downloads of the X Factor app.
Bottom: Dating show Take Me Out presented by Paddy McGuinness is one of the top ten programmes watched via catch up with 7 million views.
Your questions answered Fru Hazlitt Q.
How will ITV adapt to the rise of VOD viewing in the way it sells advertising?
The rise of VOD is a huge opportunity for ITV because it is able to combine the Commercial and Online mass-market power of the 30-second spot with the interactive, direct response and engagement of the digital platforms.
We are introducing more targeted advertising, which we are already working on with a number of key clients, and innovative advertising formats, two of which we have trialled and will launch shortly.
A. ITV has the largest marketing platform in the UK and we want to use this to drive revenues both within the UK and internationally.
We will be offering a blend of free and paid-for content, available to people at their convenience across multiple view the video online @ platforms.
com fruhazlitt Strategy & Operations Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 3 The ITV Player app has had over 3 million downloads since launch in July and mobile viewing now represents 9% of all VOD viewing on ITV.
Coronation Street, one of our most watched programmes, had 1.5 million catch up views on mobile and 72 million across all platforms.
in its revenues as a result of the renegotiation These all represent encouraging trends in our engagement with consumers but our of a number of its licences in 2010.
This challenge is to monetise the audiences we revenue growth will not be repeated in 2011 now have across multiple platforms.
as this was a one-off increase.
We have invested in fixing our online technology platform in 2011 but still have In 2011 we announced the first product some way to go and the quality and the placement deals in the UK with Nationwide performance of ITV Player will further and Nestl but the market remains very small.
We will continue to invest in We previously highlighted that the new rules navigation, ease of use, content and which Ofcom implemented would impact our robustness to improve the quality of the ability to exploit this new revenue stream and overall user experience on our website.
this continues to be the case.
The SDN business, which operates one of the six digital terrestrial multiplex licences in the UK that make up Freeview, saw 37% growth Top: Im a Celebrity drew an average audience on screen of almost 9 million in 2011 and was followed by 1.6 million Facebook fans online.
Bottom: Appropriate Adult had average catch up views across all platforms of 670,000 per episode.
The Britains Got Talent Buzzer app had 562,000 downloads on top of an average audience of 10 million viewers per episode and 2 million Facebook fans in 2011.
The show has a new judging panel for 2012. www.
com Stock code: ITV 21 Strategy In Action 4 Titanic An ITVS international co-production Sold into 86 countries worldwide 4 Build a strong international content business ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 22 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 4 Build a strong international content business Creative renewal lies at the heart of our enabling EBITA before exceptional items to ITVS share of ITV1 network strategy to build an international content rise 2 million to 83 million during the year.
2011 saw a significant increase in % our development budget and the number of Our new UK commissions for ITV1 include 60 new pilots created.
This contributed to ITV SWAGS a six-part drama about service Studios ITVS securing 111 new commissions wives and girlfriends, Superstar in in the year up 28% compared to 2010, of collaboration with Lord Andrew Lloyd which 66 were in the UK and 45 were Webber which will be screened in 2012, and 50 international.
Mr Selfridge a ten-part drama about the life of the flamboyant American entrepreneur, The new ITVS management team is now in Harry Gordon Selfridge for 2013.
We also place and providing the creative leadership had ten off-ITV commissions including The needed to transform the internal capability Devils Dinner Party for Sky Atlantic and Dirk 40 of the business.
We have rebuilt our creative Gently for BBC.
team in the UK and internationally with several new appointments, demonstrating Our strategy revolves around creating Number of new commissions that we are able to attract the right talent.
long-running, returnable drama and entertainment formats which travel well Our Studios business has shown particularly internationally, so recommission levels are 120 strong growth in 2011.
Total ITVS revenues also a key focus for us.
75 recommissions in grew 10% from 554 million to 612 million, the UK, including Vera, Lewis and a celebrity 100 driven primarily by international production.
version of The Chase, relative to 57 in 2010, External revenues were up 9% to 320 million.
represent positive steps in this area as we 80 This revenue growth has more than offset the build up our pipeline of content.
investment made in creative renewal, 60 40 Your questions answered Q.
What have been the main achievements in delivering against priority 4 in 2011?
We now have a completely new Studios management team who are providing the necessary creative leadership to drive the creation of new programming.
We have had 111 new commissions and 101 recommissions in the UK and internationally, which represents encouraging momentum.
What changes in management have there been at ITV Studios in 2011?
We have new managing directors in both our UK and International studios businesses, some new creative directors, a new finance director and a new HR director.
com Stock code: ITV 23 Creative renewal lies at the heart of our P P P P Pr r riiio o o or r riit t t t ty y y y y y 4 strategy to build an international content business On top of our UK activity, we are beginning to build momentum internationally.
Our 45 Content creation lies at the heart of new international commissions included the Transformation Plan and we are Bill Cunningham and Buried Treasure in the constantly developing new ways of US, as well as a production deal for a US working with creative talent through version of Jeremy Kyle which was sold joint ventures and partnerships.
Our throughout the US, with Sekretarinnen co-production of Julian Fellowes being commissioned in Germany.
We also Titanic was pre-funded and has had 26 international recommissions, already been sold to 86 countries, including Four Weddings in France and the demonstrating our ability to sell US and Im a Celebrity in Germany.
Its transmission will coincide with the We have highlighted the need to have a centenary of the ships sinking in significant stake in the intellectual property April.
rights of the content we show on our screens, and have made progress in this area in 2011.
ITVS produced 1,929 hours of original commissions 2010: 1,740 for the ITV1 network, increasing its share of the view more information @ networks spend to 55% from 53% in 2010 www.
com titanic but we want to grow our share further still.
Top: May the Best House Win, broadcast on ITV1, has been sold to seven countries.
Bottom: Four Weddings, which ITVS produces for UKTV, has been sold to 15 countries.
Your questions answered Kevin Lygo Q.
What progress is being made internationally?
45 of our 111 commissions are international including Jeremy Kyle, which has been recommissioned for a second series in the US, our co-production of Titanic, and Prime Suspect, our first venture into US prime time drama.
We will continue to invest in pilots, in creative talent and in developing new ideas throughout the ITVS international network as we build up our pipeline of content with our main focus on the UK and US.
com kevinlygo Strategy & Operations Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24 Strategy In Action Strategic Priority 4 Our strategy is based upon a mixed We have increased our co-production economy approach to content production: activity as well: in 2011, we co-produced while we want to own more of what is shown Julian Fellowes Titanic which has now been on our channels, we are also prepared to sold into 86 countries ahead of its screening enter into partnerships to ensure we are in April to coincide with the centenary of working with the best creative talent.
The UK the Titanics disaster: we also co-produced and US remain our main creative engines but Prime Suspect in the US with Universal we are also investing in growth in our other Television for NBC, which was sold into 116 production hubs France, Sweden, Australia countries.
In 2012 we will be co-producing and Germany, as well as exploring Mrs Biggs, a drama about Ronnie Biggs wife, opportunities in other emerging creative with Seven Network in Australia.
markets, as we want to be making and distributing programmes in as many We are making encouraging progress but, countries as possible.
given the long lead time involved in production, there is still a lot of work to do We continue to look at new ways of working to develop scale in our content business on with creative talent and have signed a the international stage.
We will continue to development agreement with an independent develop and invest in our international production company, The Garden.
We have network as we build on the momentum also entered into a joint venture with BAFTAwhich has been created within ITVS.
winning Channel 4 drama commissioners Camilla Campbell and Robert Wulff-Cochrane to establish a new scripted production Top: ITVS produces The Devils Dinner Party for Sky Atlantic, which is starting to grow its company, Noho Film and TV, which will begin audience and is performing better than the development on a number of projects in 2012. slot average on the channel.
Bottom: The Jeremy Kyle Show which launched in America in 2011 has been recommissioned for the 201213 season in a number of US states.
Dancing on Ice has now been sold to 13 countries.
com Stock code: ITV 25 Strategy In Action 2012 and beyond Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!
Back for the 12th UK series in 2012 Produced in the UK and Germany 1 2 3 4 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 26 2012 and beyond Our aim is to rebalance the business away from a dependency on television advertising revenues.
Our nonNAR revenue growth, driven by the Studios business, shows we are making progress against our strategic priorities.
We are less than two years into our Maximise audience and revenue share from five-year Transformation Plan and there is existing free-to-air broadcast business still much to do but we have made good In 2012, we aim to repeat the performance of progress and are building momentum.
Our 2011 by outperforming the television aim is to rebalance the business away from advertising market, as we did in 2011, and a dependency on television advertising hold ITV Family SOV.
We will refresh and revenues.
Our non-NAR revenue growth, enhance all of our channel brands and driven by ITVS, shows that we are making continue to invest in brand defining content progress against our strategic priorities.
The first phase of the plan has been primarily Our total programming budget for 2012 will be focused on fixing the business.
While we around 1 billion, of which around 800 million relentlessly look for ways to improve the will be spent on the ITV1 NPB, as we work to efficiency and performance of ITV, we have improve the variety of the schedule across the put in place a solid foundation for the growth year.
Schedule costs in the first half will phase of the plan which lies ahead of us.
increase due to Euro 2012 in June.
In 2012 we will look to build on the We will increasingly focus on long-running, momentum we have created.
In 2011 we returnable series and have a strong schedule invested 28 million in ITVS, Online, for 2012 with returning dramas such as technology and our digital channels, and in Downton Abbey, Vera, and Scott and Bailey 2012 we expect to invest a further 25 million.
alongside an exciting line-up of new drama including SWAGS, Titanic and Mrs Biggs Top: Vera, a new commission for ITVS in 2011, peaked at 6.7 million viewers.
It has Create a lean, creatively dynamic and many of which are being made by ITVS.
A been recommissioned for 2012. number of ITVs top entertainment shows will fit-for-purpose organisation Bottom: Our new entertainment show be returning in 2012, including X Factor, Im a In 2012 we will continue to build strength in Superstar will be made by ITVS and Celebrity, Dancing on Ice and Long Lost the team across ITV to drive forward the broadcast on ITV1, in collaboration with Family, while we will be screening new shows Lord Andrew Lloyd Webber.
We will look for further including Superstar and Fool Britannia.
ways to improve efficiency and performance, driving out waste and complexity.
We have Live top sporting events in 2012 include Euro identified a further 20 million of cost 2012, Champions League, Europa League, Tour savings and planned further improvements fide France and The French Open tennis.
We will in technology our desktop refresh will also continue to implement our ongoing news continue throughout the year to ensure that review.
our people have the right equipment to do their jobs.
Capital expenditure in 2012 is expected to be 7080 million as we make these technological improvements and implement our site move from Manchester.
We will also continue to build the improved collaborative creative process between Broadcast and Studios to help focus on creating long-running, returnable formats.
com Stock code: ITV 27 Drive new revenue streams by exploiting Outlook Everyone at ITV our content across multiple platforms, Our 2011 financial and operating results remains firmly free and pay demonstrate the progress we are making and the momentum we have built up.
We We will continue to build scale in our online focused on will increasingly look to content, pay and business, improving the distribution and online as engines for growth in the UK and delivering the performance of ITV Player, and driving up internationally as we invest further in our online viewing and revenues.
We also plan to Transformation key strategic priorities.
Everyone at ITV make ITV Player available on manufacturers remains firmly focused on delivering the connected television sets and launch YouView.
Plan and we Transformation Plan and we remain on track We will expand our pay strategy in 2012, as we to do so.
remain on track launch ITV Pay Player and pay products, renegotiate existing video on demand deals to do so We will maintain our tight focus on cash and negotiate new ones, and develop potential management throughout the organisation.
We also plan to roll out With positive net cash of 45 million, ITV is our Total Value exploitation under new teams.
in a strong position financially which gives us the flexibility to invest in the business Build a strong international content while making the right decisions for the business long-term future of the business.
After 339 We will continue to invest in building our million of bond buy-backs in 2011 we will creative strength and talent and developing continue to look at options for the balance and piloting new ideas.
We will further grow sheet that make economic sense.
We are ITVS share of ITV1 network commissions, conscious of the uncertain economic focusing on long-running, returnable series, environment and the need to maintain whilst increasing off-ITV commissions both in flexibility to deliver our strategic priorities.
We will increasingly focus on new international Although ITV Family NAR has started the co-productions and rolling out ITVS formats year better than we expected, it is still down but will also look at different ways of working 2% in Q1 and, whilst we expect to with creative talent.
We will develop and outperform the market again in 2012, we invest in our international network through remain cautious on the full year outlook for our creative engines, production hubs and the television advertising market.
In time, we may look to make acquisitions but we remain focused initially on growing the business organically.
Adam Crozier Chief Executive Top: Long Lost Family will return to our screens in 2012 for a second series.
Bottom: Doc Martin will return to ITV1 for a sixth series following record average viewers of 10.6 million in 2011. view more online @ www.
com Strategy & Operations Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28 www.
com Stock code: ITV 29 Performance & Financials Performance & Financials Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
