ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 44 www.
com Stock code: ITV 45 Responsibility Responsibility Financial Statements Governance Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 46 Responsibility ITV has a responsibility to both existing and future stakeholders Pride of Britain Awards, broadcast on Our major new charity initiative and entertainment event for Christmas, Text Santa, raised ITV1, attracted an audience of over 6 awareness and money for those most vulnerable during the festive period.
The strategy also aims to mitigate our risks and uncertainties and At ITV, we have a responsibility to both ensure the Company continues to behave in a existing and future stakeholders which is responsible manner through specific taken seriously.
As a broadcaster and performance targets.
Objectives have been producer our activities can impact the lives identified by the newly formed Corporate of millions of viewers and users of our Responsibility Committee and are supported services, in addition to affecting the by the Management Board.
A new role of perception of ITV by other stakeholders.
Head of Corporate Responsibility has been Other stakeholders include investors, appointed to roll out the strategy across the regulators, talent, suppliers and employees, Company.
They will be responsible for whose engagement with ITV plays an consolidating activity for maximum impact essential role in the success of our and managing policy around charitable giving, Transformation Plan.
This role reports directly into the Group HR Director, who also During 2011, our responsibility strategy has chairs the Corporate Responsibility been revised to align to the Transformation Committee, ensuring activity is relevant and Plan and our four strategic priorities, and to integrated into the business.
contribute towards long-term industry www.
com Stock code: ITV 47 A list of Committee members and their People roles at ITV can be found on our Corporate We have outlined in Priority 1 of the Responsibility website.
Transformation Plan, as well as in our Risks and Uncertainties section, that attracting Priorities and retaining talent is critical to our success.
It is therefore in our interest to ensure that Over the next three years our strategy aims we provide the appropriate rewards and to help to grow our business through opportunities for development so that our strengthening stakeholder pride and loyalty people feel engaged with the Company.
Our approach is to utilise our strong Insufficient employee engagement has been presence as a catalyst in the heart of our identified as a potential strategic risk.
This will be achieved through the following three priorities: We have again completed an engagement campaign in 2011, with the members of the Investing in drama in our regions Management Board visiting ITV locations and Utilising ITVs brand, expertise and presence giving employees the opportunity to feed to generate long-term sustainability in the back their thoughts and concerns about the creative industry outside of London, by business.
This engagement has continued supporting grass-roots talent, skills and through other forums such as the Company production in drama.
intranet, video booths and regular hard copy newsletters, as well as through briefings Responsible reach between managers and their teams by which Utilising ITVs unique position as a regional Above: ITV completed an engagement employees can understand the financial and and national broadcaster and the reputation campaign in 2011, with the members economic factors affecting the Companys of the Management Board visiting ITV of well-known programmes as a vehicle to locations and giving employees the performance and how their role contributes to engage mass audiences in national opportunity to feed back their thoughts the execution of our strategy.
Participation in campaigns and raise awareness around and concerns.
ITVs Employee Engagement Survey increased grass-roots issues.
from 62% to 82% in 2011 while employee engagement has improved from 75% to 85%.
Operating responsibly Being seen as a responsible industry leader We have continued to invest in our people by demonstrating the link between through training programmes for all employees responsibility and a sustainable future.
In as well as leadership development.
92% of particular: managers benefited from formal training in 2011.
The introduction of a new online y Utilising external benchmark tools to performance management tool will continue improve ITVs position and working to ensure clarity around capability and cross-industry to share best practice: objective-setting as well as succession planning.
y Setting performance targets where More detailed information around leadership feasible and transparency on results: and succession planning can be found in the y Supporting new and diverse talent and Governance section.
improving access to the industry: and y Recognising and rewarding employees Our package of voluntary benefits, Relish, individual contributions and impact on provides valuable cost savings for employees the community and environment.
Enrolment for 2012 Relish benefits was more popular than For information demonstrating the impact ever, with 53% of employees now of our Corporate Responsibility in the year, participating in at least one Relish benefit.
the drivers resulting in the above priorities, All eligible employees earning under and specific aims and measures around the 60,001 received a 3% increase in salary in strategy, please visit our Corporate January 2012, as well as an additional Responsibility website.
one-off award to the value of 250 as part of the annual pay review.
Performance summary The following information summarises the impact that the Companys operations have had on its people, customers, suppliers, community and environment during 2011. view our CR website @ www.
com Responsibility Financial Statements Governance Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48 Responsibility continued As in the previous year, the pay award for Health and safety performance The business case 2011 for eligible employees earning above indicators 60,000 was performance-related.
We share around diversity Employee accidents the success of ITV through our all-employee excluding contractors 2011 2010 is compelling as annual bonus which paid out in 2011.
The Accidents requiring Company also operates an all-employee Save it ensures we more than three As You Earn scheme.
days off work 8 5 attract and retain Major accidents 2 2 Diversity the best talent Fatal accidents 0 0 The business case around diversity is compelling as it ensures we attract and retain Customers the best talent.
This is achieved through our Our key customers are our viewers across inclusive Equal Opportunities policy.
Our policy various platforms our advertisers and reflects the Equality Act 2010 and aims for other broadcasters.
equality around gender, marital or parental status, race, origin, nationality, religious belief, We seek to maximise audience and revenue disability, age, sexual orientation, and gender share from our free-to-air business, as laid out reassignment.
ITV is recognised as a positive in Priority 2 of our Transformation Plan.
To employer, holding the two-tick disability manage the risk around this revenue source, symbol and being the only broadcaster to be it is essential that we understand our viewers, part of Stonewalls top 100 Workplace that we are meeting their expectations and Equality Index, for the second year running.
needs as customers and that we deliver ITV participates in major national and maximum value both to them and to industry-specific diversity forums, working as a advertisers.
collective to share best practice and campaign for change.
In 2011 we continued to commission an independent research company to recruit Workplace profile % and survey a Vision Panel.
The panel is 2011 2010 representative of 8,000 adult television Female employees 49.4 49.9 viewers.
This enables ITV to measure Ethnic minority audience reaction to programmes and employees 9.1 9.7 content on a daily basis and to achieve an in-depth understanding of viewer Employees with a expectations and preferences.
The panel ITV are in the top 10 private sector disability 2.9 2.7 employers in Stonewalls Workplace enables ITV to ask further questions about Employees aged Equality Index.
its channels, new ideas and views on over 50 15.0 15.0 broader media issues.
Qualitative research is Lesbian, gay and also obtained via focus groups which may bisexual employees 4.9 N A target particular demographics to gain insights for programme development.
Percentages based on those who declared relevant information approximately 75% of workforce.
Health and safety The Health and Safety H&S of employees, contractors and visitors at ITV is always a high priority.
The significant loss of human life as the result of a major H&S incident has been identified as a specific risk to the organisation.
The H&S team continue to use a management system that meets the specific risk profile of the business which is supported by a comprehensive training programme and communicated across the business.
Examples of this activity and wider statistics can be found on our Corporate Responsibility website.
com Stock code: ITV 49 All ITV programmes must comply with the Access services for ITV1 Ofcom Broadcasting Code in relation to their % of programmes content and scheduling.
We observe the Ofcom target ITV 2011 9.00 pm watershed and alert viewers to Subtitling 90% 99% material that may cause offence.
Our Audio in-house compliance team follow detailed description 10% 20% compliance procedures, providing advice to Signing 5% 6% commissioners and programme-makers both during production and during the process of reviewing programmes before For more information on targets, achievements broadcast.
Our in-house viewer services and services visit our Corporate Responsibility team provide a responsive complaints website.
handling service while viewers can also raise complaints directly with Ofcom.
In 2011 Suppliers Ofcom found 12 breaches of the code We conduct business with a large variety Top: Signed Stories won a Plain English compared to six in 2010.
We respond to any Campaign Media Award in December 2011 of suppliers and endeavour to do business on breach by assessing the causes and for the clarity and simplicity of its written terms that are considered fair and reasonable.
implementing any changes required to our To ensure we trade responsibly, we draw up practices and processes.
Bottom: Signing for ITVs programmes is contracts with suppliers which incorporate provided by ITVs award-winning in-house industry-standard environmental and H&S facility SignPost.
We continue to deliver access services across standards.
It is in the Companys best interest our family of broadcast channels beyond the to ensure we have transparent and effective targets set by Ofcom for subtitling, signing relationships with suppliers, in particular those and audio description.
On the ITV Player with whom we work regularly, such as suppliers about 80% of programming is now subtitled, of outsourced services and key suppliers of and plans to offer audio description and programming and broadcasting programme signing are progressing well.
Managing supplier relationships is a key continues to be provided by our awardpart of our business strategy and is the winning in-house facility SignPost which responsibility of both the commissioning and offers online signing services, news, commercial teams and our central information, entertainment and education in procurement team.
As well as signing provision, SignPost has been recognised for We have a variety of suppliers who are key its wider access and community work.
A number of the Companys Stories, our website with books to see in sign major suppliers are involved in the broadcast language and subtitles, won a Plain English of ITVs family of channels and include Campaign Media Award in December 2011 Arqiva, Technicolor, SES Astra and BT.
Other for the clarity and simplicity of all its written key suppliers include those who provide the content.
ITV BabySign won the Best Early technology for outside broadcast such as Years Digital Content at the 2012 BETT Access Services for ITV1 SIS.
In 2011 ITV signed an agreement with awards.
The free website helps parents teach % of programmes Ofcom Target Irdeto to provide an IT platform for the sign language to babies before they are old ITV 2011 provision of pay TV capability.
ITV has also enough to speak, improving early years 100 engaged Mace Group to manage and deliver communication and bonding.
the move into MediaCity in Manchester.
80 Key suppliers of programming and 60 broadcasting programme rights include ITN, 40 who provide ITVs national news programmes, Fremantle who produce Britains Got Talent 20 and The X Factor for ITV1, the Football Association, The Rugby Football Union and 0 NBC Universal Studios.
90 Subtitling 99 10 Audio Description 20 5 Signing 6 Responsibility Financial Statements Governance Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 50 Responsibility continued Community and Charitable Giving include our Work Inspiration summer We hold a programme for 100 young people, Modern We hold a unique role within the community Apprenticeships, work experience for unique role in due to our ability within the regions to provide students in higher education, and positive sponsorship for, and raise awareness of, causes the community action through our Enabling Talent at a local level.
We are proud to carry out this programme for talented individuals with a wider social role and contribute towards a due to our disability.
However, we balance this ability within against short and medium-term business More information on activity within the requirements, such as: the regions to community, charitable giving, donations raised and the organisations which we raise awareness y Connecting audiences to the brand support can be found on our Corporate through regional community of causes at a Responsibility website.
partnerships and initiatives which generate loyalty to ITV and provide local level It is the Companys policy not to make cash insights to ensure content reflects its contributions to any political party.
However, audiences: within the normal activities of the Groups y Enhancing reputation by using our national and regional news-gathering air-time influence and reach to make a operations there may be occasions when an positive impact on society, as well as activity may fall within the broader definition raising awareness of some of the positive of political expenditure contained within the activities we do for the community: and Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder authority y Attracting and retaining the best talent for such expenditure was given at the 2011 by ensuring the Company is accessible Annual General Meeting.
However, during and supporting the next generation of 2011 the Group made no payments falling talent from within the regions.
During 2011, our activities have ranged from Environment charitable giving to donations to specific Our obligation to operate responsibly programmes and campaigns.
In all, ITV has includes a consideration of our impact on contributed to 1.5 million in cash 2010: the environment.
Our production activities 1.5 million and 3.4 million in-kind 2010: involve content production both in the 5.7 million.
In addition through our call to studio and on location, and the running of action campaigns, such as Born to Shine, such operations consumes large amounts of Malaria No More and Text Santa we have energy, producing carbon emissions.
Our raised 6.4 million through text and phone priority continues to be the reduction of lines.
Text Santa was a major new charity carbon emissions to comply with the initiative, launched as a dedicated on-air Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy appeal over the Christmas period, raising Efficiency Scheme.
In 2011 we took another awareness and money for those most step towards our goal of reducing carbon vulnerable during the festive period.
In all, emissions by 15% by the end of 2012 from we raised a total of 4.1 million, which will the 2008 baseline, with the aim of reducing be split between our nine deserving our impact on the environment and the charities:Carers UK, Crisis, Help the Hospices, amount of carbon credits the Company will Samaritans and WRVS, as well as childrens have to purchase in summer 2012.
This hospital charities Great Ormond Street figure will be published on our Corporate Top: Hundreds of people turned out Hospital Childrens Charity, Noahs Ark to support ITVs Walk4Life on Sunday Responsibility website.
Statistics are Appeal, Helping Hand, and Yorkhill Childrens 25 September.
The event is part of a outlined opposite.
government initiative to raise awareness Foundation.
We hope to repeat this in 2012. about healthy living.
We continue to engage with the investment ITV takes its role in inspiring and developing Bottom: In summer 2011 100 young community regarding our corporate people joined our two week Work young people seriously.
In 2011 ITV was for 14 year olds and upwards, we offer once again included in the Dow Jones structured training and experiences to help Sustainability World Index.
create a future sustainable workforce for the industry, with a heavy focus outside of London.
As part of our responsibility we focus on improving access to the industry, aiming to remove negative perceptions and barriers around working in media.
com Stock code: ITV 51 Top: We are fully committed to providing high quality news at ITV, and the news review is an important part of our Transformation Plan.
Bottom: Emmerdales storylines during 2011 covered a wide range of social issues.
Left: We are committed to operating our sites and productions responsibly reducing our carbon footprint, protecting the health and safety of our people and maintaining trust in our ethics.
1 Environmental performance indicators 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total CO emissions from business 2 travel tonnes 4,921 5,774 6,831 5,867 2 Total CO emissions tonnes 43,051 44,427 46,383 50,471 2 Total waste tonnes 1,724 1,807 2,195 1,900 Total waste recycled 85% 60% 65% N A 3 Total water use m 81,891 87,017 86,656 93,175 1 UK only, including landlord managed sites, assistance with data completion by Utilyx Ltd independent energy consultants.
2 Calculated in accordance with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology.
Our focus in 2012 will be to continue to look at new technology which will enable us to reduce carbon emissions, initially within our static production bases, alongside other activities which will contribute to a sustainable future.
Narrative around the above performance indicators, our current activity and our planned changes can be found on our Corporate Responsibility website, www.
Contact us at responsibility@itv.
com Responsibility Financial Statements Governance Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 www.
com Stock code: ITV 53 Governance Governance Financial Statements Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
