ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 Create a lean, creatively dynamic Drive new revenue streams by 1 and fit-for-purpose organisation 3 exploiting our content across multiple platforms, free and pay Key Performance Indicators Maximise audience and revenue Build a strong international 2 share from our existing free-to-air content business 4 broadcast business We have defined our Key Performance Indicators KPIs to align performance and accountability to the Transformation Plan.
These KPIs will be the key measures of success over the life of the Transformation Plan and cover all four strategic priorities.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance EBITA before exceptional items 2011 2010 Absolute Change 1 This is the key profitability measure used across the whole business.
Earnings before interest, tax and 462m 408m 54m 2 amortisation EBITA before exceptional items reflects The 54 million improvement is primarily due to 4% external revenue our performance in a consistent manner and in line 3 growth, which has been driven by non-NAR revenue, and delivery of with how the business is managed and measured on a cost savings.
The cost savings made across the business, both through day-to-day basis.
4 efficiencies and on the schedule, have funded investment in areas of the business which drive the Transformation Plan.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance 2011 2010 Absolute Change Adjusted earnings per share 1 Adjusted earnings per share represents the adjusted 7.9p 6.4p 1.5p profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders.
2 Adjusted earnings per share has increased to 7.9 pence, a 23% increase, Adjusted profit is defined as profit for the year reflecting the improvement in trading discussed above and the attributable to equity shareholders before exceptional 3 reduction in adjusted financing costs.
items, impairment of intangible assets, amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, 4 financing cost adjustments and prior period and other tax adjustments.
It reflects the business performance of the Group in a consistent manner and in line with how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance Profit to cash conversion 2011 2010 Absolute Change 1 Profit to cash conversion represents the proportion 103% 127% 24 % of EBITA before exceptional items converted into 2 a measure of adjusted cash flow defined as cash A profit to cash conversion ratio of over 100% has been achieved generated from operations before exceptional items for the third successive year, demonstrating the continued focus on 3 less cash related to the acquisition of property, plant working capital management.
and equipment and intangible assets.
4 While 103% is lower than the past two years, this is still a strong A key priority is to keep tight control on cash and costs performance and above our 90% rolling three-year target.
and this measure primarily reflects our working capital The total profit to cash conversion over the past three years has been management and capital expenditure control.
As 126%, which has driven the significant net debt reduction over that such, it remains ITVs aim to keep this profit to cash period.
conversion as high as possible, and in excess of 90% on a rolling three-year basis.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance 2011 2010 Absolute Change Employee Engagement 1 To turn ITV into a world class organisation that is lean, 85% 75% 10% creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose requires high The 10% improvement in engagement is an indicator of improved quality people who are engaged in the work that they commitment across the Company and of employees embracing the do, and are committed to the Transformation Plan.
changes arising from the Transformation Plan, which is critical to our Employee engagement measures pride in the work success.
we do, pride in working for ITV and also what we say about our programmes and services.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance ITV Family Share of Viewing SOV 2011 2010 Absolute Change 2 Strategic priority 2 aims to maximise audience share from our existing free-to-air broadcast business, and ITV 23.1% 22.9% 0.2% Family Share of Viewing SOV is the clearest indicator ITV Family SOV has improved by 1% in the year, returning audience of this.
ITV Family SOV is ITVs share of the total viewing share back to the same level as in 2009.
A 2% decline in ITV1 audience audience over the year achieved by ITVs family of share has been more than offset by a continued strong performance by channels as a proportion of total television viewing, the digital channels, which were up 10%.
ITV aims to at least maintain the ITV Family SOV.
The movement in SOV can be split between viewing performance on each platform and the change in usage of each of these platforms during the year platform mix.
Removing the impact of the change in platform mix, 2010s SOV adjusted for the 2011 platform mix was 22.7%.
com Stock code: ITV 31 Strategic Priority KPI Performance ITV Family Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI 2011 2010 Absolute Change 2 Strategic priority 2 aims to maximise audience share from our existing free-to-air broadcast business, and ITV 39.5% 39.8% 0.3 % Family Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI is another ITV Family SOCI was down by 1% year-on-year.
ITV1s SOCI was down key indicator of this.
SOCI is the trading currency in the 4% year-on-year, but this was largely offset by 9% growth across the television advertising market, and since it only covers ITV digital channels.
commercial television it does not include the BBC.
This is the share of total UK television commercial impacts which is delivered by ITVs family of channels.
An impact is one viewer watching one 30-second commercial.
We aim to maximise our SOCI.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance 2011 2010 Absolute Change ITV Family Share of Broadcast SOB 2 ITVs share of UK television advertising revenues is 45.3% 45.1% 0.2% known as its Share of Broadcast SOB.
To maximise revenues from our free-to-air business, which is a key In 2011, we gained market share once again, increasing our SOB to 45.3% of component of strategic priority 2, we aim to continue the total UK television market.
This was due to strong performances by both to maximise our SOB and to outperform the UK the sales team and on-screen as we continue to deliver the big audiences television advertising market.
and brands that are most demanded by advertisers.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance 2011 2010 Absolute Change Total long form video views 3 The Transformation Plan looks to drive new revenue 376m 261m 115m streams by exploiting our content across multiple platforms, and long form video views are a key measure Total long form video views are up 44% year-on-year at 376 million.
com and Virgin, the largest components, continue to grow at over Long form video views are a measure of the total number 30%, with growth also coming from making our content available on new of videos viewed across all platforms such as itv.
com, platforms such as games consoles, smartphones and tablets.
Following the launch of our mobile apps in summer 2011, mobile devices now account for around 9% of all long form video views in recent months.
A long form video is a programme that has been broadcast on television and is available to watch online and on demand in its entirety.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance Non-NAR revenues 2011 2010 Absolute Change 3 Non-NAR revenues include all ITV revenues, both 922m 829m 93m internal and external, except net advertising 4 revenues NAR.
Growing non-NAR revenues is key There has been significant growth in non-NAR revenues in 2011 with to the Transformation Plan as we aim to rebalance an increase of 93 million to 922 million.
This is due to a 35 million the business away from our reliance on television increase from international productions, a 31 million increase in advertising revenues.
supply of programming from ITV Studios to Broadcasting & Online, a 16 million increase in SDN external revenues, and a 6 million increase from online advertising.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance Number of new commissions for ITV Studios 2011 2010 Absolute Change 4 A key indicator of the creative renewal pipeline is 111 87 24 the number of new commissions won.
This figure includes programmes shown both on ITV and on other There was strong growth of 28% in 2011 as creative renewal started to broadcasters, and both in the UK and internationally.
The 111 includes 10 off-ITV commissions in the UK, and 45 international programmes.
Strategic Priority KPI Performance Percentage of ITV1 output from ITV Studios 2011 2010 Absolute Change 4 This represents the proportion of the total spend on original 55% 53% 2% commissions on ITV1 transmitted in the year, delivered by ITV Studios.
In order to build a strong international The percentage of ITV1 output from ITV Studios has increased again in content business, ITV Studios needs to increase its supply of the year to 55%.
This improvement has been driven by the delivery of programmes to ITV1, where we aim to make them famous factual and entertainment programmes.
and then sell them around the world.
Performance & Financials Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
