Governance Directors report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements will continue to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups for the 52 weeks to 19 March 2011.
Principal activities Shareholders will be asked to authorise the Company to make market The Companys principal activities are grocery and related retailing.
purchases of its own shares.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew the Directors authority to operate the Saving-Related Share Option Business review Plan for a further ten years and to authorise the Directors to hold The Business review sets out a comprehensive review of the general meetings at 14 clear days notice where this flexibility is development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in the ended 19 March 2011 and future developments.
The Business review interests of shareholders as a whole.
A resolution to renew the is set out on pages 1 to 23 of this report.
All the information detailed authority to make political donations as defined by Part 14 of 2006 in these pages is incorporated by reference into this report and is Companies Act will also be proposed.
deemed to form part of this report.
Share capital and control Corporate governance statement The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the The corporate governance statement as required by the Disclosure 2006 Companies Act.
1 is set out on pages 30 to 37 and is incorporated by reference into this report.
Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee share schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights Dividends attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.8 securities in the Company: no person holds securities in the Company pence per share 2010: 10.2 pence, making a total dividend for the carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company: and year of 15.1 pence per share 2010: 14.2 pence, an increase of 6.3 the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of per cent over the previous year.
Subject to shareholders approving securities that may result in restrictions in the transfer of securities or this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the voting rights.
Further details on the rights, restrictions and obligations dividend will be paid on 15 July 2011 to shareholders on the register attaching to the share capital of the Company, including voting rights, at the close of business on 20 May 2011. are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles Changes to the Board of Association may only be changed with the agreement of John Rogers was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Company shareholders.
on 19 July 2010 and Darren Shapland, previously Chief Financial Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans Officer, was appointed Group Development Director.
Mike Coupe, rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
previously Trading Director, became Group Commercial Director.
Where, under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan, In addition, Matt Brittin, UK & Ireland Managing Director of Google, participants are beneficial owners of the shares but the Trustee was appointed a Non-Executive Director and joined the Board on is the registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised 27 January 2011. by the registered owner at the direction of the participants.
The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts waive their right to vote and On 9 May 2011 we announced that Darren Shapland had informed the to dividends on the shares they hold which are unallocated.
Some Board that he intends to stand down from his position as a Director of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on with effect from the AGM on 13 July 2011.
Darren plans to pursue a transfer of shares while the shares are held within the plan.
number of personal interests in future but he will, however, remain with Sainsburys as Non-Executive Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
At the AGM held in July 2010, the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and Luke Jensen, currently Managing Director Non-Food, and a member as permitted by the Articles of Association.
The Company made of the Operating Board, will take over the role of Group Development no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares Director assuming Darrens responsibilities except for Convenience, were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a the Bank and Property.
Luke will continue to be a Director on the lien or charge.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating Justin King will assume direct responsibility for the Convenience to a change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards business whilst John Rogers will add Property to his remit.
granted to employees under the Companys share plans may vest and Re-election of Directors become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable In accordance with the Articles of Association, John Rogers and performance conditions at that time.
Matt Brittin, who were appointed to the Board since the last AGM, The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would will retire and seek election at the AGM.
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a The new UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of takeover bid.
FTSE companies to be subject to election by shareholders every year.
Ordinary shares Accordingly all members of the Board, other than Darren Shapland, Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during will retire and seek re-election at this years AGM.
Full biographical the year are shown on page 80.
At the date of this report, details of all of the current Directors are set out on page 25.
4 1,871,567,531 ordinary shares of 28 7 pence have been issued, Annual General Meeting are fully paid up and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 13 July 2011 at The Queen Major interests in shares Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, As at 10 May 2011, the Company had been notified by the following London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice investors of their interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys of Meeting accompany this report, together with notes explaining shares.
These interests were notified to the Company pursuant to the business to be transacted at the meeting.
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, to receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements and % of voting rights approve the Remuneration Report, to re-elect all of the Directors, Judith Portrait a trustee of various settlements, other than Darren Shapland, and to re-appoint including charitable trusts 4.09  LLP as auditors.
In addition, shareholders Legal and General Group plc 3.99 will be asked to renew both the general authority of the Directors to Lord Sainsbury of Turville 4.99 issue shares and to authorise the Directors to issue shares without Qatar Holdings LLC 25.99 applying the statutory pre-emption rights.
In this regard the Company 28 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance Directors report continued Directors interests include Local Employment Partnerships, The Employers Forum on The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the Disability Gold member, the Shaw Trust, Remploy and Mencap.
shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on The Companys quarterly, interim and annual results are presented page 47.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests contains to all senior management and communicated to all colleagues.
full details of Directors interests, shareholdings and options over Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold shares in the ordinary shares of the Company.
During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract Donations of significance to the Groups business.
Sainsburys is committed to making a positive difference to the Directors indemnities communities in which it operate.
We support many charitable The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the organisations and community projects through either donating extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association cash, making in-kind donations or through colleague volunteering.
in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the During the year, Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company raised 22.9 million 2010: 15.7 million for charities through events has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director in supported by the Company, including Comic Relief.
Cash and in-kind respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as donations totalled 2.1 million 2010: 1.9 million.
The Company purchased and maintained The Company made no political donations in 2011 2010: nil.
Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout 2010 11, which has been renewed for 2011 12.
Neither the indemnities nor the Post balance sheet events insurance provide cover in the event that the Director is proved to There are no post balance sheet events.
Financial risk management Market value of properties The financial risk management and policies of the Group are The Directors believe that the aggregate open market value of disclosed in note 28 on pages 84 to 88 to the financial statements.
Group properties exceeds the net book value as set out in note 11 Going concern on page 68 to the financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Essential contracts affect its future development, performance and position are set out Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with numerous in the Business review on pages 1 to 23.
The financial position of the third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial arrangements is individually considered to be essential to the review on pages 18 to 23.
The Group manages its financing by business of Sainsburys.
diversifying funding sources, configuring core borrowings with long-term maturities and maintaining sufficient standby liquidity.
Policy on payment of creditors Full details of the Groups financing arrangements can be found in The policy of the Company and its principal operating companies note 20 on pages 75 and 76 to the financial statements.
In addition, is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a notes 28 and 29 on pages 84 to 93 to the financial statements supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing satisfactory invoices.
The Company is a holding company and its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its therefore has no trade creditors.
Statements on the operating financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to companies payment of suppliers are contained in their financial credit risk and liquidity risk.
The debt refinancing in March 2006 removed the Groups reliance on Corporate responsibility unsecured credit markets for medium and long-term finance and the Sainsburys has a strong record in its commitment to corporate Groups first significant re-financing exposure is not until 2015. responsibility, which is an everyday part of how the Company does business.
Sainsburys company values underpin its goal to provide As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food at fair prices.
Details of the to manage its business risks successfully despite the current Companys principal corporate responsibility initiatives and challenging economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable activities are set out on pages 14 to 17.
This year, we have further expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in integrated the reporting of corporate responsibility into this Annual operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to Report and Financial Statements to illustrate how our values adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements underpin and influence our broader business strategy.
which are shown on pages 50 to 102.
The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report will be issued Disclosure of information to auditors alongside our annual report in June 2011.
This report will be available Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, online www.
co. uk crreport2011, and provides a there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are comprehensive statement on corporate responsibility and describes unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have the Companys policies and progress made in relation to our five taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any corporate responsibility principles: Best for food and health, relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our environment, Making a aware of that information.
positive difference to our community and A great place to work.
Auditors As part of A great place to work the Company has well-developed  LLP have expressed their willingness to be policies for fair and equal treatment of all colleagues, employment of reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation disadvantaged persons and colleague participation.
It is our policy of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors that people with disabilities are given full and just consideration for all and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will vacancies and over the year we have conducted a number of training be proposed at the AGM.
sessions to raise awareness and understanding of our customers and colleagues with disabilities and how we can better support them.
By order of the Board Under the banner of You Can, the Company also actively works with Tim Fallowfield a number of organisations which seek to promote employment for Company Secretary disadvantaged persons and inclusion within the workplace.
These 10 May 2011 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 29
