UK and Republic of Ireland Property and We continue to invest significantly in the store Stores Review portfolio both in terms of new stores and major refurbishments of existing space.
34 new stores opened in the period 21 Sports Fascias stores and 13 Fashion Fascias stores and 18 major refurbishments were carried out and a further 2 stores were refitted following a transfer between fascias.
This means that over the last three years we have opened a total of 88 stores and refurbished a further 83 stores.
As a consequence, approximately 37% of the UK and Republic of Ireland store portfolio as at 29 January 2011 has a store fit which is less than three years old.
We maintain our belief that the modern and fashionable environment which we provide in our stores is of essential appeal to our customers and that maintenance of the spend at current levels will have a positive impact on future financial performance.
The 21 new Sports Fascias stores included 12 stores in new locations including 2 Size?
stores with the remaining 9 being replacement of existing space.
Included within the new stores are 3 new stores at airport locations.
We have also opened a JD store at one of the UKs busiest train stations Liverpool Street which is our first store in this type of location and, if successful, could be replicated in other major stations or transport hubs.
We have opened 3 new Sports Fascias stores in the UK and Republic of Ireland to date in the current period and anticipate that we will open approximately 17 stores over the full year of which 3 will be replacements of existing space.
We anticipate that we will close approximately 10 Sports Fascias stores during the period including the 3 to be closed for replacements, of which 2 are smaller stores currently planned for conversion to the Scotts fascia.
The 13 new Fashion Fascias stores were all new Bank stores with 3 of the stores being replacements of existing space including the opening of a new 5,300 sq ft store in the Trafford Centre which is 2,600 sq ft larger than the old store.
The old store in the Trafford Centre was typical of the stores which we inherited when we acquired the business in December 2007.
However, we believe that stores of this size are too small to present a full product offer to both a male and female consumer and so the emphasis for the store openings in the current year will be on larger space in prime locations with strong footfall in the fascias heartlands in the Midlands, North of England and Scotland.
These planned openings also include a store in Belfast which would represent Banks first store in Ireland.
We maintain our belief that the store model and product offer from Bank can support a portfolio across the UK and Republic of Ireland in excess of 100 stores.
However, we do not feel yet that we have a product and brand proposition that we can roll out in significant numbers across the South of England and it is this product development together with improving the margin which will ultimately drive enhanced future performance from this fascia.
We currently plan to open 10 new Bank stores in the current period of which one has already opened to date.
No new Scotts stores opened in the period but we do currently plan to open 3 new Scotts stores in the coming year including the conversions of 2 former JD stores.
The 18 major refurbishments included extensive refits of the JD stores in Bullring, Uxbridge, Cheshunt and Bolton Middlebrook.
26 The performance from stores which have been The initial performance of the JD fascia stores refurbished continues to be pleasing with sales has been pleasing with the converted store in growth exceeding the average growth across Lille currently performing over 100% ahead of the all stores by more than 10%.
This performance historical performance after 17 full trading weeks.
justifies continued significant investment in This performance has given us the confidence refurbishments and so it is likely that we will refit to extend the trial and so we will convert 2 other a similar number of stores in the current year.
Chausport stores to the JD fascia in the current Refurbishments planned for the current year year.
In addition, we would also like to open at least include extensions in 3 JD stores where we will 2 other JD stores in major conurbations and malls take additional space to enable us to offer an in France, subject to locating suitable sites.
Whilst enhanced product and brand offer.
identifying suitable sites for JD in France is critical, the performance of the JD business will also be We have also continued to rationalise our store heavily influenced by optimising the brand and portfolio but, with the current economic climate product mix and tailoring this to the local market impacting heavily on retail property occupancy where appropriate.
levels, it remains very difficult to dispose of stores, unless leases have ended or contain a break Chausport has historically not been well facility.
We have, however, closed a further 20 represented in the major conurbations, as the underperforming and or duplicate stores during business has often been unable to pay the high the year 15 Sports Fascias stores and 5 Fashion level of key money which is necessary to secure Fascias stores.
3 JD stores have closed to date in access to these locations.
The future strategy for the current period.
France will involve continuing to trial the JD fascia in a number of major cities and shopping malls where we will not self compete, whilst maintaining France the Chausport fascia in the smaller regional towns and shopping centres where it is well established.
In May 2009 we acquired Chausport SA who are primarily a retailer of sports footwear in France.
In the current year we also intend to open This strategic acquisition gave the Group the approximately 2 new Chausport stores in France opportunity for future growth by entering a new and and refurbish relocate a similar number.
These sizeable European market outside of its established stores will be fitted out using a store design base in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
which the management team have developed internally over the last 3 years.
The performance 7 new stores have opened in the period 5 of stores fitted out using this design continues to Chausport and 2 JD and 8 refurbishments be promising and so the management team are have been completed.
In addition we have also confident that it is right to roll this fit out in future converted the former Chausport store in Lille to a Chausport stores.
The 5 new Chausport stores opened included 4 replacements of existing space and 1 As with the UK and Republic of Ireland portfolio, store in a new location.
stores will be closed where necessary.
We have closed 6 Chausport stores during the year and we currently anticipate that 2 stores will be closed during the period, although one of these will relate to the relocation of an old Chausport store into larger space and a location with stronger footfall.
Store Portfolio The store portfolio for the Group at 29 January 2011 and 30 January 2010 can be analysed as follows: Sports Fascias No.
Stores 000 sq ft 2011 2010 2011 2010 Bank 74 65 210 176 Scotts 37 38 76 85 Total 111 103 286 261 Group Total 538 523 1,501 1,439 27 King of Trainers, a JD fascia, Lille, France, opened 27 November 2010 28 The year end net cash position has risen to 86.1 million 29 Darfield Kiwi tee and Huntley check shirt, Canterbury Spring Summer 2011 range 30
