The Directors present their annual report and the Share Capital Directors Report audited financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company and its subsidiaries together As at 29 January 2011 the Companys authorised referred to as the Group for the 52 week period share capital was 3,107,500 divided into ended 29 January 2011.
As at 29 January 2011 the Companys issued share capital was 2,433,083 comprising 48,661,658 ordinary Principal Activities and Business shares of 5p each.
Review The principal activity of the Group is the retail and Shareholder and Voting Rights distribution of sport and athletic inspired fashion, footwear, apparel and accessories.
All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Companys Annual In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general review of the business providing a comprehensive meeting, every member present in person or by analysis of the main trends and factors likely to proxy shall have one vote and, on a poll, every affect the development, performance and position member present in person or by proxy shall have of the business, including environmental, employee one vote for every ordinary share they hold.
Subject and social and community issues, together with to relevant statutory provisions and the Companys the Groups Key Performance Indicators and a Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares description of the principal risks and uncertainties are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid facing the business is detailed as follows: out of profits available for such purposes.
Summary of Key Performance Indicators page 7 Restrictions on Transfer of Shares Chairmans Statement pages 13 to 16 The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as follows: Financial and Risk Review pages 19 to 21 The Board may, in absolute discretion, refuse to Property and Stores Review pages 26 to 27 register any transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as to prevent dealings in listed Corporate and Social Responsibility shares from taking place, or which is in favour of pages 31 to 35 more than four persons jointly or which is in relation to more than one class of share All the information set out in those sections is incorporated by reference into, and is deemed to Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be form part of, this report.
imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws The Corporate Governance Report pages 41 to 43 and the Directors Remuneration Report pages Restrictions apply pursuant to the Listing 45 to 48 are incorporated by reference into, and Rules of the Financial Services Authority are deemed to form part of, this report.
whereby Directors and certain of the Groups employees require prior approval to deal in the As per note 35 on page 100, the Group has Companys shares completed the following acquisitions since the period end: The Company is not aware of any arrangement between its shareholders that may result in O n 7 February 2011, the Group acquired 80% of restrictions on the transfer of shares and or the issued share capital of Kukri Sports Limited voting rights.
O n 16 February 2011, the Group acquired a further 31% of the issued share capital of Focus Authority to Purchase Own Shares Group Brands Limited A resolution was passed at the 2010 Annual O n 4 April 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the General Meeting giving Directors authority to buy issued share capital of Champion Sports Holdings back ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the In addition the Group has signed a new syndicated Company.
As at the date of this report no shares committed 75 million bank facility for 54 months have been purchased under this authority.
Further details of the terms of this facility are included in the Financial and Risk Review on page 19 and in note 35 on page 101.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors who held office at Results 29 January 2011 and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares are shown below: Revenue for the 52 week period ended 29 January 2011 was 883.7 million and profit before tax was 78.6 million compared with 769.8 million and Ordinary shares of 5p each 61.4 million respectively in the previous 29 January 30 January financial year.
2011 2010 P Cowgill 410,263 410,263 The Consolidated Income Statement is set out on page 56.
B Bown 5,676 5,676 B Small 21,750 21,750 Proposed Dividend C Archer 19,121 19,121 456,810 456,810 The Directors recommend a final dividend of 19.20p per ordinary share 2010: 14.70p, which There has been no change in the interests of the together with the interim dividend of 3.80p per Directors or their connected persons between 29 ordinary share 2010: 3.30p makes the total January 2011 and the date of this report.
dividend payable for the year 23.00p 2010: 18.00p.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 1 August 2011 to shareholders on the register as at close of business on 6 May 2011.
38 Substantial Interests in Share Capital Change of Control Significant Creditors Payment Policy Agreements As at 12 April 2011 the Company has been advised For all trade creditors, it is the Group policy to: of the following significant holdings of voting In the event of a change of control of the Company, rights in its ordinary share capital pursuant to the Agree terms of payment at the start of business the Company and the lenders of the new 75 Disclosure and Transparency Rules: million bank syndicated facility shall enter into an with the supplier agreement to determine how to continue the facility.
If no agreement is reached within 20 business days Ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms Number of of payment of the date of change in control, the lenders may, ordinary by giving not less than 10 business days notice shares voting Pay in accordance with its contractual and other to the Company, cancel the facility and declare all rights held % outstanding loans, together with accrued interest legal obligations Pentland Group Plc 27,963,722 57.47 and all other amounts accrued immediately due The average number of days taken to pay trade Sports World and payable.
creditors by the Group at the period end was 33 International Ltd 5,775,255 11.87 2010: 36.
Aberforth Funds 4,305,940 8.85 Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Business of the Group The Group does not follow any code or statement Aberforth Funds have a further non-voting holding on payment practice.
The Board considers that continuing supply from Nike and Adidas, being the main suppliers of third Auditor party branded sporting products, to the Groups Directors core sports fashion retail operation is essential to KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to the business of the Group.
The names and roles of the current Directors accept reappointment as auditors of the Company.
together with brief biographical details are given A resolution proposing their reappointment on page 36.
The Directors are responsible for the Employees is contained in the notice of the forthcoming management of the business of the Company Annual General Meeting and will be proposed to and, subject to law and the Companys Articles of The Group communicates with its employees shareholders at that meeting.
Association Articles, the Directors may exercise through team briefs and via the Companys intranet all of the powers of the Company and may delegate and notice boards.
Views of employees are sought their power and discretion to committees.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor on matters of common concern.
Priority is given to ensuring that employees are aware of all significant The number of directors at any one point in time Each person who is a Director at the date of matters affecting the Groups performance and of shall not be less than two.
approval of this report confirms that: significant organisational changes.
The Articles give the Directors power to appoint So far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit The Groups employee remuneration strategy is set and replace directors.
Any director so appointed information of which the Companys auditor is out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages shall hold office only until the dissolution of the first unaware 45 to 48.
AGM of the Company following appointment unless they are re-elected during such meeting.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he The Group is committed to promote equal ought to have taken as a Director to make himself opportunities in employment regardless of The Articles require that, at each AGM of the aware of any relevant audit information and to employees or potential employees sex, marital Company, any director who was elected or last establish that the Companys auditor is aware of status, sexual orientation, creed, colour, race, re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third that information ethnic origin or disability.
Recruitment, promotion calendar year before the then current calendar year and the availability of training are based on the must retire by rotation and such further Directors suitability of any applicant for the job and full must retire by rotation so that in total not less than Going Concern and fair consideration is always given to disabled one third of the Directors retire by rotation each persons in such circumstances.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and Should an employee become disabled during his or The UK Corporate Governance Code applies to the Group as a whole, has adequate resources her employment by the Group, every effort is made financial years commencing on or after 29 June to continue in operational existence for the to continue employment and training within their 2010 and provides for the annual re-election of foreseeable future.
For this reason, the financial existing capacity wherever practicable, or failing all directors.
The Board has decided to comply statements have been prepared on a going that, in some alternative suitable capacity.
with this provision with immediate effect and concern basis.
so all Directors listed on page 36 will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer Donations Annual General Meeting AGM themselves for re-election.
During the financial year ended 29 January 2011 Notice of the Companys AGM to be held at 12 the Group did not make any political donations Amendment of the Companys Articles noon on 23 June 2011 at Hollinsbrook Way, 2010: nil and made charitable donations of Association Pilsworth, Bury, Lancashire, BL9 8RR incorporating of 39,000 2010: 54,000.
Of the charitable explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed donations, 10,000 was for The Geoff Thomas The Companys Articles of Association may only at the meeting is enclosed, together with a form of Foundation which works closely with Leukaemia & be amended by a special resolution at a general proxy.
A copy of the Notice of AGM is available on Lymphoma Research on raising funds to speed up meeting of shareholders.
the delivery of effective new treatments to patients with blood cancer.
By order of the Board Jane Brisley Company Secretary 13 April 2011 39 Mckenzie fleece suit, exclusive to JD 40
