Peter Cowgill The Board Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee aged 58 Peter was appointed Executive Chairman in March 2004.
He was previously Finance Director of the Group until his resignation in June 2001.
Since then he has been a partner in Cowgill Holloway Chartered Accountants.
He is a Non-Executive Director of a number of private companies and Non-Executive Chairman of United Carpets Plc and MBL Group Plc.
Barry Bown Chief Executive Officer aged 49 Barry joined the Board in 2000 and has been with JD Sports Fashion Plc since 1984.
He held the positions of Head of Retail, Head of Buying and Merchandising and Chief Operating Officer prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer in 2000.
Brian Small Group Finance Director aged 54 Brian was appointed Finance Director in January 2004.
Immediately prior to his appointment he was Operations Finance Director at Intercare Group Plc and has also been Finance Director of a number of other companies.
He qualified as an accountant with Price Waterhouse in 1981.
Colin Archer Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and member of the Nomination Committee aged 69 Colin was appointed a Non-Executive Director in November 2001.
He has over 40 years experience in the banking and financial arenas, having previously been an Assistant Corporate Director with Barclays Bank Plc.
He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Chris Bird Non-Executive Director, member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees aged 48 Chris was appointed to the Board in May 2003.
He is a marketing specialist with his own public relations and marketing agency.
He is also Chief Executive of Sports Tours International Limited.
Chris has over 20 years media experience in newspapers, commercial radio and sport.
Andrew Leslie Non-Executive Director aged 64 Andrew was appointed to the Board in May 2010.
He has over 40 years of experience in the retail, footwear and apparel sectors.
Most recently he was an Executive Board Director of Pentland Brands Plc which is a subsidiary of the ultimate parent company Pentland Group Plc, from which he retired in 2008.
During his career, Andrew also held a number of senior positions with British Shoe Corporation, The Burton Group Plc and Timpson Shoes Limited.
Adidas terrace styles, all available at JD 36 37
