DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND ADVISERS Tim Martin Chairman, aged 56 Registered office Wetherspoon House Founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law at Nottingham University and Central Park qualified as a barrister.
Reeds Crescent Watford John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 46 WD24 4QL Joined the Company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domecq.
Company number 1709784 Kirk Davis Finance Director and Company Secretary, aged 40 Registrars Joined the Company in 2008 as deputy finance director and was appointed as company Computershare Investor Services plc secretary in October 2010 and became finance director in March 2011.
He previously PO Box 82 worked for Tesco plc and qualified as a chartered management accountant in 2004.
The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Su Cacioppo Personnel and Legal Director, aged 44 Bristol Joined the Company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
BS99 7NH She is a graduate of South Bank University and London Guildhall University and previously worked for Courage Ltd and Allied Leisure.
Independent auditors She worked in several operational roles in the Company, before being appointed  LLP as personnel director in 1999 and personnel and legal director in 2006.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors John Herring Senior Non-Executive Director, aged 53 1 Embankment Place London Appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of the audit and nomination committees WC2N 5RH and a member of the remuneration committee.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloittes in the early 1980s and subsequently became a director within the corporate Solicitors finance division of Kleinwort Benson.
He is a non-executive director of Workplace Systems Macfarlanes LLP plc, Edinburgh Woollen Mills Limited and several other private companies.
20 Cursitor Street London Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director, aged 49 EC4A 1LT Appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
She is a graduate of Cambridge University.
She is a non-executive Bankers director of several privately owned companies and chairs the Membership Selection Panel Abbey National Treasury Services plc for Network Rail.
She also holds several independent positions in government and Whitehall.
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Barclays Bank plc Elizabeth previously worked for Tesco plc for 12 years, in a wide variety of commercial and BNP Paribas operational roles, both in the UK and overseas.
Crdit Industriel et Commercial HSBC Bank plc Debra van Gene Non-Executive Director, aged 56 Lloyds TSB Bank plc Appointed to the board in 2006 and is the remuneration committee chair and a member Svenska Handelsbanken AB of the audit and nomination committees.
She is a graduate of Oxford University.
She spent The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 17 years in the advertising industry, ending as deputy managing director of Butterfield Day Devito Hockney.
Since then, she has worked in the executive search industry.
She was a Financial advisers partner at Heidrick and Struggles and now runs her own company, Debra van Gene Investec Securities Associates Ltd, of which she is managing director.
Stockbrokers Sir Richard Beckett Non-Executive Director, aged 67 Investec Securities Appointed to the board in 2009 and is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
He was called to the bar in 1965 and took silk in 1987.
He was one of the pre-eminent practitioners in regulatory and licensing matters.
He is also a non-executive director of Mercantile Investment Trust plc.
Management board The management board comprises John Hutson, Kirk Davis, Su Cacioppo and the following: David Capstick IT and Property Director, aged 50 Joined the Company in 1998 and is a graduate of the University of Surrey.
He previously worked for Allied Domecq, as well as having worked in other areas of the hospitality industry, such as hotels and outside catering companies.
He was appointed to the management board in 2003.
Martin Geoghegan Operations Director, aged 42 Joined the Company in May 1994, having previously worked for Safeway plc.
He worked in several operational roles, before being appointed as operations director in 2004.
Rebecca Payton Marketing and Catering Director, aged 40 Joined the Company in 1997.
She is a graduate of Brighton University and previously worked for Gardener Merchant now Sodexho.
She worked in several operational roles and headed up the catering team, before being appointed as marketing and catering director in 2007.
