DIRECTORS REPORT for the 52 weeks ended 24 July 2011 The directors present their report and audited accounts of signing the financial statements.
Mr Davis was for the 52 weeks ended 24 July 2011. appointed as a director on 11 March 2011 and served from that date until the end of the financial year and up Principal activities, business review and to the date of signing the financial statements.
future developments The principal activities of the Company are the In accordance with the Companys articles of association: development and management of public houses.
i Kirk Davis, who was appointed to the board since the Details of progress and future developments are given last annual general meeting, is required to retire and ii on pages 3 to 5.
Su Cacioppo and Debra van Gene are required to retire by rotation.
However, pursuant to the terms of the UK Results and dividends Corporate Governance Code, all of the directors of the The profit on ordinary activities for the year, after Company are to be subject to election by shareholders taxation, was 46,792,000 or 35.4p per share.
Accordingly, all members of the board, other than John Herring and not just those required to do so The board proposes, subject to shareholders by the Companys articles of association will retire and consent, to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per share, seek re-election at this years AGM.
John Herring has on 23 November 2011, to those shareholders on the decided to retire from the board and will not seek register on 21 October 2011, giving a total dividend re-election at the AGM.
for the year of 12.0p per share.
Details of the terms under which the directors, who were Return of capital in office during the year, serve and their remuneration, At the annual general meeting of the Company, held on together with their interests in the shares of the 4 November 2010, the Company was given authority to Company, are given in the directors remuneration report make market purchases of up to 20,854,868 of its own on pages 54 to 59. shares.
During the year to 24 July 2011, 7,585,000 shares were purchased, with a nominal value of 151,700 for a All appointments to the board are recommended by the total consideration of 32.6 million excluding stamp duty.
nominations committee and are made in accordance with This represented 5% of the called-up share capital.
the provisions of the articles of association.
Land Third-party indemnity insurance, against the liabilities of In the opinion of the directors, the market value of land directors and officers of the Company, was in place and buildings is not significantly different from the throughout the year, in respect of their duties as directors book value.
and officers of the Company.
Third-party indemnity insurance was in place at the date of approval of the Principal risks and uncertainties financial statements.
A review of the Companys financial risks and treasury policies has been included in the finance review on Interest in contracts page 7.
A further discussion of the risks and uncertainties No director has any material interest in any contractual facing the Company is included in section 2 on pages 42 agreement, other than an employment contract, and 43. subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or may be significant to the Company.
The financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs Companys shareholders A review of the business, using financial and non-financial Details of the Companys shareholders, including those KPIs, has been included in the finance review on beneficial interests notified to the Company as accounting pages 6 and 7. for over 3% of the issued share capital, are given on page 65.
Significant contractual or other arrangements The only contractual arrangement regarded by the Takeover directive disclosures Company as essential to its business is with DHL which The Company has an authorised share capital comprising provides logistic services at the Companys distribution 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 24 July 2011, centre in Daventry.
total issued share capital comprised 131,608,138 fully paid-up shares of 2p each.
The rights to these shares are Directors set out in the Companys articles of association.
There are The directors listed on page 48, other than Kirk Davis, no restrictions on the transfer of these shares or their served throughout the financial year and up to the date attached voting rights.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 49 DIRECTORS REPORT Details of significant shareholdings are given on page 65. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
No person holds shares with specific rights regarding make judgements and accounting estimates which are control of the Company.
state whether applicable IFRSs, as adopted by the The Company operates an employee share incentive plan.
European Union, have been followed, subject to any However, no specific rights with respect to the control of material departures disclosed and explained in the the Company are attached to these shares.
the Company operates a deferred bonus scheme, prepare the financial statements on the going-concern whereby, should a takeover occur, all shares held in trust basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the would be transferred to the employee immediately.
Company will continue in business.
The Company is not aware of any agreements among The directors are responsible for keeping adequate holders of securities known to the Company which may accounting records which are sufficient to show and result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or explain the Companys transactions and which disclose, voting rights.
with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Company, at any time, and enable them to ensure that The Company has the power to issue and buy back shares the financial statements and the directors remuneration as a result of resolutions passed at the annual general report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with meeting in 2010.
It is the Companys intention to renew regard to the company financial statements, with Article 4 these powers: the resolutions approving them are found in of the IAS regulation.
They are also responsible for the notice of the annual general meeting for 2011. safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection In the event of a change of control, the Company is of fraud and other irregularities.
obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders shall not be obliged to fund any new borrowing requests: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and facilities will lapse 10 days after the change of control, if integrity of the Companys Web site.
Legislation in the the terms on which they can continue have not been United Kingdom governing the preparation and agreed on.
Any borrowings, including accrued interest, dissemination of financial statements may differ from will become immediately repayable upon such lapse.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are Company is party which may be subject to change of listed in the section directors, officers and advisers, control provisions.
confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: There are no agreements among the Companys directors the company financial statements, which have been or employees which provide for compensation for loss of prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, office or employment which occurs because of a give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial takeover bid.
position and profit of the Company.
the directors report includes a fair review of the Statement of directors responsibilities development and performance of the business and the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual position of the Company, together with a description of report, the directors remuneration report and the the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
financial statements, in accordance with applicable law so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no and regulations.
relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial each of the directors has taken all of the steps which he statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the or she ought to have taken as a director, in order to make directors have prepared the company financial statements himself herself aware of any relevant audit information in accordance with International Financial Reporting and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Statement of disclosure of information to auditors give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for 2006, the directors report that, so far as they are aware, that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the all relevant audit information has been disclosed to the directors are required to: 50 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Companys auditors.
The directors have taken all of the Policy on payment of suppliers steps which they ought to have taken as directors, in The Company agrees on terms and conditions with all order to establish that the Companys auditors are aware suppliers before business takes place and has a policy of of that information.
paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 56 Going concern 2010: 56 days purchases.
The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the Companys financial resources, through a review of Political and charitable contributions the Companys budget and medium-term financial plan, At pub level, the Company supports local community including capital expenditure plans and cash flow initiatives and charitable causes through the appropriate forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the use of marketing investment.
The Company also supports Company will continue in operational existence for the CLIC Sargent caring for children with cancer and their foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to families and has helped to raise 1,080,612 in the adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the current year.
It also provides advice and marketing Companys financial statements.
support to the charity, at no cost.
The Company has not made any political or charitable donations in the year.
Employment policies Only through the skill and commitment of the Companys Business at the annual general meeting employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are On pages 67 to 69 is a notice convening the annual encouraged to make a real commitment to the general meeting of the Company for 3 November 2011, Companys success and to progress to more senior roles at which shareholders will be asked, as items of special as they, themselves, develop.
business, to give power to the directors to allot shares, to give power to the directors to disapply the pre-emption A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for requirements of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, all levels of staff: this highlights the importance placed to give power to the directors to make market purchases of by the Company on providing a high level of service to ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, subject to its customers.
certain conditions, and to retain the ability to hold general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The notice also sets out In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company details of the ordinary business to be conducted at the has to take account of the physically demanding nature annual general meeting.
Set out below is an explanation of of much of its work.
The Company is committed to the effect and purpose of the resolutions proposed.
equality of opportunity and to the elimination of discrimination in employment.
The Company aims to Resolution 1: Receive and adopt the audited accounts create and maintain a working environment, terms and The directors recommend that the Company adopt the conditions of employment and personnel and reports of the directors and the auditors and the audited management practices which ensure that no individual accounts of the Company for the year ended 24 July 2011. receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, Resolution 2: Approval of the directors disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
remuneration report Employees who become disabled will be retained, where Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, possible, and retrained, where necessary.
which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve the directors remuneration The Company has established a range of policies, report, set out on pages 54 to 59. covering issues such as diversity, employees well-being and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all Resolutions 38: Re-election of Mr Martin, employees are treated fairly and consistently.
Mr Hutson, Ms Cacioppo, Ms van Gene, Ms McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett as directors Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are The Companys articles of association require one-third of well informed about the Companys progress, through the directors to retire from office at each annual general the use of regular newsletters and briefings at staff meeting.
In addition, any director who has, at the annual meetings, at which employees views are discussed and general meeting, been in office for more than three years taken into account.
since his or her last appointment or reappointment should also retire and may offer him or herself for re-election.
All pub staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to sales, profits and or service standards.
However, the UK Corporate Governance Code now provides that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 51 DIRECTORS REPORT be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Resolution 11: Authority to allot Accordingly, all members of the board, other than John The Companies Act 2006 prevents directors of a public Herring and not just those required to do so pursuant to company from allotting unissued shares, other than the Companys articles of association will retire and seek pursuant to an employee share scheme, without the re-election at this years annual general meeting.
John authority of shareholders in a general meeting.
In certain Herring has decided to retire from the board, after serving circumstances, this could be unduly restrictive.
The as a director for 14 years, and will not seek re-election at general authority previously given to the directors to allot the AGM.
relevant securities will expire at the end of the annual general meeting convened for 3 November 2011.
Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing for re-election may be found on page 48 and on the Accordingly, resolution 11 in the notice of the annual Companys Web site.
The re-election resolutions are set general meeting will be proposed as an ordinary out as resolutions 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 in the notice of resolution to authorise the directors pursuant to section annual general meeting.
551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company: Mr Martin, Mr Hutson, Ms Cacioppo, Ms van Gene, Ms McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett all have extensive A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 876,510, experience of the Company or in business generally, representing approximately 33.3% of the nominal value allowing them, subject to their re-election to the board, of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
to contribute to the Companys development.
The chairman confirms that, following performance B up to a further aggregate nominal amount of evaluation, the directors performance continues to be 876,510, representing approximately 33.3% of the effective and demonstrates commitment to their nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in issue, respective roles, including time commitments for board provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue in and committee meetings.
The board is therefore of the favour of ordinary shareholders.
opinion that Mr Martin, Mr Hutson, Ms Cacioppo, Ms van Gene, Ms McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett The authority unless previously varied, revoked or should be re-elected at the annual general meeting.
renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the Resolution 9: Election of Mr Kirk Davis as director next annual general meeting of the Company.
Mr Davis was appointed as a new director of the Company on 11 March 2011.
Under the Companys The Association of British Insurers revised its guidelines on articles of association, when the board appoints a new share allotments, in 2010, following a report of the Rights director, that director must stand for election at the next Issue Review Group.
Based on the guidelines, the limit on annual general meeting.
Mr Davis will therefore stand for the directors authority to allot shares under section 551 of election at this years annual general meeting.
the Companies Act 2006 may be increased from one-third to two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital.
The Brief biographical details of Mr Davis can be found on page guidelines provide that the amount of any authority above 48 and on the Companys Web site.
The election resolution one-third must be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and is set out as only and should be valid for one year only.
If the Company resolution 9 in the notice of annual general meeting.
makes an allotment pursuant to such additional authority, the ABI will expect that all directors will stand for reMr Davis has extensive experience of the Company and in election at the next annual general meeting following the business generally, allowing him, subject to his re-election decision to make the allotment in question.
to the board, to contribute to the Companys development.
The board is therefore of the opinion that Mr Davis should The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares be elected at the annual general meeting.
only when satisfied that it is in the interests of the Company to do so.
They have no present intention, Resolution 10: Reappointment of however, of exercising the authority, except in connection  LLP as auditors with the issue of shares under the Companys share Resolution 10, set out in the notice of annual general option schemes.
meeting, proposes that  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors and authorises the Resolution 12: Disapplication of pre-emption rights directors to determine their remuneration.
The provisions of section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in 52 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT respect of the allotment of equity securities which are, Resolution 14: 14 days notice for general meetings or are to be, paid up in cash, other than by way of Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the allotment to employees under an employee share scheme Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice apply to the unissued ordinary shares of the Company to period required for general meetings of the Company to the extent that they are not disapplied, pursuant to 21 clear days, unless shareholders approve a shorter sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006. notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
The The current disapplication of these statutory pre-emption approval will be effective until the Companys next annual rights will expire at the end of the annual general general meeting, when it is intended that a similar meeting convened for 3 November 2011.
Accordingly, resolution will be proposed.
resolution 13, as set out in the notice of annual general meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean permit directors to allot shares without the application of that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on less these statutory pre-emption rights: first, in relation to than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a offers of equity securities by way of rights issue, open means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for offer or similar arrangements save that, in the case of an that meeting.
allotment pursuant to the authority in paragraph B of resolution 11, such allotment shall be by way of rights The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter issue only : second, in relation to the allotment of equity of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility securities for cash, up to a maximum aggregate nominal is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought amount of 131,608 representing approximately 5% of to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the Company currently in issue.
Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the Recommendation date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the The directors believe that the resolutions which are to be next annual general meeting of the Company.
proposed at the annual general meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole Resolution 13: Purchase of ordinary shares and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of In common with many other listed companies, the them, as each of the directors intends to do, in respect of Company proposes, once again, to seek an authority from his or her own beneficial holding.
shareholders to permit it to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, resolution 13 will be proposed as a special resolution to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 19,728,060 shares, just under 15% of By order of the board the Companys current issued ordinary share capital, at prices not less than the nominal value of an ordinary share Kirk Davis and not exceeding 105% of the average of the middleCompany Secretary market quotations for an ordinary share for the five 9 September 2011 business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
The directors envisage that purchases would be made only after considering the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
As at 24 July 2011, there were outstanding options over 50,945 ordinary shares, representing 0.04% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority under resolution 13 were to be exercised in full, this would increase to 0.05%.
