Operational review go online at www.
com 27 : TRCF 3 2 Safety 1 & Assurance 0 2009 2010 2011 The focus is on preventing major incidents LWCF As a world-leading services without neglecting the risks associated with 1.0 provider to the oil & gas and occupational safety.
power industries, safety is vital We have introduced a new driving policy to our business.
It is not optional, 0.5 focused on reducing the risks associated it is absolutely integral to with distractions, such as a complete ban on everything that we do.
the use of mobile phones including hands free while driving on company business, and 0.0 We aim to deliver our services efficiently, while 2009 2010 2011 reinforcing the need to wear seat belts at all protecting the health of everyone we work times when in a vehicle.
TRCF is the frequency of all reportable injuries, including medical with and sustaining a work environment free of treatment cases.
LWCF is the frequency of all injuries resulting in lost incidents and injuries.
The Group HSE Management System was time away from work.
Both frequencies are measured per million man hours worked.
All figures are continuing Group pro forma.
significantly revised during 2011, giving more For many years we have striven to be leaders emphasis to leadership integrity management, in safety performance, with many awards human factors and assurance.
1 and recognition from clients, regulators and peers around the world.
However, we are Recognising success not complacent and we know that we are In 2011, many Wood Group individuals not perfect.
We aim to achieve the highest and companies were recognised for their standards and are therefore committed to contribution to safety by industry bodies.
Some examples are i David MacKenzie, of Wood Group PSN, was awarded the Most We have to assure ourselves that we have Promising Individual at the UK Oil & Gas the people, processes, procedures and Industry Safety Awards: ii J P Kenny in Perth skills to deliver excellent safety performance, received the Platinum Safe Way Achiever consistently and reliably, anywhere in the Award after being recipient of 5 Gold Awards world.
This doesnt just mean personal safety, and 2 Platinum Awards in recent years: and iii such as slips, trips and falls, it also means Colin Bruce of Wood Group PSN received the dealing with major hazards and excelling at Offshore Contractors Association Challenge process and technical safety.
Major incidents Award for significant contribution to HSE in our industries remind us that we have to improvement.
deliver services with a clear focus on asset integrity.
Health We have continued to implement programmes Performance promoting and enhancing the health and well- 2 During 2011 the frequency of recordable being of our employees, their families and the injuries across our business continued to communities in which we work.
We provide decrease in line with long-term trends.
guidance, tools and support to develop health However, this positive development was programmes, tailored and managed by our overshadowed by three employee fatalities.
We had 100 teams complete Two occurred in a road traffic incident in Saudi the Global Corporate Challenge GCC.
The Arabia and another due to a catastrophic teams walked, swam and cycled to create crane failure in the Gulf of Mexico.
These a step count and complete a virtual walk tragedies have been a painful reminder of around the world.
Through the 16 weeks of the need for safety to remain our top priority the programme, the teams walked 837 million and have caused us to increase our focus on steps, the equivalent of walking round the safety training and development.
world 14.3 times and burnt over 36 million Initiatives calories.
We launched a new Safety Leadership Programme with the aim of raising senior leaders awareness of the role that they play and encouraging them to demonstrate their commitment to safety in real and tangible Les Thomas 1.
We encourage and support our people ways throughout the Group.
The programme has been led from the top and has been rolled throughout the business to become safety leaders.
out to key senior managers, starting at Board level.
At the end of 2011, we had reached 200 2.
Our offshore safety training programmes people and the feedback we have received ensure our people and our clients teams are has been so positive that we expect to trained to industry-leading standards.
extend it much deeper into the organisation.
