12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Wood Group PSN We provide life of field support to producing assets through brownfield engineering and modifications, production enhancement, operations & maintenance including UK duty holder services, training, maintenance management and abandonment services.
for our operations support, consultancy and 2011 2010 % The integration of $m $m Change training services.
In Latin America, we have fully PSN is largely complete Revenue 3,012.7 2,041.1 47.6% provided for anticipated losses to completion on a fixed price downstream project for and we are on track to EBITA 153.2 101.4 51.1% Ecopetrol in Colombia.
We have strengthened EBITA margin 5.1% 5.0% 0.1pts deliver expected synergies.
the management team in Colombia and expect 5 People 26,200 14,500 81% to complete the project in the second half of Recent contract wins and Revenue and EBITA include the results of PSN 2012, in line with our cost estimates.
extensions demonstrate the from the date of acquisition on 20 April 2011 to 31 December 2011, amounting to revenue of $992.5m strong level of customer International markets, outside the North Sea and EBITA of $92.8m.
and the Americas, represent around 30% of support for the merged revenue.
In Oman, difficulties in the start-up Wood Group PSN was formed through the business which we believe and mobilisation of our seven-year engineering merger of Wood Group Production Facilities and maintenance services contract with PDO with PSN, to create the global market leader is unique in its international resulted in lower than anticipated utilisation and in brownfield production facilities support, reach.
We have continued which now employs over 26,000 people.
The to strengthen the management team in Oman integration programme is largely complete and and have now fully taken over responsibility we are on track to deliver expected synergies.
We currently anticipate reduced losses in Oman in 2012 and Revenue increased by 48% and EBITA that the contract will become profitable from increased by 51% in the period, due to the 2013.
In Australia, we delivered good profits contribution of the acquired PSN business from work with customers including Exxon which performed ahead of our expectations.
In Africa, we continue to Overall performance benefited from strength be active on contracts in Cameroon, Chad, in the North Sea and North America, but was Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria and Angola, where held back by losses of around $30m on Wood our Wood Group Kianda joint venture has Group Production Facilities work in Oman and recently secured the topsides maintenance Colombia.
Losses in Oman will continue to scope for BP for Block 31.
In Russia, we impact in 2012, although we anticipate that this extended our contract with SEIC in Sakhalin for will be at a reduced level compared to 2011. a further five years and in Kazakhstan, we are working for TengizChevroil.
We experienced strong demand in the North Sea, which remains our largest market Outlook and accounted for around 40% of revenue The integration of PSN is largely complete compared to 54% for the Production Facilities and we are on track to deliver expected business in 2010.
Recent contract wins and extensions number of major contract extensions, including demonstrate the strong level of customer the operations & maintenance contract with support for the merged business which we Talisman, and our operations, maintenance believe is unique in its international reach.
and engineering contract with Taqa Bratani, Improved performance in 2012 will be led by both for five years.
We also recently extended the elimination of losses in Colombia, reduced an onshore contract with Shell and have been losses in Oman and continued strength in the awarded a new contract with Premier Oil to North Sea, North America and Africa.
support the Balmoral floating production vessel.
These contracts provide good earnings visibility Looking further ahead, we believe there are and we believe demonstrate the strong level of significant opportunities to deliver our highcustomer support for the merged business.
quality, high-integrity services in good long-term growth markets as the industry increasingly The Americas accounted for around 30% of focuses on operational assurance, competency, revenue.
Our offshore activities in the Gulf reliability and asset integrity.
of Mexico performed well and we were also awarded the project commissioning work for the Jack & St. Malo development for Chevron.
Demand for our US onshore services, including Bob Keiller in the shale regions, strengthened through Group Director Wood Group PSN the year and we see good growth prospects Energy Supporting Energy Operational review go online at www.
com 13 : Further reading Safety & Assurance page 27 Relationships page 28 Social Responsibility page 29 People page 30 Innovation page 31 Financial Responsibility page 32 Integrity page 33 Board of directors and biographies pages 36-37 1 1.
Providing pre-commissioning services to an offshore platform prior to its sail away into the Gulf of Mexico, focusing on the clients needs for safety in the operation of their new facilities.
Supporting onshore shale gas production in the USA by challenging established practices to provide innovative solutions.
Providing engineering & maintenance services on Talismans North Sea Northern and Central business areas.
Our long-term relationship over the past eight years has been continued with a five-year extension to the contract in 2011.
4% North America 8% 20% Europe 14% Middle East & Africa 10% Asia Pacific 44% Central & South America CIS & Caspian Revenue by region up 81% Headcount 2 3 Independent 12% IOC 45% NOC 43% Typical customer profile
