14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Wood Group GTS We are a leading independent provider of rotating equipment services and solutions for clients in the power, oil & gas and clean energy markets.
Our aftermarket Maintenance activities include facility operations & maintenance and repair & overhaul of gas, wind and steam turbines, pumps and other high-speed rotating equipment.
Our Power Solutions business provides power plant engineering, procurement & construction and construction management services to the owners of powergeneration facilities.
Outlook 2011 2010 % 2011 saw a strong $m $m Change 2011 saw a strong recovery in our Maintenance recovery in our Maintenance Revenue 1,195.5 804.9 48.5% activities and, despite a challenging power activities and, despite a market, we anticipate further growth in 2012.
EBITA 78.8 46.1 70.9% In Power Solutions, we have good visibility on EBITA margin 6.6% 5.7% 0.9pts challenging power market, work and anticipate strong EBITA growth in 5 People 3,400 3,300 3% we anticipate further growth 2012 as the Dorad and GWF projects progress.
Revenue increased by 49% and EBITA There is good demand for our fast-track in 2012.
In Power Solutions, increased by 71%, reflecting strong EPC Power Solutions offering and, despite we have good visibility on revenue growth and margin improvement in constraints in the project financing market, we Maintenance and the successful progression of are pursuing a number of additional prospects.
work and anticipate strong our ongoing EPC projects with Dorad and GWF EBITA growth in 2012 as the in Power Solutions.
In the longer-term, forecast growth in global electricity demand, relatively favourable gas Dorad and GWF projects Headcount increased due to higher activity in prices and environmental considerations all progress.
Power Solutions, offset to some extent by a net continue to underpin an excellent long-term reduction in Maintenance headcount as a result market for gas-fired power generation.
Maintenance revenues increased by 10% to $784m and EBITA increased by over 20%, primarily due to improved performance in our oil & gas related activities, which benefited from steps taken to enhance our operating efficiency and product capability, together with a good contribution from our activities in Iraq.
In our power-related activities, we made a number of strategic moves to enhance our differentiation.
We formed a strategic alliance with Pratt & Whitney Power Solutions to better service the GE 7FA turbine aftermarket and also significantly enhanced our combustion technology capability.
Overall, the market remained challenging, but we saw good performance on some longer-term contracts and secured a number of new awards including the Associated Electric Cooperative in the USA for 7FA equipment maintenance, the Municipal Utility District Financing Authority in Sacramento, California, EGASA in Peru and PlusPetrol in Argentina.
In Power Solutions, good progress on the Dorad and GWF contracts resulted in the recognition of significant levels of EBITA in the second half.
We are pursuing a number of additional prospects in Power Solutions, and Dorad and GWF provide good visibility into 2012.
Mark H. Papworth Group Director Wood Group GTS Energy Supporting Energy Operational review go online at www.
com 15 : Further reading Safety & Assurance page 27 Relationships page 28 Social Responsibility page 29 People page 30 Innovation page 31 Financial Responsibility page 32 Integrity page 33 Board of directors and biographies pages 36-37 1 1.
Precision-measuring activities located in our testing facility, Houston, ensure quality of service on a wide range of Solar engines.
At the Rolls Wood Group Avon 200 turbine workshop in Aberdeen, we have established an Engineering Training Centre to deliver the Modern Apprenticeship Programme and provide skilled operators to help support our testing requirements.
Our engineering, procurement and construction EPC activities support our clients power plant requirements with fasttrack, flexible solutions around the world.
5% 5% North America Europe 35% Middle East & Africa 35% Asia Pacific 20% Central & South America Revenue by region up 3% Headcount 2 3 Power 13% 6% IOC 8% NOC 8% 65% Independent Other Typical customer profile
