26 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Core Values Our Core Values are at the heart of our Safety & Assurance People Les Thomas Peter Nicholson business because they define who we Group Director, Safety Group Head of Human Resources are, how we work, what we believe in Safety & assurance is our top priority.
We are and what we stand for.
We passionately care about the professional, high performing team safety of our people and behave as players focused on delivering and They set out how we act and how we safety leaders.
We are committed to drawing on our global expertise.
We expect to be treated as part of Wood preventing injuries and ill health to our aim to attract, develop and retain the best Group and provide a sound basis to people and everyone we work with.
people, treating each other with honesty, make decisions.
We provide our people with the training, compassion and respect.
We create a knowledge and tools to work safely and stimulating and open work culture that To demonstrate that we take our prevent accidents.
We are focused on encourages personal development, rewards assuring the safety of everything we design, competitively and celebrates success.
commitment to the Core Values construct, operate and maintain.
seriously, a member of the Group Board Innovation Executive has taken on responsibility for Relationships Mike Straughen championing each value.
Mark Papworth Group Director, Wood Group Engineering Group Director, Wood Group GTS Innovation gives us competitive Our business depends on healthy advantage.
We promote collaboration and relationships with customers, business sharing of ideas across our business.
We build and have a structured approach to recognising nurture strong relationships that are mutually innovations, rapidly testing ideas and sharing beneficial, making sure that we deeply learnings.
We encourage our people to understand the people we deal with, so that challenge established practices and achieve we can anticipate their needs and always continuous improvement.
aim to exceed their expectations.
Everyone in our organisation contributes to the quality Financial Responsibility of the relationships we build and we actively Alan Semple seek feedback.
Group Finance Director We expect to receive fair reward for Social Responsibility our business performance.
We are Bob Keiller cost aware and carefully manage our Group Director, Wood Group PSN own and our customers costs.
We Being socially responsible is integral to manage financial risk systematically and what we do.
We aim to make a positive communicate our financial performance in a difference to the communities where we clear, concise manner.
operate and seek ways to assist them.
We prioritise the hiring and development Integrity of local people and work with local supply Robbie Brown chains where we can.
We are committed Group Head of Legal to minimising the impact of our activities on We are proud of our reputation, built the environment by conserving resources, over many years, which depends on reducing waste and emissions, and us doing the right thing.
We build trust preventing environmental pollution and we and act with honesty.
We comply with our work with our customers to provide the best Business Ethics Policy, management system environmental solutions.
and all local rules and regulations.
We foster a culture of transparency and responsibility.
We investigate all violations and complaints and take appropriate action.
