36 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Board of directors and biographies Sir Ian Wood Allister Langlands Alan Semple Bob Keiller Mark Papworth Mike Straughen Les Thomas Group Finance Group Director, Group Director, Group Director, Group Director, Chairman Chief Executive Director Wood Group PSN Wood Group GTS Wood Group Safety Engineering Bob Keiller Executive directors Group Director, Wood Group PSN age 48 Appointed: 2011 Sir Ian Wood CEO of Wood Group PSN since April 2011 and CEO of Production Chairman age 69 Services Network prior to its acquisition by Wood Group.
Previously Appointed: 1961 chairman of the Offshore Contractors Association, the Helicopter Issues Chairman since 1982 and Chief Executive from 1982 to 2006.
Chairman Task Group, chairman of the Entrepreneurial Exchange and Co-Chair of of J W Holdings Limited, one of Scotlands larger fishing groups, member Oil & Gas UK.
of PILOT, the joint UK government and industry oil & gas leadership Committee membership: None group, past Co-Chair of the UK Oil & Gas Industry Leadership Team and Chancellor of Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen.
Mark H Papworth Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee Group Director, Wood Group GTS age 47 Appointed: 2006 Allister G Langlands CEO of Wood Group GTS.
Joined Wood Group in February 2005 as Chief Executive age 53 Chief Operating Officer of Wood Group GTS.
Previously Chief Operating Appointed: 1991 Officer and Executive Vice President with Rolls-Royce Energy.
Chief Executive since January 2007 and formerly Deputy Chief Executive Committee membership: None from 1999.
Served as Group Finance Director from 1991 to 2000.
Prior to joining Wood Group was a partner with Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte Mike Straughen now  LLP.
Group Director, Wood Group Engineering age 62 Committee membership: None Appointed: 2007 CEO of Wood Group Engineering.
Previously with AMEC plc for 25 Alan G Semple years, latterly as Group Managing Director responsible for UK activities Group Finance Director age 52 across all sectors, including Global Oil & Gas.
Previously a member of Appointed: 2000 PILOT, from 2002 to 2008, and Chairman of the Energy Industry Council Group Finance Director since 2000.
Served as Finance Director for the from 2002 to 2007.
Well Support business sold in 2011 from 1997 to 2000.
Prior to joining Committee membership: None Wood Group was Finance Director of GRT Bus Group PLC, now part of FirstGroup plc, a transportation company.
From 1987 to 1994 was Les Thomas Finance Director of Seaforth Maritime Group Limited, an energy services Group Director, Safety age 54 company.
Appointed: 2004 Committee membership: None Group Director for Safety and formerly CEO of Wood Group Production Facilities.
Previously President of Marathon Oil UK and Europe responsible for Marathons operations in the UK, Ireland and Norway.
Committee membership: None Jim B Renfroe Resigned from the Board in April 2011.
Was Group Director responsible for the Well Support division.
Energy Supporting Energy Governance go online at www.
com 37 : Ian Marchant Michel Contie Dr Christopher Masters John Morgan Neil Smith Jeremy Wilson David Woodward Senior independent director John C Morgan age 67 Non-executive directors Appointed: 1998 Formerly non-executive Chairman of Venture Production Company PLC.
Ian D Marchant Joined the Board after 30 years of international experience with BP in Senior independent director age 51 a range of management roles, including President of BP Exploration Appointed: 2006 Alaska.
Chief Executive of SSE plc, Chairman of the 2020 Climate Group in Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Scotland and non-executive Director of Maggies Cancer Centres.
Also member of the Audit and Nominations Committees a member of Ofgems Environmental Advisory Group and the Energy Research Partnership.
Neil H Smith age 47 Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee, member Appointed: 2004 of the Nominations Committee President & Chief Executive Officer of InterGen, a global power generation company.
Previously held numerous positions within InterGen, Michel Contie age 64 including President & Chief Operating Officer.
A member of the Deans Appointed: 2010 Council at Harvard Universitys John F. Kennedy School of Government.
Formerly with Total for 35 years in a variety of senior positions covering Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration and Northern Europe, South America and the Middle East, latterly as a Nominations Committees member of the Total E&P Management Committee.
He has been president of UKOOA UK Offshore Operators Association and currently Jeremy R Wilson age 47 sits on the Management Committee of the International Oil and Gas Appointed: August 2011 Producers Association.
Vice Chairman of J. P. Morgans Energy Group.
Joined J. P. Morgan in Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration and 1987 and was involved with several prominent energy sector mergers Nominations Committees and acquisitions.
Appointed Managing Director of J. P. Morgan in 1999 and after various management positions, became the co-head of the Dr Christopher Masters age 64 global Natural Resources and Diversified Industrials group in 2009.
Appointed: 2002 Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committee Currently non-executive chairman of Energy Assets Group plc and a non-executive Director of the Alliance Trust PLC, Speedy Hire plc and David K Woodward age 65 The Crown Agents.
Chairman of the Festival City Theatres Trust.
Also a Appointed: 2007 Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Previously served as Executive Currently Senior Management Adviser of the Oil and Gas Unit of Chairman of Aggreko plc.
Mubadala, a leading business development and investment company Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Nominations based in Abu Dhabi.
Previously with BP for 36 years, latterly as President Committees of BP Azerbaijan.
In 2006 he was awarded the CMG for services to the international oil industry.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees D John Ogren Resigned from the Board in May 2011.
