6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Understanding our business We are focused on long-run growth markets.
We support our customers activities across their operating opex and capital capex expenditures.
Market growth Key growth drivers for our divisions Long-term growth in E&P capex E&P opex Gas turbine opex and our markets is driven by spend spend capex spend hydrocarbon depletion challenges together with Wood Group Engineering Wood Group PSN Wood Group GTS rising long-term global Growth in capex spend directed Customers ongoing opex spend Gas pricing, relative environmental towards increasingly complex with increased focus on asset considerations and operational energy demand.
engineering challenges in integrity, performance assurance flexibility to contribute to continued deepwater, subsea, oil sands and and production enhancement.
growth in gas-fired powerdownstream markets.
generation market, ahead of global GDP growth.
Divisional characteristics and market drivers Typical contract duration Typical order book range Market characteristics Wood Group Engineering Upstream Significant global reserves in increasingly complex reservoirs developed through largescale, longer-term, complex projects Subsea & pipelines 3 to 24 months 6 to 9 months Refining margins together with efficiency and Downstream, process environmental performance challenges impacting & industrial upgrades and debottlenecking projects Wood Group PSN UK 3 to 5 years UK and Americas are characterised by ongoing operations which provide relative revenue stability through longer-term contracts, increased Americas Evergreen 18 to 36 months operations, safety and asset integrity spending.
Additional growth expected in International markets with limited infrastructure and in the Americas through growth in the shale regions International 3 to 5 years Wood Group GTS Maintenance demand driven by turbine running Transactional 50% : hours in oil & gas 35% and power 65% Maintenance applications.
Technical requirements provide 3 to 12 years 50% high barriers to entry Around 12 months Transactional 20% : Fast-track requirements vs original equipment Power Solutions manufacturer lead times 1 to 3 years 80% Energy Supporting Energy...... e h l t p w o o e r p g Overview of year r u m o r e n t i - t g. s n.. e.. o y. v l t i e n r l i c a u u n o o t a q n m e r i u e a r n v t o i f i l n t r i e n a e d o p m c e go online at www.
com 7 : Balance Our activities are focused on our customers opex and capex expenditure, and we seek to maintain a balance between opex and capex revenues across the Group.
Capex Opex Wood Group Engineering Upstream engineering Subsea and pipelines Downstream, process and industrial Wood Group PSN UK Americas International Wood Group GTS Maintenance Power Solutions 0 20 40 60 80 100 People business We are a primarily reimbursable business.
We endeavour to be Across the large majority of We deliver growth by the employer of choice our activities, we earn returns extending our services by attracting, motivating and broadening our through our peoples knowand developing the best.
Our people drive our business We encourage our We develop long-term people to challenge relationships by focusing established practices on what matters most to and achieve continuous our customers.
Based on management assessment of typical indicative through-cycle activities of the refocused Group.
