10 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Wood Group Engineering We provide a wide range of engineering services to the upstream, subsea & pipelines, downstream & industrial and clean energy sectors.
These include conceptual studies, engineering, project & construction management EPCM and control system upgrades.
to work for Chevron on the Gorgon project 2011 2010 % Recent contract $m $m Change and Woodside on the Browse development.
awards, including the Revenue 1,458.6 1,239.1 17.7% We also experienced notable growth in the UK where we secured the engineering design Ichthys detailed engineering EBITA 162.0 122.0 32.8% and project management work for BPs Quad EBITA margin 11.1% 9.8% 1.3pts scope for Samsung, the 204 project.
Our onshore pipelines business 5 People 9,100 6,900 32% performed well, benefiting from liquids-focused Tubular Bells topsides work Engineering revenue increased by 18% activity in the US shale regions.
for Williams Partners and reflecting increased activity in upstream and our subsea engineering subsea & pipelines, with downstream, process Our downstream, process & industrial activities & industrial activity remaining broadly in line accounted for around 20% of revenues and framework agreements with the prior year.
EBITA increased 33% performance in 2011 was broadly in line with with Shell, support our with margin increasing from 9.8% to 11.1%, 2010.
The downstream refining market in generally reflecting higher volumes and some North America remains flat, although we are expectation of further improvements in utilisation and pricing.
beginning to see early signs of improvement in growth in upstream and the process & industrial market.
Headcount increased from 6,900 to 9,100 in subsea & pipelines in 2012. response to increased demand for our services Outlook in upstream and subsea & pipelines, together Our current order book represents around eight with the impact of the acquisitions of Dar E&C months of forecast revenue following a good and Pi-Consult in Saudi Arabia and ISI Solutions increase in the first two months of the year, in Argentina, which added around 500 people.
and we have a strong prospects list.
Recent contract awards, including the Ichthys detailed Our upstream business accounted for around engineering scope for Samsung, the Tubular 40% of Engineering revenue.
We delivered good Bells topsides work for Williams Partners and growth in the USA where we remain active our subsea engineering framework agreements on projects including the detailed engineering with Shell, support our expectation of further scope for the Anadarko Lucius and Chevron growth in upstream and subsea & pipelines Jack & St Malo projects in the Gulf of Mexico, in 2012.
In downstream, process & industrial, the Noble Alen project in Equatorial Guinea and we anticipate that performance in 2012 will the onshore Hess Tioga gas plant expansion be largely in line with 2011, due to ongoing in the USA.
In Canada, we secured a twoweakness in the market in North America.
year framework agreement with Shell covering Western Canada and offshore Alaska, and our Forecasts of growing global E&P capex spend activities in support of developments in the oil underpin our confidence in the longer-term sands market performed strongly.
We made prospects for Engineering.
We see good further progress in Saudi Arabia, where we opportunities for further growth and will were awarded a multi-year engineering services continue to broaden our international presence framework agreement by Saudi Aramco, and service offering as customers seek to following the acquisitions of Dar E&C and Pireplace and grow reserves in increasingly Consult.
In Malaysia, our newly established joint complex developments.
venture was awarded its first contracts.
During the period we also announced the acquisition of ISI Solutions in Argentina, to support the provision of engineering and consulting services to the Latin American market.
Our subsea & pipeline business accounted for around 40% of Engineering revenue and continues to perform strongly.
We are currently working on over 20 major subsea projects globally, including key projects for BP in Azerbaijan and Angola, and Shell in Malaysia.
Activity remains high in Australia where we Mike Straughen were recently awarded the FEED work for the Group Director Equus project by Hess and where we continue Wood Group Engineering Energy Supporting Energy Operational review go online at www.
com 11 : Further reading Safety & Assurance page 27 Relationships page 28 Social Responsibility page 29 People page 30 Innovation page 31 Financial Responsibility page 32 Integrity page 33 Board of directors and biographies pages 36-37 1 1.
Engineering drawings for a UK North Sea pipeline project.
Subsea manifold designed by J P Kenny for BP Skarv, currently the largest ongoing field development offshore Norway.
The schematic shows a figure to illustrate scale.
We provide front-end engineering design, detailed design, procurement and field engineering support for low sulphur modifications to ensure environmental legislation compliance for our customers.
1% 5% North America 17% Europe 51% Middle East & Africa 9% Asia Pacific 17% Central & South America CIS & Caspian Revenue by region up 32% Headcount 2 3 Independent 12% 6% IOC 49% NOC 33% Other Typical customer profile
