Operational review go online at www.
The Wood Group Ethics Helpline, We must act with integrity where concerns can be raised confidentially, is in everything we do.
It helps used to encourage the reporting of suspected us to earn the respect of our violations of the Business Ethics Policy as people, customers and suppliers well as operating as a forum for employees to ask questions.
We investigate violations or worldwide.
It means always doing complaints and take the necessary action.
We expect all our A register of ethics matters is maintained people to comply with our high by the Groups Compliance Counsel and ethical standards in everything the Board receives regular reports and updates on business ethics as well as on the we do.
The Group Finance Director chairs the During 2011, a number of internal Business Ethics Committee, which comprises investigations were undertaken into senior management representatives from 2 allegations of unethical behaviour.
Appropriate across the Group, and is tasked with disciplinary action was taken based on the monitoring the operation of the Business facts and circumstances and this included Ethics Policy and working on ways to best six terminations for behaviour or actions that promote compliance across the Group.
violated the Business Ethics Policy.
We will We promote a positive ethical work continue to take prompt action to deal with environment for all our employees wherever any known violations.
Our Business Ethics Policy sets the The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force in high ethical standards that we expect of our 2011 and has wide extra-territorial application business operations, our people and every for UK incorporated companies.
The Group company that we work with.
Our Policy sets provides training and guidance to ensure that out the importance of conducting business the actions and behaviours of our people and ethically and legally throughout our global companies, as well as intermediaries providing organisation.
The Business Ethics Policy services on behalf of or for the benefit of the is available in nine languages and is widely Group, comply with the Bribery Act and all communicated to our people and over 3,000 other relevant legislation.
key personnel are required to indicate their continued compliance each year.
We foster a culture of transparency and 1.
We promote a positive ethical work responsibility.
We must consistently apply environment for all our employees.
moral and principled behaviour in all our 2.
Our people are expected to uphold our high transactions, which builds trust and honesty.
ethical standards wherever in the world our We are law-abiding, wherever we are in the Robbie Brown business takes them.
world, and adhere to all organisational policies.
We must all be accountable to each other, our 3.
Web-based training courses, containing customers, shareholders, and partners, by hypothetical examples and scenarios, have been honouring our commitments, delivering results, rolled out across the Group.
and striving to provide the highest quality 3
