4 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 What we do We are an international energy services company with around $6bn in revenue, employing over 39,000 people and operating in more than 50 countries.
We provide services to customers engaged in the Oil & Gas and Power markets.
Our activities are in three divisions: Wood Group Engineering, Wood Group PSN and Wood Group GTS.
In 2011, we completed the acquisition of PSN and the disposal of the Well Support division which enhanced the Groups strategic focus and market-leading positions.
Working on FEED studies Wood Group Engineering for Early Production System development options, an We deliver a wide range of approach designed to bring new market-leading engineering developments on-stream quickly, while allowing the customer the services to the upstream: subsea & opportunity to appraise reservoir pipelines: downstream & industrial and performance before installing permanent facilities.
These include conceptual studies, engineering, project 2.
Control system testing and 2 upgrading for a North American and construction management EPCM refinery.
In 2011 our automation and control system upgrades.
services continued to focus on delivering improvement for our customers.
Providing engineering & 1 Wood Group PSN maintenance services on TAQAs North Sea assets: Tern, We provide life of field support to Eider, Cormorant Alpha and producing assets, through brownfield North Cormorant.
In 2011, we further developed our long-term engineering and modifications, relationship with TAQA with a production enhancement, operations five-year extension to our contract which has been in place since & maintenance including UK duty 2008. holder services, training, maintenance 2 2.
Providing maintenance services management and abandonment at the Camisea production facility, services.
The facility accounts for approx.
95% of all gas produced in Peru and in 2011 we extended our contract to provide services for a further three years.
Providing maintenance services 1 Wood Group GTS for New York Power Authoritys 500 MW Queens facility under a We are a leading independent long-term, 16-year contract.
provider of rotating equipment services 2.
Maximizing the performance of our oil & gas customers and solutions for clients in the power, gas compression equipment oil & gas and clean energy markets.
through the provision of specialist These services include: power engineering and maintenance solutions from our dedicated plant engineering, procurement and 2 workshop facility in Ellon, Scotland.
construction: facility operations & maintenance: and repair & overhaul of gas, wind and steam turbines, pumps, compressors and other high-speed rotating equipment.
Energy Supporting Energy Overview of year go online at www.
com 5 : Further reading Wood Group Engineering pages 10-11 Wood Group PSN pages 12-13 Wood Group GTS pages 14-15 Revenue Upstream Subsea and pipelines Downstream, process and industrial 24% 40% 40% 20% of pro forma revenue from of revenue of revenue of revenue continuing operations 2010: 24% People Engineering, project and EPCM services for subsea EPCM services, operational construction management EPCM developments and for enhancements and control services and control system offshore pipelines system upgrades for upgrades, covering offshore EPCM and field service for refineries including clean fuel topsides including FPSOs, and onshore pipelines modifications, petrochemical 9,100 onshore processing facilities for plants, process and industrial, 2010: 6,900 conventional and unconventional and clean energy facilities projects Revenue UK Americas International 56% 40% 30% 30% of pro forma revenue from of revenue of revenue of revenue continuing operations 2010: 61% People Brownfield engineering & modifications Operations & maintenance Production enhancement Start-up and commissioning Supply chain management 26,200 Human resources management including safety training and competence development programmes 2010: 14,500 Decommissioning Revenue Maintenance Power Solutions 20% 70% 30% of pro forma revenue from of revenue of revenue continuing operations 2010: 15% Shop-based maintenance repair and overhaul Power plant engineering, procurement and of gas turbines, compressors, pumps and other construction EPC People rotating equipment Provision of gas turbine-driven packages for power, Major maintenance consisting of technical support, compression and pumping applications field service, parts supply and outage management Power plant operations & maintenance services 3,400 including daily operations and routine maintenance 2010: 3,300 Reliability and availability optimisation and asset integrity Upgrade and modification of gas turbines to improve reliability, performance and efficiency Based on management assessment of typical indicative through-cycle activities of the refocused Group.
