Operational review go online at www.
com 31 : Innovation 1 For the most part we are technology neutral Innovation is a powerful force and our focus is on the application of the most that has helped us to respond suitable technology.
However, we do invest in successfully to the challenging selective R&D where we see a real business and changing needs of our need.
The establishment of the Wood Group Chair in Arctic and Harsh Environments customers.
We strive to be Engineering at Memorial University of innovative in all our operations.
Newfoundland is a good example of this.
We promote collaboration across Currently the Chair is supporting a series of the Group and learning from proposals submitted to the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council NSERC each other.
We encourage our and the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency people to challenge established ACOA Atlantic Innovation Fund AIF which practices and achieve continuous address two main technical issues including: improvement.
2 the effects of large deformation geohazards on buried pipelines and qualification of pipeline mechanical integrity.
These two major We operate in one of the most exciting, work scopes include 11 subtasks and four dynamic global industries, which provides workshops over a four-year programme.
vital energy around the world and one of the Groups primary objectives is to be a market As well as continuously seeking opportunities leader in all our businesses.
to acquire new skills and expertise in specialist We deliver the best all-round solutions for our and niche markets, we are investing in a range of operational and engineering excellence customers through the combination of the initiatives to deliver continuous improvement in quality of our people, our extensive expertise our business.
Our specialist renewable energy and a culture of technical innovation.
consultancy, SgurrEnergy, has developed the Our culture is to encourage innovation Galion Lidar Wind Profiler device to measure in everything we do.
This includes how wind direction and speed.
This technology we operate, the application of the most represents a significant advancement in appropriate technology and our commercial the technical capabilities of capturing wind approach.
In addition to providing our data and offers many features and benefits customers with fit-for-purpose solutions, compared to other wind Lidar devices innovation also motivates our people to reach including high resolution data capture, remote 3 the best of their potential.
We therefore actively access to real data, 4km range and pulsed encourage new ideas to challenge and exceed laser device for wind speed and direction existing methodologies.
One of the ways this is achieved is through joint industry projects JIPs, including Wood Group Kennys collaborations for subsea, umbilical, riser and flowline integrity management SURF IM and Slug Loading and Response in Pipelines SLARP.
Wood Group Kenny was announced in 2011 as Mike Straughen Australias Subsea Company of the year, their commitment to technology initiatives for the future of the subsea industry was specifically mentioned by the judges.
Our employees also regularly publish in industry magazines or present papers at technical conferences.
These include Harts E&P, Pipeline & Gas Journal, Oilfield Technology, Offshore, 1.
We provided Hydrocarbon Processing, Offshore Europe, engineering services to the worlds deepest OTC and Subsea Tieback forum.
offshore drilling & production facility and worlds deepest spar, challenging established practices and allowing clients to work at greater water depths.
Leading the way in Arctic and Harsh Environment Engineering to provide solutions for clients in challenging environments.
This diagram shows a typical subsea tie-back.
We are the worlds leading solutions independent engineering and management service provider for subsea systems providing our customers with solutions tailored to their needs.
