Other Statutory Information Annual General Meeting page 62 Articles of Association page 64 Dividends page 62 Change of Control page 64 Share Capital page 62 Disabled Persons page 64 Employee Share Schemes page 63 Employee Involvement page 64 Major Shareholders page 63 Use of Financial Instruments page 64 Directors page 63 Branches page 64 Appointment and Replacement of Directors page 63 Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts page 64 Powers of the Directors page 63 Charitable Donations page 64 Directors Conflicts of Interests page 63 Political Donations and Expenditure page 65 Directors Indemnities page 64 Management Report page 65 Corporate Governance and Remuneration page 64 Auditors and Disclosure of Information page 65 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when Annual General Meeting declared, to receive the companys Annual Report and Accounts, to The notice of the 2011 Annual General Meeting of the company to attend and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint be held on Tuesday 19th July 2011 at 11.00 am at The Institution of proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Engineering and Technology The Lecture Theatre, 2 Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL is contained in the circular accompanying this There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
The annual report, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be directors may, in certain circumstances, refuse to register the transfer considered at the meeting.
of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid up, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the requirements of the Articles of Association, or if entitled to do so under the Uncertificated Dividends Securities Regulations 2001.
The directors may also refuse to register The interim dividend of 12.5 pence per share 2010 11.1 pence was a transfer of ordinary shares in certificated form, which represent paid in February 2011.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 0.25% or more of the issued share capital, following the failure by 33.5 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31st March 2011 the member or any other person appearing to be interested in the 2010 27.9 pence, making a total for the year of 46.0 pence per share shares to provide the company with information requested under 2010 39.0 pence, payable on 2nd August 2011 to shareholders on section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
There are no limitations the register at the close of business on 10th June 2011. on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain the A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is in place which allows shareholders companys or other shareholders approval to any transfers.
to purchase additional shares in the company with their dividend There are no restrictions on voting rights except that a shareholder payment.
Further information and a mandate can be obtained from has no right to vote in respect of a share unless all sums due in the companys registrars, Equiniti, whose details are set out on respect of that share are fully paid.
There are no arrangements by page 129. which, with the companys cooperation, financial rights carried by shares are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Share Capital There are no known agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting The issued share capital of the company at 31st March 2011 was rights.
No ordinary shares carry any special voting rights with regard 214,675,736 ordinary shares of 1.00 each excluding treasury to control of the company.
The company did not allot any shares during the year ended 31st March 2011.
As at 31st March 2011, the company held Shares acquired by employees through the Johnson Matthey 5,997,877 treasury shares.
There were no purchases, sales or employee share schemes rank equally with the other shares in issue transfers of treasury shares during the year ended 31st March 2011. and have no special rights.
Voting rights in respect of shares held At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the through the groups employee share schemes are not exercisable companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21,467,573 directly by employees however employees can direct the trustee of ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the the schemes to exercise voting rights on their behalf.
company excluding treasury shares as at 1st June 2010.
The company did not make any purchases of its own shares during the year ended 31st March 2011.
Authority to purchase up to 21,467,573 shares remained in place at 31st March 2011.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the board will again seek shareholders approval to renew the annual authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares through the market.
62 Other Statutory Information Employee Share Schemes Appointment and Replacement of Directors At 31st March 2011, 4,375 current and former employees, The companys Articles of Association provide that the number of representing approximately 45% of employees worldwide, were directors is not subject to any maximum but must not be less than shareholders in Johnson Matthey through the groups employee six, unless otherwise determined by the company by ordinary share schemes.
Through these schemes, current and former resolution.
Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of employees held 3,944,966 shares 1.84% of issued share capital, the members or by a resolution of the directors.
Under the excluding treasury shares.
As at 31st March 2011, 408 current and companys Articles of Association, a director appointed by the former employees held options over 1,797,780 shares through the directors must retire at the next following Annual General Meeting companys executive share option schemes.
Also as at 31st March and is not taken into account in determining the directors who are 2011, 2,402,541 shares had been allocated but had not yet vested to retire by rotation at the meeting.
under the companys long term incentive plan to 962 current and Under the companys Articles of Association, at every Annual General former employees.
Meeting at least one third of directors must retire by rotation.
The directors to retire by rotation must include any director who has not Major Shareholders been subject to election or re-election at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and if so required to constitute one third As at 1st June 2011, the following information had been disclosed of directors those directors who have been longest in office since to the company under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure their last appointment or reappointment.
Notwithstanding this and Transparency Rules in respect of holdings exceeding the 3% provision in the Articles of Association, all directors who served notification threshold: throughout the whole of the year ended 31st March 2011 other Nature of Total % of total 1 holding voting rights voting rights than Sir John Banham and Messrs Thomson and Walvis who will be retiring from the board in July 2011 will be offering themselves for BlackRock, Inc.
Indirect 20,570,656 9.58% re-election at this years Annual General Meeting in accordance with Financial Instrument CFD 578,823 0.27% the UK Corporate Governance Code.
FIL Limited Indirect 10,735,815 5.00% A director may be removed by a special resolution of the company.
Prudential plc Direct 10,623,919 4.95% In addition, a director must automatically cease to be a director if Indirect 77,634 0.03% i he or she ceases to be a director by virtue of any provision of the Lloyds Banking Group plc Direct 1,142,771 0.53% Companies Act 2006 or he or she becomes prohibited by law from Indirect 9,625,114 4.48% being a director, or ii he or she becomes bankrupt or makes any Legal & General Group Plc Direct 8,581,762 3.99% arrangement or composition with his or her creditors generally, or 1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the iii he or she is suffering from a mental disorder, or iv he or she company excluding treasury shares at the date of disclosure.
resigns from his or her office by notice in writing to the company or, in the case of an executive director, his appointment is terminated or expires and the directors resolve that his office be vacated, or Directors v he or she is absent for more than six consecutive months without The following served as directors during the year ended 31st March permission of the directors from meetings of the directors and the 2011: directors resolve that his or her office be vacated, or vi he or she is Sir John Banham Mr M J Roney requested in writing, or by electronic form, by all the other directors to resign.
Mr N A P Carson Mr W F Sandford Mr A M Ferguson Mr T E P Stevenson Powers of the Directors appointed 13th January 2011 appointed 29th March 2011 The powers of the directors are determined by the companys Sir Thomas Harris Mrs D C Thompson Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the company in general meeting.
The directors have been Mr R J MacLeod Mr A M Thomson authorised by the Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary Mr L C Pentz Mr R J W Walvis shares and to make market purchases of shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for renewal.
Sir John Banham, Mr Thomson and Mr Walvis will be retiring from Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
the board at the close of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and therefore do not offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Ferguson and Mr Stevenson, both of whom were appointed during the year, Directors Conflicts of Interests will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being Procedures are in place to ensure compliance with the directors eligible, offer themselves for election.
In accordance with the conflict of interest duties set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the company has complied with these procedures during the year ended remaining directors will be offering themselves for re-election 31st March 2011 and the board believes that these procedures at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
During the year, details of any new conflicts or The names and biographical details of all the directors are shown on potential conflict matters were submitted to the board for consideration pages 56 and 57. and, where appropriate, these were approved.
Details of the constitution of the board and its committees are set At the end of March 2011, the board undertook an annual review of out on pages 58 to 60. previously approved conflict or potential conflict matters and, to the extent that these were still relevant, agreed that they should continue to be authorised on the terms previously set out.
In each case, the review was undertaken by directors who were genuinely independent of the conflict matter.
Authorised conflict or potential conflict matters will continue to be reviewed by the board on an annual basis.
Johnson Matthey 63 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other Statutory Information The rules of the companys employee share schemes set out the Directors Indemnities consequences of a change of control of the company on Under Deed Polls the company has granted indemnities in favour participants rights under the schemes.
Generally such rights will of each director of the company in respect of any liability that he or vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the she may incur to a third party in relation to the affairs of the company satisfaction of relevant performance conditions.
These provisions were in force during the year ended 31st March 2011 for the benefit of all persons who The executive directors service contracts each contain a provision were directors of the company at any time during the year ended to the effect that if the contract is terminated by the company within 31st March 2011 and remain in force for the benefit of all persons one year after a change of control of the company, the company will who are directors of the company as at the date when this Report pay to the director as liquidated damages an amount equivalent to of the Directors was approved.
one years gross basic salary and other contractual benefits less the period of any notice given by the company to the director.
There are Under Deed Polls the company has also granted indemnities in no other agreements between the company and its directors or favour of each director of its subsidiaries in respect of any liability employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that he or she may incur to a third party in relation to the affairs of whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise any group member.
These provisions were in force during the year on a change of control of the company following a takeover bid.
ended 31st March 2011 for the benefit of all persons who were directors of the subsidiaries at any time during the year ended Other than the marketing agreement with a subsidiary of Anglo 31st March 2011 and remain in force for the benefit of all persons Platinum Limited referred to above, the group does not have any who are directors of the subsidiaries as at the date when this Report contractual or other arrangements with any persons which the of the Directors was approved.
directors consider are essential to the business of the company.
Copies of the Deed Polls and the companys Articles of Association Disabled Persons are available for inspection during normal business hours at the companys registered office and will be available for inspection at A description of the companys policy applied during the year ended the forthcoming Annual General Meeting from 10.00 am on Tuesday 31st March 2011 relating to the recruitment, employment and 19th July 2011 until the conclusion of the meeting.
training of disabled employees can be found on page 50.
Corporate Governance and Remuneration Employee Involvement The boards statement on corporate governance matters is given A description of the action taken by the company during the year on pages 58 to 61 and its report on directors remuneration, which ended 31st March 2011 relating to employee involvement can be includes details of service contracts and the directors interests in found on pages 45 to 55. the shares of the company, is set out on pages 68 to 74.
Other than service contracts, no director had any interest in any Use of Financial Instruments material contract with any group company at any time during the Information on the groups financial risk management objectives and year ended 31st March 2011. policies and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk can be found on pages 111 to 115.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special Branches resolution at a general meeting of the company.
The company and its subsidiaries have established branches in a number of different countries in which they operate.
Change of Control There are no significant agreements to which the company is a party Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts that take effect following a change of control of the company, but the The groups policy in relation to the payment of all suppliers set out in company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of commercial its Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate is that payment should be made within the credit terms agreed with the agreements on a change of control of the company following a the supplier, subject to the supplier having performed its obligations takeover bid.
Other than the matters referred to below, these are not under the relevant contract.
It is not the groups policy to follow any deemed by the company to be significant in terms of their potential specific code or standard on payment practice in respect of its effect on the group as a whole.
At 31st March 2011, the companys aggregate level of creditor days amounted to 8 days.
Creditor days are calculated by The group has a number of loan notes and borrowing facilities dividing the aggregate of the amounts which were outstanding as which may require prepayment of principal and payment of accrued trade payables at 31st March 2011 by the aggregate of the amounts interest and breakage costs if there is change of control of the the company was invoiced by suppliers during the year ended company.
The group has also entered into a series of financial 31st March 2011 and multiplying by 365 to express the ratio as a instruments to hedge its currency, interest rate and metal price number of days.
exposures which provide for termination or alteration if a change of control of the company materially weakens the creditworthiness of the group.
Charitable Donations The company is party to a marketing agreement with a subsidiary During the year ended 31st March 2011 the group donated of Anglo Platinum Limited, originally entered into in 1992, under 517,000 2010 458,000 to charitable organisations worldwide, which the company was appointed as sales and marketing agent of which 320,000 2010 298,000 was in the UK.
for refined platinum group metals worldwide excluding the US and Further details of contributions made by the group worldwide are the company agreed to provide certain marketing services.
The given on pages 52 and 53 and in the Sustainability Report which agreement contains provisions under which the counterparty may can be found on the companys website at www.
have the right to terminate the agreement on a change of control of the company.
64 Other Statutory Information Political Donations and Expenditure It is the policy of the group not to make political donations.
During the year ended 31st March 2011, no donations were made by the company or its subsidiaries to any EU political party, EU political organisation or to any EU independent election candidate 2010 nil, no EU political expenditure was incurred 2010 nil and no contributions to political parties outside the EU were made within the meaning of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 2010 nil.
Management Report The Report of the Directors is the management report for the purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
So far as each person serving as a director of the company at the date this Report of the Directors was approved by the board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Each such director hereby confirms that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors on 1st June 2011 and is signed on its behalf by: Simon Farrant Company Secretary Johnson Matthey 65 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
