Group Strategy Business Review Johnson Matthey is a leading speciality chemicals company underpinned Technology leadership by science, technology and our people.
A leader in sustainable forms the basis of technologies, many of the groups products enhance the quality of life of millions through their beneficial impact on the environment, human Johnson Mattheys health and wellbeing.
The world has changed a lot since Johnson strategy to deliver Mattheys foundation in 1817.
From its early days as a precious metals assayer, the company has always sought to build on its strengths and superior long term respond to changing global needs.
Today the group continues to apply growth.
its expertise in science to develop world leading products and technologies for customers around the world.
Johnson Mattheys strategy is central to its success and during 2010 11 the group carried out an extensive examination and review of its business strategy for the next ten years.
This important piece of work has established the direction of the group over the next decade and outlines the actions it will take to achieve its goals.
The Strategy Review Process The multi step review firstly considered how the group has evolved over the last decade in the face of some of the most severe economic conditions.
The common features of a successful Johnson Matthey business were then defined and the groups key strengths were considered.
The review then identified the global megatrends impacting the world around us and considered how and why these are important in driving future growth for Johnson Matthey.
The strategic role of research and development R&D was examined together with the structure and investment required to drive future growth into new business areas.
As a result of the process, a ten year strategy to deliver superior growth has been established as detailed on pages 12 and 13.
Johnson Matthey Ten Years to Today Johnson Matthey has evolved its business portfolio over the last decade as illustrated below.
Sales excluding the value of precious metals sales have more than doubled during that time and through a combination of organic growth and a series of key acquisitions and divestments, the group has successfully delivered good growth in shareholder value through its strategic focus on environmental technologies.
Evolution of the Johnson Matthey Group Sales 2001 02 to 2010 11 10% 67% 17% 47% Environmental Technologies 23% 11% Precious Metal Products 2,280m 1,093m Fine Chemicals Other businesses subsequently sold 25% 08 Around 11% of the groups employees work in research and development.
Today Johnson Matthey is a world leader holding number one or two positions in its core markets and with operations across the globe.
It has around 9,700 employees, with more than 1,000 of these working in R&D.
In the early part of the decade the group delivered good growth in profit before tax and earnings per share.
This was followed by several years of particularly strong growth up to the recession.
Whilst profit and earnings growth both flattened during the economic downturn, Johnson Matthey weathered the storm extremely well, supported by its diverse portfolio of businesses and global reach.
Going forward, with recovery in the groups markets, future prospects for growth are good.
In 2010 11 the group has reported sales of 2.3 billion and underlying profit before tax of 345.5 million.
Its return on invested capital ROIC was 19.4%, close to our target of exceeding 20%.
Over the ten year period to 31st March 2011, growth in underlying earnings per share EPS was 7.8% p. a. a solid performance against the backdrop of the recent global recession.
JOHNSON MATTHEY TODAY 2.3bn ROIC sales, underlying 19.4% PBT 345.5m Over 1,000 9,700 employees people working in R&D 7.8% p. a.
Global EPS growth in operations last ten years No.
1 or 2 in core segments Johnson Matthey 09 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Group Strategy Business Review The group believes that it must embrace the challenge of Definition of a Successful Johnson sustaining and integrating this culture as it continues to grow its Matthey Business international operations.
Whilst these attributes highlight the common features of a Establishing the common features of a successful Johnson Matthey successful business within the group, the board recognises that business was an important aspect of the strategy review process.
these are not the sole determinant of a good Johnson Matthey It helps us to understand what makes the company successful and business.
However, identifying and recognising these attributes also provides a focus for future investment decisions.
The process provides a good understanding of what makes the group identified the common attributes of our most successful operations successful and acts as a valuable focus for future investment and revealed a number of consistent and interdependent features decisions.
Johnson Matthey Attributes Key Strengths What Makes Johnson Matthey Greater than the Sum of its Parts?
Taken in isolation however, Johnson Mattheys list of attributes Environmental focus, regulatory may also be applied to many other organisations.
So why do driven they translate into success for us?
Johnson Matthey has several key strengths which, in combination with its attributes, make the Focus on core Leading industry group greater than the sum of its parts.
chemistry, positions with pgms and As we have stated before, Johnson Matthey is a leading high margin People and catalysis products technology based company.
This leadership is made possible by culture our expertise in the fundamental science that underpins our Good Differentiation technologies.
This expertise includes catalysis, materials science, understanding through of markets and the chemistry of pgms, nanotechnology and manufacturing technology Investment customers science and our competence in these key areas lies at the very in technology heart of what we do.
A deep involvement in and understanding and product development of pgms is a unique feature of Johnson Matthey where our expertise in refining, pgm chemistry and the dynamics of pgm markets supports many of our business activities.
A further Starting at the top of the diagram above and working round strength is our ability to maximise the synergies across our clockwise, many of our businesses have an environmental focus activities to derive enhanced value.
Our Process Technologies and or are driven by regulation, be it to provide products that business provides evidence of this synergy in action where the enable our customers to meet lower emissions legislation, or the complementary offering of chemical process technology and the manufacture and supply of controlled substances etc.
This opens catalyst s for that process means we are able to optimise the up a number of markets where the group can apply its core performance of both of these areas, providing superior chemistry skills in platinum group metals pgms and catalysis performance and value to our customers.
to develop products and technologies for its customers.
We build Over the years we have developed trusted partnerships deep relationships with our customers and this, together with with our customers, regulators and other stakeholders.
As our strong scientific knowledge, enables us to establish a good such, we have a detailed understanding of relevant regulatory understanding of our markets and our customers.
This in turn matters and considerable expertise in handling materials, provides the basis from which to make informed decisions about especially pgms and controlled substances.
We place huge how we invest in technology and product development.
Through emphasis on establishing strong relationships with our continued investment Johnson Matthey has maintained customers and through this have developed a fundamental differentiation through technology, developing and manufacturing understanding of what our products do for them, what their its products which is key to growing the business and maintaining a needs are today and what they may be going forward.
As a result, the group has been able to achieve enables us to make better products both now and in the future.
leading industry positions with high margin products which, in Our final key strength is our reputation, built up over combination with the other attributes, ensures that many of the almost two hundred years of operation.
It gives our customers, markets in which we participate have high barriers to entry and shareholders, employees and many other stakeholders the provide an attractive platform for the future.
confidence that we are a well managed and credible business These common attributes are interdependent, with each that takes its responsibilities seriously.
Our reputation provides attribute supporting the next.
Equally important are the groups a solid foundation for future growth and as such we must people and culture which are, in essence, the glue that binds safeguard and build on it going forward.
The culture of an organisation is not easy to define, but there is a distinctive culture across Johnson Matthey, irrespective of division, business, function or geographic location, and we recognise this culture as a particular strength.
10 Significant barriers to entry GLOBAL DRIVERS IMPACTING THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY Johnson Matthey Activities Industry Sector GLOBAL DRIVERS Industry Sector Johnson Matthey Activities Pgm catalysts Emission Obscuration control Automotive Electronics enamels catalysts PharmaAgricultural Medical APIs ceuticals chemicals components Population Growth Petrochemical Health & Nutrition Bulk Pgms Construction catalysts and Urbanisation Ammonia chemicals Ageing Population processes synthesis and Fine Increasing Wealth nitric acid chemicals catalysts Emission Environmental Factors Abatement Gas coal Natural control Energy Alternative technologies to products Resource Climate Change catalysts security energy Emission technology Constraints Clean fuel Regulation control Hydrogen Purification Pgm Resource catalysts Catalysts Recycling products refining efficiency Low carbon Carbon capture Fuel cells and storage CCS All four global level trends provide opportunities for How do Global Drivers Impact on growth across Johnson Mattheys divisions over the next decade Johnson Matthey?
and case study examples to illustrate these are included throughout this report.
Having analysed the shape of the business today and established the attributes and strengths that underpin our success, the next stage of the strategy review process considered the macro level global drivers impacting the chemical industry.
The major global STRATEGY IN ACTION drivers which were based on trends identified by Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research we identified as having a Environmental Factors, Climate Change, major impact on Johnson Mattheys businesses are: Regulation Population growth, urbanisation, increasing wealth Emissions Regulations Opportunities in Health and nutrition, ageing population Hydrogen Catalysts page 6 Natural resource constraints Low Carbon, Emission Control and Clean Fuel Opportunities in Fuel Cells page 18 Environmental factors, climate change, regulation Emissions Regulations Opportunities in The process examined each global driver in turn, identifying Emission Control page 24 firstly which industry sectors would be impacted by the global Low Carbon Markets Opportunities in Low driver and then mapping each industry sector to the relevant Carbon page 44 areas of Johnson Mattheys business.
From this a picture was developed connecting the macro level global trends with the groups current activities as illustrated above.
The global drivers Natural Resource Constraints impacting the chemical industry will drive underlying growth in Opportunities in Pgm Refining page 14 many of our businesses.
For example projected population Energy Security and Alternative Energy growth rates and increasing urbanisation and wealth, particularly Opportunities in Gas Coal to Products page 25 in emerging markets, will drive an increase in the number of cars on our roads and therefore links through to growth in Johnson Health & Nutrition, Ageing Population Mattheys automotive emission control business.
Similarly, projections on how natural resources will become more Opportunities in Precious Metal Products depleted provides estimates on demand for recycling which in page 32 turn will benefit the groups Pgm Refining business.
Data relating Pharmaceuticals Opportunities in Fine to how people are living longer will provide growth projections Chemicals and APIs page 33 on the use of pharmaceuticals which will impact Johnson Mattheys Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Manufacturing Population Growth, Urbanisation, businesses, and so on.
Increasing Wealth These global level trends will support the future growth of our business.
However, underpinned by our business attributes Opportunities in Precious Metal Products and key strengths, the board believes that Johnson Matthey is page 32 well positioned to deliver superior growth at rates in excess of the underlying growth resulting from the global trends.
Johnson Matthey 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Group Strategy Business Review R&D Focus for Further Growth Our Strategy for Future Growth As illustrated in the case studies in this report, major global The board has agreed a ten year strategy to deliver superior drivers will provide opportunities for Johnson Matthey to growth in value for Johnson Matthey as summarised in the table develop and grow its existing business areas over the next ten on page 13. years.
The strategy review process has reconfirmed that R&D is As highlighted in this table, key elements of the strategy remain a key element in realising these opportunities and over the next unchanged: few years the group is planning to increase its annual investment in R&D by around a third.
In addition, the review has also The group will continue to focus on leading edge catalysis, identified opportunities to leverage the groups R&D expertise driven by major global trends such as improving air quality, to further accelerate growth in the coming decade.
energy security, sustainability and development in emerging As a result, Johnson Matthey is increasing its focus on new markets.
business development and its investment in R&D.
We have The group will maintain differentiation through technology established a team whose goal is to target further growth from supported by enhanced investment in R&D in its core a series of new business areas with the aim of developing a market areas.
major new division for Johnson Matthey.
It is envisaged that A strong position in platinum group metals will remain an these areas will build on the groups established attributes and intrinsic part of the group.
areas of expertise and will draw on our existing commercial Our primary focus will be organic growth.
The process to identify, evaluate and develop these however, maintain its strategy of making bolt-on acquisitions new business areas is now underway and we have initially in core areas where they will accelerate organic growth.
planned to increase our investment in R&D by up to a further 5 million p. a. to support this work.
In addition, the review process identified four key elements This new initiative is also aligned with Johnson Mattheys where increasing emphasis going forward will help deliver Sustainability 2017 aspirations to build a more sustainable further value: business for the future.
Further details are provided in the The group will target development of new opportunities Sustainability section on pages 45 to 55.
A major driver of underpinned by our core chemistry expertise in materials Sustainability 2017 is to apply our innovation and R&D expertise science and surface chemistry.
to develop improved and more efficient products and solutions The Johnson Matthey attributes, outlining what makes a for our customers.
In doing this we can enhance our customers performance and reduce their sustainability footprint, which in successful Johnson Matthey business, will be used to provide a focus for investment and for growing new business.
turn will improve our competitiveness, profitability and deliver growth for Johnson Matthey in the future.
Research and development of the latest process catalysts at our Billingham, UK facility.
12 The group will place increased emphasis on manufacturing OUR STRATEGY IN SUMMARY excellence to ensure it operates with the highest technology and highest efficiency.
Johnson Matthey has Key elements unchanged: recently launched a group wide Manufacturing Excellence Initiative to capture and develop manufacturing best practice across all divisions of the group around the world.
The rewards for achieving world class manufacturing Continued focus on operations are high, assuring the best quality products for leading edge catalysis our customers at the lowest possible cost.
In addition, the initiative will support the group in achieving its Sustainability 2017 goals for lower carbon, resource efficiency and waste Maintain differentiation reduction.
There will also be further sustainability benefits in terms of employee development and in health and safety.
through technology The group recognises the value of its people and culture.
In working towards growing the business, the group will focus Strong position in pgms further on tackling the challenge of integrating the Johnson Matthey culture across its expanding global operations.
remains an intrinsic part of group Conclusions The board believes that the group has the right strategy to Primary focus is deliver long term value.
Johnson Matthey is well positioned to grow in the next five years supported by strong positions in our organic growth core markets.
The drivers for our business remain firmly in place and the group is committed to continue to invest in both infrastructure and R&D.
The outlook beyond five years is also positive.
Global drivers show a good fit with Johnson Mattheys technologies and we have systems in place to monitor the Increased emphasis on: changing landscape in which the group operates.
We have the capacity to invest to maximise the benefit of the opportunities that will arise and our proven R&D approach will deliver commercial success.
Developing new opportunities Summary underpinned by After almost 200 years of operation Johnson Matthey is a strong core chemistry business underpinned by science, technology and the contribution of everyone who works in it.
The strategy review process confirmed that the group is heading in the right direction for its Johnson Matthey third century of operation and that Johnson Matthey is well positioned for long term growth.
attributes provide focus for investment Manufacturing excellence People and culture Johnson Matthey 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION Opportunities in Pgm Refining Constraints on natural resources and the focus on resource efficiency are important drivers for growth in Johnson Mattheys Pgm Refining business.
Population growth and environmental factors will also have a significant impact.
Our pgm refineries in Brimsdown, UK and West Deptford, USA concentrate on high grade refining and focus on two key sectors.
The first is material which comes back for recycling from customers who have purchased products from other businesses in Johnson Matthey.
Growth in this sector will be linked to that of the group as a whole and the industries that it serves.
The second sector is autocatalyst scrap recycling where we currently hold around a 40% share of the global market.
Growth in autocatalyst scrap recycling, especially of palladium, is expected to be at double digit rates over the next few years.
With increasing concerns over the availability of natural resources and a strong position in refining, Johnson Matthey is well placed for future growth.
