Research & Development Business Review Investment in research and development R&D is a key In the simplest sense we can anchor particles to other element of Johnson Mattheys strategy for growth, enabling the materials in a highly dispersed way which makes them very group to differentiate itself using its world class technology.
We can apply this technique across a range of our reinforced in the groups strategy review pages 8 to 13, R&D activities to optimise the use and performance of expensive investment is vital to maintaining expertise and leadership in metals in our catalyst products.
In addition, we have developed the fundamental science of catalysis, materials chemistry and techniques to control the size of these anchored particles and platinum group metals pgms that underpins the development in doing so, can tailor both their activity and selectivity towards of new products and manufacturing processes.
Our highly skilled scientists can manipulate Johnson Matthey spent 109.8 million gross on R&D.
these particles further to control the actual shape of the Over 1,000 employees work in R&D representing some anchored species.
Shapes include cubes, tetrapods, rods and 11% of the total workforce and include many highly skilled wires and the preparation of these differing geometries opens scientists and engineers.
Around 80% of our R&D staff work up opportunities to use these materials in new applications.
within the groups businesses in dedicated R&D and technical The application of molecular modelling techniques also centres around the world.
At business and division level, work enables us to design and develop higher performance, more is mainly focused on delivery of shorter term business specific resource efficient materials.
Our modelling work includes studies projects or to address particular market developments or of core shell catalysts where a core of one metal or alloy is customer needs.
encased with a layer of different atoms to impart advantageous Johnson Matthey also has central capability on strategic R&D properties or minimise the use of expensive materials.
We have working on behalf of all of the groups businesses.
This group put modelling theory into practice and have synthesised a range technology centre operates across two sites in the UK Sonning of core shell systems where, through careful choice of the core Common and Billingham and employs around 200 people.
particles, it is actually possible to improve the activity of the shell particles to give higher efficiency than using either particle type on its own.
Core shell technology is of particular interest to Research and Development Employees Johnson Matthey in our efforts to maximise the activity of pgm species whilst using a minimum amount of these valuable metals.
It finds application in a number of Johnson Mattheys business Central Research activities including our Fuel Cells business where reducing metal 20% loading and enhancing activity of our catalysts is key in driving down costs and commercialising new products.
Environmental Fine Chemicals Technologies 7% 63% Science in Action Precious Metal Our R&D activities provide the foundation for bringing new Products products and technologies to market and we have systems in 10% place to expedite our new product development processes.
Below are three examples of research projects nearing commercialisation.
R&D Structure Sustainable Fuels Biomass Feedstocks for Next Generation Biofuels R&D activities in the group technology centre are broadly There is interest globally in the development of fuels produced divided into four categories: core science, divisional projects, from biomass as a sustainable alternative to petrochemical sponsored university programmes and collaborative external derived fuels.
There are many potential biomass feedstocks and projects.
This combination of internal research and collaboration at Johnson Matthey we are exploring a number of different ensures we have access to the very latest technology and systems including waste cellulose from wood processing or develop relationships with leading scientists around the world.
agricultural residues, pyrolysis oil derived from a variety of sources We maintain a close link between the four categories of and algae, a high yield, non-food source.
Each feedstock requires our central R&D activities and with the development work very different technologies for conversion into fuel and all align carried out directly by Johnson Mattheys businesses.
This well with Johnson Mattheys core skills.
In our work on waste interaction is key in ensuring the rapid transfer of technology cellulose we are applying our expertise in syngas purification to support the continued development of new products and and conversion whilst conversion of pyrolysis oil requires us to services for our customers.
study processes analogous to those used in refineries such as purification, deoxygenation, isomerisation and cracking.
R&D Core Competence Control at the Atomic Scale In our work on algae, which are highly efficient producers of triglycerides, Johnson Matthey is developing multifunctional Over the years we have developed a core competence in catalysts capable of converting triglyceride components into controlling materials at the atomic scale which gives us the hydrocarbon fuels.
This patented technology creates further ability to fine tune their properties in a number of different options for the utilisation of bioderived non-food sources for ways.
This expertise underpins the development of new, better generating fuels.
performing products across all our business activities, be it emission control catalysts for vehicles or high technology inks for large scale glass printing applications.
42 2 nm Modelling and synthesis of core Solid state nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectroscopy shell particles allows us to is one of the state of the art characterisation techniques develop higher activity, more used for the development of new materials.
Gas Coal to Synthetic Fuels Development of Syngas and R&D for Future Growth Fischer Tropsch Technology As outlined in the Group Strategy section on pages 8 to 13, There is continued interest in the conversion of coal or natural major global drivers provide significant opportunities for Johnson gas into synthetic fuels as a route to a clean and secure source Matthey to grow and develop its existing business areas over the of energy.
These gas to liquids GTL and coal to liquids CTL next ten years and R&D will play an important role in realising technologies represent multi stage catalytic processes which will these opportunities.
To support this business development, the operate on both large world scale plants as well as smaller scale group is increasing its annual investment in R&D by around a plants using synthesis gas from biomass or methane sources as third.
In addition, work is also underway to leverage our R&D feedstocks.
Key processes include syngas generation from coal or expertise to further accelerate growth in a series of new gas and Fischer Tropsch synthesis to catalytically convert hydrogen business areas over the next decade.
This initiative aims to and carbon monoxide into fuels.
The catalysts, reactor designs and develop a major new division for Johnson Matthey which builds process technologies required align strongly with the underlying on the companys established attributes, areas of expertise and science in Johnson Mattheys Process Technologies business and existing commercial interests.
The process to identify, evaluate we are engaged in a number of different projects in this field.
Our and develop new business areas is now underway and we have dedicated Manufacturing Science Centre MSC in Billingham, UK initially planned to increase our investment in R&D by up to a provides us with an invaluable scale up link between laboratory further 5 million p. a. in support of this work.
based catalyst research and full scale production allowing us to optimise our manufacturing processes.
The MSC has been involved with customer projects to develop Fischer Tropsch catalysts for a variety of scales, reactors and feedstocks, manufacturing pilot scale quantities for testing at customers sites.
Optimising catalyst performance and process technology in combination will be crucial to the commercial viability of large scale CTL and GTL plants.
We are drawing on the synergies between our catalyst and process technology R&D activities to develop superior performance solutions for the production of synthetic fuels.
Market Evolution for Direct Methanol Fuel Cells A combination of modelling, clever preparative chemistry and a deep understanding of how a fuel cell membrane electrode assembly MEA works in practice has led to the development of more economically viable systems for direct methanol fuel cell DMFC applications.
Over the last six years the knowledge gained from a series of research projects focused on dramatically improving the activity of the pgm component in DMFC systems has enabled significant increases in the power output per cost of these products.
The development of these more cost efficient solutions has earned Johnson Matthey a leading position in the supply of MEAs to the global DMFC market.
Johnson Matthey 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION Opportunities in Low Carbon Whilst some debate remains over the detrimental impact of carbon dioxide CO on our planet, global CO emissions 2 2 continue to grow and structural change, in the form of government intervention and or new technologies is required to limit the increase.
Low carbon markets are developing with some now at the early stages of commercialisation.
Some of these markets are potentially very large e. g. fuel cells and the technologies that will be required play very much to Johnson Mattheys strengths.
Johnson Matthey already has a range of core technologies for low carbon applications which will develop further over the next five years.
We are working on renewable and low carbon energy technologies such as advanced biofuels and catalysts and fuel cells for combined heat and power applications.
In addition, we have commercial and development products for greenhouse gas abatement and are working on syngas technology which can play a part in carbon capture and storage processes.
With many opportunities for Johnson Matthey in this area, our scientists are actively working on developing the key enabling technologies for a lower carbon world.
