Sustainability 2017, our group wide programme to make Robert Walvis has served as the Chairman of the companys Johnson Matthey more sustainable, is also playing an important Management Development and Remuneration Committee for role in the success of your company.
It provides a focus for the last three years.
We are extremely fortunate to have had improving the performance of our operations, the development the benefit of their vast experience of both UK and international of new sustainable products and for investment in our people business and I would like to thank them for the valuable and culture around the world.
As I have travelled around the contributions that they have both made to the work of the company, I continue to be impressed by the commitment of board.
On behalf of all of us at Johnson Matthey I would like to Johnson Mattheys employees at all levels to Sustainability 2017. wish Alan and Robert all the very best for the future.
We have set some very challenging targets, for example to halve Following these retirements, Alan Ferguson will succeed the key resources that we use per unit of output, but given the Alan Thomson as Chairman of the Audit Committee and dedication of our people and the spirit of innovation that is Michael Roney, who has been a non-executive director since evident throughout the group, I believe that our sustainability June 2007, will be appointed the Senior Independent Director efforts will underpin future business growth.
You can read a and will also take over chairmanship of the Management summary of progress towards our Sustainability 2017 goals Development and Remuneration Committee.
Full details will be presented in the groups It has always been my belief that the most important Sustainability Report which will be published on our website investment that a company makes is the one that it makes in its in July.
I have never ceased to be impressed by the enthusiasm, My term of office as Chairman of Johnson Matthey comes to professionalism and dedication of Johnson Mattheys employees an end at the close of this years Annual General Meeting AGM at all levels of the organisation.
On your behalf I would like to in July.
In January 2011 we announced the appointment of my thank all of them, around the world, for their contribution to the successor, Tim Stevenson OBE, who joined the board as a success of your company.
non-executive director and Chairman Designate with effect It has been a privilege to be Chairman of Johnson Matthey from 29th March 2011.
He will be standing for election at the over the last five years.
It is a great company with strong market AGM.
Tim has had a most distinguished career and is a very and technology drivers, excellent people and a robust strategy experienced chairman: he is currently Chairman of The Morgan that will ensure continued growth.
Johnson Matthey is well Crucible Company plc and was Chairman of Travis Perkins plc positioned to grow in the next five years supported by strong from November 2001 to May 2010.
He is ideally qualified to positions in our core markets.
The drivers for our business chair the board through the next phase of your companys remain firmly in place and the group is committed to continue development and will continue its successful record of delivering to invest in both infrastructure and R&D.
The outlook beyond superior value to shareholders.
five years is also positive.
In January the company also announced the appointment of Alan Ferguson as a non-executive director with effect from 13th January 2011.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer and an executive director of Lonmin Plc and prior to that was Group Finance Director of The BOC Group.
Alan has a wealth of international financial experience including in the precious metals and automotive industries and he is already making a Sir John Banham strong contribution to the work of the board.
Full biographical Chairman details of both Tim Stevenson and Alan Ferguson are shown on pages 56 and 57.
With effect from the close of this years AGM, Alan Thomson and Robert Walvis will retire from the board, both of them having served as non-executive directors of Johnson Matthey for nine years.
Since joining the board both Alan and Robert have made invaluable contributions to the strategic development and governance of the company.
Alan Thomson has served as Chairman of the Audit Committee for eight years and has also been our Senior Independent Director for the last three years.
Johnson Matthey 03 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
