A M Thomson MA, CA Age 64: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently Environmental Technologies Chairman of Hays plc, Chairman of Bodycote International Plc and a S M Christley Division Finance Director non-executive director of Alstom S. A. France.
Until his retirement in J F Walker Division Director, Emission Control Technologies 2006 he was Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
A, M, N C J Bennett Managing Director, Stationary Emissions Control 6.
R J W Walvis A M Myers President, Emission Control Technologies, North America Age 64: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently D W Prest Managing Director, Emission Control Technologies, Europe a non-executive director of Associated British Ports Holdings Ltd and J V Zubrickas Managing Director, Emission Control Technologies, Asia Balfour Beatty plc and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Allianz N Whitley Division Director, Process Technologies Nederland Group NV.
He was previously a non-executive director of S Slattery Division Finance Director, Process Technologies British Energy Group plc and Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell International Limited.
Prior to that he held a series of senior P M Armitage Business Development Director, Process Technologies management positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
A, M, N A Bordet Managing Director, Davy Process Technology A C Hurst Managing Director, Tracerco 7.
A M Ferguson G L McGregor Managing Director, Refinery Age 53: appointed a non-executive director on 13th January 2011.
A Wright Managing Director, Ammonia, Methanol and Gas He was previously Chief Financial Officer and a Director of Lonmin Plc.
J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells He left Lonmin on 31st December 2010.
Prior to joining Lonmin, he was Group Finance Director of The BOC Group until late 2006 when the Linde Group acquired BOC.
Before joining BOC in 2005, he Precious Metal Products worked for Inchcape plc for 22 years in a variety of roles including B M OConnell Division Finance Director Group Finance Director from 1999 until his departure.
He is a M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing Chartered Accountant.
A, M, N C C Howlett General Manager, Noble Metals, Europe 8.
Sir Thomas Harris KBE CMG J D Malanga General Manager, Noble Metals, North America Age 66: appointed a non-executive director in April 2009.
Currently Vice R L P J van der Heijden Managing Director, Colour Technologies Chairman of Standard Chartered Capital Markets Ltd, a non-executive G P Otterman Division Director, Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining director of SC First Bank Korea, City UK and the UK India Business T Hassan Division Finance Director, Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining Council.
Until 2004, he was Director General of Trade & Investment USA responsible for British business and technology promotion A J McCullough General Manager, Gold, North America throughout the United States.
He served previously as British Ambassador to the Republic of Korea in Seoul, Deputy High Commissioner in Fine Chemicals Lagos, Nigeria and Commercial Counsellor in the British Embassy in J B Fowler Division Director Washington DC.
M J Roney B C Singelais President, Global Research Chemicals Age 56: appointed a non-executive director in June 2007.
Currently Chief Executive of Bunzl plc.
Joined Bunzl plc as a non-executive Corporate director in 2003.
Prior to becoming Chief Executive of Bunzl he was the P A Axworthy Group Director, Information Technology Chief Executive Officer of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV and had an extensive career with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co holding a S Farrant Group Legal Director and Company Secretary number of senior management positions with responsibilities in Latin P C Framp Director, Group Environment, Health and Safety and Human Resources America, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
A, M, N N P H Garner Group Director, Corporate and Strategic Development I D Godwin Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications 10.
D C Thompson V E Gough Group Reporting Controller Age 50: appointed a non-executive director in September 2007.
Currently Chief Executive of Drax Group plc.
Joined the board of Drax B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre Group plc as Chief Executive in 2005.
Prior to joining Drax she was S P Robinson Director of Tax head of the European business of the global power generation firm, J C E Tasker Group Treasurer InterGen.
First starting her career in banking she has had senior management roles in the UK, Asia and Africa.
L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA Executive Director, Environmental Technologies, age 56: joined Johnson Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having held a series of senior management positions within Catalysts Division in the US.
Appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003, Executive Director, Emission Control Technologies in July 2004 and to his current position in April 2009.
Currently a non-executive director of Victrex plc.
W F Sandford BA Executive Director, Precious Metal Products, age 57: joined Johnson Matthey in 1977: appointed Division Director, Precious Metal Products Committees of the Board A Audit Committee in 2001 after holding a series of senior management positions within M Management Development and Remuneration Committee the division.
Appointed Executive Director, Precious Metal Products in N Nomination Committee July 2009.
Johnson Matthey 57 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
