Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility continued Health and Safety Fatalities A safe operation is an efficient operation.
We continue to We are deeply saddened that 19 employees and five work hard to build a safety culture throughout our business, contractors lost their lives at our managed operations to improve operational and safety performance for the long in 2011.
Whilst this is an improvement on 27 employee term.
This is not easy in an industry that, in addition to and five contractor fatalities in 2010, one fatality is too common workplace hazards, involves heavy equipment, many.
We have restated our fatal accidents gure for explosives and hazardous chemicals often underground 2010 to include one fatality caused by a road accident and at extreme temperatures.
However, we rmly believe that occurred off site.
that our long-term goal of zero fatalities is achievable.
Of the five contractors who sadly died, three worked We maintain a position of zero tolerance to nonin the Mining Division and two at the Ekibastuz power compliance with our safety policies and standards and plant.
Details of actions taken in response are found in continue to promote our 10 key safety rules.
In addition, the section below under Contractor Safety.
in 2011 we established Five Steps Towards Safety.
These are simple steps each employee can personally take to The employee fatalities represent 0.19 fatal injuries per ensure the safety of their immediate workplace.
They are: million hours worked.
Rock falls were the most common cause of fatalities among employees, and led to eight t I understand my permit to work and all the hazards employee accidents in 2011.
It is essential to introduce involved in my work proper structural support immediately after excavation.
We invested heavily in new equipment for this purpose t My route to my workplace is safe in 2011, including nine roof-inspection trucks and 14 t All my tools and equipment are in good working order roof-bolting machines.
In addition, specialists from the Mining Division are taking part in scientific studies into t My workplace is safe rock mass management and subsidence due to mining, t I am aware of all work being carried out around with a view to developing safer and more efficient my workplace.
We carried out 1,850 internal site safety inspections in We have identied that the underlying cause of many 2011 and stopped operations on 266 occasions as a fatal accidents is failure to isolate and make safe an result of safety violations.
Most violations related to energy source before work starts.
By energy source, inadequate reinforcement for tunnel roofs and workings.
we mean any mechanical, chemical, thermal, electric, This year, one employee was dismissed and 638 were electromagnetic or other types of energy.
To prevent subject to disciplinary proceedings for violations found further incidents like this, we have introduced new during inspections.
standards and procedures for identifying energy sources and ensuring they are made safe before work begins.
We received 20 reports of concerns through our 24-hour We are also centralising the purchase of isolating anonymous phone line, compared with 21 in 2010.
The equipment to ensure new items are of the right quality majority of reports received did not relate to health and and specication, and are refreshing our training to safety and were sent to the relevant departments for ensure relevant employees understand how to use resolution.
Four reports did relate to health and safety.
These allegations related to ventilation on a specic level at a mine, contractor equipment that did not meet our We investigate every fatal incident and serious incident standards, penalties for health and safety violations, and and report findings to the GHSE Committee and Fatal an injury that actually occurred outside the workplace.
All Accident and Serious Incident Review Panel.
The four incidents were carefully investigated and actions investigation reports are sent to department heads taken in response.
and the HSE Committee chairman as soon as they are completed.
We continue to provide financial support After analysing the causes of fatalities and injuries, we to the families of the victims of fatal accidents.
have developed a more detailed set of 35 Group health and safety standards for the areas where most incidents Employee fatalities by cause in 2011 occur.
These include contact between moving equipment Rock fall 42% and pedestrians, working at height, isolation of energy sources, handling explosives and use of lifting Falling objects 5% equipment.
Some standards were introduced in 2011, Contact with 21% others will be implemented in 2012. machine parts Self-moving 16% equipment and pedestrians Electrocution 11% Exposure to 5% extreme temperatures Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 80 4 Incidents and injuries Safety training and communication In 2011, our employees experienced 155 lost time A safety culture relies on employees being aware of safe injuries LTI, a 6% increase on 2010.
An initial increase working practices and having the skills to apply them.
We in the frequency of LTIs, from 1.47% to 1.55 per million have created a dedicated HSE team within our training hours worked, is to be expected as we encourage and development department to ensure this is always the incident reporting as part of our drive to improve case.
In 2011, almost 26,000 employees of our Mining health and safety.
The main causes of LTIs were slips, and Power Divisions received an average 41 hours of trips and falls and rock falls.
health and safety training each.
The Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station experienced one LTI in 2011, compared to seven in 2010.
Though it is hard to pinpoint the precise root of this improvement, contributing factors are likely to include weekly meetings to discuss issues arising during audits and inspections, as Instilling safety know-how well as strict contractor management see below.
In 2010, we described our new bespoke health and safety training course, We are also implementing Emex incident management developed and delivered on our behalf by experts from DuPont, an software for our facilities.
The software will record all established safety leader.
incidents and corrective action taken centrally, and identify trends.
During 2011, we nished translating the DuPont has now run four training modules, one in each quarter of 2011 system into Russian.
We are now customising it to reect and each on a different safety topic: root cause analysis, risk assessment, our Group health and safety standards and regulatory behavioural auditing and safety leadership.
We piloted each module with requirements, and we are inputting historical data on senior Kazakhmys employees to ensure the training was effective before injuries and occupational diseases.
We will begin using running it in full.
The training took place at four sites: Balkhash, the East Region, Karaganda Our Zhezkazgan Complex has introduced a range of and Zhezkazgan.
Where possible, the workshops were delivered at measures to reduce safety incidents.
For example, in operational locations so exercises could take place in a real-life setting.
In December 2010 the region issued three safety tickets to total, 440 of our site managers and safety ofcers attended.
The DuPont each employee: green, yellow and red.
Employees lose team then trained a smaller group of 20 internal trainers to create the their green ticket for their first safety violation, and may in-house expertise to deliver the course to the next level of line also receive a financial penalty.
The yellow ticket is lost management.
To date, 1,839 line managers have been trained internally after the second violation, and the employee must retake and training will continue through 2012. the entire 40 hours of initial safety training.
After the third violation, employees lose their red ticket and usually their Training is just one important element of our efforts to instil a safety job.
In line with Group policy, employees will also be culture.
In the first quarter of 2012, DuPont began to review and upgrade dismissed at any time if they break one of our 10 key our corporate safety standards in line with international best practices.
They will help us to implement the revised standards to ensure they translate into a real reduction of risk to employees.
Later in 2012, DuPont Contractor safety representatives will provide more in-depth practical training to employees We select competent contractors using a matrix of safety in areas including safety audit and documentation.
This will help requirements, and record and investigate all fatalities employees to put into practice what they learned during DuPonts involving their employees.
We will terminate contracts classroom training.
with companies that fail to meet our safety standards.
We train site managers to reinforce their responsibility for managing contractors and, in 2011, two safety specialists from the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station received additional contractor management training.
The two contactor fatalities experienced at Ekibastuz GRES-1 this year are particularly disappointing.
Both affected parties worked for subcontractors to companies we directly employ, and these are often small rms with few resources for safety training and implementation.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 responded by introducing stricter contractor management.
Examples include increased supervision for contractors working at night, and meeting with a contractors entire team to discuss safety violations, rather than just the individual involved.
There have been no fatalities at the power plant since these new controls were introduced.
com 81 Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility continued Safety training takes place in classrooms on-site at our Long-term goal mines or at our technical colleges in Balkhash and Zero fatalities Satpayev.
New employees receive 40 hours of detailed training tailored for each profession, and all employees 2012 target attend an annual health and safety refresher course.
20% reduction in total safety incidents including fatalities, serious and minor injuries and micro traumas We have completed delivery of our new internal safety from 2011, from 252 to 202. qualication, and in 2012 we will focus on rolling out the training to the next level of line management.
There is Employees more information in the case study on page 81.
Examples Investing in our people is essential for growth.
We aim of safety communications during the year include to create a competitive advantage by maintaining a distributing printed booklets on our 10 key safety rules skilled, committed and well-motivated workforce.
This and five steps towards safety, specic to employees and involves human resources HR processes that directly contractors at the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station.
improve business, such as training, development and performance management, as well as practices which Occupational health support our business by improving employees We continue to offer occupational and general health experience of work, and therefore their loyalty and services to employees, contractors, their families and productivity.
These include treating employees with communities.
In 2011, we restructured our medical respect and providing good working conditions, facilities to increase efficiency and began to upgrade work-life balance and security of employment.
We now operate 42 medical facilities, including a major medical centre at Zhezkazgan and In 2011, we reorganised our HR department to provide 38 smaller medical stations across our operations.
clear leadership and accountability for each process: Operational HR, Support Services, Organisational We monitor occupational health risks including noise, Effectiveness, Recruitment, Pay and Benets, and Training vibration, temperature, lighting and radiation at all and Development.
Each of these six functions now has a production sites.
All employees receive medical dedicated manager who reports to the Group HR Director.
examinations when hired and then on an annual basis.
This senior team leads a 550-strong department tasked This is to prevent occupational diseases and to detect with ensuring our HR practices meet global standards.
and treat those that occur at an early stage.
We closely This will ensure we are better placed to deliver the monitor employees whose work exposes them to Groups long-term goals efficiently and at the right cost.
health risks such as dust-induced lung disease and hand-arm vibration syndrome, and those at high risk We have also reviewed our policies and procedures for of circulatory disorders.
each HR function, and will roll out a full suite of new or revised Group HR policies in 2012.
In 2011, the number of new occupational health cases Employees by division reported in the Mining Division was 347, a rate of 3.84 per million hours worked and an increase from 202 cases Production 53% in 2010.
Last years gure has been restated from 127 to show the total number of cases rather than number of Maintenance 30% and services people affected.
The increase in new cases in 2011 is aresult of improved diagnosis.
The most common Construction 4% work-related illnesses included bronchitis, silicosis, hearing loss and lower-back pain.
We pay 80-90% Administration 13% and other of the cost of rehabilitation for employees with occupational diseases.
Progress on 2011 commitment Our 2011 commitment was to deliver our new internal safety qualication to all site managers and health and safety ofcers.
In total, 440 site managers and safety ofcers attended our bespoke training workshops, representing a large proportion of the total but not 100%.
The DuPont team also trained 20 internal trainers, who have already delivered the course to 1,839 additional employees at the next level of line management.
This training will continue in 2012.
A case study with further details is set out on page 81.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 82 4 Code of conduct Behaving responsibly and with integrity towards each Investing in future leaders other, our customers, regulators, contractors and suppliers is essential.
One HR priority is to introduce Our new High Potential programme is identifying and shaping future a business code of conduct to describe the behaviour leaders throughout our business to ensure they are encouraged to we expect from everyone who works for Kazakhmys.
continue their careers at Kazakhmys.
This activity will strengthen our compliance with the UK Bribery Act 2010.
In 2011, we began by selecting 2,000 promising employees from across our workforce to undergo aptitude testing for the programme.
An external Our policies on bribery and anti-corruption are available supplier carried out the testing to ensure it was done fairly and objectively.
As a next step, we are improving the We used the results to select 331 employees with the potential to help lead training we provide to all directors and senior managers on our business in the future.
All employees at our London ofce plus key executives in Kazakhstan received anti-corruption training The next phase will narrow the eld to 100 employees.
They are required to pass on their knowledge to shortlisted employees will be interviewed by a functional director, each relevant employees under their management.
Our next of whom will select the best candidates for the final list.
Those with High step will be to develop a written code of conduct.
Potential will then receive the training needed to ensure they are suitable successors for key management roles.
Training will range from Masters Training and development degrees to visits to leading companies and best-in-class mines around the We invest heavily in training and education for all world.
The 231 employees who do not make the final list will continue to employees to support our growth and achieve our benefit from our talent management programme.
goals, and so our people can develop rewarding careers with us.
Our Mining Division has an annual plan that Though still in development, we intend to continue the Top 100 identies priority areas for training and allocates its training programme in some form each year.
We provide higher education as well as classroom and operational training in mining subjects on-site and at our technical colleges in Satpayev and Balkhash.
In 2011, the Kazakhstan government recognised our investment in our technical colleges by naming Kazakhmys the best private partner for technical and vocational education.
This honour recognises not only our financial investment - Kazakhmys is the countrys largest private investor in education but also our involvement in setting the curriculum and provision of guest lecturers and practical training at our sites.
In 2011, we invested $2.2 million in operational, health and safety training, or retraining in a new speciality.
In addition, the Mining Division continues to sponsor part-time study in subjects of high importance to the business for 200 promising employees aged up to 35 years, and a total of 650 employees remain in further or higher education at our technical colleges or external colleges and universities.
We continue to invest in the next generation of company leaders, to provide internal candidates for promotion and development when senior positions become available.
A case study setting out more details is shown opposite.
We also invest in training for potential new employees in our priority professions.
In 2011, Kazakhmys sponsored more than 1,000 school leavers to continue their studies at universities, institutes and colleges in Kazakhstan and abroad.
We employed 76 Kazakhmys-sponsored university and college graduates and 122 graduates of our own technical colleges, on the condition that they will work for Kazakhmys for four-to-five years.
We also sponsored 17 graduates in geology or mining from Karaganda technical university to study an 18-month geo-technical Masters degree on a similar basis.
com 83 Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility continued Pay and benets Consultation and communication Fair and competitive remuneration is essential for We aim to involve employees in decisions that may affect attracting and retaining a talented workforce.
Our them and to keep them well informed about business performance management system ensures we judge strategy and performance.
These efforts are important employees performance objectively against set criteria, for retaining and motivating our workforce.
In 2011, we and reward them appropriately.
recruited an HR communications specialist to work closely with the Corporate Communications department Remuneration can also incentivise good health, safety on improving the way we engage with employees.
Since January 2012, 50% Current internal communications include team meetings, of the monthly bonuses for all operational employees emails, and a Group-wide newspaper and intranet site.
are dependent on achieving health and safety performance targets.
The remaining 50% is based on The vast majority 97% of our employees in Kazakhstan production targets.
In the first quarter of 2012, we plan are represented by trade unions, which negotiate collective to introduce an additional 5% bonus for employees employment agreements.
In 2011, the trade union maintaining a clean safety record each month.
Bonuses representing employees in Kazakhstan engaged with for divisional heads are in part based on compliance with management on issues including health and safety, Government-set environmental targets and the amount employee remuneration and collective agreements.
The of environmental fines incurred.
union held 1,516 meetings during the year.
Our Youth Union has over 20,000 members and is open to most employees Kazakhmys contributes to dened contribution pension within the Mining Division and staff working within the schemes in Kazakhstan in line with legal requirements, as captive power stations under the age of 35. well as in the UK.
We describe our share plans for senior executives on page 115.
Progress on 2011 commitment We committed to introducing standardised HR The Mining Division provides medical services for management systems and policies across the Group most employees and retirees at significant discount.
Though we did not meet this target, we did In addition, employees and retirees unable to pay develop a new suite of HR policies in 2011, and these their medical costs can apply for funding to cover will be rolled out in 2012.
We also committed to assisting their treatment at medical institutions in Kazakhstan in the further development of health and safety training, and abroad.
In 2011, a total of 6,666 employees and 88 and in 2011 achieved this commitment by introducing retirees received treatment through these two options.
a dedicated health and safety team within our training and development department.
To date, the Mining Division has also funded leisure facilities, which 3,692 employees, 510 retirees and 259 2012 targets relatives used this year.
Over 3,300 of our employees t To strengthen our bribery and anti-corruption training children spent their holidays at our summer camps.
and introduce a written code of conduct Where appropriate, we plan to transfer ownership and or t To identify the High Potential future leaders so maintenance of these facilities to local authorities or we can strengthen our business by lling future private contractors.
This will reduce our costs and enable management positions internally us to focus on our core business.
Environment Equality and diversity Mining has substantial environmental impacts, which we We want our workforce to reect the local population must manage carefully during exploration and project and to benefit from the variety of skills and experience development, throughout operations, and after site within it.
We recruit, develop, train and reward closure.
This means using natural resources such as employees based on merit, and support the energy and water efficiently: reducing greenhouse gas employment of disabled people with appropriate emissions, waste, and emissions to air, land and water: skills, provided our working environment can safely and managing our land to protect local biodiversity.
Environmental investment and compliance Women can be hard to attract to mining careers so we We spent a total $83 million on environmental are proud that around 34% of employees are female.
improvements in 2011, $35 million in the Mining Division More specifically, 63% of our engineers and technical and $48 million in the Power Division.
Examples of personnel and 21% of managers are women.
major capital expenditure include installing electrostatic precipitators and reconstructing an ash-handling system The Group employs a small number of foreign nationals at the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station and continuing to in Kazakhstan, generally to address skill shortages in the install emulsiers to remove air emissions from our short term, or where those individuals are particularly captive power stations.
Capital expenditure in our Mining experienced.
Our employee training and leadership Division included repairs to ventilation units, reclaiming development programmes aim to build knowledge and tailings dams, introducing wastewater treatment facilities, skills among existing employees, to benefit the local and repairing a recycled water system to ensure an workforce and reduce dependence on expat labour.
At the end of 2011, 98% of Kazakhmys managers in Kazakhstan were Kazakhstani citizens.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 84 4 In 2011, there were 341 environmental site inspections Emissions to air to monitor our performance and identify improvements.
Copper smelting produces substantial amounts of Of these, 284 were within the Mining Division and 57 sulphur dioxide SO which, if released, reduces air 2 in the Power Division: 228 were internal audits and quality and aggravates breathing difficulties.
Other 113 were conducted by Government inspectors or emissions include nitrogen oxides NO, arsenic, x regulatory bodies.
Of the external inspections that took place, 84 were We maintain low levels of SO by transforming the 2 planned and 29 were unannounced.
Government emissions into sulphuric acid at a production plant near inspectors and regulators identied 205 improvement our Balkhash smelter.
In 2011, the plant experienced measures during their visits, 175 within the Mining less maintenance downtime than the previous year, and Division and 30 at the Power Division.
Of these, 124 increased production to 913,524 tonnes of sulphuric acid have been implemented and the remaining 81 are in compared with 826,695 tonnes in 2010.
This accounts for progress to be completed by the agreed deadline.
87% of the SO emissions produced at the complex.
2 Measures included replacing worn seals on a ue track and installing ventilation equipment at a truckOur Mining Division created 122,487 tonnes of SO in 2 servicing station.
total in 2011, which equates to 0.41 tonnes of SO per 2 tonne of copper cathode.
However, the 2010 data Internal inspections identied 802 improvement includes our captive power stations, which are now measures, all of which will be implemented and 578 of reported as part of the Power Division.
Comparing which are already complete.
These measures mostly like-with-like with 164,550 tonnes in 2010, our Mining involved removing waste from sites and replacing pipes.
Division and captive power plants together emitted 172,390 tonnes of SO this year, an increase of 4.8%.
2 Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions The increase partly reects the inclusion of data from We are both a major producer and user of energy.
We our Gold business for the first time, although we also create greenhouse gas GHG emissions through coal processed material with a higher sulphur content at combustion in our power stations, plus processes at our the Balkhash smelter.
copper mines and production facilities.
National and international policies and measures for tackling climate change will increasingly affect our coal mining and power Preparing for regulatory change generation businesses, presenting regulatory, financial and reputational risks.
In particular, the Government is We are developing a Group-wide energy efficiency programme to reduce implementing a domestic emission trading scheme to costs and greenhouse gas GHG emissions from our operations, and to reduce GHG emissions see the case study opposite prepare for the forthcoming Kazakhstan emissions trading scheme.
The Government is implementing a domestic emissions trading scheme In 2011, total energy use for the Group was 6,817 GWh.
to reduce GHG emissions, based on the cap-and-trade system used in The Mining Division used 5,218 GWh compared with the European Union.
Carbon allocations are expected to become effective 5,833 GWh in 2010, which equates to 0.02 GWh per on 1 January 2013. tonne of copper cathode produced, the same as in 2010.
This reduction reects the fact that we now report data In response, our captive power plants, smelters and transport operations for the captive power plants within the Power Division.
are developing site-specic three-year energy efficiency and GHG emission Of the energy used, 76% was electricity and 24% was reduction plans.
We have commissioned an external energy management thermal power.
Our Power Division used 1,599 GWh consultant to help us identify opportunities for reductions.
The plans will of energy of which 94% was electricity and 6% was be nalised by the end of 2012 and implementation will begin early in 2013. thermal power.
All plans will include annual emission reduction targets for 2013 to 2015.
Our Power Division generated an additional 17,015 GWh of energy for sale to third parties: 12,697 GWh of electricity at Ekibastuz GRES-1 and 4,318 GWh of electricity and thermal power at captive power plants.
The Mining Division produced 2.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e in 2011.
This includes 2 emissions from power supplied to communities and so is not solely connected to copper production.
The Power Division produced 21.4 million tonnes of CO e during the 2 year, bringing the Group total to 24.2 million tonnes slightly less than 24.4 million tonnes produced in 2010.
The electrostatic precipitators being tted at Ekibastuz GRES-1 will increase production efficiency, reducing the amount of coal required per unit of energy produced and therefore the associated GHG emissions.
We expect to see emissions fall as the remaining six precipitators are tted by the end of 2016. www.
com 85 Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility continued The Mining Division produced 1,390 tonnes of NO Of the water withdrawn, almost 95% was non-potable x emissions in 2011, or 15,363 tonnes when including and did not affect local drinking water supplies.
In captive power plants for comparison with 2010.
This is addition, our operations stored and recycled a total an increase of 9% from 14,049 tonnes in 2010, again in 1,848,006 megalitres of water.
part due to the inclusion of the Gold business and partly because of the quality of coal used by our captive All sites carefully control the quality of water they power plants.
discharge to avoid polluting local water sources and our emissions to water are generally far below permitted Ash emissions from captive power plants have reduced levels.
Our Mining and Power Divisions discharged following the installation of battery emulsiers at power 730 million cubic metres of wastewater in 2011 Mining plants in Zhezkazgan, and at Ekibastuz due to the Division: 4 million cubic metres: Power Division: commissioning of an electrostatic precipitator in 2010.
This water is discharged The second precipitator was launched in December 2011 directly into water or land courses after treatment or, and will lead to similar emissions reductions.
We plan where necessary, contained in secure evaporation ponds.
to launch another six precipitators.
In 2016, when all The water treatment system installed in the East Region eight are in place, we anticipate a vefold reduction in 2010 became operational this year, removing 99.9% of in total ash emissions.
trace copper, 98.7% of cadmium and 98.0% of iron from the Regions wastewater.
There are no discharges from In total, our Power Division produced a total 141,304 the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station as all process water tonnes of ash emissions this year captive power plants: is reused.
76,279 tonnes: Ekibastuz power plant: 65,025 tonnes.
In 2010, we experienced two water contamination Water use and emissions incidents.
The first occurred when a dam on a sludge Water supplies can come under pressure as populations reservoir broke at our Irtysh mine in the East Region, grow and industrialise.
Mining and power generation use releasing 12,000 cubic metres of wastewater into the large volumes of water for cooling plant and equipment, Bezymyanny stream.
The dam was fully rebuilt within two and this is sometimes withdrawn from the same supply months, and our internal investigation found that the used by local communities.
The water is recycled many incident was caused by excess melt water following heavy times and topped up from the local supply only as snowfall the previous winter.
We have agreed an action itevaporates.
plan with the local authority that includes inspecting all sludge reservoirs daily during ood season, the design of Kazakhstan does not generally suffer water shortages, a new sludge reservoir and the construction of a ditch though in remote areas where water treatment systems around the reservoir to capture oodwater.
are limited, potable water is still scarce.
In addition, some areas including Zhezkazgan suffer drought in the dry The second incident was caused by a bulldozer damaging season, and the local authority may reduce a facilitys a storm drain and causing 97,000 cubic metres of withdrawal limit if this is the case.
For these reasons, wastewater to spill into Lake Balkhash.
Kazakhmys paid water efficiency is critical to the long-term viability of damages of more than $40,000 and has erected additional these operations.
hazard warning signs in the area.
In 2011, we experienced a separate incident in which untreated water leaked from Water use is overseen at Group level but managed at site the Balkash smelter into the power plants reservoir, from level, as it is a local issue.
Typical site action plans include where it was discharged into Lake Balkhash.
Kazakhmys repairs to plant and pipes to meet the requirements of paid around $60,000 in fines and damages and will water permits issued by the local authority.
Where reconstruct the storm water collection and diversion possible, we avoid using the communitys water supply.
system to prevent future incidents.
The system has been For example, our operations in Zhezkazgan no longer designed and has received the necessary permits.
take water for cooling from the Kengir River which Reconstruction of the storm water drainage pump station supplies the local community, and instead uses a separate and sewer will be completed in 2012. reservoir not used for drinking water.
Land management We are restating our water consumption for 2010 as it We recognise the need to minimise land disturbance and was incomplete, and also to include new withdrawals protect biodiversity throughout the life of our operations.
We now exclude recycled water that may have Permits for projects and operations require us to carry passed through the production cycle several times during out environmental impact assessments before work takes the year.
On this basis, our Mining Division and Ekibastuz place, and legislation requires us to rehabilitate sites that GRES-1 power station used 882,549 megalitres in 2010.
2011, total water consumption at our Mining and Power Divisions was 928,186 megalitres, an increase of 5%.
This Our operations use overburden, ash and slag to backll reects the inclusion of the Gold business in the Mining mines and restore landscapes, and plant greenery on and Division gures, plus increased water use for cooling around their sites.
The Mining Division sets aside funds during this years hot summer.
In addition, we have for site restoration as a condition of its contracts and installed water meters at captive power plants which subsoil licences, which totalled $54 million at the end of enable us to more accurately measure our usage.
2011 compared with $49 million as at 31 December 2010.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 86 4 Waste Communities Waste reduction and recycling is becoming increasingly Our operations create employment, do business with important as regulatory requirements increase.
The local suppliers and invest in local infrastructure.
Many Government is introducing new legislation aimed at are in remote areas and the local communities only reducing waste and restricting where it can be disposed.
exist because of our presence.
We want to support This legislation will apply to all types of mining waste, these communities to become sustainable, by fostering including waste rock and overburden from mining and economic development and ensuring local people tailings and slag from smelting.
and rms benefit from, but do not rely on our business.
In addition, we aim to minimise any disturbance our We will prepare an action plan when the exact operations cause, such as increased noise, dust, trafc requirements are clear, and this is likely to include greater and competition for resources.
reuse of overburden for backlling and landscaping.
We store tailings in special dams to prevent leaching into the Kazakhmys is one of the largest employers and taxpayers soil and water sources, and are exploring technologies in Kazakhstan, and our revenue represents approximately for extracting any residual minerals, which could be sold 2% of the countrys gross domestic product.
In 2011 we to create an additional income stream.
Our power plants paid over $780 million in taxes in Kazakhstan.
A table create solid wastes such as y ash and slag.
Other wastes providing a full breakdown of taxes paid is available created by our operations include sludge from our on page 71.
The majority of our 60,819 employees are wastewater treatment facilities, slime from our sulphuric Kazakhstani citizens whose income taxes and spending acid plant and general waste.
contribute to the countrys economic growth.
In 2011, our Mining and Power Divisions generated Community consultation 119 million tonnes of waste, compared with 108 million In Kazakhstan, consultation about operational activities tonnes in 2010.
This 10% increase reects the inclusion that may affect a community takes place through the of the Gold business in the Mining Division gures, extra local authority.
Our subsoil licences also require us overburden produced during stripping works that took to involve local residents in the development of place at our copper and coal mines and additional new operations.
tailings from processing increased ore output.
Local and regional ofcials are involved in identifying We recycled 36% of our waste this year, and continue to the projects that benefit from social investment under our seek further opportunities for reuse.
For example, the licence agreements, to ensure they address local priorities Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station is exploring the possibility see the section below under Social Investment.
of selling ash-slag waste for use as a raw material in construction materials.
We have carried out chemical Economic development analysis of our ash which confirmed it is suitable for this Economic development in the communities surrounding purpose.
Selling the ash for use in construction materials our operations is essential if they are to continue to thrive would reduce our waste and the related storage and when mining operations eventually cease.
We have installed ash-extracting equipment to support Made in KZ, a Government programme that on our electrostatic precipitators and are now analysing boosts small and medium-sized Kazakhstani companies demand.
The installation of each new precipitator will by certifying that their products, or a proportion of them, increase the amount of ash available for sale.
were produced in the country.
Progress on 2011 commitment Our local sourcing unit assesses local companies ability We committed to install and launch the second to supply us and helps them meet our requirements.
It electrostatic precipitator at the Ekibastuz GRES-1 then recommends successful suppliers to our centralised power station in 2011, and this has been achieved.
At the end of 2011, 59 out of 311 companies on our trusted supplier list were 2012 targets Kazakhstani.
The unit visited more than 60 Kazakhstani t To reduce ash emissions from the Ekibastuz GRES-1 companies during the year to assess opportunities to work power station by 7.5%, from 65,025 tonnes in 2011 together, and we are now doing business with 27 of them.
We measure the amount we spend on goods and services, t To implement an energy management system including those produced in Kazakhstan by Kazakhstani at all captive power stations.
companies, both voluntarily and under licence.
In 2011, t To nalise energy efficiency and greenhouse gas our Mining and Power Divisions spent $785 million on reduction plans and targets for all captive power locally made goods.
This represents around 50% of stations, smelters and transport operations.
combined spending on goods and services.
com 87 Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility continued We directly finance capacity-building projects for a small number of suppliers by providing interest-free loans.
In Fostering local economic development 2011, we continued to support three companies which received loans the previous year, and made one further New organisations in two of our main operational regions are helping loan.
The three companies nanced in 2010 have used local companies to join forces.
the funds to upgrade equipment and start new product lines not previously available in Kazakhstan.
The fourth In 2011, Kazakhmys led the creation of two supplier associations for small loan of $800,000 will enable the Pavlodar Welding and medium-sized companies, to help them develop the quality and skills Company to upgrade its production systems and achieve needed to do business with Kazakhmys.
The first association, in Balkhash, the output and quality needed to supply Kazakhmys in represents 44 companies with over 3,100 employees.
Zhezkazgan, has 52 members with more than 1,800 employees.
Some companies were already suppliers, and others were seeking our business Disappointingly, there has been no demand for the for the first time.
longer-term loans made available in 2010 through a memorandum of understanding between Kazakhmys and During the year, we signed contracts with members of the two associations the Kazakhstan Development Bank.
A similar initiative for worth $2.7 million.
Some of the suppliers are social enterprises, such as an larger loans that we had hoped to launch in 2011 is on hold.
overall supplier that employs visually impaired people, and an equipment rm whose staff include prisoners.
Kazakhmys provides financial support and We invest in several joint ventures to create local supplies advice to member companies, and encourages them to do business with where none currently exist.
One example is KazBelAZ in each other to expand their customer base.
For example, we provided over Karaganda, a joint venture with a Belarussian truck $27,000 for repairs to one companys premises, which another member company which we manage and have a 51% stake in.
KazBelAZ began producing spare parts for trucks in 2011, and plans to scale up to full truck assembly are on schedule for 2014.
The MyShina tyre recycling plant we set up in Zhezkazgan increased production by 58% in 2011, retreading 950 tyres compared with 600 in 2010.
The plant aims to retread 1,300 tyres during 2012.
Social investment Our Mining Division invests heavily in the construction and maintenance of schools, hospitals, cultural and sports facilities, as well as the development of infrastructure surrounding our operations.
Some of this investment is voluntary, some is done within agreements signed with regional authorities, and some is required by our subsoil licences, which all include some social provision.
Projects to be nanced under licence agreements are selected by local and regional ofcials to ensure they address the areas priorities.
Requests for voluntary donations are assessed against how closely they relate to our operations, to ensure our investment benets our business and employees as well as communities.
We own a large number of social facilities that the Group inherited along with its operations.
Where appropriate, we plan to transfer some into the beneficial ownership of local authorities and to sell others to third parties.
This will reduce our costs and enable us to concentrate our investment on the growth of our business for the long-term benefit of our shareholders, employees and local communities.
We will provide support for affected employees at these facilities, and seek alternative employment for them elsewhere where possible.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 88 4 In 2011, the Mining Division invested $79 million December 2011 marked the 20th anniversary of in education, sports and culture, infrastructure, and independence in Kazakhstan and much of our social sponsorship and charitable donations both voluntarily investment this year contributed to the celebration, and under licences and agreements.
The social spending though the facilities we funded will be available for excludes social contributions of $4 million to employees communities to enjoy for years to come.
For example, and takes into account medical and social support as part of our licence agreement in Karaganda we contributions of $5 million made to communities.
funded $24 million towards the construction of a tennis centre and an ice rink that was opened by the President Breakdown of social investment under licences of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
We also funded and agreements, by category three monuments to local historical gures and an obelisk in the city centre.
Sponsorship 57% 1 and donations The $3 million reconstruction of a kindergarten in Sports and culture 24% Zhezkazgan is now complete, providing day care for 255 children.
In addition to well-equipped classrooms, Education 12% the kindergarten has a swimming pool, gym, dance and arts studios, as well as medical facilities including a Infrastructure 5% speech therapist and psychologist.
Kazakhmys has built Public health 2% and maintained 37 kindergartens in total, attended by Total 100% around 5,700 children.
Roughly 85% are the children of Kazakhmys employees.
In 2011, we funded repairs at most of these kindergartens.
We began building a new 1 Includes $2 million spent on social activities for employees kindergarten in Kunayev village near our Shatyrkul mine at a cost of over $1 million.
The kindergarten will take Sponsorship and charitable donations was the largest 100 pupils and be completed by the end of 2012. category of social investment in 2011.
We support public funds and organisations that help disadvantaged groups Progress against 2011 commitment and the environment.
For example, we have donated In the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts we committed more than $300,000 to an environmental fund in to launching a new Social Fund to manage our investment Ust-Kamenogorsk in the East Region to help combat the in social projects that are additional to the requirements towns air pollution problem.
The money contributed to of licences and regional agreements.
We have instead the cost of a $900,000 automated air and water-quality chosen to create a non-commercial nancing department monitoring system which will be used to identify the that manages spending under licence and regional source of pollution and identify appropriate remedial agreements and our voluntary spending, to maintain an action.
Our donations in 2011 also included over $1 million overview of our social investment and ensure it is effective.
aid to Akzhayk Charitable Fund for the victims of spring oods in west Kazakhstan.
The money contributed to the 2012 targets t To complete construction of a hockey rink reconstruction of housing for people in affected areas.
in Ust-Kamenogorsk We invest in infrastructure, cultural and sporting activities t To complete construction of a kindergarten to create thriving communities in the remote areas where in south Kazakhstan we operate.
For example, this year we began rebuilding t To nish rebuilding a community centre in Zhezkent a community centre in Zhezkent, where local people hold concerts, meetings and training courses.
Work is due for t To complete the redevelopment of amenities completion in 2012.
We also built an indoor hockey rink in Satpayev and a park in Balkhash in Ust-Kamenogorsk with a capacity for 400 spectators, and construction of a second rink to be completed in the first quarter of 2012 continues, at a cost of nearly $4 million.
Both facilities will belong to nearby secondary schools, and will also be available for students from other local schools.
com 89 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework The Company has reviewed the New Code during the year and taken the opportunity to review its Board Committed to practices and governance procedures to assess how best it can comply with all of the recommendations to ensure the continued successful operation of the Groups high standards of business.
During the year, the terms of reference of the Board and its committees, and a number of other corporate governance policies and procedures were reviewed and updated to ensure they fully re ect the principles and comply with the provisions of the New Code, and to meet best practice.
All these policies and procedures were brought together into a single document entitled Group Policy Guidelines on Corporate Governance with the aim of better promoting a culture of pragmatic corporate governance through raising awareness of the policies and procedures amongst senior management.
The Companys policies on corporate direction and control ensure that the Company applies all of the principles of good governance contained in the New Code to the organisational structure it has adopted toconduct its business, its remuneration policy, its The Board is committed to high standards relations with its shareholders, and the procedures of corporate governance in its management of adhered to in its financial reporting, internal control the affairs of the Group and in its accountability .
It is the responsibility of the Board to demonstrate leadership and This years Governance Framework report explains in detail how the Company has applied the principles and effectiveness and be accountable to its complied with the provisions of the New Code, and also shareholders and other stakeholders.
provides further details of the matters the Board and its committees considered during the financial year.
The last few years have seen a number of reviews and However, I would like to draw your particular attention consultations aimed at examining and improving tosome speci c points.
corporate governance arrangements, predominantly in the light of the recent global financial crisis.
Following Board role and effectiveness itsreview of the Combined Code in 2009, the Financial The core purpose of the Board is to create and deliver Reporting Council FRC published the UK Corporate the long-term success of the Company and long-term Governance Code the New Code in June 2010 which returns for shareholders.
This requires the Board to set superseded the Combined Code and applied to the Companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary companies with a premium listing on the London Stock financial and human resources are in place to achieve the Exchange with accounting periods beginning on or after Companys objectives, review management performance 29 June 2010, which for Kazakhmys is this financial year in delivering against strategy and set the Companys risk ended 31 December 2011. appetite.
The Board needs to ensure that the risk management measures and internal controls that are putin place are appropriate and effective.
Finally, the Board must remain aware of its obligations to the Companys shareholders and other stakeholders and respond to their needs with transparent reporting and activeengagement.
The role of the Chairman in determining the effectiveness of the Board is vital.
The Chairman continues to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the Board, while ensuring that sound effective corporate governance practices are embedded in the organisation and its decision-making processes.
He sets the Boards focus and establishes an environment of collaborative, but robust discussions, encouraging challenge and contributions from all Directors.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 90 5 Board evaluation and Director re-election Shareholder engagement We welcome the recommendation in the New Code Engaging with shareholders is one of the key aspects of that externally facilitated performance evaluations of the corporate governance.
During the year the Chairman, Board, its committees and its individual Directors should Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and I, supported be undertaken every three years as this is consistent by the Groups corporate communications team, have with the approach currently adopted by the Company.
regularly met with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Furthermore, as recommended by the New Code, all The Board also received regular reports from the directors will be submitted for re-election on an annual corporate communications department on its activities basis, subject to continued satisfactory performance, and, in particular, on shareholder sentiment and commencing from the Companys Annual General feedback.
The Board continues to believe that ongoing Meeting in 2012. engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders isvital to ensuring their views and perspectives are fully Diversity understood.
This will remain a key focus for the Board Following the publication of the Davies Report on the in2012.
representation of women on plc boards, our Nomination Committee discussed its recommendations.
The At the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012 all Company always takes account of diversity when Directors who are able to attend will be available, as recruiting, including when we consider our Board usual, to meet with shareholders after the meeting to appointments, and will continue to do so in the future.
discuss any issues they may have.
I encourage as many However, whilst we see a significant business benefit shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General inhaving a Board drawn from a diverse range of Meeting on 11 May 2012. backgrounds who bring the required expertise, cultural diversity and different perspectives to Board discussions, Philip Aiken we do not believe this is achieved through simple quotas, Senior Independent Director whether it be gender or otherwise, and will continue to appoint candidates based on merit and relevant experience in accordance with the requirements of Directors experience backgrounds the New Code.
Metals and mining 78% The Board recognises the need to create the conditions that foster talent and encourage more women to achieve Power 11% their full potential in their careers in the Company.
Oil and gas 44% Aspart of our overall approach to human resource management we encourage employee diversity and aim Finance 67% to ensure that Kazakhmys future senior leadership team reects the demographics of the countries in which we operate, its customers, suppliers, investors and the general employee base.
The Board consists of Directors of different ages with Directors nationality awide range of skills and business experience from a Kazakhstani 4 number of industries, which is critical for bringing both the expertise required, and to enable different British 3 perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
Australian 2 Furthermore, the Board comprises a range of nationalities, which brings cultural diversity as well asdifferent geographical experiences and viewpoints.
The combination of these factors means that the Board benets from a diverse range of competencies, perspectives and thoughts, avoids group think and provides a dynamic environment for decision making.
Length of Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the composition of the Board, its committees and the 0-2 years 1 succession planning of the non-executive Directors in 3-4 years 3 respect of knowledge and experience, general diversity and key skills and experience.
com 91 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued Board of Directors Vladimir Kim Oleg Novachuk Eduard Ogay Chairman Chief Executive Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2005 Appointed to the Board: 2005 Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: Kazakhstani Nationality: Kazakhstani Nationality: Kazakhstani Skills and experience: Vladimir Kim joined Skills and experience: Oleg Novachuk joined the Skills and experience: Eduard Ogay was appointed the Group in 1995, when he was appointed Group in 2001 and was appointed Chief Executive as an executive Director in May 2011, having joined managing director and chief executive of cer in 2007, having been Finance Director since 2005. the Group in 2001 as director of marketing and of Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC and was elected He was formerly vice president of financial projects international relations, becoming director of chairman of the board of directors of that company for Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and the financial corporate development in 2005.
He was appointed in December 2000.
He was appointed Chairman adviser to the president of Kazakhmys Corporation Chief Executive Of cer of Kazakhmys Corporation of the Company in 2005 prior to its listing on LLC, and chairman of the board of directors of LLC, the Groups principal subsidiary, in 2006, the London Stock Exchange.
Age 41. aposition he continues to retain.
Age 42. knowledge of the mining industry, a thorough working knowledge of the CIS and an exemplary understanding of the political and regulatory environment in Kazakhstan, Vladimir Kim brings extensive Kazakh mining experience and effective Board management skills.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Philip Aiken Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2005 Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board: 2006 Nationality: British Nationality: Australian Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has had a diplomatic career spanning over 30 years, including Skills and experience: Philip Aiken has extensive serving as British Ambassador to the United States global experience in the engineering and energy and to South Africa.
He was formerly group president of BHP director of BHP Billiton plc, SABMiller plc, British Billitons energy business, an executive director of Airways plc, Liberty International plc, Fluor BTR plc, held a number of senior positions in BOC Corporation and Harmony Gold Mining Company Group plc and was a senior advisor to Macquarie Limited.
Lord Renwicks diplomatic, financial and Capital Europe Limited.
Age 63. mining experience make him a valuable contributor Other appointments: Chairman of Robert Walters to the Board.
Age 74. plc and a non-executive director of National Other appointments: Deputy chairman of Fleming Grid PLC, Miclyn Express Offshore Limited Family & Partners Limited and a non-executive and Essar Energy plc.
director of Compagnie Financire Richemont SA Committee memberships: Chairman of and Bumi plc.
He is also vice chairman, Investment Group Health, Safety and Environment Banking of J. P. Morgan Europe and vice chairman Committee and a member of the Nomination of J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 92 5 Simon Heale Daulet Yergozhin Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2007 Appointed to the Board: 2008 Nationality: British Nationality: Kazakhstani Skills and experience: Simon Heale has signi cant Skills and experience: Daulet Yergozhin has been global marketing and business operations and vice finance minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan management experience having been chief since February 2012, having been previously operating of cer of Jardine Fleming Limited, deputy chairman of the tax committee of the Ministry managing director of Cathay Paci c Airways and of Finance and having held a number of other chief executive of The London Metal Exchange.
Prior to his has also been a non-executive director and chairman governmental appointments, he gained of Panmure Gordon & Co plc.
Age 58. considerable exposure to the oil and gas sectors becoming deputy director of the North-Caspian Other appointments: Non-executive director of project department of JSC NC KazMunaiGas The Morgan Crucible Company plc, Coats plc, before moving to a deputy director general role Marex Spectron Group Limited and PZ Cussons plc.
inJSC Offshore Oil Company KazMunayTeniz, He is also a trustee and treasurer of Macmillan asubsidiary of JSC KazMunaiGas.
He also previously Cancer Support.
worked for KazTransOil JSC and has been a Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit non-executive director of ENRC PLC.
Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Clinton Dines Charles Watson Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2011 Nationality: Australian Nationality: British Skills and experience: Clinton Dines has been Skills and experience: Charles Watson has an involved in business in China since 1980, including extensive background in both operational senior positions with the Jardine Matheson Group, management and major project delivery, having Santa Fe Transport Group and Asia Securities spent 29 years at Shell.
During his time at Shell Venture Capital.
In 1988, he joined BHP as their heheld a number of senior executive positions senior executive in China and, following the merger throughout the world, culminating in his of BHP and Billiton in 2001, became president, BHP appointment as executive vice president covering Billiton China, a position from which he retired in Russia and the CIS, including oversight of Shells 2009 prior to joining Kazakhmys.
He brings activities in Kazakhstan, chairman of Shell Russia exceptional knowledge of China combined with and chairman of the board of directors for the global resource industry and management Sakhalin Energy Investment Company.
Committee memberships: Member of the Other appointments: Executive chairman Asia of Audit, and Group Health, Safety and Caledonia Private Investments Pty Limited and Environment Committees.
anon-executive director of Zanaga Iron Ore Company Limited.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and Group Health, Safety and Environment Committees.
com 93 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued This section of the Annual Report and Accounts has Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial or been prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate reputational implications or consequences.
The Board has Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting four principal committees to deal with specic aspects of Council FRC in June 2010 the New Code which the Groups affairs.
The chairmen of the Board committees applies to the Companys Annual Report and Accounts report regularly to the Board on the matters discussed at for the year ended 31 December 2011. the Board committees, thereby ensuring that all Directors have visibility and the opportunity to discuss such matters.
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance During the year, the Company has complied fully with Directors are required to demonstrate unquestioned the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code honesty and integrity, a willingness to question, the New Code, save in the following respects: challenge and critique, and a desire to understand and commit to the highest standards of governance.
Each t that the Chairman was not independent at the time Director must ensure that no decision or action is taken of his appointment.
This arises due to Vladimir Kims that places his interests in front of the interests of the significant shareholding in the Company.
Directors commit to the collective decisionjoined the Group in 1995 and has made a major making processes of the Board.
Individual Directors are contribution to its development into an international required to debate issues openly and constructively and company.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion that be free to question or challenge the opinions of others.
his continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
t the Audit Committee did not have at least three members following the retirement of Peter Hickson Matters reserved for the Board as an independent non-executive Director on 13 May 2011.
Following the appointment of Charles Watson as Key matters reserved for the Board include the an independent non-executive Director and a member approvalof: of the Audit Committee with effect from 24 August 2011, the composition of the Committee again t the Groups strategy, and medium and complied fully with this requirement of the New Code.
short-term plans: Charles Watson was appointed a Director and member of the Audit Committee as soon as practicable t major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: following the cessation of his duties with Shell.
t the annual production and financial budget: Leadership t the Groups risk management strategy The Role of the Board and policy on insurance: The Board is responsible for managing the Company on t health, safety, environmental and behalf of its shareholders and each Director must act in a ethicalpolicies: way that he considers promotes the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
t major capital investments and projects: The Board also ensures that an appropriate balance t the Companys dividend policy: between promoting long-term growth and delivering short-term objectives is achieved.
t the appointment and removal of any Directors of the Company: The Board is primarily responsible for determining t the authorisation of Directors conicts strategic direction and demonstrating leadership: focusing or potential conicts of interest: on matters that consistently add value for the shareholders t the annual performance evaluation of the Board of the Company, both present and future: the governance and its committees and Directors: and stewardship of the Group to provide protection and security for the shareholders assets: the management t the Annual Report and Accounts and of the Groups employees: setting the Companys half-yearlyreports: standards and values, and ensuring that its obligations t all circulars, reports, prospectuses or other to shareholders and others are understood and met: related documents for shareholders: and determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic t the principal regulatory lings with objectives.
Another key responsibility of the Board is to stockexchanges: ensure that management maintains a system of internal t the rules and procedures for dealing in the control that provides assurance of effective and efficient Companys shares: and operations, internal financial controls and compliance t the appointment or removal of the Companys with law and regulation.
external auditor and main financial, legal and technical advisers.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision which is reviewed regularly.
A summary of the matters reserved for the Board is set out below.
These are matters that are significant to the Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 94 5 Division of Responsibilities Non-executive Directors The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities The non-executive Directors provide a strong between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles independent element on the Board and a solid of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors are foundation for good corporate governance.
Although clearly dened so that no single individual has all Directors are equally accountable under the law for unrestricted powers of decision.
the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs, the non-executive Directors full a vital role in corporate The Chairman is responsible for the strategic direction of accountability.
They have a particular responsibility to the Group, overseeing the responsibilities of management, examine critically the strategies proposed by the leadership of the Board and the relationships with the executive Directors, scrutinise the performance of Government and business community in Kazakhstan.
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the and play a leading role in the functioning of the main Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Board committees.
Between them, the current nonDirector are set out on page 96. executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independent judgement from a variety of business sectors and public life.
Corporate governance framework Elect the external auditor External Auditor Shareholder Findings and recommendations in relation to financial reporting Ongoing dialogue to Appointment seek and provide removal information of Directors Nomination Committee Audit Committee Board composition Integrity of financial information and succession and internal controls Board of Directors Day-to-day running Remuneration framework and of the Group individual Director packages Remuneration Committee Chief Executive Executive Committee Management Team www.
com 95 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued Roles and responsibilities Chairman t ensuring that shareholders and the Board receive accurate, timely In addition to being a Board member responsible to and clear information on all important matters, including Director the Company and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities remuneration, corporate governance and strategic issues: of the Chairman include: t ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees and t ensuring the creation and maintenance of a safe working individual Directors is formally evaluated on an annual basis, environment and a safety-focused culture within the with an external evaluation being conducted every three years: Groupsoperations: t promoting effective and constructive relationships and t promoting the interests of the Company especially with communications between non-executive Directors and executive regard to Group planning and development to secure Directors and senior management, and holding meetings with aprogressive future: the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors being present: t setting a vision for the Group and formulation of its strategy: t ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that t ensuring the effective operation of the Board and its committees their views are understood by the Board: in conformity with the highest standards of corporate governance: t maintaining effective and constructive relations with the t providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style and Government and business community in Kazakhstan: and tone of meeting discussions to promote open and constructive debate and effective decision making: t maintaining an effective working relationship with the Chief Executive.
Chief Executive In addition to being a Board member responsible to the t ensuring that the Groups operations comply with all relevant health and safety standards and activities are undertaken with Company and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities special regard for environmental and social concerns in the of the Chief Executive include: countries in which the Group operates: t leading the management team in the day-to-day running t planning human resourcing to ensure the Company has the of the Groups business: capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans: t chairing meetings of the Executive Committee: t establishing a senior management team which has the knowledge, skills, attitude and motivation to achieve the t developing Group objectives and strategy having regard Groups business objectives both now and in the future: to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders: t recommending to the Board an annual budget and four year financial and production plan: t responsibility to the Board for the performance of the business consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: t developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal controls over risk in relation to all business activities including t establishing and maintaining an international organisation that the Groups trading activities: will enable the Groups strategy to be implemented effectively: t developing and promoting effective communication with t developing through investment and divestment an appropriate shareholders and other interested parties: and asset base for the Group to execute its strategy: t ensuring that the ow of information to the Board is accurate, t ensuring at all times the Group conducts its business in timely and clear.
accordance with the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates and the Companys standards, if higher: Senior Independent Director t acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve In addition to being a Board member responsible to the Company as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director include: t meeting with the non-executive Directors without the Chairman being present at least annually and leading the Board in t acting as a point of contact for shareholders and other the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation stakeholders to discuss matters of concern which would not be of the Chairman: appropriate through the normal channels of communication with t monitoring the training and development requirements of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer.
No Directors: and such matters of concern were raised by shareholders during the year ended 31 December 2011: t attending sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and report the outcome of such meetings at subsequent Board meetings.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 96 5 Effectiveness The independent non-executive Directors are: Composition of the Board Effective management and good stewardship are led by Philip Aiken the Board, which currently consists of nine Directors, Appointed to the Board: 2006 seven of whom served throughout the financial year, with Nationality: Australian David Munro and Peter Hickson having retired as Skills and experience: Philip Aiken has extensive global Directors on 13 May 2011 and Eduard Ogay and Charles experience in the engineering and energy sectors.
He Watson having been appointed on 13 May 2011 and was formerly group president of BHP Billitons energy 24 August 2011, respectively.
Including the Chairman, business, an executive director of BTR plc, held a number there are three executive Directors, five independent of senior positions in BOC Group plc and was a senior non-executive Directors and one non-independent advisor to Macquarie Capital Europe Limited.
Age 63. non-executive Director: this balance ensures that no Other appointments: Chairman of Robert Walters plc individual or small group of Directors can dominate the and a non-executive director of National Grid PLC, decision-making process and that the interests of the Miclyn Express Offshore Limited and Essar Energy plc.
Biographies of all Committee memberships: Chairman of Group Health, Directors are set out on pages 92 and 93.
Safety and Environment Committee and a member of theNomination and Remuneration Committees.
Board composition Clinton Dines Executive Directors 3 Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: Australian Independent 5 Skills and experience: Clinton Dines has been involved non-executive Directors inbusiness in China since 1980, including senior positions Non-independent 1 with the Jardine Matheson Group, Santa Fe Transport non-executive Directors Group and Asia Securities Venture Capital.
In 1988, he joined BHP as their senior executive in China and, following the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001, became president, BHP Billiton China, a position from which he retired in 2009 prior to joining Kazakhmys.
He brings exceptional knowledge of China combined with global It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should resource industry and management experience.
Age 54. be independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Other appointments: Executive chairman Asia of Caledonia Daulet Yergozhin, the Board considers each of its current Private Investments Pty Limited and a non-executive non-executive Directors to be independent in character director of Zanaga Iron Ore Company Limited.
In reaching its determination of Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and independence, the Board has concluded that each Group Health, Safety and Environment Committees.
provides objective challenge to management, is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints Simon Heale in order to support the ultimate good of the Company Appointed to the Board: 2007 and there are no business or other relationships likely Nationality: British to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of Skills and experience: Simon Heale has significant global Philip Aiken, Clinton Dines, Simon Heale, Lord Renwick marketing and business operations and management and Charles Watson.
The Board carries out a review of experience having been chief operating officer of Jardine the independence of its Directors on an annual basis.
Fleming Limited, deputy managing director of Cathay Daulet Yergozhin is not considered by the Board to be Pacic Airways and chief executive of The London Metal independent from his date of appointment as he is a Exchange.
He has also been a non-executive director representative of the Government of Kazakhstan, a major and chairman of Panmure Gordon & Co plc.
Age 58. shareholder in the Company.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, Coats plc, Marex Spectron Group Limited and PZ Cussons plc.
He is also a trustee and treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
