Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued Attendance at Nomination Committee Meetings Activities in 2011 At its meetings in 2011, the Committee considered, Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Nomination Nomination amongst other matters, the following: Committee meetings Committee meetings Members during the year eligible to attend attended t reviewed the composition of the Board and its Vladimir Kim 2 2 committees to ensure the appropriate mix of Philip Aiken 2 2 knowledge, skills and experience is present: Simon Heale 2 2 t recommended to the Board the appointment of Lord Renwick 2 2 Eduard Ogay as an executive Director and Charles Watson as an independent non-executive Director: Role of the Nomination Committee t under the retirement provisions in the Companys Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Articles of Association, recommended to the Board Committee include: the election of Eduard Ogay and the re-election of Vladimir Kim, Oleg Novachuk and Lord Renwick by t regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting including the skills, knowledge and experience of the having due regard to the performance and ability for Board and make recommendations to the Board with each Director to continue to contribute to the Board regard to any changes: and its committees: t giving full consideration to succession planning for t review of succession planning for non-executive Directors and certain senior managers, taking into Directors and certain senior managers: account the challenges and opportunities facing the t reviewed the recommendations arising from the Davies Company, and the skills and expertise needed on the Report on the representation of women on plc boards: Board in the future: t reviewed the time commitment required by nont responsibility for identifying and nominating for the executive Directors to full their duties: and approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise: t reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee.
t before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, During 2011, the Committee recommended the experience and diversity, including gender, on the appointment of a new non-executive Director, Charles Board, and, in light of this evaluation prepares a Watson, and a new executive Director, Eduard Ogay.
As description of the role and capabilities required for part of their review of non-executive Director succession : planning and taking account of Peter Hicksons decision t keeping under review the Directors existing and any to retire from the Board in 2011, a detailed job new conicts of interest and reporting to the Board description was agreed by the Committee, having regard and making recommendations as to whether the to the desired balance of skills and experience, conict should be authorised: independence and knowledge on the Board as a whole and with due regard for the benets of diversity on the t keeping under review the leadership needs of the Board, including gender.
It was agreed that any Company, both executive and non-executive, with candidate should have experience of delivery of major aview to ensuring the continued ability of the projects, preferably in the CIS.
Only after a rigorous organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: interview process was a candidate recommended to t reviewing the results of the Board performance theBoard.
evaluation process that relates to the composition ofthe Board and reviewing annually the time The Committee also gave their support to the Chief commitments required from the non-executive Executives proposal that Eduard Ogay be appointed as Directors to full their duties: an executive Director of the Company.
The Committee t reviewing annually the Committees own performance, took account of the key role Eduard Ogay had played in constitution and terms of reference: developing Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, his extensive markets and management experience and the t recommending to the Board suitable candidates contribution he could make in helping the Company forthe role of Senior Independent Director, and achieve its strategic objectives.
The Committee also membership of the Audit, Group Health, Safety and debated the impact the appointment may have on the Environment and Remuneration Committees: dynamics of the Board and the balance of executive and t recommending the re-appointment of any nonnon-executive Directors.
Noting that the Board had executive Director at the conclusion of their specified previously operated with an additional executive Director, term of ofce having given regard to their performance it was satisfied that the current openness and candour of and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in Board discussions would be sustained.
the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required: and t recommending the re-election by shareholders of any Director in accordance with the provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code having due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of the knowledge, skills and experience required and the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 108 5 Role of the Group Health, Safety and Group Health, Safety Environment Committee Key roles and responsibilities of the Group Health, Safety and Environment and Environment Committee include: Committee t keeping under review the development and maintenance of a framework of policies and standards for managing health, safety and environmental risks and their impacts on the Groups activities: t reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant health, safety and environmental legislation: t monitoring and assessing the behaviour of management toward managing health, safety and  risks: t reviewing signi cant safety incidents and considering the key causes, consequences and actions taken by management to prevent similar incidents occurring inthe future: Improving our health, safety and environmental t making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding appropriate health, safety and performance is a priority and we will continue environmental performance objectives for executive to work hard to strive toward meeting Directors and certain senior managers and, in due international standards.
course, providing its assessment as to performance against such objectives: Philip Aiken t reviewing the findings of any internal or external Chairman, Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee reports on the Groups health, safety and environmental systems, assessing any strategies and Other members action plans developed by management in response Clinton Dines to issues raised and where appropriate, making Peter Hickson to 13 May 2011 recommendations to the Board on such matters: and David Munro to 16 December 2011 Charles Watson from 16 November 2011 t reviewing annually the Committees own performance, constitution and terms of reference.
The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under Activities in 2011 review the development and maintenance of a framework At its meetings in 2011, the Committee considered, of policies and standards for identifying, assessing, amongst other matters, the following: managing and reporting health, safety and environmental t reviewed and evaluated fatal and serious incident reports risks and their impacts on the Groups activities.
through the Fatal and Serious Incident Review Panel: All meetings of the Committee during the year were held t monitored and evaluated a number of key safety and in Kazakhstan and involved site visits and meetings with environmental initiatives: management responsible for health and safety, with all t reviewed and evaluated reports on the implementation visits lasting for two or three days.
and effectiveness of a number of health, safety and environmental policies and procedures: Attendance at Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee meetings t monitored and evaluated performance against the The attendance of members at scheduled meetings of Groups five-year health and safety management plan: the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee t monitored and evaluated the safety training activities which they were eligible to attend and the number of of the Group, including those programmes developed meetings attended during 2011 is shown below: in conjunction with DuPont Sustainable Solutions: Number of scheduled Number of scheduled t reviewed the Groups level of compliance with Group Health, Safety Group Health, Safety Kazakhstan and EBRD environmental standards and and Environment and Environment Committee meetings Committee meetings regulations, and penalties being incurred by the Group: Members during the year eligible to attend attended t reviewed the adequacy of resources available to the Philip Aiken 2 2 health and safety department: Clinton Dines 2 2 t reviewed and evaluated progress in embedding 1 Peter Hickson 10 aprocess-safety culture: and 2 David Munro 22 3 t reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the Charles Watson performance evaluation of the Committee.
1 Peter Hickson retired as a member of the Committee on 13 May 2011.
He missed one Committee meeting due to Further details of the Committees activities can be found acon ict in schedules.
in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on 2 David Munro retired as a member of the Committee on page 76.
3 Charles Watson was appointed as a member of the Committeeon 16 November 2011. www.
com 109 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Committee believes that achievement against these Remuneration Report objectives will deliver strong long-term financial performance and shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
Therefore, in determining the levels of executive reward, the Committee continues to place considerable emphasis on ensuring a strong and demonstrable link between actual remuneration received, and the achievement of Kazakhmys strategic and business objectives.
The annual bonus plan performance targets are therefore based on four equally weighted measures with a clear alignment to the Groups KPIs and strategic priorities.
As safety is a key priority of the Group, awards are also subject to a safety override ensuring that payouts will be scaled back in the absence of improvement in the Groups safety performance.
This year has seen a continuation of volatile market conditions.
Against this challenging environment, the Company has succeeded in meeting a number of its performance targets.
However, taking into account the Remuneration is a high pro le issue.
The prevailing economic and market conditions and despite Committee welcomes the accountability and robust operational and financial performance in 2011, the transparency which shareholders and regulators Committee considers it prudent not to increase executive expect and which the Committee endorses.
Annual bonus payouts for executive Directors for 2011 and payable in March 2012 Dear Shareholder, ranged from 43% to 50% of maximum, having been On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the scaled back as a result of the Groups continuing safety annual Directors Remuneration Report summarising challenges.
The Long Term Incentive Plan awards none Kazakhmys remuneration policy and providing of which were held by executive Directors which were information on the Companys remuneration approach due to vest in 2011 lapsed having failed to meet and arrangements for executive Directors and nonthe required three year total shareholder return executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2011. performance target.
The Committees objective is to attract and retain high The Committee takes seriously the issue of balancing risk calibre talent who are focused to deliver the Groups and reward, an area that is a key focus for Kazakhmys strategic and business objectives, while relating reward investors, stakeholders and regulators.
Following a to performance in the context of appropriate risk and detailed assessment of the risk environment surrounding safety management, and aligning the interests of the Companys remuneration arrangements for executive executive Directors and senior managers with those of Directors and certain senior managers undertaken in shareholders to build a sustainable performance culture.
2010, the Committee agreed in 2011 that in order to more effectively manage risk, a clawback mechanism The Companys key remuneration policies were reviewed should be introduced for annual bonuses to take account last year against new guidelines, market best practice of any serious problems that may arise in the years after and a review of the risk environment surrounding the awards have been made.
The details of how this would Companys remuneration arrangements.
operate are set out later in this report.
The Group continues to focus on optimising its existing The Committee has considered the impact of the changes assets, delivering its growth projects and taking to executive remuneration proposed by the Department advantage of opportunities to diversify within the Central for Business, Innovation and Skills following its Asian region, so that it remains globally competitive.
consultation paper in 2011 and will consider these further during the year once the proposals have been nalised.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared by the Committee and approved by the Board as a whole.
A resolution to vote for this report will be put to the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2012 and I hope that you will support it.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Chairman, Remuneration Committee Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 110 5 Role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is primarily responsible for t ensuring that the remuneration policy is appropriate determining and recommending to the Board the and consistent with effective riskmanagement: framework for executive remuneration and for t within the agreed framework, setting and determining, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration determining the total individual remuneration of executive Directors and certain senior managers.
arrangements for executive Directors including the Chairman and certain senior managers, giving due The Committees full terms of reference are available regard to individual and Company performance, on the Companys website.
The terms of reference, and remuneration trends across theGroup: which are reviewed annually, were revised in t approving the design of, and determining the November 2010 in light of corporate governance targets for, any performance-related plans and the developments and best practice.
The Committees total annual payments made under such plans to principal responsibilities are summarised below: executive Directors and certain senior managers: t determining and agreeing with the Board the t determining any share incentive plan performance framework for executive remuneration that ensures targets: and executive Directors and certain senior managers are t determining the terms of employment and provided with appropriate incentives to encourage remuneration of each executive Director and certain enhanced performance and are rewarded in a fair senior managers, including recruitment and and responsible manner for their individual termination arrangements.
contribution towards the success of the Company: issued by the ABI, RREV and other shareholder bodies Governance when setting the remuneration framework.
It also seeks The Committee consists of three non-executive to maintain an active and productive dialogue with Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be investors on developments in the remuneration aspects independent pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance of corporate governance generally and any changes to Code: Lord Renwick, Philip Aiken and Simon Heale.
Lord the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
Renwick is chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are normally invited to attend meetings to Attendance at Remuneration provide information and advice to the Committee to Committee meetings enable it to make informed decisions.
They are, however, The Committee met four times in 2011, with each specifically excluded from any matter concerning their member attending as follows: own remuneration.
Representatives of New Bridge Street NBS, the Committees retained adviser, also attend Committee Attendance at full meetings by invitation as the Committees independent Members member since meetings during 2011 adviser.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as Lord Renwick 1 December 2005 4 4 secretary to the Committee.
Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 4 4 Simon Heale 1 January 2007 4 4 The Committee considers the management of risk to be important to the process of designing and implementing sustainable remuneration structures and to setting After each meeting, the chairman of the Committee appropriate performance targets for incentive plans.
The presented a report on its activities to the full Board.
Committee draws upon the relevant experience and knowledge of its members to ensure that it benets from Committee activities the positions they hold on other Board Committees.
In line with its remit, the following were considered, These include the fact that Philip Aiken is chairman of the amongst other matters, by the Committee during Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee and theyear: Simon Heale is chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Chief Executive also provides a link to the Executive t the introduction of a clawback mechanism for the Committee.
The leveraging of such experience and annual bonus plan to take account of any serious knowledge enables the Committee to have an oversight problems that may come to light in the years after of risk factors that may be relevant to remuneration awards have been made: arrangements and target setting specifically.
t consideration of current trends in remuneration practice and recent developments in the corporate This report has been prepared in accordance with the governance environment relating to remuneration: reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and t annual review of executive Directors and the Chief Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium Sized Companies Financial Ofcers base salaries: and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Italso describes the Groups compliance with the UK t performing an oversight role on the remuneration of Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
The Committee reviews the The Committee takes significant account of guidelines salary, bonus and share awards for senior managers immediately below Board level: www.
com 111 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued t assessment of the level of achievement against Remuneration policy financial and non-financial objectives under the annual The Groups success depends on the performance and bonus plan, and determination of the levels of payout: commitment of its employees.
Kazakhmys approach toward executive performance, reward and benets t review of LTIP performance condition in April and supports and drives its strategy and business objectives November, including ratication that awards due to and reinforces its values in the context of appropriate vest in 2011 had failed to meet the three-year risk management.
performance target and lapsed: t determining awards and performance condition for The Committee seeks to ensure that the Companys new awards under the LTIP: remuneration policies and practices: t determining awards under the Deferred Share t facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation BonusPlan: of high calibre talent with the appropriate skills to t approval of the grant of awards under the Companys implement the Groups strategy and business objectives: UK and International Save As You Earn: t provide a strong and demonstrable link between t approval of the leaving arrangements of David Munro incentives and the Groups strategy and and the terms of his subsequent part-time role with businessobjectives: the Company: t set a performance-biased framework for remuneration t approval of the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report which is consistent with the Groups scale and unique and review of the final outcome of AGM voting on circumstances, and which enables executive Directors thereport: and certain senior managers to share in the long-term success of the Group, without delivering excessive t review of the Committees performance during the benets or encouraging short-term measures or period: and excessive risk taking: and t review of the Committees terms of reference.
t are aligned to shareholder interests.
Priorities for 2012 For the coming year it is anticipated that the Committee In constructing and reviewing remuneration packages, will focus on the following areas: the emphasis is on rewarding executive Directors competitively for their contribution to the Companys t supporting the Groups strategy and performance and for enhancing value to shareholders, businessobjectives: taking into account market comparisons, the competitive pressures in the mining sector, internal relativities and t ensuring compliance with challenging regulatory sound risk management practices.
External comparisons, requirements: and including assessments of the relevant senior executive t developing competitive reward structures whilst remuneration market, look at comparable roles in similar maintaining a prudent approach to cost and the organisations in terms of operations and market risk to the business.
The Committee takes a pragmatic approach toward benchmarking and aims to set reward External adviser opportunity for executive Directors and certain senior The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of managers within the market competitive range, but with external independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely a balanced overall positioning.
responsible for their appointment, retention and termination and for approval of the basis of their fees and The strategy for executive Director remuneration, in other terms.
During 2011, the Committee received advice general terms, is to provide a balanced package around on executive compensation, performance-related pay the relevant mid-market level for comparable mining schemes and equity-based incentive schemes from NBS, companies and other companies of a similar size to an Aon group company.
NBS also provides advice to the Kazakhmys in the FTSE 100, with a high proportion of total Company on remuneration matters for senior employees remuneration being awarded through performanceincluding benchmarking of remuneration and equityrelated elements.
The annual bonus plan aims to reward based incentives.
Other than providing insurance for the the delivery of short-term financial and business shipping of some copper and silver products to third performance goals with commensurate levels of parties, no other companies within Aon Corporation, of remuneration.
The LTIP aims to reward long-term which NBS is a part, provide other services to the sustained performance and create alignment with the Company.
The terms of engagement between the delivery of above market returns to shareholders through Committee and NBS are available on request.
the delivery of equity and a relative total shareholder return performance target.
Under both sets of plans, if the demanding targets are achieved, market competitive levels of reward may be earned.
All incentives are capped in order that inappropriate business risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
Remuneration arrangements and performance targets are reviewed on a regular basis to achieve these objectives.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 112
