34 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Review of operations continued Construction Q. Kentz grew its percentage of work in the Eoin Hurley mining and metals sector significantly in Chief Operating Officer, 2011.
Do you anticipate further growth in Construction this area in the future?
The outlook for metals and mining work remains very strong in our business.
There are three areas in particular that represent opportunity in the immediate term: East Africa, where repeat business with existing clients and projects looks very promising: West Africa, which is a new market for Kentz but where some key clients are looking to develop projects: and in Australia, which represents an untapped market for Kentz.
Over the past 10 years we have worked on some significant metals and mining projects and built up a track record with a number of large resource companies.
There is a significant opportunity to leverage this and grow our market share.
In the longer-term we hope this will include new geographies such as South America and we are currently assessing options to secure market entry and a local presence.
The outlook for metals and mining work Q.
The Middle East now represents a smaller remains very strong in our business.
percentage of the Kentz business.
Is this due to intense competition in the region?
Over the past 10 years Kentz has A.
Construction revenues in the Middle East worked on some significant metals reduced in 2011.
Construction in the region has become more competitive, but at the same and mining projects and built up a time Kentz has seen significant opportunities track record with a number of large elsewhere and has had the chance to move resource companies.
some of our very best construction project management teams to these new areas.
The track-record we have built up over a 30-year period of delivering construction services internationally has been invaluable in securing recent construction contracts.
Kentz delivered 17 million man-hours of construction, without a lost-time incident, at the Pearl GTL facility in Qatar, and this was no doubt a determining factor in our bid for the Gorgon MEI contract in Australia.
The Construction business continues to be the biggest contributor to Group revenues and with the award of new exciting projects like Gorgon MEI, it is likely to be for a significant time yet.
Through a dynamic and global approach to the business we have managed to maintain industry comparable margins.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 35 Image left: th Secunda 59 17 Stream Reformer Project, South Africa Image right: Moatize Project Team, Mozambique, 2011 Construction Q.
The Gorgon MEI project was a significantly rigorous implementation of tried and tested Kentz Revenue by region large award for Kentz, is there a high level processes and procedures.
This is particularly % of risk associated with this project?
important in newer areas of operation, where A. Gorgon LNG is a significantly high profile project contracts can include the hiring and training of and we are delighted to be involved in three a large numbers of local, unskilled personnel.
The Gorgon MEI In these circumstances, it is imperative to have contract, secured in July 2011, was large in planning in place to ensure the requisite level of budget terms, but in fact is no bigger than preparation and training.
Our clients also place previous scopes of work in terms of man-hours.
health and safety first, and in integrating with their The reality is that Australia is a higher-cost area on-site programmes we have seen tremendous and it will take an enormous amount of local benefits on projects where there may be a human resources to deliver this project.
For number of other contractors working in close 11% Middle East Kentz, the contract is fide-risked to a large degree proximity to our own teams.
and Caspian through a reimbursable commercial model.
Aside 55% Africa from reputation risk this pricing structure gives Q.
Operations in Australia and South Africa 25% Australasia Kentz complete certainty around payment terms.
have grown significantly over the past 8% Americas The project is driven through the client team, couple of years.
Is foreign exchange 1% Far East, which retains control and flexibility that is exposure becoming a greater Russia and reassuring to them.
This contract was awarded consideration?
Europe to Kentz in JV with CB&I, a significantly large A. Kentzs treatment of foreign exchange exposure international engineering and construction is constantly monitored and we continue to have company.
We foresee further opportunities a careful and pragmatic approach in this regard.
through this formidable joint venture as it is very As far as possible, local costs are matched to complementary and both organisations have a local currencies.
So for example significant major global footprint.
material procurement would be done in country and by far the majority of employee contracts Q.
Construction accounts for the largest would be in the local currency: particularly for proportion of the Kentz workforce, and South African Rand and Australian Dollars.
When some of its most remote projects.
How do required the Group also takes out foreign you overcome the challenges of health and exchange cover with its banks to protect against safety?
A. Kentzs workforce was in excess of 14,000 people on average during 2011, which presents a significant health and safety challenge.
Our goal is to have zero accidents and zero incidents, and this can only be achieved through personal accountability and a strong safety leadership culture.
The safety of our people and our record in this area is continuously monitored, right at the very top of the organisation.
Each member of the Executive Management team undertake commitments to audit our project sites on a regular basis and are accountable to the Board of Directors.
Health and safety is our number one priority on every site and it goes without saying that large construction jobs, where the workforce can run into thousands, present particular challenges.
Strong project management teams can mitigate this to a large degree, as well as the
