32 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Review of operations Specialist EPC Q. I s Process EPC still an area of focus for James Moore growth in Kentz?
Where are the biggest Chief Operating Officer, opportunities right now?
Process EPC still represents the biggest opportunity for growth in Kentz, in both existing and new emerging markets.
Our clients want reliable suppliers who deliver consistent results in any market.
Kentz combines a track record of execution in remote locations, strong local partnerships, in-house engineering, procurement, modular fabrication and construction, with commissioning, start-up and operation services.
Challenging locations where projects require any number of these services are where Kentz is focused.
We remain committed to execution excellence and opportunities are only considered under a continuous and rigorous approach to risk management and within our financial and technological reach.
In the coming 18 months we see significant opportunities in Russia and Iraq.
Q. Y ou completed the acquisition of RNE Engineering in 2011, how has it performed Process EPC still represents the biggest since acquisition?
Are there further opportunity for growth in Kentz, in both acquisitions on the horizon?
A. RNE has exceeded its revenue and profit targets existing and new emerging markets.
Its addition reinforces the execution Our clients want reliable suppliers who of several EPC projects underway in South Africa.
We are currently developing new opportunities deliver consistent results in any market.
in the oil and gas, metals and mining, and infrastructure sectors in Sub-Saharan Africa and have a positive outlook for 2012.
In time we may unlock further potential within RNE to support our global operations.
Kentz has grown organically almost 30% annually on average for the past five years.
While our pipeline of prospects and financial capacity remain robust, acquisitions would be the natural next step to supplement our own technical and human resources.
We also see significant upside in strengthening our regional presence to align with proximity and services to international oil companies IOCs.
Any acquisitions would most likely be smaller, bolt-on capabilities that deliver higher-value services and are therefore earnings-per-share enhancing.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 33 Image left: Receiving and Loading Facility RALF Project, Qatar Image right: Senior Managers and Lead Engineers, Engineering Consultancy Services Contract, Jubail Commission, Saudi Arabia Specialist EPC Q.
Joint venture partnerships seem to play an Q.
How is global engineering capacity Revenue by region important role in project awards for Kentz.
Are you seeing stronger % What are the advantages and disadvantages competition for recruiting quality of these partnerships?
Joint venture JV partnerships have a number of A.
Global engineering firms are currently strategic advantages for Kentz.
These include experiencing a growth phase and traditional entry into new markets through local resource capacity models are being stretched.
and experience, which can significantly fide-risk The industry trend has been towards the projects where Kentz does not have a strong development of low cost high value engineering local office or where specific market or client centres.
To date we have managed to conditions call for the use of significant local successfully grow engineering capacity resources.
A recent example is the three-way JV organically to meet demand.
We now have 70% Middle East put in place for the Gorgon Construction Village six engineering centres: in long-established and Caspian contract on Barrow Island, Western Australia.
hubs throughout the Middle East, and in newer 13% Africa By partnering with two local construction project areas such as Australia and Canada.
16% Australasia companies, Kentz was able to draw on Development of capacity reflects the way in 1% Far East, additional domestic resources to supplement which clients, both national and international Russia and its own project management team.
In other have bought our services.
In many cases Europe circumstances, a JV supports Kentz in bidding for in-country or project specific engineering, as larger projects to boost its own financial threshold opposed to back-office centres, have served and offer the best solution to the client.
We envisage future demand being met for remote projects, clients are reassured by from continued organic growth and investment having two contractors partnered together to in capacity.
As a result, the client sometimes recommends a joint strategy between Q.
We saw in the interim management companies which have a good track-record.
statement that a greater proportion of Kentz One possible disadvantage of JVs is the shared work is now reimbursable, does this bring responsibility, and risk that a partner might not down margin enhancement opportunities perform.
Kentz seeks to mitigate this to a large on EPC work?
degree through selecting partners of a similar or A.
The reimbursable element of EPC contracts larger size, who share like-minded values of client tends to be the construction.
The construction delivery and safety.
In the past year, Kentz has element of projects in logistically challenging established JV agreements for specific project and remote areas where there is little domestic opportunities with large engineering companies construction activity is often contracted on CB&I, Foster Wheeler and Chiyoda.
This allows higher visibility longer-term possibilities through these JVs.
on cost and margin and facilitates a more reasonable approach to tendering.
In these cases the margin on the construction element of the job may be slightly reduced, but in line with the reduced risk.
