50 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Board of Directors Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman Christian Ian Brown Non-Executive Chairman, aged 64 Chief Executive Officer, aged 42 A Malaysian, Tan Sri Razali was appointed to the Christian Brown, a British national, joined Kentz as Board with effect from 6 May 1994.
He holds a Group Chief Operating Officer in July 2011 and Bachelors degree in Commerce from the University of subsequently went on to become Chief Executive Newcastle, Australia and a Masters degree in Financial Officer and was appointed to the Board of Directors Management from the University of Queensland, on 1 February 2012.
He has over 20 years experience Australia, and is a fellow of the Australian Society of in the LNG, oil and gas, refining, and petrochemicals Certified Public Accountants.
Tan Sri Razali is currently industries.
He had a 17 year career with Kellog Brown the Executive Chairman of Peremba Malaysia Sdn and Root working across the Americas, Europe, Africa Bhd.
He is also the Chairman of Saujana Resort Sdn and the Middle East before joining Foster Wheeler in Bhd and Focal Aims Holdings Berhad: the latter is a 2009.
Previously, Christian held positions including company listed on the Bursa Malaysia.
Managing Director of Global Sales, Strategy and Marketing for Foster Wheeler FW, Senior Vice President Operations FW USA, President KBR Canada, Director and General Manager KBR Construction Middle East and Africa.
Earlier in his career he was a Project Manager, Construction Manager and Project Engineer.
Christian is a mechanical engineering graduate from the University of Hull and has an MBA from Henley Management College.
He is a Professional Engineer, member of the Association for Project Management and a Fellow of the Institution of Plant Engineers.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 51 Edward Anthony Power David Michael Beldotti Chief Financial Officer, aged 57 Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 70 Ed Power, an Irish national, was appointed to the An American, David Beldotti was appointed to the Board on 31 January 2008, having previously been Board with effect from 5 February 2003.
Davids appointed to the Board of Management as Group experience in the EPC process business spans Finance Director in 2002.
Prior to that, he served as over 40 years with direct involvement in over 100 Group Financial Controller of Kentz Group since projects ranging in size from small engineering 1995 and as Group Financial Accountant since 1990. studies to multi-billion US dollar projects.
Over the Before joining Kentz in 1990, he worked with years, David has worked in over 30 different US-owned multinationals such as Measurex and countries in all continents except Antarctica.
The Hasbro in Ireland, the US, Germany and Spain.
Ed is senior positions he has held during his tenure in the a graduate of Waterford Institute of Technology and industry include President of Badger Europe Africa, is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of CEO McConnell Dowell, and President of Lummus Management Accountants.
Hassan Abas Brendan Lyons Non-Executive Director, aged 58 Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 64 A Malaysian, Hassan Abas was appointed to the Brendan Lyons, an Irish national, was appointed to Board with effect from 6 May 1994.
He holds a the Board on 31 January 2008.
He holds a Bachelor Bachelor of Arts Honours from the University of of Engineering Chemical from University College Lancaster and is a member of the Institute of Dublin.
Brendan also holds a Masters degree in Chartered Accountants, England & Wales.
He is also Public Administration from the same university.
a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
Brendan has had a long career with the Department Hassan is currently the Deputy Chairman of of Foreign Affairs of Ireland and is well placed to Peremba Malaysia Sdn Bhd and a Director of advise the Company on numerous political and Jardine Cycle & Carriage Ltd Singapore.
Senior posts held with the sits on the board of several private companies.
Department of Foreign Affairs include Ambassador of Ireland in Riyadh, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and Hanoi.
He is currently President of Penang Medical College in Malaysia.
Hans Joachim Kraus Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 74 An American, Hans Kraus was appointed to the Board on 31 January 2008.
He holds a Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Wyoming.
Hans has over 40 years experience with Chevron Corporation, and has worked in various management positions in engineering, construction, operations, management and consulting and executive management.
Key executive positions during his tenure with Chevron included Vice President of Projects, Project Director and General Manager Coordinator of downstream projects worldwide.
Left to right: David Michael Beldotti, Brendan Lyons, Edward Anthony Power, Christian Ian Brown, Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman, Hassan Abas, Hans Joachim Kraus
