24 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Client project lifecycle Period one Period two Period three Period four Specialist EPC Construction Technical Support Services Pre Front End Engineering and Design Front End Engineering and Design Government Approvals Final Investment Decision Detailed Engineering Design and Procurement Early Works Construction Project profile Shell Pearl GTL The largest GTL project in the world Kentz won its first major contract on the The Technical Support Services business project in 2006.
The EPC business unit was unit became involved in the final stages awarded the EPC scope for the modular of commissioning of the mega project.
In early waste water treatment plant for the 35,000 2011, Kentz was awarded a Framework man construction camp.
This was followed Agreement to provide services in executing by the diesel power generation scope and Plant Change Requests by Qatar Shell GTL the temporary telecommunications for the Limited.
Under the Framework Agreement, plants turnkey temporary facilities.
Kentz provides engineering design, construction supervision and procurement Kentzs share of the first phase of the services for plant changes and projects at project common facilities and train 1 Pearl GTL plant as well as to its offshore totalled in excess of US$320 million.
platforms, harbour tank farms, offloading Pearl Gas to Liquids GTL Project in Ras The project entailed the development of jetties and connecting infrastructure.
The Laffan Industrial City, Qatar is the largest upstream gas production facilities and an duration of this contract is three years, with a GTL project in the world and jointly onshore GTL.
The project also included the two-year extension option.
The services will developed by Qatar Petroleum QP and development of a block within Qatars vast be executed in the Kentz Doha office using Shell.
It is the worlds largest source of North Field gas reserves which will produce existing multi-discipline engineering teams.
GTL products, producing 140,000 barrels 1.6 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas.
Having been involved in this world-scale of GTL products each day and 120,000 project from initial site works through barrels of oil equivalent per day Later in the project lifecycle, during 2009 to commissioning activities, Kentz is of natural gas liquids and ethane.
and 2010 Kentzs focus turned to delivering delighted to continue working with Shell the construction of utilities packages.
The in the operational and maintenance phase Kentz has successfully completed a construction business unit was awarded of the project with brownfield engineering number of multi-million dollar contracts the electrical and instrumentation scope services over the coming years.
over the past five years on Pearl GTL.
for the utility and flare areas, materials These contracts have encompassed all management and commissioning support.
In mid-2011, the Pearl GTL plant sold its three of Kentzs Global Business Units: This enabled the commencement of first commercial shipment of GTL Gasoil, Specialist Engineering, Procurement and critically important process utilities marking the start of production.
The plant Construction EPC : Construction: and commissioning: a precursor to plantis expected to reach full production Technical Support Services.
capacity by the middle of 2012. business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 25 Period five Period six Period seven Operating Pre Commissioning & Commissioning Start up Brownfield Engineering Operating Support Maintenance & Turnaround Shell Pearl GTL The largest GTL project in the world
