52 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Governance Directors Report Directors Report Results and dividends The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report and The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011. of Financial Position for the year ended 31 December 2011 are set out on pages 66 and 68.
Profit before taxation for the year Principal activities amounted to US$79.4 million, an increase of 17.6% on the previous The principal activities of the Group consist of the provision of year.
After providing for tax and non-controlling interests, the mechanical, electrical, controls and instrumentation, engineering net profit attributable to shareholders was US$58.9 million construction and management services to the oil and gas, 2010: US$47.3 million.
Basic earnings per share amounted to petrochemical, power, process, water and environmental, US$50.61 cents compared with US$40.66 cents in the previous communications and commercial and infrastructure services.
Dividends proposed and paid during the year amounted to US$14.0 million.
Board of Directors The Directors who served the Company during the year ended Business review and future developments 31 December 2011 were: A review of the Group performance for the year is included in the Chief Executives review.
Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman Hugh ODonnell Admission to Premium Listing Hassan Abas The ordinary shares of the Company were admitted to trading on David Beldotti the London Stock Exchange plcs Main Market for listed securities Ed Power on 22 July 2011.
Trading in the Companys ordinary shares on Hans Kraus AIM was cancelled simultaneously.
The Companys stock code Brendan Lyons continued to be LSE: KENZ, with ISIN of JE00B28ZGP75 and there were 116,371,470 ordinary shares in issue on Admission.
Hugh ODonnell resigned from the Board on 31 January 2012.
Christian Brown was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2012.
Significant shareholders Interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital which have been notified to the Company in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company were: At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2011 No.
COM 53 53 Going concern The Directors confirm that it is appropriate to apply the going concern concept in preparing the Financial Statements of the Group.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets and projections, and have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Jersey company law requires the Directors to prepare the financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them on a consistent basis.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material differences disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements.
Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is not appropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with relevant legislation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors The auditors, BDO, Registered Auditors, have expressed their willingness to continue in office in accordance with Article 109 4 of Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
On behalf of the Board of Directors Christian Brown Ed Power Director Director 10 April 2012
