36 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Business review Review of operations continued Technical Support Services Q. Kentz signed a Global Framework Mike Murphy Continuing Engineering Service Agreement Chief Operating Officer, with ExxonMobil in early 2010.
Would you Technical Support Services like to target similar agreements on a global basis with other clients?
The ExxonMobil agreement provides a framework for the provision of engineering, design and technical support services to its projects around the world.
Its signing was the result of a strong relationship with ExxonMobil developed over many years: delivering on a broad range of capital expenditure projects in a number of geographies around the world.
There is no guaranteed revenue generation through this agreement, but our relationship has continued to prove successful two years on.
We do have similar service agreements in place: with Shell, Qatargas and Sasol, although not on a global basis.
Where feasible it would be nice to establish similar agreements, but only where the client organisation reflects and utilises the flexibility and global reach that Kentz can provide.
About two years ago we took several Q.
You have highlighted Asset Enhancement operational phase capabilities we had Services as an area of growth for your business.
already: Maintenance and shutdown, Would you look at potential acquisitions Brownfield engineering, and Operations in this space?
About two years ago we took several operational support, and pulled them together into phase capabilities we had already: Maintenance an Asset Enhancement Business to and shutdown, Brownfield engineering, and reflect the way that clients bought these Operations support, and pulled them together into an Asset Enhancement Business to reflect services from us.
the way that clients bought these services from us.
Targeting specific opportunities with clients, particularly where Kentz has been involved in delivering the infrastructure, has reaped rewards in the past year.
In the Middle East alone we have been awarded five long-term brownfield engineering service contracts which keep our teams in place following the start-up of a number of client facilities.
Our strategy is to capitalise on the opportunities available in this business line through wider geographic expansion.
We were delighted to complete a very successful shutdown at the Chavyo facility in Sakhalin at the end of last year that was delivered ahead of schedule.
It is possible that we would look to make an acquisition, but these would most likely be smaller, bolt-on deals that help to gain market entry or local capability.
business review KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 37 Image left: Ambatovy Nickel and Cobalt Mining Project, Madagascar Image right: Natref Crude Refinery Project Team, South Africa Technical Support Q.
Your business relies on securing the best Q.
There has been a lot of talk of Arctic Services people in the industry to work on remote development.
Is Kentz targeting this as an Revenue by region projects.
Are you seeing any constraints in area of future growth?
% the recruitment market right now?
Recent geographical surveys have estimated A. Kentz has grown very strongly over the last that as much as 20% of the worlds undiscovered, number of years and we have met this challenge but exploitable, gas and oil reserves sit north of quite successfully through the organic growth in the Arctic Circle.
Its recovery presents some of our leadership teams.
It helps that Kentz has a the most unique technical and environmental solid core of management, who have been with challenges ever seen.
It is still early days, but our the Company an average of 17 years.
By ensuring TSS business is well-placed to support with a core group of these personnel on any project, it early phase services.
We have a tried and tested is possible to supplement numbers from the local model of delivery we can replicate from other market or wider industry while keeping the Kentz areas with Arctic conditions, such as Sakhalin 30% Middle East style of execution and values of safety and Island in Russia.
Our track record includes the and Caspian teamwork.
The progression of people through formation of strong local partnerships, which have 48% Africa strong training and development is absolutely continued long past their initial conception to 5% Americas core to our business and as the Company has target new project opportunities.
Local content 17% Far East, grown, the opportunities for up-and-coming and resources have proved invaluable, especially Russia and management have been plentiful.
As oil majors in such challenging conditions, to supplement Europe seek more and more remote reserves Kentz has Kentzs own project management, processes been ideally placed to support their projects.
We see the biggest immediate Clients like the fact that they get the same team, opportunities with core clients that are involved the same delivery, wherever they take us.
in the development of Arctic resources in Russia, As projects have become more remote and Canada and Alaska.
challenging, it is natural that compensation terms and work rotations are attractive and this has Q.
The energy landscape in North America allowed us to supplement our own teams with has shifted rapidly over the past few years.
In reality, Where do you see it going and how will the downturn in certain Western economies Kentz be involved?
has meant an increase in good people who are A.
The advent of cheap domestic gas in North available and willing to travel where they might not America has been the catalyst to drive investment have been before.
in projects for export or downstream beneficiation such as GTL and LNG.
Several years ago the United States was building receiving terminals, so this has been a significant shift in political and economic policy.
As long as the economic viability remains in place to develop new infrastructure, this should happen.
Kentz sees the biggest opportunities with core clients, with entry through domestic engineering services in upstream oil and gas.
