Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Aerial shot showing progress on the house blocks at Featherstone Prison, near Wolverhampton Our health sector revenue continues to grow Kier was selected for a 196m contract by the Ministry of Justice to build a new Category B prison and is approaching 100m per year.
The facility at Featherstone, north of Wolverhampton.
The project involves the building of three 480-place sector represented 6% of our 2011 awards house blocks and additional associated facilities.
Completion is due in the summer of 2012. and a notable milestone was securing a position on the successful ProCure 21 framework.
In the first nine months of the Contracts awarded and market predictions framework, Kier has been selected to deliver 2010 2011 up to 110m of healthcare projects, with a awards Previous awards Likely impact Sector 1.4bn prediction 1.5bn 2012 & 2013 further 200m of opportunities to pursue before the end of the 2011 calendar year.
41% 33% Education 3% 13% Transportation rail airports In the private sector, the commercial, power 1% 13% Overseas and waste sectors are providing us with the Commercial 4% 10% most significant opportunities, particularly in 2% 9% Residential accommodation London and the south-east in the case of the 7% 6% commercial sector.
Health 4% 4% Retail During the year, we secured circa 150m of 3% 3% Industrial commercial building projects, including the Hotels leisure 5% 3% 45m Howick Place development for Terrace 23% 2% Custodial Hill and 57m of schemes for Coca-Cola and 1% 1% Mixed use Pontsarn Properties in Uxbridge and Fetter Lane, Holborn.
We are preferred bidder on 4% 0% Defence a further two schemes for the developer, Power and waste 0% 0% Argent, at Kings Cross, with a combined 2% N A 3% N A Other inc. utilities value of 110m, and for a 70m medical Whilst there were no awards in 2011, we have 150m at Preferred Bidder stage: two key waste contracts and expected awards facility for UCL.
in the power sector 15 Chief Executives review continued Kier Construction Southampton Operational Command Unit During the year we have been particularly and we are preferred bidder for a new 45m Standing eight floors high, the 8,500sq m successful in the transport sector, which waste treatment facility at Wakefield and Southampton Operational Command Unit OCU accounts for over 13% of the divisions have been short-listed in the tender process building is a striking landmark at the gateway to the contract awards.
We were successful for the Peterborough waste project.
city and will provide office accommodation for 500 in securing contracts on the Crossrail police staff, including the crime scene investigation programme in joint venture winning the At Hinkley in Somerset, we are the first and criminal justice units.
The new centre now allows C300 410 Western Tunnels and Station contractor, in joint venture, to commence the Southampton OCU to centralise its operations Caverns at Tottenham Court Road and Bond advance works on site for EDFs planned new under one roof for the first time.
Street valued at 500m, and subsequently nuclear power station.
Our joint venture is the station enabling works contracts at short-listed for a number of major packages Liverpool Street and Whitechapel, valued of work on this scheme totalling in excess at approximately 50m.
In the nuclear market, we also to tender for major works schemes on the continue to deliver projects at Aldermaston Crossrail programme.
and Sellafield, and we see a number of other opportunities coming to tender in this sector We have also secured the station development with significant barriers to entry.
contract at Epsom Station and are named preferred bidder at Twickenham Station for Overseas, our key markets are growing and Solum Regeneration, our joint venture with a number of major awards have been secured Network Rail, valued at 40m.
Our rail project during the year, representing 13% of the to replace the roof at Kings Cross Station, divisions total contract awards.
a Grade I listed structure, is on track for completion ahead of the Olympic Games.
In Hong Kong, we have secured approximately 320m of work, in joint venture, for the The energy sector remains a key focus for Mass Transit Railway Corporation MTRC and our plans and we expect significant activity prospects in the territory remain encouraging.
in this area as the UKs ageing fleet of power A number of further contracts with the MTRC stations is replaced over the next ten years.
are being selectively targeted together with Our operations in the sector include our 14th other government infrastructure works.
combined cycle gas turbine power station for Our business in the Caribbean has enjoyed EDF Energy EDF at West Burton 130m, a particularly good year, winning over 35m which completed during the year.
We have of work in the period, with a strong pipeline also been awarded the 50m contract to of future prospects in its key sectors.
build an energy-from-waste plant in Plymouth for MVV and South Devon Waste Partnership 16 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements In Saudi Arabia, we have completed two 1 2 years of an eight-year phosphate mining contract for our client, Maaden.
We are pursuing further opportunities as the Saudi mining sector expands.
We are also bidding in joint venture for some significant railway development projects planned in the region.
Despite the challenging economic environment in the Middle East, we remain assured of the longer-term potential in the region and anticipate a period of sustained and profitable growth.
Construction markets and outlook Notwithstanding the excellent position we 3 4 are in with a strong forward workload there is a significant shift in spending patterns from public sector social infrastructure projects to private sector and areas of regulated spend.
Companies like Kier, with a broad capability and skills to adapt to these growing markets, are well placed to access a healthy pipeline of quality opportunities.
Competition for the declining public sector workload is increasing and our focus remains on securing quality work through frameworks and targeting the power, waste and nuclear markets and commercial building projects 5 6 from our long-term customers.
The power market alone, in which we are a leading player, is likely to provide us with over 13bn of opportunities over the next ten years and we are already winning work in this sector.
Our mix of work has shifted from 74% to 56% for the public sector in the last year and we expect this to continue such that our public sector work will decrease to less than 50% over the next 12 months.
However, we expect to maintain a good proportion of the work from the public sector, as evidenced 1.
Benton define School, Newcastle by our appointment in September 2011 as Kier was chosen by The York Hospitals NHS Trust Kiers project at Benton define School provides a sole contractor to deliver up to 1.0bn of to be Principal Supply Chain Partner PSCP for building designed to allow fully integrated education construction projects over four years on the delivery of this project under the NHS ProCure of mainstream and special needs primary pupils.
behalf of Scape, a local authority alliance.
21 framework agreement to remodel the day unit.
It boasts features such as underfloor heating, Works comprised the complete internal strip-out enhanced acoustics and dedicated areas for language It is estimated we will be carrying out over and remodelling of the existing first-floor day unit and communication therapy.
The environmental impact 2,500 projects in this national framework and Ward 12 to form a new six-theatre suite with of the project was carefully controlled throughout across education, police, leisure, residential corresponding day and 24-hour support facilities.
with a comprehensive waste management plan.
and other civic services with assistance from our Services division.
Worth Abbey Church interior, Worth Kiers project to design & build new facilities at Solihull Kiers project to refurbish and modernise the Abbey Overall Kier Construction is well positioned Colleges Blossomfield campus was phased over two Church in Worth involved the internal modernisation in its key markets.
The division has a diversity years in order to maintain operation of surrounding and upgrade of facilities plus external maintenance to of skills, which is one of its key strengths, buildings without disturbance to the users.
The existing flat roofs were overlaid with phases included enabling works, refurbishment of insulation and relaid.
The high-level and clerestory and this has enabled it to grow its order the existing buildings, major service diversions for windows were replaced and exposed concrete was book during the current financial year while gas, water, electricity and communications, and the repaired and treated.
Internally, the choir stalls and maintaining its selective bidding processes.
demolition of the existing engineering building.
altar area have been completely reformed and lowered.
The order book secured and probable 5.
South Gloucestershire Council offices, Yate stands at 2.3bn June 2010: 2.1bn and Kier was appointed by Colchester Hospital University Kiers three-storey office development in Yate for represents 95% of the divisions targeted NHS Foundation Trust under the P21 framework South Gloucestershire Council houses a number of revenue for 2012 and 46% of its targeted to provide a new two-storey ward block.
The new sustainable features including a biomass boiler, wind building accommodates a new childrens department turbine, enhanced glazing and rainwater harvesting.
revenue for 2013, which is slightly ahead of on the ground floor and an elective care centre and The building exceeded the clients target of a BREEAM normal, and we expect our operating margins surgical ward on the upper floor.
The short timescale Very Good rating, with the Kier team achieving an to remain firmly above 2%.
of the project resulted in the decision to construct Excellent rating without additional cost to the project.
the building using off-site modular construction techniques.
