Chief Executives review continued Kier Services We have been successful in negotiating an extension to our partnership with Sheffield City Council, Kier Sheffield LLP, for a further year to 2014, with a value of 64m.
We have also secured the remainder of Sheffield City Councils Decent Homes Programme for the three-year period to 2014, with a value of up to 27m over the period.
We were awarded three contracts for Homes for Islington HFI, the arms length management organisation ALMO for Islington Council.
The contracts, to repair and maintain 29,500 properties in the London Borough of Islington, are for an initial four-year period, extendable up to ten, and all commenced in October 2010.
This contract with Islington Council was first secured in 2000 and, therefore, represents our first re-win.
Having been re-awarded a 20m responsive repairs contract with Ealing Council over Plant management Kier Services five years, we have also secured a 60m Kiers specialist plant management business hires Kier Services comprises five main partnership with Gosport Borough Council out equipment from seven depots around the UK to businesses: Maintenance, which provides for ten years, extendable for a further five both member companies of the Group and external both reactive and planned maintenance clients throughout the UK and overseas.
The fleet years, and have secured valuable framework largely to local authorities and housing management team offers commercial vehicle positions with EMPA, Riverside Group and associations: Facilities Management FM, solutions from standard panel vans, pick-ups and North Bransholme for the next four years.
providing services to public and private sector tippers through to bespoke conversions designed clients: Environmental, offering services for to suit specific needs.
The Facilities Management business domestic and commercial waste collection generated more than 100m of revenue in and the management and operation of a major the year and was successful in renewing key recycling facility, street scene and grounds contracts of approximately 30m including maintenance: Asset Management, which was Surrey County Council, Sussex Police and formerly within the Property division: and London Fire Brigade and adding new customer Energy Solutions, including our photovoltaic contracts of almost 20m.
production, design and installation business.
Our Environmental business has been Services business review awarded several significant contracts, Revenue increased 3% to 484m valued in aggregate at more than 150m.
2010: 471m with growth, in particular, An eight-year contract, with a potential in Maintenance and Environmental.
Operating eight-year extension, for North Norfolk District profit, before deducting the amortisation of Council and the Borough Council of Kings intangibles of 3.4m, increased to 21.7m Lynn and West Norfolk, serving 240,000 2010: 21.4m, with a resilient operating homes, and a seven-year contract for East margin of 4.5% 2010: 4.5%.
Cash balances Northamptonshire serving 37,600 homes, were healthy at 28m 2010: 32m, were also awarded.
In addition, we have underpinning the profit recognition and secured a 48m waste and recycling services come after approximately 18m of further contract for London Borough of Waltham investment in Pure Recycling, the acquisition Forest for eight years, with the potential of Beco and additions to our street services to increase to 90m with extensions.
Our new Pure Recycling materials recovery The order books are at a healthy 2,030m facility MRF in Ettington, Warwickshire at 30 June 2011 2010: 2,128m : this officially opened for business at the end figure does not include potential contract of February 2011.
The MRF is licensed extensions, which could add approximately to process 150,000 tonnes of mixed dry 750m if all were exercised by our customers.
recyclable materials a year, and is one of the largest in the UK.
The completion of Our Maintenance business saw revenues the MRF is an important milestone for our increase by 2% to 351m 2010: 344m, Environmental business and we already which highlights the strength of this business have contracts to process dry recyclables given the budget restrictions that are now for 80,000 tonnes per annum.
With councils affecting local authorities.
We currently committed to meeting increasingly demanding maintain approximately a quarter of a million recycling targets over the next few years, homes, placing us as one of the largest the MRF offers a fully integrated waste and providers of housing maintenance services recycling collection solution.
20 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements The newly formed Energy Solutions business, 1 2 strengthened by the acquisition of Beco in November 2010, has provided a stronger platform to enter the energy solutions marketplace.
This business, together with the Maintenance business, has secured several contracts in the year covering up to 10,000 properties 30m in North Tyneside, Stokeon-Trent and Harlow, the latter where we are delivering a funded photovoltaic scheme onto 1,200 rooftops of council housing stock.
The business has identified a good pipeline of opportunities in the retrofit social housing market, which will utilise the combined strengths of the Maintenance business 3 4 and the structured finance business.
Services markets and outlook As expected, levels of activity have been subdued over the past 12 months.
However, we are seeing an increasing number of outsourcing opportunities as both the public and registered provider sectors, in particular, seek to alleviate cost pressure and examine their current service delivery requirements.
We anticipate that this increase in activity will translate into revenue growth for the division in the year to June 2013.
5 6 Our order book in the Services division is at a healthy level of 2.0bn, giving good forward visibility of workload, coupled with a strong pipeline of further opportunities.
We expect our operating margins to be maintained at a resilient 4.5%.
The Maintenance business continues to offer best value solutions for clients through proven partnership and provides long-term visible revenues to 2020 and beyond at strong, consistent margins.
Homes for Islington, London contracts and partnerships allow us to Mark Rule at work in Norfolk where Kier is providing David Bayford in Islington where Kier has been expand our activities through the involvement street services for various councils under an delivering repairs and maintenance services plus gas of other Group businesses as our clients and eight-year contract that carries the possibility of servicing to the tenants of Islington Council through partners seek a one-stop, integrated delivery extending for a further eight years.
Services include their arms length management organisation, Homes waste and recycling collections, street cleaning, for Islington, for over ten years.
Kier recently won a model to service their businesses, a model grounds maintenance and the cleansing of public contract to continue to provide these services for that we are well placed to deliver.
29,500 homes managed by Homes for Islington for another 7-10 years.
The cost pressures on local authorities are 3.
Photovoltaic panels, Nottingham also leading to increasing opportunities for Solar-powered energy generation is one of the most 4.
Street Services, Norfolk us in the waste collection and street scene exciting sustainable energy opportunities for the Ernie Lawrence in Cromer, one of the team delivering market where we have seen considerable housing and construction sectors and one of the key under the eight-year contract for councils throughout success this year and remain optimistic about ways in which we can help the UK towards its climate Norfolk to provide a range of street services.
The private sector is also examining change targets.
Employees Peter Ward and Wayne project is designed to deliver the most efficient Bullement are pictured installing photovoltaic panels service possible, and will see the 180-strong Kier its cost base and is demonstrably outsourcing in Nottingham.
Kier worked in partnership with Eon team and their 70 vehicles cover almost 2,500sq km, more of its non-core activities.
Our diverse to install the panels on 600 homes for Nottingham taking in much of the Broads, Cromer, Kings Lynn, offering, covering both hard and soft FM, is City Homes.
Hunstanton and Downham Market among others.
doing well but we consider it would benefit from greater scale in the premium office and 5.
City Stewardship Scheme, Sheffield retail market.
This remains a key focus for Kris McGough and Paul Menton at work in Sheffield Working in partnership with Sheffield Homes and us in the coming years.
where Kier designs, supplies, installs, refurbishes CTS Training, Kiers ground-breaking City Stewardship and provides a responsive repairs service to lifts and programme provides learning opportunities for stairlifts.
This service is offered to clients in both the teenagers who would not otherwise have the chance public and private sector.
to engage in employment or mainstream education.
The scheme includes initiatives such as target hardening following house break-ins, where new security devices are fitted, and has resulted in a massive reduction in burglary rates.
