Chief Executives review continued Kier Property The Property division continues to focus on non-speculative projects where we know we can forward sell or pre-let key elements of the schemes, thereby reducing the associated risk and demands on the Groups cash reserves.
Increasingly, we bring together the total skills and expertise across the Group to deliver greater value to our schemes.
Ian Lawson Executive director Portfolio of PFI projects Committed investment in PFI schemes 2011 a Education b Police facilities 21m c Health d Local authorities 2010: 28m e Other Development pipeline e 10% e 11% d 6% d 8% a 37% 700m c 15% Over five years, largely pre-let with strong partners 2011 2010 a 51% c 20% Directors valuation of our PFI investment b 18% b 24% 38m at a discount rate of 7.5% Revenue m Kier Property highlights 91m acquisition of the property 97 portfolio from Lloyds Shortlisted for five PFI projects valued at 250m 53 Creates annualised 100m construction FM opportunities 83% Solum Regeneration JV with 2010 2011 Network Rail to complete Epsom Station in summer 2012, with Walthamstow, Twickenham and Maidstone East stations to follow Operating profit m Working with National Grid to 11.1 redevelop a 20-acre site in Sydenham 4.5 147% 2010 2011 22 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements 6 Cavendish Place, London Our central London office in Cavendish Place was part of the property portfolio acquired from Lloyds in April 2011 for 91m and was subsequently sold.
Ordnance Survey, Southampton Kier Propertys development to create a new head office at Adanac Park, Southampton for Ordnance Survey.
The building has been designed to reflect the image of a 21stcentury data provider and to act as a stimulating, positive and modern working environment.
The new building comprises a series of three-storey fingers running from east to west with a two-storey business centre at the west side of the building.
23 Chief Executives review continued Kier Property University of Reading The Construction division undertook the Kier Property Working in partnership with the University of Reading, construction works and the project was The Property division comprises two main Kier has constructed the new Enterprise Centre on completed in April 2011.
The project businesses: commercial, industrial, retail the University of Reading campus.
The new facility was externally funded and forward sold.
and mixed-use property development and offers 55,000sq ft of high - quality space in three - structured property financing PFI.
Both and twostorey blocks linked by a central atrium.
Our joint venture with Network Rail, Solum businesses provide significant opportunities The buildings provide flexible new office research Regeneration, is progressing well.
We are for Kier to work with landowners, occupiers accommodation for innovative and technology-based on site at Epsom on a 32m mixed-use businesses.
The building has been designed to and the public sector, and offer innovative high environmental standards and aims to achieve pre-let scheme with completion due in the property solutions and services to maximise a BREEAM rating of Very Good.
Construction is due to asset values and generate profits.
commence at Walthamstow for a similar scheme in October 2011 and we are at an The Property division continues to focus on advanced stage of the planning process non-speculative projects where we know we on the Twickenham and Maidstone East can forward sell or pre-let key elements of the redevelopments worth a combined 107m.
schemes, thereby reducing the associated A testament to the strength of the partnership risk and demands on the Groups cash is reflected in the additional schemes added reserves.
Increasingly, we bring together the to the portfolio with a total development value total skills and expertise across the Group of approximately 500m.
to deliver greater value to our schemes, and provide a One Kier approach for our clients.
As part of our strategy to work closely with large landowners, at Sydenham we are Revenue for the year to 30 June 2011 of working with National Grid on a 20-acre site 97m 2010: 53m was 83% higher than for warehouse and industrial development.
that for last year, with operating profit of Pre-let terms are being agreed with several 11.1m 2010: 4.5m.
large retailers and work on site is forecast to start in early 2012, with Kier undertaking Following the acquisition of the property the construction work.
This form of alliance, portfolio from Lloyds in April 2011 for 91m, similar to Solum Regeneration, is a key area we sold our retail scheme in Chichester and of focus for this division.
our central London office in Cavendish Place thus raising 26m of cash which offset the initial 35m consideration paid to Lloyds.
In early 2009, we were selected as preferred developer by the University of Reading to deliver its 55,000sq ft Science and Enterprise Centre.
24 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements During the year, in our Structured Finance 1 2 business, we continued our strategy of selectively disposing of mature PFI investments from our portfolio.
We disposed of three of our investments, Norwich, Oldham and Sheffield Schools, for a combined value of 13.7m, representing a valuation discount rate of around 7%.
Whilst Norwich and Oldham were sold to an external buyer, due to pre-emption rights, our investment in Sheffield was transferred to the Kier Group Pension Scheme at its market value of 4.5m.
Over time, we expect to offer further PFI assets to this pension scheme as part of the pension deficit recovery plan.
We believe 3 4 that these assets, with their long-term cash flows, are well suited to the pension scheme.
The construction of the 60m Norfolk and Suffolk Police Investigation Centres scheme is now nearing completion and, in March 2011, we achieved financial close on the 22m Gloucester Fire project, which is now under construction.
In addition, we are short-listed on a further five projects with a combined value of approximately 250m.
Natural Environment Research Council, Our portfolio of PFI projects following the Network Rail and Kier Property have formed a joint Oxfordshire disposals during the year now totals ten.
venture, Solum Regeneration, to redevelop stations This design and build project for a new research Our full equity investment in these schemes in the south-east and London.
As part of the project, facility in Oxfordshire for the Natural Environment amounts to 21m 2010: 28m of which Kier Construction is undertaking the building and Research Council consists of new laboratories and 16m has been invested to date.
The civil engineering works for a mixed-use scheme office facilities for the Centre for Ecology & Hydrology.
directors valuation of our investment at a to deliver improvements to Epsom Station and The centre accommodates a variety of high - grade discount rate of 7.5% is 38m.
Our Structured provide retail space, a hotel, parking and 124 research functions as part of an annex to the existing Finance business continues to seek new high-quality apartments.
The building achieved a BREEAM opportunities by applying its investment and Excellent rating.
finance structuring skills to a broad range of 3.
Police Investigation Centre, Kings Lynn 4.
Twickenham Station schemes such as social housing, residential Kier was commissioned to build the Police A computer generated image of Twickenham Station regeneration and student accommodation.
Investigation Centre at Kings Lynn for the Ministry one of several stations in the south-east and London of Justice as part of a 60m scheme to design that are the subject of redevelopment by Solum Property markets and outlook and build six police investigation centres across Regeneration, a joint venture between Network Rail The division continues to focus on expanding Norfolk and Suffolk.
The project was built on and Kier Property.
its portfolio to contribute an increasing the outskirts of Kings Lynn and includes 24 cells, proportion of the Groups results.
We continue holding areas, interview rooms, forensics, to look at innovative funding routes to support a medical centre and offices.
our growth and make the best use of our cash reserves.
We have recently strengthened and expanded our team to increase our focus in the west and north of England with the aim of providing additional work across the Group in these locations.
The Property business is set to deliver continued profit growth over the next few years with many of its schemes already identified and secured.
We therefore remain confident in our business strategy of acquiring development opportunities in well-located and marketable areas with significant potential for occupier led, pre-let or forward sale solutions.
