Board of Directors Name: Phil White CBE Name: Paul Sheffield Position: Non-Executive Chairman Position: Chief Executive Age: 62 Age: 50 Appointed non-executive chairman of the Appointed chief executive in April 2010.
Group in November 2007 having joined as He joined the Group as a graduate engineer non-executive director in July 2006.
He has extensive knowledge of served as chief executive of National Express both UK and overseas contracting and Group plc from January 1997 to September was appointed managing director of Kier 2006.
He is a chartered accountant and Construction in 2001, and joined the has extensive experience of both listed Construction division Board in 2004.
He was and private companies.
He is currently appointed to the Board in October 2005 and chairman of Lookers plc and The Unite in November 2008 he assumed responsibility Group plc, and a non-executive director of for all of the Groups construction activities.
He is chairman of the He holds the position of director with Nomination Committee and a member of the overall responsibility for safety, health Remuneration Committee.
and environmental matters and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Name: Hugh Raven Name: Richard Bailey Position: Company secretary Position: Non-executive Age: 39 Age: 60 Audit Committee Richard Bailey chair Joined the Group in April 2010 from Appointed to the Board in October 2010.
Eversheds London corporate commercial He is a chartered accountant and a partner Chris Geoghegan department.
He brings significant experience in Rothschild, the leading global financial Nick Winser of corporate transactions and regulatory advisory business.
He is currently executive issues, having worked for top city firms during chairman of Rothschilds mid-cap business Nomination Committee his career with considerable exposure to the having worked for the bank for 29 years.
Phil White chair construction sector.
He is responsible for He has been involved in a range of private Paul Sheffield corporate governance within the Group and, and public company work with a focus on Richard Bailey as general counsel, oversees the Groups mergers, acquisitions, private equity and legal affairs.
He is chairman of the Audit Chris Geoghegan Committee and member of the Nomination Nick Winser and Remuneration Committees.
Remuneration Committee Chris Geoghegan chair Phil White Richard Bailey Nick Winser 42 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Name: Haydn Mursell Name: Steve Bowcott Name: Ian Lawson Position: Finance Director Position: Executive Director Position: Executive Director Age: 40 Age: 56 Age: 54 Joined Kier in August 2010 as Group finance Appointed an executive director of the Rejoined the Group in November 2000 director designate and took over the role of Group on 1 July 2010.
He rejoined the as managing director of the Groups Group finance director in November 2010.
Group in January 2007 to head up its Infrastructure Investment operations.
He joined Kier from Balfour Beatty plc where Scottish and northern businesses, which His knowledge of major overseas and UK he held the position of deputy Group finance are part of the Construction division.
He contracting was established early in his director.
He is a member of the Institute of subsequently became deputy managing career within the Group.
He has served on Chartered Accountants, having trained and director and, in April 2010 he was appointed both the Kier Regional board as well as the qualified at KPMG in London.
From 2001 until managing director of the whole of the Services board.
In October 2005 he was 2008, he held a number of roles at Bovis Construction division.
appointed main board director responsible for Lend Lease, the last of which was as chief Services and in July 2008 his responsibilities financial officer of its UK business.
were extended to include the Homes division, and in July 2011 further extended to include the Property division.
Name: Chris Geoghegan Name: Nick Winser Position: Non-executive Position: Non-executive Age: 57 Age: 51 Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Appointed to the Board in March 2009.
He joined the Board of BAE Systems plc He joined the Board of National Grid in April in July 2002 as chief operating officer with 2003 and is responsible for the companys responsibility for all European joint ventures business in the UK.
He was previously chief and UK defence electronics assets.
He is operating officer of US transmission for non-executive chairman of e2v technologies National Grid Transco plc.
He joined National plc, a non-executive director of Hampson Grid Company plc in 1993, becoming director Industries, a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical of engineering in 2001.
He is co-chair of the Society and a past President of the Society Energy Research Partnership and chairman of British Aerospace Companies.
He is the of the IETs Power Academy.
He is a senior independent director, chairman of member of the Audit, Nomination and the Remuneration Committee and a member Remuneration Committees.
of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
