R e a s s e s s p Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business risks Overview Operating review Financial statements How we manage risk and assurance The key to the continued success of our business The Board is responsible for the Groups strategy is our ability to identify and effectively manage system of risk management and internal control and the Group risk management the risks to our businesses and their operations.
framework sets out the mechanism and The Groups approach is to identify the key risks and reporting structure to ensure that key risks are continually monitored and any action then assess the effectiveness of controls to mitigate plans to mitigate the risks are reviewed.
the impact and likelihood of these risks occurring.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls Our risk management process including the systems established to identify, The Groups risk management framework requires all Divisions and assess, manage and monitor risk.
In addition operating companies within them to identify and assess the key risks to the ongoing monitoring of risk and controls, facing their business which could impact on their ability to deliver their a report detailing the key risks together with objectives.
The Group, divisions and each operating company maintains an assessment of the controls in place to a risk register which is used to document the keys risks facing the mitigate these risks and any action plans is business together with an assessment of the likelihood and impact of prepared annually and reviewed by the Audit that risk occurring as well as an assessment of the effectiveness of the Committee.
The last report was prepared key controls in place to mitigate the risk.
Actions plans are developed in March 2011 and reviewed at the June and put in place to mitigate unwanted exposures.
These risk registers are 2011 Audit Committee meeting.
The Board regularly reviewed to identify new risks as they arise and to monitor the has concluded that the Group maintained action plans.
sound risk management and internal control systems throughout the year to June 2011.
Other processes of assurance are managed through Group Standing Orders updated in January 2011 the Board, the Executive Management Team, a range of Group policies and several central function committees including the Group Corporate Responsibility risks analysed as to likelihood steering committee and the Group Health, risks identified at and impact operating company, Safety and Environment steering committee, controls and division and Group level both being chaired by the Chief Executive assessment of risks recorded in risk Officer and reporting regularly to the Board.
effectiveness recorded registers Principal risks The nature of the industry and the business environment in which the Group operates is risk registers and Our risks analysed as to action plans subject likelihood and impact inherently risky and a number of risks and process to regular review controls and uncertainties exist.
Although it is recognised key issues elevated assessment of that it is not possible to eliminate all such through reporting effectiveness risks and uncertainties, the Group has well structure recorded established risk management and internal control systems to manage them.
The Groups established risk management and internal control systems have helped it to respond to the changing business environment and the challenges presented during the year.
D e v e l o p a c t i o n f o r m i t i g a t i o n Business risks continued Macro-economic climate Contract and build Land and property development acquisition Risk Risk Risk The order books for our Construction and The Group carries out several hundred contracts The cost and quality of property and land is Services divisions are dependent upon the annually and the risks to which the Group is fundamental to the profitability of a property level of expenditure in the public sector and exposed are dependent upon the nature of the development and housing business.
the availability of credit for private sector work, the duration of the contract and the legal expenditure.
Instability in global exchange rates form of the contract.
Mitigation could significantly escalate material and fuel Site evaluation is a key process and site prices, thereby putting pressure on some project Mitigation appraisals are carried out in detail, including cost forecasts.
The Groups appetite for very long-term, large, using external advice where appropriate.
Land competitively tendered construction contracts and development acquisitions are subject to Mitigation is limited, driven by the desire to maintain approval by the Board, chief executive and The Group has created a structure to manage quality of workload and manage risk.
Tenders for finance director or divisional directors depending and mitigate risk with the following key contracts are subject to approval by the Board, upon the value of the land.
Developments in components: chief executive and finance director or divisional progress are controlled and managed through A wide geographic regional network of offices directors depending upon the value and nature the Groups operating structure and procedures across the UK providing strong integration into of the contract.
Contracts in progress are including rigorous and regular review of the local communities, our client base and our controlled and managed through the Groups forecast financials and sales activity.
supply chain operating structure and procedures including rigorous and regular review of the forecast In the case of the Property division, development A strong level of framework agreements revenue and costs to complete.
risk is controlled by ensuring construction and partnerships with government, local generally commences once the division has authorities and the private sector either pre-sold or pre-let key elements of An ability to react to evolving opportunities the development.
in the marketplace and to maintain a focus on cost reduction and efficiency.
We also carry out monthly and quarterly reviews of our workload and forecast our overhead levels as a percentage of future work in order to maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
Fuel and other materials that are in high demand, such as steel, are hedged or forward-purchased when deemed necessary.
In addition our terms and conditions include inflation and or escalation clauses as standard.
Health, safety and Information technology Pensions environmental Risk Risk Risk The Groups activities require the continuous The efficient operation of the Group is The Group is exposed to funding risks arising monitoring and management of health, safety increasingly dependent upon the proper from changes in longevity, inflation and and environmental risks.
Failure to manage operation, performance and development of investment assumptions in relation to its these risks could cause injury to our employees its IT systems.
Failure to manage or integrate defined benefit schemes.
These changes could and subcontractors and could expose the IT systems or failure to successfully implement result in an additional funding requirement.
Group to significant potential liability and changes in IT systems could result in a loss of reputational damage.
control over critical business information and or Mitigation systems.
This, in turn, could impact the Groups Steps have been taken over time to eradicate Mitigation ability to fulfil its contractual obligations.
our calculated deficit including the closure of Detailed HSE policies and procedures exist to the Groups pension scheme to new entrants in minimise such risks and are subject to review Mitigation 2002, the composition of a cap on pensionable and monitoring by the operating companies and Group IT centrally manages the majority of salary increases, taken in 2009 and the change Group.
All operating companies have a director systems across the Group.
Other IT systems are in inflation assumption, from RPI to CPI, taken responsible for HSE: however it is recognised managed locally by experienced IT personnel.
Other measures to mitigate liabilities that all of our directors and employees are Significant investments in IT systems are are under continuous review by the Group.
responsible for health and safety.
subject to Board review and approval.
The performance of the Groups pension scheme is regularly monitored by the Group and the Trustees of the pension scheme who, as appropriate, take advice from external consultants.
40 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Investment People Legal and regulatory Risk Risk Risk The Group recognises there are risks associated The Group is dependent on members of its The Group is subject to a number of complex, with PFI investment.
senior management team and on a flexible, demanding and evolving tax, legal and regulatory highly skilled and well-motivated workforce requirements.
A breach of laws and regulations Mitigation and believes its future success will depend, could lead to legal proceedings, investigations The Group is selective in the PFI projects it bids in part, on its ability to attract, develop and or disputes resulting in a disruption of business for, primarily concentrating on the sectors where retain its people.
If the Group does not succeed ranging from additional costs incurred on a we have established construction and facilities in attracting, developing and retaining skilled project to civil and or criminal penalties as well management expertise.
people it may not be able to grow the business as reputational damage.
The recent Bribery Act as anticipated.
2010 also has the potential to impact upon the business, especially given its international remit Mitigation for UK corporates.
The Group monitors staff turnover closely and pay and conditions are reviewed regularly Mitigation against the prevailing market and benchmarked The Group monitors and responds to legal and to ensure that we remain competitive.
regulatory developments in the areas in which it operates.
It is the Groups policy to require that Succession planning and staff development all of its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and are key at all levels in the Group.
subcontractors comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards.
Training courses are provided, including e-learning courses, to keep all parties fully aware of their responsibilities.
The Group has a zero tolerance policy to bribery and corruption and has undertaken a Groupwide training programme to raise awareness of the Bribery Act 2010.
Counterparty Availability of finance and Reputation bonding facilities Risk Risk Risk The Group depends, for its success, on the The Groups long-term business is dependent The Groups ability to tender for new stability of its customers, joint venture partners, upon cash resources, facilities and the ability business and our relationship with our range suppliers, subcontractors, funders, bondsmen to provide performance and other bonds as of customers, supply chain partners, our and insurers.
Failure in these counter parties necessary.
employees and other stakeholders greatly could result in non-collection of amounts owed depends on the good reputation that we have or disruption and delays to contract progress.
Mitigation established and how we are perceived by others.
Cash forecasts and balances are prepared Mitigation regularly weekly and daily.
Bank facilities are Mitigation Considerable efforts are made to assess the in place which have been recently renegotiated In order to protect and enhance our reputation financial strength of counter parties before and extended.
The Group has strong, longwe have a robust series of business ethics, entering into contract and to structure payments term relationships with its bondsmen and has sustainability and compliance policies together so as to mitigate our financial exposure to an in-house team which monitors headroom with a range of mechanisms that help deliver the them for the duration of our relationship.
Where and advises on bond terms and conditions.
Groups corporate responsibility programme, the Group is particularly dependent upon the including health and safety, environmental continued financial strength of the providers impact, climate change, employees, customers of key financial services to the Group, we take and supply chain and community engagement.
steps to spread this exposure across a range of counter parties so as to diversify risk.
