Directors report Introduction Charitable and political donations The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements During the year, the Groups donations to charity in the United Kingdom as at, and for the year ended, 30 June 2011. were 64,000 2010: 97,000, principally to local charities serving the This directors report should be read in conjunction with the chairmans communities in which it operates.
The Group has considerable involvement statement, the chief executives review, the corporate governance in such communities, as described in the corporate responsibility report statement and the directors remuneration report, each of which is on pages 30 to 33.
No political donations were made during the year incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this 2010: nil.
directors report to the extent required by applicable law or regulation.
Financial instruments Principal activities Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the The Groups principal activities during the course of the year were Group, together with its exposure to material financial risks, are set out construction, services, property and housing.
in notes 1 and 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
A review of the Groups business and progress during the year is included within the chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and the chief Research and development executives review on pages 6 to 29.
The Group undertakes research and development activity in creating innovative construction techniques and design integral to the delivery of Results and dividends its projects.
The direct expenditure incurred is not separately identifiable, The Group's profit for the year after taxation and exceptional items was as the investment is usually contained within the relevant project.
An interim dividend of 20p per share 2010: 18.5p, amounting to 7.5m Employees 2010: 6.8m, was paid on 6 May 2011.
The directors propose a final The companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers.
The Group dividend of 44.0p per share 2010: 39.5p per share, amounting to 16.6m gives consideration to applications for employment made by disabled 2010: 14.6m, payable on 30 November 2011 to shareholders on the persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities and register of members at the close of business on 23 September 2011. encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled people and the retention Directors of, and appropriate training for, those who become disabled during the Biographical details of the directors of the Company as at 14 September course of their employment and who can be employed in a safe working 2011 are shown on pages 42 and 43. environment.
The Groups approach to employee involvement, equal Details of directors interests, including interests in the Companys opportunities, health and safety and the environment is set out in the shares, are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on pages corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 33.
The Group provides relevant information on matters of concern to employees through newsletters, video addresses, the Groups intranet, Qualifying third party indemnities social media and formal and informal meetings with various groups of The articles of association of the Company the Articles entitle the employees and management.
These arrangements also aim at achieving directors of the Company, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act a common awareness on the part of employees of matters affecting the 2006 and other applicable legislation together, the Companies Acts, to performance of the Group.
The Group also consults with employees so be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in the event that they as to ascertain their views in relation to decisions which are likely to suffer any expenses in connection with certain proceedings relating to affect their interests.
the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
The Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme In addition, and in common with many other companies, the Company the Sharesave Scheme, which was approved by shareholders on has insurance in favour of its directors and officers in respect of certain 25 November 2006, for eligible employees and makes available a dealing losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed due to their office.
service to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with a minimum of formality and on attractive commission terms.
The Group also operates The UK Corporate Governance Code an all employee share ownership plan the AESOP for all employees, A statement on the Groups corporate governance is set out on pages which includes a share-matching element.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors Going concern The Group agrees payments with its suppliers and subcontractors on The Group has considerable financial resources, together with long-term an individual contract basis rather than following a code or standard on payment practice.
The Groups policy is to abide by these agreed terms contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across its business activities.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well whenever the relevant Group company is satisfied that the suppliers or placed to manage its business risks effectively.
subcontractors have provided the goods or services in accordance with After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable the contract terms and conditions.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company at 30 June 2011 was nil 2010: nil.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Subsidiary trading companies within the Group, acting in accordance the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the with the above policy, exhibit creditor days averaging 30 days Groups financial statements.
2010: 32 in respect of suppliers of invoiced goods and services and 16 days 2010: 17 in respect of certified amounts due to subcontractors.
Further information relating to the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities is given in the These figures exclude amounts not currently due for payment but which financial review on pages 34 to 38. are included within trade creditors.
44 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Share capital Voting As at 30 June 2011, the issued share capital of the Company comprised Subject to any terms upon which the relevant shares may have been a single class of ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
As at 30 June 2011, issued or are subject and to the Articles, every member present in person 38,160,025 shares in the capital of the Company were in issue.
During or by proxy at a general meeting and entitled to vote has, upon a show the year, 661,054 shares were issued in relation to the scrip dividend of hands, one vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every share held.
In alternative and 21,585 shares were issued in connection with the the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a Sharesave Scheme.
No other shares were issued during the year.
Details vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of of the Companys share capital are set out in note 22 of the consolidated the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall financial statements.
be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in Subject to the provisions of the Articles and the Companies Acts, respect of the joint holding.
shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, if the Company has not so Restrictions on voting rights determined, as the directors may decide.
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by it unless Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company all calls or other sums then payable by it in respect of that share have There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, been paid or if that member has been served with a disenfranchisement except: notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in that share required to be provided that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by law or under the Companies Acts.
regulation for example, insider trading laws : and The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Listing Rules, whereby certain employees of the Company require the Appointment and replacement of directors approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
The directors shall be not less than three and not more than 12 in number.
The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum and or The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities maximum number of directors.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until Substantial voting rights the next annual general meeting of the Company after his appointment As at 14 September 2011, the Company had been notified of the following and is then eligible to stand for election.
interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, pursuant to Rule Pursuant to the Articles, at every annual general meeting of the 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Company, one-third of the directors who are subject to the requirement to retire by rotation which shall not include any director who was appointed Standard Life Investments Limited 8.0 % by the Board and is standing for election shall retire from office and may Schroder Investment Management Limited 7.3 % offer themselves for re-election by the members.
The directors to retire BlackRock Inc 3.6 % by rotation shall be those who have been longest in office since their last Legal and General Group Plc 3.5 % election.
The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice Norges Bank 3.5 % has been given remove any director before the expiry of the directors period of office.
The office of a director shall be vacated if: i the director Securities carrying special rights becomes bankrupt or the subject of an interim receiving order or makes No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with any arrangement or composition with his creditors generally or applies to regard to control of the Company.
the court for an interim order in connection with a voluntary arrangement under the Insolvency Act 1986: ii the director is certified as having Rights under employees share schemes become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may As at 30 June 2011, The Royal Bank of Canada, as trustee of the remain so for more than three months: iii the director ceases to be a Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust which was established director by virtue of the Companies Acts or becomes prohibited by law for the purposes of the Kier Group 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan from being a director: iv the director receives written notice from not the 1999 LTIP and the Kier Group 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan the less than three-quarters of the other directors removing the director 2010 LTIP, which were approved by shareholders on 27 November 1999 from office: or v in the case of a director who holds executive office, the and 12 November 2010, respectively, held 522,664 shares approximately director ceases to hold such office and the majority of the other directors 1.4% of the issued share capital of the Company as at such date on resolve that the relevant directors office be vacated.
trust for the benefit of the directors and certain senior managers of the However, at the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, Group.
The Royal Bank of Canada waives the dividends payable in respect notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, each of the directors of these shares.
will offer himself for re-election in accordance with The UK Corporate As at the same date, Computershare Investor Services PLC held Governance Code.
904,364 shares approximately 2.4% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2011 on trust for the benefit of staff and former staff who are members of the AESOP.
45 Directors report continued Amendment of Articles Auditors The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution shareholders.
for the reappointment of the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Powers of the directors Each director who holds office at the date of approval of this directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by report confirms that, so far as each such director is aware, there is no the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and the managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information Powers in relation to the Company issuing its shares and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The directors were granted authority at the annual general meeting on 12 November 2010 to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate Annual general meeting nominal amount of 124,928, together with shares with an aggregate The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at the Brewery, nominal amount of 249,885 in connection with a rights issue.
This Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4SD on 16 November 2011 at 12 noon.
The authority will expire on the date of this years annual general meeting and notice of annual general meeting accompanies this document.
a resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
A special resolution will also be proposed to This report was approved by the Board on 14 September 2011 and signed renew the directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues of shares on its behalf by: for cash.
H E E Raven Powers in relation to the Company buying back its shares Company Secretary The Company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from shareholders Tempsford Hall in general meeting.
Although the Articles do not contain any such Sandy prohibition, the Company did not request any such authority at its last Bedfordshire annual general meeting and does not propose to do so at the forthcoming SG19 2BD annual general meeting.
Change of control The Company has entered into certain agreements that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
The significant agreements in this respect are the Groups main credit facility agreements and certain of its employee share schemes.
The Groups main credit facility agreements include a provision such that, in the event of a change of control, the relevant lender may cancel all or any part of the relevant facility and or declare that all amounts outstanding under the relevant facility are immediately due and payable by the Company.
Outstanding options granted under the Sharesave Scheme may be exercised within a period of six months from a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid taking place or will lapse upon the expiry of such a period.
Awards granted under the 1999 LTIP or the 2010 LTIP may vest on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid and the maximum number of shares in the Company to be awarded upon such vesting may become immediately due.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
