Chief Executives review continued Our strategy is to continue to focus on growth In our Services division, we are seeing areas in each of our divisions, leveraging the an increase in the number of tender many opportunities that arise through our opportunities across all sectors, as both integrated model.
Our diversity enables us public sector and private businesses seek to find work in a wide range of sectors, and to outsource more operations to help ease allows us to respond to and strengthen our their cost pressures.
We anticipate that relationships with both private and public this is most likely to translate into revenue sector customers.
growth in the year to June 2013.
We have long-term visible revenues to 2020 and In the overall construction market conditions beyond, at strong, consistent margins and remain challenging in the short term because these long-term contracts allow us to expand of the budgetary constraints on many of our activities through the involvement of other our public sector clients and the difficult Group businesses as our clients and partners economic conditions for our private sector seek a one-stop, integrated delivery model Sea City Museum, Southampton clients.
There has been a contraction, over to service their requirements.
The Sea City Museum recently held a topping-out the past couple of years in the UK, in the level ceremony to mark the final stages of construction of of construction activity and it is unlikely there Our Property division, which is a key generator the new special exhibitions pavilion.
Kier operations director Martin Orr, site manager Andy Hammerton will be any improvement until at least 2013. of integrated opportunities for the Group, and Southamptons mayor Cllr Terry Matthews This means new schemes are attracting a is in a strong position to expand its portfolio attended.
Sea City, which has been supported larger number of bidders and are being very and to contribute an increasing proportion with a 4.9m grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund, competitively contested.
of the Groups results in the next few years.
is scheduled to open to the public in April 2012.
We will continue our strategy of pursuing However, our network of local offices, coupled largely non-speculative development, together with our diverse set of capabilities, enable with identifying innovative funding routes to Kier won seven Green us to pursue a wide range of opportunities.
support our growth and making the best use Apple awards in 2011, This is evident in this division by our move of the Groups cash reserves.
two Gold awards in away from public sector work and into the the Built Environment private sector whilst growing revenues, In our Homes division, we have refocused category and five others in the Environment Best particularly in areas of non-discretionary, the business towards social and mixed-tenure Practice category.
economic infrastructure investment, such as: housing, while maintaining a 500 to 600-unit private housing business, building on power, where we are a leading player in Kier-owned land.
We will continue to reduce the provision of civil engineering works: our land bank by developing homes for sale, waste, a growing market which includes or disposing of parts of it, which will unlock recycling and power generation our cash investment over time.
The receipt opportunities: and of 12.5m of Affordable Homes Programme transport, both in the UK and overseas.
AHP grant funding, our relationships with our framework partners and our position Other growth areas include: on the Homes and Communities Agency commercial, primarily in London and Delivery Partner Panel HCA DPP will enable the south-east: us to exploit opportunities in the affordable mixed-use and urban regeneration: and housing market over the next few years.
overseas, where we are growing in our three principal territories: Hong Kong, the Middle East and the Caribbean.
10 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Admiralty Station, Hong Kong MTRC contract 901 Kier, in joint venture with Laing ORourke and Kaden Construction, is working on a fouryear contract valued at 190m for the Mass Transit Railway Corporation to deliver the new Admiralty Integrated Station in Hong Kong.
The existing station is being significantly extended to provide interchange facilities between the existing Tsuen Wan Line, the new South Island Line East and the proposed Shatin to Central Link.
Global reach Kier operates in three key areas overseas where Saudi Arabia we have had an established presence for many years: Hong Kong, the Middle East and the Caribbean.
UK Dubai Jamaica Hong Kong tunnelling MTRC contract 824 Kier, as part of a three-way joint venture in which Kier holds a 50% share, is working on a 125m tunnelling contract for the Mass Transit Railway Corporation in Hong Kong.
The project forms part of the Hong Kong section of the  Kong Trinidad Express Rail Link connecting mainland China and Hong Kong.
Percentage of the value of construction contracts awarded Hong Kong in the year to 30 June 2011 Abu Dhabi Global operations 13% UK operations 87% 11
