Chief Executives review continued Kier Homes Through our partnerships with key public housing funding bodies and registered providers of affordable housing, and working with our investment and development specialists within the Group, we are well positioned to provide a comprehensive delivery solution to the UKs current housing challenges.
Ian Lawson Executive director Kier Homes unit sales Total units 2011 Total units 2010 a Affordable homes and 998 1,060 mixed tenure b Private homes on Kier-owned land Land bank book value 159m 2010: 214m b 47% b 47% 2011 2010 a 53% a 53% 466 499 532 561 Land bank units with planning consent 4,800 2010: 5,700 Revenue m Kier Homes highlights Secure and probable pipeline 158 Homes delivered 153 of c. 1,700 affordable homes Affordable Homes Programmes 998 grant of 12.5m will help us deliver 2010: 1,060 over 1,000 new affordable homes Private homes: 20m 350 plots land sales completed on deferred 3% cash terms 2010 2011 Will maintain a 500 to 600-unit private homes business Operating profit m 4.2 2.8 50% 2010 2011 Excluding 2010 one-off land transaction profit of 7.1m 26 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Midsummer Project Cambourne, Cambridgeshire Kier Homes Midsummer project is a select development featuring executive homes located within the new town of Cambourne, Cambridgeshire.
The carefully designed new homes offer spacious living with five-bedroom homes and three-bedroom bungalows located in an enviable position between an eco wildlife park, school playing fields and country park.
Kier Homes The instalments represent part of a Homes market and outlook Kier Homes provides mixed tenure and committed 20m 350 plots of completed Our strategy continues to focus on reducing affordable housing, specialising in urban land sales on deferred cash terms.
Having the cash investment in our land bank by regeneration with the skills and experience completed these sales, and following a developing homes for sale, or disposing to deliver innovative and environmentally review of our land and work in progress, we of parts of the land bank as opportunities sustainable construction and finance have written down the value of our land and arise.
The private homes market remains solutions.
These include leveraging multiple work in progress and it now better reflects challenging, as mortgage finance still requires funding and investment sources and providing our strategy for the private housing business significant deposits, and there remains a low cross-subsidy options.
We have reduced and the current market conditions.
Whilst it level of public confidence given the current the scale of our private sales operation to remains our intent to sell further land over economic conditions.
We therefore expect maintain a stable 500 to 600-unit per year time, we do not anticipate realising profit from overall private sales for the year to 30 June business focused on the south-east and these transactions, the emphasis being on 2012 to be at a similar level to those for this East Midlands area.
Homes business review Our land bank at 30 June 2011 is carried Our focus is the development of mixed-tenure There remains uncertainty in the housing at a value of 159m June 2010: 214m, affordable housing through our well-established market although a modest demand for after the current years write-down and is relationships with local authorities and newly built homes supported an improved represented by 4,800 plots 2010: 5,700 housing associations.
In the recent allocation underlying performance for the year for the plots, all with planning consent.
Our strategy of AHP funding, we were delighted to receive Homes business.
to position our land bank so that it supports the entire allocation of grant requested a 500 to 600-unit business continues with 12.5m which will help us deliver in excess In the private sector, the housing market the aim of having a land bank equivalent of 1,000 new affordable homes alongside our continues to be constrained by the lack of to approximately four to five years supply.
HARPs over the next four years.
This excellent mortgage availability, which is affecting This will release cash, which is available for result combined with our relationships with housing demand throughout the country.
investment in the Groups future growth.
All our framework partners and our position In the affordable housing sector, following new housing is being built primarily on land on the HCA DPP set us well to exploit the Governments Comprehensive Spending acquired prior to the market correction in opportunities in the affordable housing Review, the change from social rent to an 2008 and we therefore anticipate modest market in the medium term.
affordable rent structure will transform the margins through this business over the next way that affordable housing is financed.
We will remain flexible and responsive to the uncertain private housing market Overall, we completed 998 units this year Housing Association Registered Providers and will pursue growth in our affordable 2010: 1,060 a similar mix to last year, with HARPs have responded positively to the housing business and the opportunities 466 arising from private development sales challenge of funding future development that it presents.
and 532 through affordable housing sales using an affordable rental income stream 2010: 499 private and 561 affordable homes.
to leverage finance and a strong pipeline of development opportunities, to be delivered These unit sales, together with land over the next four years, is emerging.
sales, generated revenues of 153m 2010: 158m and operating profits Through our partnerships with key public improved to 4.2m in 2011 2010: 2.8m housing funding bodies and registered excluding Homes land transaction.
providers of affordable housing, and working with our investment and development Our cash investment in this division has specialists within the Group, we are well slightly increased to 259m June 2010: positioned to provide a comprehensive 248m, reflecting the settlement of deferred delivery solution to the UKs current land payments, which have now been made housing challenges.
in full, increased investment in work in progress on apartment schemes, which have Our membership of the HCA DPP framework a different cash profile to a typical housing continues to provide a steady supply of public scheme, partially offset by the first instalment sector land for the development of affordable proceeds on land sales.
All of these types of projects involve free land provided by the HCA: one such example is our development at Balaam Wood, Egg Hill, which has progressed well and we have delivered our first sales reservations alongside the affordable housing on the site.
27 Chief Executives review continued Five Islands School, Isles of Scilly above and below Health and safety The commitment of our management teams Kiers design & build project at Five Islands School Our focus continues to be on our Health and and our supply chain partners has resulted has been extremely complex and demanding Safety Leadership and Behavioural Safety in a further reduction in our accident incident logistically.
The company topped out the project this Programme, which is now firmly embedded rate AIR from 312 in June 2010 to 300 in spring, marking the milestone in the construction within the Construction division and is being June 2011: this is significantly lower than programme by guiding the new bell tower into position rolled out across the Group.
This programme the current Health and Safety Executive on the roof.
HM The Queen took a tour of the school, focuses on encouraging active discussions benchmark rate of 736.
These positive results which Kier completed a month ahead of programme, with the workforce on health and safety continue to focus and motivate all of us on during her first visit to the Isles of Scilly in 44 years.
Site engineer Stephen Payne is pictured above.
issues, with in excess of 41,000 discussions a safety first culture.
recorded during the year, a 66% increase on 2010.
Reflecting this outstanding performance, Kier projects were awarded 42 national Our future focus will encompass all health, awards by the Considerate Constructors safety and environmental issues to ensure Scheme in recognition of the standards we we fully support the Groups sustainability set ourselves.
We also received five Royal aspirations.
A long-term programme of health Society for the Prevention of Accidents and well-being is currently being developed RoSPA Presidents Awards and five RoSPA across the business to ensure that health Gold medals, in recognition of ten consecutive is an integral part of the safety, health and years of Gold Awards.
28 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements People The Group, with its diverse set of capabilities, During the year, we were active on over 330 is able to respond to the changing market and construction projects across the UK, were position itself in those areas where there is responsible for approximately 250,000 most opportunity for growth.
This is evident homes and 7,000 commercial premises and in our Construction division by our move away built 1,000 new homes.
All of our people, from public sector work and into the private across the UK and overseas, have worked sector whilst growing revenues.
hard this year to produce these results.
We are encouraged by the prospects we see It is a sign of our professionalism that time in the economic infrastructure markets such after time our projects are delivered to as power, transport and waste, both in the programme, on budget and to great quality.
UK and overseas, and in improving social I am continually impressed by the quality and infrastructure sectors such as affordable professionalism displayed by our people and housing, mixed-use regeneration and Kings Mill Education Centre the tremendous effort that goes into all of the commercial projects, predominantly in the Kiers project to provide specialist teaching facilities work that we do.
at Kings Mill Hospital Education Centre comprised reconfiguring wards and constructing a new lecture I am proud to represent Kier, and of the great Our Services division is beginning to see theatre.
The building was also extensively refurbished to create a fire escape stairwell, double lift, offices, work our teams deliver in the communities larger opportunities come to market as local caf and reception.
Working in a live environment, they represent.
I am delighted to announce authorities out source different bundled the team met regularly with the client and estates this year that we are establishing a charitable services, and our Property division is in department to discuss the programme and adapt trust, the Kier Foundation, to provide a more a strong position to expand its portfolio it according to the hospitals activities.
coordinated approach to the huge amount and seek non-speculative schemes in the of time and financial support we put into our medium term.
This will enable us to better manage our corporate giving and to generate Our Construction and Services order books Kier has committed to the Halving further value in the areas in which we of secure and probable contracts are robust Halving Waste to Landfill participate.
with many of the construction awards Waste to initiative by WRAP.
having been secured through frameworks Landfill Finally, I would like to thank all of our and collaborative agreements, providing us people at every level throughout our many with confidence that we can sustain good businesses for their continuing support and operating margins and strong cash flows.
contribution to the continuing success of the Group.
Whilst I expect 2012 to be challenging, Our integrated business model continues I am confident that our teams will meet that to present opportunities across a wide range challenge as they have done so consistently of sectors, right across the country, which in the past.
will provide greater resilience during the current challenging economic environment.
Markets and prospects Our strong balance sheet will inevitably The year to 30 June 2011 has been busy for be seen as increasingly important as all our businesses in bidding for work in an customers scrutinise the strength of their increasingly competitive environment.
requirements from our clients for bundled services has required all our teams to rethink We remain a robust and sustainable and re-engineer the way we bid and deliver business, with committed and professional our work.
staff in whom we have confidence and their abilities will underpin further progress by The next 12 months will remain challenging the Group in the new financial year.
as the reduction in government spending continues to affect levels of construction Paul Sheffield and services activity.
Low levels of public Chief Executive confidence and therefore uncertainty will affect the private housing market.
