King sher plc Annual Report Delivering more value 10 and Accounts 2010 11 Creating the leader We aim to capitalise on the attractive characteristics of our market and to Aim to deliver faster growth and use our unrivalled international scale and experience to develop products, services and channels for our customers that make their household jobs higher returns by working together easier to do.
By doing this we will create the leader in our industry and accelerate away from the pack, delivering faster, sustainable growth and to become the worlds expert at higher returns.
Over the coming years we will focus on three themes: making home improvement easier 1.
EASIER We believe we can stimulate the overall market, grow our for customers like-for-like sales and our market share by becoming the worlds expert at making home improvement easier for our customers.
The next phase of our development builds on the success of Delivering Product Value which has repositioned King sher as a strong business in the We will establish for the first time a product innovation function to design attractive home improvement market.
new, easier to use products under the banner of our 10 new own superWe currently operate in eight countries, spanning over 500 million brands.
These products will be exclusive to King sher businesses households.
Around 120 billion is spent per year on repairing, We will use our scale and global sourcing expertise to bring these maintaining and improving these households.
Spending in developed products first to market and at great value for money markets has tended to re ect underlying consumption patterns whilst We will expand our direct sourcing network across the world to nd in the developing markets rising wealth is fuelling accelerated growth the best sources of quality and affordability as home owners catch up with developed country standards.
As well Multi-channel as growth potential, the home improvement market is also attractive to We will add new digital channels for the convenience of our customers retailers because of the relatively small number of well known manufacturer Advice brands.
This means a specialist home improvement retailer provides a We will be the best at offering advice and demonstration whether vital role for the consumer by offering a wide product choice and expert that is in store, online or through social media advice.
They can offer a high proportion of own brand product, achieve We will fide-mystify Eco to make this important trend more accessible economies of buying scale and have a more defensible position against online or generalist operators when compared with other retail segments.
COMMON By having a 50% core common range across all our businesses However, the lack of sizeable, global manufacturer brands in our sector we will use our scale to accelerate innovation, stimulating overall has meant there has been relatively limited product innovation in recent market demand and growing our like-for-like sales and our market years to make home improvement easier and more accessible for the share.
Our scale will also make home improvement more affordable consumer.
As a result demand has not been stimulated to its full potential.
for our customers whilst boosting our margins.
This is particularly true in the more developed markets such as the UK This is possible because tastes across our markets are increasingly similar and France where householders generally have a list of work needed to as customers travel more and buy products produced from international be done but their repair, maintenance or improvement jobs are thought sources.
We already sell the same categories in our stores, such as building to be too complicated or too costly.
We believe there is a big opportunity & repair materials and tools, gardening and seasonal products, decoration for a real retail leader to emerge to address this opportunity and unlock products, kitchens and bathrooms.
However, less than 5% of individual the latent demand in these markets.
products on sale across King shers businesses are common to more than Strategic transition 2011 12 Delivering Value Delivering more value Creating the leader Mobilise Execute Complete Mobilise Execute 2010 11 20 201 11 1 1 12 o 2 on nwa war rd ds s 40328 Kingfisher[Front]p01-30 FINAL.
indd 10 10 14 4 11 14 4 11 12:56:29 12:56:29 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 11 2010 11 King sher evolution Conglomerate Federation Single integrated leader 20 20 20 2 201 1 10 0 0 0 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 80% local ex 20% local ex one business and sourced from a common supplier, re ecting our previous a fully centralised model we will retain our existing country management conglomerate organisation.
As we progress towards a more integrated structures whilst in addition creating a series of teams that work across organisational approach we will increase the proportion of products that traditional country and business boundaries.
A number of these multiform a core common range to around 50%.
Much of this will be our own national, multi-operating company teams are already established, are brands, sourced direct through the global King sher Sourcing Organisation.
well resourced and empowered to manage key projects, such as common ranging and multi-channel development, under the direction of Greater commonality will result in greater convergence of our operating the Group Executive.
Known internally as One Team this new approach models around the Group, enabling operating ef ciency and cost will enable us to move from the existing 20:80 common:local business productivity gains.
EXPAND Challenging goals By becoming the best at making home improvement easier and A key element of the success of the Delivering Value programme has developing a core common range we will be able to accelerate and been setting clear and challenging medium-term goals linked to shareimprove our expansion, thereby growing total sales and market share.
As we start to enter the next phase of King shers Having strengthened the businesses and established stringent capital development a revision to the existing Performance Share Plan, covering disciplines, King sher is now in a better position to successfully the three years to January 2014, will be proposed for approval by accelerate its expansion.
There is potential to grow our current store shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in June 2011. network from 856 to over 1,100 in our existing markets over the longUnder the proposals, share awards will be made for reaching stretching term, and also establish a multi-channel presence in each one.
Over earnings and returns targets.
The maximum potential share award will time we would expect participation of sales from the three geographic vest as follows: operating divisions to be broadly equivalent UK & Ireland, France and Other International.
Earnings: 50% for achieving a compound average growth rate CAGR Proven territories of 15% in adjusted EPS over the three years.
EPS in 2013 14 will need We will expand faster and deeper into existing markets where returns to be 31.2p to achieve maximum vesting are proven Returns: 50% for generating a cumulative King sher economic pro t Early phase territories target over the three years.
We will continue to develop in China and Russia and determine King sher economic pro t differs from other reported pro t gures suitability for eventual expansion against challenging return hurdle rates because it takes into account a charge for the capital employed in the New territories business.
In doing this the calculation treats leases as though they were We will identify and enter new markets with stores and other owned assets within capital employed, capitalising them using long-term channels, leveraging our core common range and more common property yield methodology.
For the purposes of the calculation, reported operating model adjusted post-tax pro t is used, but interest and lease costs are added Organisational development back.
A charge for the cost of capital employed is then deducted by Successful delivery of the next phase will require us to complete the journey applying the Groups lease adjusted WACC to its lease and pension from our origins as a retail conglomerate to a single, uni ed retailer.
progress has been made in recent years and the organisation is now ready These share-based incentives will cover the two Executive Directors to complete the final steps in our journey, thereby unlocking the full potential and the top 50 senior managers with plans to extend elements of this of our unique international talent and scale.
scheme to the next 150 senior managers.
Further share incentives At the same time it is also very important that we retain the value of our for store managers will also be rolled out next year.
local diversity and closeness to the local customer.
Rather than adopting 40328 Kingfisher[Front]p01-30 FINAL.
