King sher plc Annual Report Innovation 12 and Accounts 2010 11 Products Innovation King shers customers are increasingly looking for new products, new services and new ways of shopping, all at great prices.
We are making it easier for our customers to access new, good value, exclusive products for their homes, as well as innovative services that make their shopping experience as easy as possible, such as in-store DIY classes, online 3D kitchen planning and hourly van hire.
We use customer insights to capture new ideas and changing preferences and share them between our businesses in order to remain at the forefront of home improvement innovation.
The following pages give examples of innovation in our product ranges, stores and services.
Tiling Blooma garden Paste the wall Responsibly sourced As part of its Cest furniture wallpaper timber Castoche campaign to This spring saw the launch Part of B&Q UKs In 2011 B&Q became the make home improvement of the Blooma own-brand campaign to make home first major UK retailer to easier, Castorama France range of seasonal garden improvement easier for achieve the goal of buying launched a range of products at B&Q UK and customers is to stock all timber products from click-together tiling which Castorama France.
This more products that are proven responsible sources.
This launch is part of King shers easier to use.
One From garden furniture to range, together with its development of common example is a wider range kitchens, nearly 16,000 range of ultra thin tiles ranges for sale across of paste-the-wall products at B&Q contain which can be laid on top Europe in multi-lingual wallpaper which has wood either as whole of existing tiles, now packaging.
Others to be special backing so it can timber or as an agglomerate.
accounts for 10% of launched across the Group be hung dry from the roll.
B&Q is committed to only Castoramas tile sales.
include Verve garden Pictured here is the buying products that are ranges, Cooke & Lewis Cocktail wallpaper from traceable to sources that kitchens and Form storage the B&Q Colours range.
have met legal, social products.
and environmental own-brands will replace standards that have around 150 own brands been independently currently sold across veri ed, or are recycled.
indd 12 12 19 4 11 19 4 11 09:02:43 09:02:43 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 13 2010 11 Product innovation The King sher Sourcing Organisation KSO uses its signi cant worldwide buying strength to bring innovative products to customers at affordable prices.
There are now 10 King sher exclusive own-brands, including the seasonal Blooma garden products range, Verve gardening accessories and Blyss heating and cooling products, which come in multi-lingual packaging common to our stores in the UK, France, Poland, Russia and Turkey.
This is in addition to the aspirational ranges from well-known designers.
Composite fence Turbo Veg Limited edition drill Nomad lamp panels After a successful trial in Screw x launched an This stylish, portable lamp, This new range of fencing, 2010 all B&Q UK stores will exclusive, limited edition which is rechargeable, was mixing composite and be selling Turbo Vegetable black Makita drill, launched by Castorama acrylic panels, was plants this year.
They offer complete with unique France.
Called the Nomad brought into Castorama traditional heavy cropping numbered certi cate for lamp it can be used indoors France stores in 2010. and full avoured varieties, authenticity.
Only 5,000 or outdoors and comes in Developed with the grafted onto rootstock of the stylish 18V Li-ion a choice of eight colours.
support of King sher specially developed to resist drill drivers were produced, Price: 89 Sourcing Organisation, pests and diseases, and complete with distinctive its elegance and simple give the plant extra vigour.
functionality has proved This means the plants will Price: 249.99 very popular with yield approximately twice customers.
as much as a regular plant.
There are 13 varieties of Turbo Veg 3.98 per plant, including tomatoes, aubergines and peppers.
indd 13 13 14 4 11 14 4 11 12:56:40 12:56:40 King sher plc Annual Report Innovation 14 and Accounts 2010 11 Stores and services You Can Do It classes Making it easier Smartphone app 3D kitchen planner PDAs B&Q UK is making it easier A new TV campaign Castorama France has In May 2010 Castorama Brico Dpt France is for customers to undertake launched before Easter continued to add new France launched a three now using Personal Digital home improvement jobs aims to encourage Britain features to its iPhone app.
dimensional website which Assistants to enable through the expansion of to overcome its DIY fears.
These include YouTube enables customers to stores to conduct price its successful You Can The ads highlight some videos giving advice on design their own kitchen checks against the local Do It classes.
Over of the most common DIY how to do particular home layout, choose their style competition.
The PDAs 2,500 customers have mishaps and promote improvement jobs, a of kitchen and calculate the are supported by a central undertaken a class so the help available from social media section costs within minutes.
The database using local data.
far, with more than 20 celebrity experts, quali ed which enables customers tool is part of Castoramas categories to choose from, in-store experts, in-store to share ideas via plan to make home including tiling, plumbing demos and products platforms such as improvement easier for and hanging wallpaper.
designed to make it Facebook and Twitter, customers as the planner The classes currently easier and give the nation and a store locator saves time and makes the operate in six B&Q stores the skills and con dence feature.
The Casto app visit to the store more with a further 9 planned to to do more DIY.
classes are also available to help develop the next generation of DIYers.
indd 14 14 14 4 11 14 4 11 12:56:43 12:56:43 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 15 2010 11 Call, Pay, Collect Kirstie, George and Van hire JobSorted.
com Gallery merchandising In July 2010 Screw x Alan Titchmarsh Following a successful Launched jointly by B&Q B&Q China has started to rolled out its Call, Pay, B&Q UK is now working seven-month trial, B&Q is and Screw x earlier this use gallery merchandising Collect scheme to all with Channel 4s Kirstie rolling out an hourly van year, JobSorted.
com is in its stores, as it seeks customers.
This service Allsopp and George hire scheme to 137 stores the UKs biggest directory more innovative and enables customers to call Clarke as part of its across mainland Britain.
providing details of inspiring ways to display the Contact Centre and campaign to make DIY The scheme will help 150,000 local tradesmen.
place an order to collect and home improvement customers transport their Customers can search for The space-ef cient from their local Trade easier.
Kirstie will be bulky products home in a tradesman, post a job approach is being used in Counter.
During the call, providing tips and advice a way thats quick, easy and check out extensive shop within shop areas the stock is checked and on home decoration and cheap, at only 14 pro les to make an of the store, such as goods are reserved so through store appearances per hour, and will informed decision about ooring and tiling, leading that everything is ready to and online.
George, a complement the existing who does work in their to higher sales densities.
quali ed architect, will delivery service.
be helping customers maximise the space in their homes.
The pair join number one gardener, Alan Titchmarsh, who is already working with B&Q to make gardening easier.
