King sher plc Annual Report Group buying programmes and Accounts 17 2010 11 Major growth in direct sourcing Developing an outstanding portfolio of global Group brands In recent years King sher has worked hard to create an infrastructure The more ef ciently we can source and market own-brand products through which our Group businesses can source greater volumes of to our customers, the greater the bene ts we can drive from our Group products directly from suppliers.
The advantages of such an approach buying strategy.
During the past year a project has been completed to are clear: it gives more control of the sourcing process, reduces time create a streamlined portfolio of 10 exclusive King sher own-brands to market and crucially enables our businesses to share ranges covering our key product categories.
Some are established names: that offer the greatest value and purchasing appeal to our customers.
others have been newly-created to meet a particular need.
Last year saw a genuine step-change in our Group buying performance, Each brand is available to all our home improvement formats, with with the value of direct shipments reaching $1.3 billion, up 66% on the multi-lingual packaging as standard to minimise production lead times.
previous year and signi cantly ahead of our $1 billion target.
Growth was The first common ranges to be delivered under this new strategy were seen across all Group businesses with notably strong results achieved seasonal garden products under the Blooma brand, which went on sale by Brico Dpt France, which more than doubled its direct shipments, in B&Q UK, Castorama France, Castorama Poland, Castorama Russia while Castorama Poland achieved an increase of 88%, Castorama and Kotas in early 2011.
Taking common ranging to the next level From a product perspective the ranges that saw biggest increases Our two largest Group businesses, B&Q UK and Castorama France, in direct shipments were bathroom and kitchen 94%, electrical are now aligning their product sourcing strategies more closely than products 86%, lighting 100% and garden tools 72%.
The King sher Sourcing Organisation KSO has further enlarged its In the seasonal category, a product roadshow was held in Hong Kong in global footprint, with a new sourcing presence now established in Israel.
March 2010 where the buying teams worked together on creating more Elsewhere, the KSOs Vietnamese of ce, which opened in 2009, continues common ranges of barbecues and garden furniture.
This resulted in 60% to extend its reach into South East Asia, while the Warsaw of ce is of this seasons barbecue range, and 35% of the garden furniture range, sourcing from other eastern European territories including Ukraine, being common between B&Q UK and Castorama France.
We now place Turkey, Romania and the Czech Republic.
Products manufactured 80% of our total garden leisure purchasing through common suppliers.
outside Poland now generate 45% of the Warsaw teams total buying By working together with our suppliers, our combined scale allows us to volumes, which are up 150% year-on-year.
achieve better commercial terms as well as enabling us to create better designed products which will help us drive sales.
To facilitate more Optimising our supplier base cross-Group common sourcing, we have recently created core range We recognise that our suppliers hold the key to us achieving our future catalogues containing 3,000 best selling direct sourced products.
Finding the best manufacturers to meet our core range is available across the Group, helping us drive more volume exacting standards for quality, innovation, exclusivity and value, then through common products.
developing strong and mutually bene cial relationships with them, is a prerequisite if we are to make the most of our combined buying scale.
Ethical sourcing King sher continues to work with suppliers to improve labour and Last year 86% of the $1.3bn we spent on direct shipments was placed environmental conditions throughout its supply chain and monitor with vendors who supply at least two King sher businesses.
In addition, compliance with the King sher Code of Conduct for Factory Working while China remains our most important sourcing market we have worked Conditions.
Over 1,000 supplier factory ethical assessments were to establish a truly global supplier base: 25% of our direct sourcing conducted during the year.
vendors are now located outside China across 32 different countries.
The King sher Sourcing Organisation works in collaboration with factories to improve standards through factory action plans, partnership projects and training, such as ethical sourcing workshops for factories in India.
Multi-lingual packaging The new own-brands feature New own-brand launch multi-lingual packaging, as In 2010, King sher unveiled a range of 10 own-brands.
They are being rolled out shown on this hose reel.
across the Group and replace the previous collection of around 150 own-brands.
