Kingfisher plc Annual Report A conversation with and Accounts 05 2010 11 the executive team Peter Hogsted Kevin OByrne Ian Cheshire Euan Sutherland Philippe Tible Chief Executive, International Group Finance Director Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, Chief Executive, France Kingfisher UK & Ireland Ian Cheshire Having transformed Kingfisher Group Chief Executive into a stronger business, we are now much better placed to accelerate our development and create a truly world-class leader in home Delivering Value has worked, so whats the next improvement retailing.
Yes it has gone well due to a relentless focus on our self-help A initiatives rather than any help from our markets, which have all suffered in the global downturn one way or the other.
So its a big thanks to an incredible effort by our 80,000 colleagues.
But before I tell you about our next phase of development let me remind you that we still have a very busy year ahead of us to finish the Delivering Value programme.
Having transformed Kingfisher into a stronger business, we are now much better placed to accelerate our development and create a truly world-class leader in home improvement retailing.
We operate in an attractive market which is ripe for faster growth but it will take real leadership to unlock it.
We intend to be that leader, accelerating away from the pack by becoming the worlds expert at making home improvement easier for our customers.
By introducing a core common range across Kingfisher for the first time, we will make better use of our Kingfisher plc Annual Report A conversation with 06 and Accounts 2010 11 the executive team unrivalled scale to develop innovative new products that make home Euan Sutherland projects easier and more affordable.
This will boost growth in our CEO Kingfisher UK & Ireland existing markets and enable us to expand faster and more efficiently into new territories at the right time.
Kingfisher has been an international, scale player for Q years.
We have been big for a while but our Great job on profits, but sales densities are still low.
A conglomerate legacy has seen us operate for too long in Q Do we need a booming economy to see LFL sales country silos, re-inventing the wheel wherever we go and not fully growth in the UK?
capitalising on our scale and diversity.
That said, a lot has changed No we dont, but weve clearly been battling a strong headwind in in recent years and we now have a much more unified and aligned A recent years and our market is smaller today than it was in 2004, leadership team, and a fast-developing new approach to cross-Group the height of the last home improvement boom.
Internally we call this the One Team culture, a network of retail brand but you can never sit still in retail and so we have done a lot colleagues working across countries and businesses.
Our unique asset over the last few years to keep raising our game.
Our stores are more is our international diversity and expertise, and we are now beginning modern, our operating standards are now much sharper and consistent, to really leverage it.
Today you will see great products selling under our and we have trained 21,000 colleagues in product knowledge to Group-wide own brand names in multi-lingual packaging the result improve our service in store.
We do a great job for our everyday DIYer of buyers networking as one team.
This is just the beginning: I am very customer and have really improved our offer for the do it for me excited about how much scope we have.
This year we introduced a whole new concept, TradePoint, into B&Q stores, which vastly improves our offer for our trade professional customers.
We have also recently launched a new Philippe Tible customer promise of making it easier to improve your home and this is CEO, Kingfisher France where I think we can really differentiate ourselves and grow our market share.
To this end I recruited Vronique Laury who led the successful product development programme at Castorama in France, to be our new commercial director.
I also recruited Katherine Paterson, previously the marketing director of ASDA, to lead our new making it easier marketing campaign.
So I think we have a very exciting time ahead of us, building on strong foundations, creating a true market leader.
The French business is clearly outperforming, whats Q the secret?
Weve heard about common ranging before, why will it Good retailing is no secret but its very hard to do consistently Q work this time round?
We have been working very hard for some years now to re-position ourselves as the true leader in France, not just by size for As Ian said earlier, introducing common ranges is a huge growth sizes sake, but the leader for customers.
We have modernised our stores A opportunity for Kingfisher, both for driving sales and margin.
I think and introduced innovative own brand products designed to make home the new One Team approach is the key to properly harnessing our improvement simpler and easier to do.
This is now paying dividends and scale and talent this time round.
The really good news is its no longer we are growing ahead of the market, especially at Castorama where just a strategy or a dream, its happening today in stores.
On shelf right these initiatives are further advanced.
now in B&Q are outdoor products under the new group-wide Blooma own brand in multi-lingual packaging.
And they are on shelf in France and Poland too!
Thats a huge breakthrough for Kingfisher and its only With 203 stores, is this the end of the road for growth just beginning.
One day I want 50% of everything in store to be common Q in France?
Not at all, I can see plenty of opportunity to add more store A space in France, whether thats through extending or relocating existing Castorama stores, or adding new Castorama and Brico Dpt stores in regions where we still have a limited presence.
I believe we are only about 80% of the way through our space expansion programme but the last 20% will take quite a long time to deliver organically.
So we are keeping a good look-out for opportunities to accelerate.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 07 2010 11 Kevin OByrne I think we have a very exciting Group Finance Director time ahead of us, building on strong foundations, creating a true market leader Euan Sutherland Kingfisher with no debt, is it time to give back cash Q to shareholders?
Im delighted that our efforts right across the businesses have A eliminated the 1.6bn of financial net debt that we started this Peter Hogsted journey with.
Its true we have a much stronger balance sheet now CEO, Kingfisher International which means we have options going forward a nice place to be relative to the depths of the credit crisis barely two years ago.
But its not true we are debt free.
We lease over 600 of our 856 stores and using a long-term property yield this equates to additional finance lease debt of 5.8 billion.
Under todays accounting rules these cant be shown on the balance sheet but we do include this liability when thinking about our balance sheet and funding.
Eastern Europe is growing fast, but is it just a flash Q in the pan?
Our aim is to retain financial flexibility whilst investing in improving and growing our business for the longer term.
We are also keen to share our Absolutely not, these markets are still in their infancy.
There are cash generation with shareholders and thats why we have increased A 86 million homes in our market in Poland, Turkey and Russia, our full year dividend by 29% this year, ahead of our earnings growth.
and, as wealth levels grow, a high priority for people is to improve their And I would expect us to continue to grow our dividends ahead of existing homes, catching up with the more developed markets in western earnings for the next few years so that our dividend cover gently reduces Europe.
The markets are under-developed in a retail sense with much of from 3 times last year to around 2.7 over the medium term, a level at the sales still going to generalists and open air markets.
We have opened which we can invest in the business, return cash through dividends 41 stores in the past three years but there is scope to more than double and maintain an appropriate balance sheet gearing.
our stores and establish a multi-channel approach.
So I see many years of good growth to come over the longer term.
But these things are never an entirely smooth road, you have to be ready for some speed bumps Last year you hinted at acquisitions, are you still along the way and build flexibility into your plans.
First and foremost our investment will be targeted at expanding China stay or leave?
A the store and digital channels for our existing businesses.
We Q are planning to increase our organic investment in areas where high returns are already proven.
If we see any opportunities to accelerate To be honest I think we need another 12 months before we can this by acquiring small parcels of stores at the right price, we will act.
We now have a terrific local team in place and As regards anything more meaningful, you can never say never, but they have transformed the business from a large loss maker and cash we set the hurdles very high indeed when it comes to creating value user into one that is capable of making a profit and generating cash.
for shareholders via acquisition, so it would need to be a great deal.
But there is more to be done in China and we will need time to prove our store format is a success with customers to be sure that we have a winning formula.
We have learned some important lessons from our experiences and were determined to get that stay or leave decision right.
After all, you dont walk away from a market-leading position in the worlds second largest economy, nor commit more shareholder funds lightly.
41 1.6bn new stores opened in Poland, amount of debt eliminated Russia and Turkey since 2008 over the past three years
