Business review Ladbrokes plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Regulation Taxation and Regulation A Sustainable Fiscal of Remote Gambling Operators and Regulatory The Government is reviewing the current Framework tax and regulatory arrangements for remote gambling operators.
Further detail There are a number of tax and regulatory on its plans may be forthcoming in the matters currently being examined by 2012 Budget.
Ladbrokes will engage fully Government which have significant with Government to ensure it recognises implications for the betting industry.
the importance that tax and regulation These include Machine Games Duty, work together, rather than merely making the taxation and regulation of remote regulated businesses uncompetitive by gambling operators and the future proving commercial advantage to those funding of horseracing.
sitting outside the regulatory net.
Ladbrokes continues to play a lead role in engaging with Government and The Future Funding of Horseracing stakeholders to ensure the industrys Closer cooperation between racing and contribution to the economy in terms of betting is vital to ensuring horseracing jobs, taxes and economic growth is fully remains a core feature of the betting shops appreciated and that the impact of any tax for the future.
The lack of a data led or regulatory changes are fully understood.
approach to fixture and race planning means both industries are failing to The British betting industry is a highly optimise their returns from racing.
taxed industry generating 1 billion Ladbrokes is meeting regularly with in taxes in the UK, and retaining only racecourse representatives, Government 600 million in profits.
It employs around and interested parties to progress a 40,000 people in 8,500 betting shops renewed partnership that removes throughout Britain.
Government from the annual discussions around the funding of racing.
We will Machine Games Duty continue to work to secure a long-term The Government is expected to confirm in partnership between racing and betting the March 2012 budget the rate of Machine that delivers the best possible racing Games Duty.
This is a new tax on machine product to betting shop customers, and revenues which will replace Amusement delivers sustainable long-term funding for Machine Licence Duty, currently payable the racing industry.
on each machine, and VAT which is payable on all machine revenues.
A gambling industry modelling exercise pointed to a rate of 15% as ensuring no single sector was penalised by the move.
