Ladbrokes plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our business Our business objective is to build an e enabled international betting and gaming business Retail Digital Pricing, Customer Regulatory excellence capability trading and brand leadership and liability management UK land based betting Betting and gaming All are critical to Ladbrokes is the most The ongoing evolution and gaming has recognised betting online or increasingly optimising margin, of tax and regulation developed to become on mobile continues to broadening product brand in the UK.
plays a key part in the a genuine leisure We have begun the grow.
We are making range and establishing performance of our activity.
Our objective good progress in a market leading process of evolving the business.
We continue is to continually evolve brand to make it more acquiring and developing customer offer.
to play a lead role in the experience for improved technology, exciting, placing ensuring the industrys Our increasing use our customers, whilst expanding our range customer experience contribution to the of data and trading optimising both of Digital products and insight right at the economy, jobs and taxes algorithms has enabled our margin and and delivering a more heart of our offer.
us to make great operational efficiency.
compelling and progress in expanding competitive offer the number of Bet in to customers.
Play markets available to our customers round the clock.
For more information go to pages 6-13 or www.
com Overview Ladbrokes plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 By focusing on our five critical success factorsand restructuring our business tofocuson the customer, we are developinga business for a multi channel future to deliver long-term growth and value for our shareholders.
UK Retail European Digital Telephone Retail Ladbrokes shops are a We operate retail Ladbrokes is part Telephone betting remains familiar fixture on British businesses in Ireland, aservice popular with a way through an high streets.
Revenue is Belgium and also in investment programme significant number of driven by traditional Over Spain through a joint customers in spite of the which is designed to the Counter sports venture, Sportium, which enhance our Digital offer.
growth of digital and mobile betting and increasingly leads the market in communications.
Calls to Better technology, more by gaming machines, Madrid and is expanding products, a new online the telephone service are which have shown an into other regions, taken in our shops and sportsbook and increase in gross win including Valencia.
continued innovation inour call centre in London.
of 19% in 2011. in mobile are making We also operate a the business telephone service for our more competitive.
Number of shops Number of shops Net revenue mix Number of telephone calls sportsbook 38%, casino 35%, games 10%, poker 9%, bingo 8% 2,127 592 4.3m 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Net revenue 152.3m 13.4m 55.0m 9.5m 3 3 Gross win per machine Amounts staked Unique active players Unique active players per week 860 923.0m 67,000 878,000 1 Continuing operations excluding High Rollers.
2 Profit before tax, net finance expense, amortisation of customer relationships and non-trading items.
3 A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the period.
