Governance Ladbrokes plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance continued Directors report A review of the Groups activities and future developments, which Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of this fulfils the requirements of the business review, including the financial performance during the year, key performance indicators report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditor and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is given on pages 8 to 21 and forms part of this report.
in connection with preparing its report of which the auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she The description of the Groups corporate governance arrangements on pages 24 to 28 also forms part of this report.
A description of ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk is the auditor isaware of that information.
contained in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements Share capital and forms part of this report.
Other matters material to the At 15 February 2012, the Company had been notified of the appreciation of the Groups position are contained in the following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
shares in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Deutsche Bank AG 3.74%: FIL Limited 5.04%: Ignis Investment Results The results for the year are shown in the consolidated income statement.
Services Limited 3.10%: Legal & General Group PLC 3.84%: and Schroders plc 12.11%.
Dividends The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of used in connection with certain of the Companys employee share 3.90 pence on each of the ordinary shares entitled thereto, ownership plans, waives dividends on shares in the Trust not making a total of 7.80 pence for the year.
Subject to shareholders allocated to plan members.
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 April 2012, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 26 April 2012 to Further details in respect of the share capital are shown in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements which forms part of shareholders registered on 16 March 2012. this report.
Annual General Meeting Corporate responsibility This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on 19 April 2012 at 11.00am.
The 2011 Corporate Responsibility CR report is available at www.
com and highlights, with which the following Directors should be considered in conjunction, are given on pages 19 to21.
The directors during the year were those listed on page 23 The processes described in the section Internal control and risk together with B G Wallace who resigned on 31 August 2011. management systems on pages 26 and 27 applied to CR, as did Biographical details of the directors at 16 February 2012 are on the practices described on page 24 for ensuring the Board is page 23.
On 16 February 2012 the Company announced that supplied with appropriate and timely information and training and CPWicks would not be standing for re-appointment at this years for assisting the directors to update their knowledge.
In addition to Annual General Meeting and the appointments of C M Hodgson business presentations regularly made to the Board at which CR and R Moross with effect from 1 May 2012. was considered as appropriate, the Board conducts an annual CR Details of directors service contracts, their share interests and review and Board members regularly receive CR updates.
CR other details of their remuneration by the Company are contained performance is included in business unit accountability systems in the Directors remuneration report.
Pursuant to section 175 and remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee in of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of determining executive remuneration takes into account CR association, the Board has authorised situations of potential matters as described in the Directors remuneration report.
conflict arising out of J F Jarvis being a non-executive director of The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2011 and going Sandown Park and a member of The Jockey Club and S Bailey forward primarily revolve around the reputation of the Group and being a director of Trinity Mirror plc.
the quality of its brands.
Ladbrokes plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance continued Directors report continued Of particular importance was the promotion of responsible Supplier payment policy gambling and the protection of children and the vulnerable.
The Company agrees payment terms for its business transactions CR also impacted i the performance of the Groups employees when goods and services are ordered.
It ensures that suppliers on whom the Group relies for the provision of high quality services are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are to customers and ii the health and safety of these employees and included in contracts where appropriate.
Subject to satisfactory the customers they serve.
performance by the supplier, arrangements are adhered to when making payments.
At the year end, the Company had Performance indicators continued to be developed in accordance no trade creditors.
No breaches of CR policies and procedures material to the Group were identified by the Board in 2011.
Going concern The identification and management of CR issues, the CR reporting In assessing the going concern basis, the directors considered framework and any associated data has been reviewed by the theGroups business activities, the financial position of the Group Companys CR adviser, Acona Partners LLP.
as described in pages 4 to 21 and the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies as included in note 24 to the Employee policies consolidated financial statements.
The Board values two-way communication between senior The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to management and employees on all aspects of the Companys continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and strategy, Company performance, management effectiveness that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in and wellbeing.
There is a rolling three year internal communications strategy and By order of the Board delivery plan which includes interventions such as regular management roadshows, visits to operating units, responses to the colleague opinion survey and updates on performance against the Companys strategic vision.
M J Noble The internal communications services channels include face to Secretary face events, a powerful corporate intranet, audio broadcasting, 16 February 2012 SMS alerts, a Company magazine and line manager briefing packs.
The UK Staff Council, which has been in place since 1996, provides a further mechanism for employee engagement.
In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouraged to become involved in the Groups performance through participation in share schemes.
Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities are recognised in the formulation and development of employment policies.
It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the continued provision of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share equally in the opportunities for training, career development and promotion.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company continues to maintain directors and officers liabilityinsurance.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity to the extent permitted by law with each of the directors.
Charitable donations During 2011, in addition to donations made to overseas charities, Group companies donated 931,840 to UK charitable organisations for charitable purposes.
