Ladbrokes plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risks and how we manage them Risk governance Risk management Risk and responsibilities process methodology The Board has overall The key risks are assessed The Risk Committee considers responsibility for risk bythe Risk Committee the following impact areas in management as an integral using abespoke risk assessing risks: partof strategic planning methodology andreviewed Legal and regulatory by the Executive Committee The Executive Committee Betting and gaming compliance madeup of executive directors At each Board meeting any Financial management and and senior executives makes changes to key risks are bookmaking recommendations on the overall identified and all key risks are Reputation approach to risk management reviewed formally by the Board Technology and identifies the key risks.
twice yearly Data integrity and fraud protection The Executive Committee is Customers The risk management processes assisted by a Risk Committee Employees are reviewed by the Audit made up of Group and divisional Committee annually For each risk identified within senior executives these impact areas the likelihood, Risk management forms an The Audit Committee is consequence, mitigating controls integral part of the Groups responsible for assessing the and actions, risk owner and internal control, planning and scope and effectiveness of forecast residual risk are identified approval process the systems established to by the Risk Committee identify, assess, manage and The overall risk level is quantified monitor risks and assessed to ensure that Each key risk is assigned the appropriate mitigation Executive Committee measures and future actions member ownership have been identified Strategy General business risks include: Achieving the strategy outlined in the Chief Executives review will Marketplace changes in the economic environment, changes deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders whilst in consumer leisure spend.
minimising some of the key risks that Ladbrokes faces.
Failure to Financial availability of debt financing and costs of borrowing, achieve the strategy has the potential to affect the business and taxation, pension fund liability.
How strategy is established and the associated Operational recruitment and retention of key talent, execution risks are managed are described in Corporate governance.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are general business risks faced by Ladbrokes that are comparable to those faced by most other businesses.
In addition, there are more specific risks which are either unique to Ladbrokes or apply to the industry it operates in.
The risks outlined here are those principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do not include all those associated with Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
Business review Ladbrokes plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Specific risks that are material to Ladbrokes are: Risks Mitigation Marketplace Competition Ladbrokes performance and competitive position are continuously Ladbrokes faces competition primarily from other land based monitored and, where appropriate, changes are instituted, including bookmakers, online betting exchanges and other online gambling in relation to marketing, product development, yield management, operators.
In particular, the online gambling market is characterised cost control and investment.
Acquisition opportunities, with a view to by intense and substantial competition and by relatively low taking advantage of market consolidation, are continuously evaluated.
barriersto entry for new participants.
In addition, Ladbrokes faces competition from market participants who benefit from greater liquidity as a result of accepting bets and wagers from jurisdictions in which Ladbrokes chooses not to operate because of legal reasons or otherwise.
Betting and gaming industry Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing Regulatory, legislative and fiscal developments in key markets are Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting and gaming monitored closely see page 13 for further details, allowing Ladbrokes inkey markets around the world can change, sometimes at short to assess and adapt quickly to changes in the environment and notice.
Such changes could benefit or have an adverse effect minimise risks to the business.
Ladbrokes engages with its regulators onLadbrokes and additional costs might be incurred in order and the relevant trade organisations with regard to the betting and tocomplywith any new laws or regulations.
gaming regulatory framework and other issues of shared concern, such as problem gambling.
Increased cost of product Ladbrokes is subject to certain financing arrangements intended Ladbrokes engages with the relevant trade associations and the tosupport industries from which it profits.
Examples are the principal bodies of sport and event industries with regard to sports horseracing and the voluntary greyhound racing levies which rights payments, including the statutory horseracing levy, animal respectively support the British horseracing and greyhound welfare and other issues.
In addition, Ladbrokes enters into contracts for the distribution of television pictures, audio and other data that are broadcast into Ladbrokes betting shops.
A number of these are under negotiation at any one time.
Operational and bookmaking Bookmaking Ladbrokes may experience significant losses as a result of a failure Ladbrokes core expertise is risk management and it has developed to determine accurately the odds in relation to any particular event the skills and systems to be able to offer a wide range of betting and or any failure of its risk management processes.
opportunities and accept large bets.
There is in place a highly experienced trading team and risks are spread across a wide range ofevents.
A bookmakers odds are determined so as to provide an average return to the bookmaker over a large number of events and therefore, over the long term, Ladbrokes gross win percentage has remained fairly constant.
Sporting schedules and cancellations In addition to gaming machines, Ladbrokes has a number There are certain high profile sporting events which attract ofalternative products to fill gaps in the schedules including significant betting activity e. g. the Grand National and the FIFA virtual horseracing.
Cancellation or curtailment of such events, for example due to adverse weather conditions, or the failure of certain sporting teams to qualify for sporting events, can adversely impact Ladbrokes results.
High fixed cost base Business re-engineering initiatives have been implemented to reduce Ladbrokes has a relatively high fixed cost base as a proportion of the cost base.
Structural contingency plans have been put in place its total costs, consisting primarily of employee and rental costs and where possible central facilities have been co-located.
The future associated with its betting shop estate.
This means that falls in strategy to increase online revenues will reduce the proportion of the revenue could have a significantly adverse effect on Ladbrokes Companys fixed costs.
profitability unless the Group reduces its costs substantially in theshort to medium term.
Ladbrokes plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risks and how we manage them continued Risks Mitigation Operational and bookmaking Loss of key locations Existing business continuity plans and arrangements for offsite Ladbrokes has a number of key sites, in particular Imperial House at datastorage, alternate system availability and remote working for Rayners Lane in London, its head office and main operations centre, keyoperational and senior management continue to be developed and its premises in Europort in Gibraltar from where online betting aspart of an ongoing process.
and gaming operations are based.
Information technology and communications Technology changes Ladbrokes has invested and committed considerable resources into The market for online gambling products and services is upgrading its existing technology, IT infrastructure, communication characterised by technological developments, new product and systems and application systems, as well as developing and service introductions and evolving industry standards.
Failure by acquiring new platforms.
Rigorous testing regimes are utilised to Ladbrokes to use leading technologies effectively, develop its ensure a continued high quality of product offerings and services technological expertise, enhance its products and services and are maintained.
improve the performance, features and reliability of its technology and advanced information systems, could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position.
Technology failure Ladbrokes has a level of resilience in place which seeks to eliminate Ladbrokes operations are highly dependent on technology single points of failure within key technology locations.
andadvanced information systems and there is a risk that such technology or systems could fail.
In particular, any damage to, orfailure of online systems and servers, electronic point of sale systems and electronic display systems could result in interruptions to financial controls and customer service systems.
Data disclosure Ladbrokes processes sensitive personal customer data including Security systems are deployed to protect transactional data.
name, address, age, bank details and betting and gaming history Sophisticated hardware and security mechanisms are used to aspart of its business and therefore must comply with strict data ensureall sensitive and confidential data is fully encrypted.
To protection and privacy laws in all jurisdictions in which the Group provide fail-safe integrity of all data, a series of storage systems are operates.
Ladbrokes is exposed to the risk that this data could be used to replicate all data processed by online services.
In respect wrongfully appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in breach of offraud protection, an extensive programme of data monitoring is data protection regulation.
This could also result in prosecutions and inplace with both prevention and detection audit controls.
the loss of the goodwill of its customers and deter new customers.
Failure in the supply chain Ladbrokes is dependent on a number of third parties for the Infrastructure suppliers, network and telecommunication suppliers operation of its business.
The withdrawal or removal from the and application service providers are long-term partners in providing marketof one or more of these major third party suppliers, an infrastructure which seeks to ensure the delivery of sophisticated orfailureof third party suppliers to comply with contractual and high performance transaction processing systems.
There is obligationscould adversely affect Ladbrokes operations.
continual communication with these suppliers and providers at an operating level and service level agreements have been established to maintain high service levels.
The ongoing review of business continuity plans will include key supplier alternatives.
