Business review Ladbrokes plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Putting customers at the heart of our business Fair Play Corporate We are keen to drive brand loyalty and all that the brand stands for, including trust and integrity.
It is important to provide our responsibility at Ladbrokes customers with an enjoyable, efficient, secure, fair and socially responsible service and all our employees are trained to support this commitment.
To check our performance, we continually seek the views of our customers and encourage feedback on our employees andservices.
In 2011, we introduced a number of new KPIs to measure our performance, including a Net Promoter Score NPS to measure how likely our customers are to recommend us to others.
Our performance is also checked through third party audits e. g. mystery shopper surveys and by monitoring customer complaints.
During 2011 our mystery shopper scores averaged 85.4% customer satisfaction.
Furthermore, our customer loyalty card Odds On continues to grow with the total number of cardsused in 2011 at 581,390 representing 39% of OTC turnover.
Through Odds On we have given back to our customers over 4.3million free bets, with just under a million of those in 2011.
We are committed to being Ensuring responsible gambling aleader of our sector We continue to meet the regulatory requirements in all countries inresponsible business where we are licensed to operate, including those of The Gambling Commission of Great Britain, the governments of Gibraltar, the practice.
Maintaining a Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, South Africa and Denmark, the Belgium Gaming Commission and the regional reputation for fairness and governments in Spain.
Furthermore, we continue to support TheGambling Commission of Great Britains three key licensing integrity, strengthening objectives to: ourcustomer focus and keep crime out of gambling: ensure gambling is conducted fairly and openly: and achieving high levels of protect children and vulnerable people from being harmed employee engagement orexploited by gambling.
All relevant personnel are trained to meet our high standards areallvital to growing andour performance is monitored on a continual basis by our ourbusiness.
Compliance Director and the supporting Compliance Committee.
Ladbrokes continues to work with its peers and national governments to improve responsible gambling behaviour across the industry.
For many years we have supported the Association of British Bookmakers ABB and the Remote Gambling Association Our Corporate Responsibility CR programmes are in line with our broader business strategy.
We embed CR principles into RGA in defining industry-wide standards and promoting responsible behaviour.
ourday-to-day operations, maintaining high ethical and socially responsible standards and remaining compliant with all relevant We ensure that our customers are well informed about our CR legislation.
products, about problem gambling issues and, for our online Our Fair Play CR strategy is in place to uphold our position as customers, about their own gambling history.
aresponsible betting and gaming company.
To us, this means We provide inherent protection to try to limit the possible financial protecting children and the vulnerable, tackling problem gambling impacts on our customers from excessive gambling e. g. daily and and maintaining integrity in everything we do.
Our strategy is weekly deposit limits and appropriate customer due diligence.
supported by the following priorities: We protect the young and the vulnerable through clear marketing keeping our customers satisfied and well informed across the standards, strict age limits, online age verification checks and channels through which we offer our products and services: self-exclusion arrangements.
engaging proactively with relevant regulators and staying For most people, gambling is an enjoyable and harmless leisure compliant wherever we operate: pursuit.
However, for a small number of people gambling can attracting the best people and sustaining high levels of become a behavioural problem.
Ladbrokes has a responsibility to knowledge and motivation throughout our diverse workforce: help tackle problem gambling, understand its causes and promote keeping crime out of gambling and tackling fraud and preventing its treatment.
We make our employees aware of the symptoms of bribery in rigorous, systematic ways: problem gambling and train them in how to respond.
minimising health and safety risks to our employees, customers Ladbrokes was a founding member of the GREaT Foundation, and the general public from our business: supporting problem gambling research, education and treatment.
reducing our environmental footprint and minimising the impact Through our membership of GREaT, we support a number of of future costs: charitable organisations including GamCare, the Gordon Moody Association and the Central and North West London National maintaining good links with the communities in which we operate through our day-to-day operations and community Problem Gambling Clinic.
Richard Glynn remains a trustee of GREaT, a position he took up in 2010.
A key role for GREaT is investment programme: and todevelop a national public education and awareness strategy, minimising the social, ethical and environmental risks aspart of the overall prevention of problem gambling agenda.
associated with our business partnerships, joint ventures andproduct sourcing.
The gambleaware website continues to be supported and the logoor website address www.
co. uk is carried on We monitor our performance through appropriate key allour websites and advertising.
performance indicators KPIs reflecting each priority of our CRstrategy.
Our progress has been good and remains aligned toour strategic aims.
Ladbrokes plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We have identified and implemented a number of energy efficiency Supporting our business with a strong workforce initiatives during 2011 in support of our aim to reduce our UK Our people are our greatest asset.
We aim to be an employer of carbon footprint by 21% by the end of 2013 compared with 2008 choice for talented, passionate people.
Over the past year we have usage.
This is equivalent to a saving of more than 11,000 tonnes invested in the systems, processes and interventions needed to of CO.
The majority of this saving will be made in the retail estate.
make Ladbrokes a better place to work.
Our strategic approach to 2 All of our shop linear fluorescent lighting has been upgraded to increasing employee engagement is informed by the results of our incorporate high frequency technology, which has helped to reduce recent and most comprehensive colleague opinion survey, which our total energy spend in 2011.
We have also implemented our new gives a clear steer on the areas requiring priority action.
These are: shop-fitting specification incorporating many of the new carbon direction and management: wellbeing: and career development, reduction technologies.
As a result our new shops are 30% more performance and recognition.
A robust action plan is in place to efficient.
So we are making steady progress.
address these priorities and quarterly updates are shared across our business.
We have also introduced an employee engagement In the past we worked hard to green our UK car fleet by offering performance indicator into our business reporting.
qualifying drivers lower emission cars.
Continuing this effort in 2011, we provided Smarter Driving training to 59 of our employees, To underpin this, we have focused on aligning our performance who achieved an average of 13.5% fuel reduction immediately management approach across the Company.
We started the year after the training.
with multiple performance management systems, with different rating scales and different ways of being assessed.
These have Contributing to society and being a good now been aligned into one format to be used consistently across corporate citizen the business.
We contribute positively to the societies in which we operate, In 2011 we also introduced our first cross-company talent through employment, payment of taxes, contributions to growth management process.
This will ensure that we find the talent in the economy and supporting industries and by supporting our across the Company and support succession planning within the local communities.
We recognise the links our employees have to top levels of the business.
Actions and recommendations have their own communities and through Ladbrokes in the Community been put in place and the process will be completed on a twice Charitable Trust LICCT we support their activities by giving yearly basis.
LICCT has raised over 6.2 million for good We continued to offer learning and training opportunities through causes since it was established in 2003.
The funds have been a variety of resources, including BS2000 our integrated shop raised by employees all around the UK and Ireland.
During 2011 computer system, the intranet and free workshops and workbooks.
LICCT donated over 600,000 to charitable and community causes across the UK.
All these new systems support our values and together with the restructure of the business, allow us to assess the capabilities In addition, Ladbrokes has donated over 931,000 to community required to be successful at Ladbrokes and to help more of our safety, citizenship and problem gambling charities.
A leader in our sector Providing a safe environment for our employees During 2011 we conducted an assessment of how we communicate and customers with our key investors and what they look for in our CR performance.
Maintaining the wellbeing of our employees and visitors to Our findings confirmed that within our sector we are seen as a CR our premises is important to us.
To ensure this, we aim for leader.
For the ninth year insuccession we were pronounced one best practice health, safety and security standards throughout ofthe leaders in our sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes all our operations and we support a proactive culture of risk DJSI.
We were also included in the FTSE4Good Indices with a score management.
We also monitor and seek to minimise the of 91% relative to the Super Sector leader.
financial impacts of health and safety related claims from across our business.
Managing our issues The Chief Executive is ultimately responsible for CR matters One of the important risks to the health of our employees and our and is supported by the CR Team who provides an overview customers comes from breaches of security on our premises, and advisory function for the business.
such as robbery and theft.
We have invested heavily in CCTV Overall governance of CR is the responsibility of the Board.
which is installed across all of our UK retail estate, both to help reduce the number of incidents and to help protect employees CR and governance issues are given full consideration by the Board when defining Group strategy.
During 2011 we continued working with the Safe Bet Alliance CR risks are regularly reviewed by the business and are considered by the Board, as appropriate, as a part of the todevelop and issue a Voluntary Code of Safety & Security for Bookmakers.
Our joint efforts were rewarded with a Tilley Award corporate risk review process see page 16.
CR matters are reported to the Board on a regular basis as a minimum quarterly for bringing down the number of robberies in London.
The Safe Bet Alliance is a collaborative initiative which includes ABB, thus forming part of the Board calendar, along with tailored director briefings and, where appropriate, training.
Metropolitan Police, Local Authorities Coordinators of Regulatory Services LACORS and Community Union.
The Code sets out The Board reviews the key CR issues and agrees the annual CR asingle national standard for betting shop safety and security.
Board members are provided with adequate background information to support their decision making.
The Remuneration Ladbrokes was the first bookmaker to have developed a Primary Authority relationship in the UK under the scheme for better Committee also takes account of CR issues when determining executive remuneration and benefits.
Liverpool City Council continues to act as a single point of contact a Primary Authority for all health and safety issues CR governance and management processes are subject to affecting Ladbrokes shops all over the UK.
internal audit and the reporting process is externally reviewed Our health and safety record in 2011 was good.
We had no byour CR advisors, Acona Partners LLP.
reportable fatalities or major injuries across our business and, following 128 health, safety and environment inspector visits in the Our full CR report For further details of our CR policies and performance, UK alone, there were no enforcement notices or prosecutions for health, safety or environmental offences.
please refer to our 2011 CR Report which is available at www.
The website also contains CR reports Providing a greener future from previous years together with our CR policies.
We seek to minimise the impact of increasing environmental Further information on our approach to responsible business costs of our operations.
This year we have made an effort to is included in the Directors report.
communicate more regularly with our employees on how they cancontribute to minimising our environmental footprint.
Through our employee magazine, The Score, and other channels we have carried multiple stories to help explain the bigger picture and what individuals can do.
Business review Ladbrokes plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility Highlights of the year 2011 Awards activities Highlights Maintained our position as the leading betting brand in the UK with 35% of adults Brand Recognition spontaneously citing Ladbrokes before any other brand.
The nearest competitor was at 20%.
38% of our workforce actively takes advantage of the Ladbrokes employee benefits scheme ClubLadbrokes www.
Introduced a robust framework for measuring employee engagement, including a rolling Colleague Opinion Survey programme of Colleague Opinion surveys.
In May, more than 9,000 people 61% shared their views.
The Employee Engagement Index, which was based on eight results within the survey, came in at 65% as against a UK national norm of 75%.
Achieved a position of 241 out of 2,103 participating organisations in the CRC Carbon CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme Reduction Commitment, the UKs mandatory climate change and energy scheme.
Achieved the Carbon Trust Standard in September in recognition of our five year carbon plan Carbon Trust Standard to reduce our Carbon Footprint by 21% by 2013.
Included again in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices with an overall score of 77%.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices We are one of only three global betting and gaming companies to be included.
Finalist for Most Effective Motivation or Incentive Strategy.
Employee Benefits Awards 2011 Remained in FTSE4Good.
We have been members since its foundation in 2002.
FTSE4Good Indices Founder member of the GREaT Foundation funding research, education and treatment of GREaT Foundation problem gambling.
Finalist for the most Outstanding Employee Engagement Strategy.
HR Excellence Awards 2011 Launched Ladbrokes Fanclub, an online, one-stop resource for our employees to show Ladbrokes Fanclub recognition across the business.
Average Mystery Shopper score for 2011 was 85.4%.
The result is high despite having Mystery Shopper Scores made the questionnaire more challenging.
Introduced Mystery Shopping on machines for the first time.
The first bookmaker to develop a Primary Authority relationship in the UK.
Liverpool City Primary Authority for Better Council continues to act as a single point of contact a Primary Authority for all health and Health & Safety H&S Regulation safety issues affecting Ladbrokes shops all over the UK.
Received the Tilley Award for the work of the Safe Bet Alliance and our efforts to reduce the Tilley Award for the number of robberies across London.
