Operating Review Wireless Systems Year ended Across the division, we experienced manufacturer to provide embedded 31 December 2011 m 2010 m % strong growth driven by demand for wireless modules that facilitate control Revenue 186.3 130.9 42 our bespoke technology solutions.
We and data transmission between Underlying 22.7 10.3 120 benefited particularly from the strength their solar panel sites in the eld.
operating profit in the automotive market for our Return on sales 12.2% 7.9% telematics solutions and from rail and Wireless Automation and Control industrial for our Wireless Automation Solutions had an excellent year, We design and supply a range and Control Solutions as well as robust performing ahead of original expectations of telematics and infrastructure demand from the mobile radio market.
at the time of acquisition, with revenues antennae products, machine-toup 23% on last year, on a pro-forma machine M2M wireless modules In 2011, we saw increasing requirements basis.
Revenues in the rail segment grew and software-enabled wireless from our customers for more complex strongly driven by customers demand control systems, used in a broad solutions which combine software and for wireless control used in replacement range of e-markets including hardware.
We have proven technology programmes, particularly in North wireless infrastructure, automotive, to oer systems that monitor data America.
The mining segment, although asset management, transportation, and feedback information through small, has seen healthy demand and in industrial, mining, datacom, medical our Wireless Automation and Control that market we benefit from its larger and retail markets.
Solutions, and through the advances than average order size.
that we have made in our M2M Divisional revenues increased by product oering.
We launched Cattron Control and 42% in 2011 to 186.3 million 2010, Cattron Connect during the year.
Revenues in our Telematics business Cattron Control consolidates global grew 25% year on year, boosted by engineering platforms, and Cattron Organic revenue growth was 18% automotive sales growth and market Connect, with its diagnostic software, 2010, 47%.
share gains by our principal customers, provides location based reports to particularly in North America together increase safety and optimise productivity.
Telematics M2M accounted for 59% with strong sales of asset tracking Coupled with our after sales service of divisional revenues in 2011, with 24% devices.
During the year we were this ensures we oer a comprehensive from Wireless Automation and Control awarded a new long-term programme solution to customers.
Solutions, and 17% from Infrastructure with a major North American truck Antennae Solutions.
supplier, delivering specialist GPS Our infrastructure antennae product line modules consisting of an antenna and delivered marginally lower revenues 4% 54% of the divisions revenues were receiver, plus a microprocessor, for lower as a result of softer demand from from telematics antennae into the their next generation trucks.
This M2M the WLAN wireless local area network automotive market.
27% were from device for auto applications moves us segment.
Sales to the mobile radio industrial applications, 14% from the further up the value chain delivering high markets have however helped maintain infrastructure and datacom sectors, performance at low cost.
and 4% from sales of wireless M2M modules, with the balance coming from Our commercial wireless module sales, Our mobile radio solutions provide reliable other markets.
predominantly into the electronic pointsystems for the fast-growing public of-sale market and industrial markets, safety market.
This is an area where we The divisions underlying operating were robust.
We have seen increased expect demand to continue.
During the profit increased 120% in the year to demand for our gateway products, which year we participated in a programme 22.7 million 2010, 10.3 million.
combine hardware and software and for a major radio manufacturer to Return on sales increased from 7.9% in allow customers to monitor eciently develop the Law enforcement vehicle 2010 to 12.2% in 2011, with the margin stock levels and other key operational of the future, developing a vehicular advancement driven by the favourable information on handheld devices.
We antenna to be used in public safety mix eect of sales from our Telematics continue to develop products which providing real-time video, data and audio M2M solutions, and the higher margin facilitate renewable and responsible communications on a secure network.
Wireless Automation and Control energy use, such as achieving a Solutions.
design win with a solar energy 20 We continue to see the increasing Wireless Systems Overview demand for wireless connectivity embedded in new infrastructure programmes including winning the contract to supply antennae for a comprehensive WiFi network throughout the central London transportation infrastructure for the 2012 London Revenue by Market Segment Revenue by Product Segment Olympics and Paralympics.
Transportation 54% Telematics & M2M 59% The demand for increased connectivity Automotive in our everyday lives is expected to WACS 24% accelerate.
More advanced solutions Industrial 27% Infrastucture & Other 17% are being required as the industry IT Datacom 14% Antennae evolves, which in turn creates sustained Other 5% demand for our products and systems which allows us to capitalise on our ability to exploit technology and product convergence.
This can be seen with the Wireless Systems products: Growth drivers: rise of Infotainment in the automotive Telematics M2M: antennae Proliferation of connectivity industry and the proliferation of wireless systems and M2M modules and and requirement for wireless connectivity within public infrastructure.
solutions infrastructure Wireless Automation and Control Increasing bandwidth With the need for greater functionality Solutions: remote control systems requirements comes higher margins and increased Infrastructure Antennae: wireless Green markets e. g. Smart meters visibility in our business.
In alignment with WLAN, RFID Increased connectivity and data our strategy, this is an area where we will transmission for information ows continue to focus resources.
Components or comprehensive Customers requiring more valuesolutions add in solutions and ease of use Solutions sold direct to OEM, end users or distribution Case Study: Long life cycles Ensuring public safety Enable connectivity for wired, wireless and remote control communications systems Developed within businesses, with Laird designs and manufactures a service and aftermarket support wide variety of vehicular antennae for use in the public safety, Our business: transportation, utility, military Leading presence across North mobile, and xed radio markets.
The America and growing presence in patented low-prole Phantom Asia and Europe series vehicular antenna is used Increasing abilities to produce extensively in both the public combined software and hardware safety sector and the private systems, oering two-way dispatch sector, providing better information ows and data coverage than most standard manipulation antennae and a ruggedness suited Leading positions in Telematics to deployment in the eld.
M2M and Wireless remote control and Antennae systems 21
