Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2011 Laird PLC is a holding company.
The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries during the year were the design, manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics industry.
The Executive Chairmans statement, Operational and financial highlights, Operating Review and Finance Directors report should be read in conjunction with this report and where such documents are referred to herein, they are incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
An analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by segment is shown in note 3 on pages 68 to 70. Business review A review of the development and performance of Laird during the year, its position at the year end, and the outlook and strategy of the Group is given in the Executive Chairmans statement and Q&A on pages 6 to 8, the Operational and financial highlights on page 5, the Finance Directors report on pages 24 to 28, the Operating Review on pages 18 to 22, and note 13 to the financial statements.
Information on environmental matters is contained in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 13 to 17.
These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators KPIs contained therein, are incorporated into this report by reference.
Denitions of the KPIs and the performance against them are given on pages 16 to 17.
Results and dividend Underlying profit before tax was 52.7 million 2010, 40.2 million and is analysed in note 13 on page 76.
Lairds loss for the year after taxation was 119.0 million 2010, 16.0 million loss.
The recommended final dividend is 5.3p per ordinary share to be paid on 1 June 2012 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 4 May 2012, making a total dividend for the year of 8.0p per ordinary share.
Risks and uncertainties The management and control of risks within Laird is embedded within basic operating procedures.
These procedures comprise a range of measures including the Laird Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the risk management framework comprising a strategic level Risk Management Group normally chaired by the Chief Executive, but currently chaired by the Executive Chairman, with controls and operational risk management under the Risk Management Committee.
Laird operates globally in broad markets.
Risk is impacted by changing environments and is continually monitored and rated.
The risks and uncertainties outlined below, which are not presented in any order of priority, are those Laird believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced.
In addition, information on the Laird risk management framework is given on page 42.
30 Risk description Potential Impact Mitigating activities Strategic & Markets Competition and Laird operates in market sectors which are Protecting our position by Market Conditions characterised by a high level of competition between maintaining a broad customer suppliers and which are driven by rapid technological base and monitoring the market to change.
Changes in market dynamics could have a support a swift response to market material adverse eect on Lairds financial condition changes and prospects.
Developing the business into new Lairds competitive position may suer were it unable and high growth markets to respond promptly and eectively to technological change and customers and competitors innovations.
Maintaining a competitive manufacturing base Lairds products and solutions include technologies in which it holds intellectual property rights which may Maintaining a robust intellectual be subject to infringement or misappropriation.
Claims property protection programme could be asserted against Laird that it has infringed and moving to products with a intellectual property owned by others and such claims higher IP protected content might require Laird to incur legal costs or face legal restrictions on selling certain products.
Using a range of trade secrets, condentiality policies, nonThe loss of a major contract or key customer whether disclosure and other contractual through competitive action or any change in strategy arrangements to protect or ordering requirements from customers could have intellectual property rights a material adverse eect on Lairds financial condition and prospects.
Developing the skills, experience and performance of employees and their relationships with customers Introducing new products in a timely manner Macro Economic and During an economic downturn or delayed recovery, Monitoring of economic and Political Factors customers may cancel, reduce or postpone political indicators anticipated orders, or apply pressure to prices and margins, any of which may result in lasting changes in Close control and reduction of terms of trade pricing policies, delivery capabilities and costs market expectations.
Operational contingency plans Wider political factors may impact on operations or markets.
Acquisitions Laird has made and is likely to make further strategic Undertaking due diligence acquisitions of complementary businesses, assets and companies with the intention of accelerating growth Implementing business integration and strengthening and developing its market.
If such processes acquisitions cannot be successfully integrated and the risks managed, Lairds business, financial condition Retention of qualied engineers and the results of its operations may be adversely or other technically qualied aected.
personnel or customers Obtaining warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible 31 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 Risk description Potential Impact Mitigating activities Operations China Operational Laird faces continued pressure on China labour costs, Processes improvements to Concentration particularly with reference to base pay, reductions increase productivity in overtime and increasing social costs.
The result of Labour costs these pressures may lead to reduced profits or other Increased automation adverse eects on the business.
Changing regulatory, Developing options for relocation political and industrial Laird may encounter diculty in managing operations of certain manufacturing environment due to unfavourable political or economic factors or operations processes to Western unexpected legal or regulatory changes.
If the eects China and other areas of this instability disrupt Lairds operations in this region, Lairds operating results may be adversely Maintaining constructive aected.
relationships with authorities Supply Chain and Raw Lairds ability to deliver according to market demands Supplier quality control, vetting Materials depends in large part on obtaining timely and and review adequate supplies of components and raw materials.
Developing multi-supplier options Failure in the supply chain could interrupt Lairds where possible product supply, limit sales and increase costs.
Supply chain business contingency The raw materials used include commodities such as plans copper, beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc all of which may be subject to price volatility.
Processes for raw material stock This may impact Lairds operating profits.
management Relationship management with key suppliers Product Risks Lairds reputation and brand value may be adversely Product and operations quality aected due to real or alleged failures in its products control processes and solutions.
Contractual controls to limit liability where possible Proactive customer relationship management Operational Continuity One or more of Lairds main factories or sites may Risk management and recovery suer major disruption such as pandemic, re, plans in place at site and business ooding, regulatory action, loss of IT or similar which unit level may have an adverse eect on Lairds activities, especially where multiple manufacturing processes Business continuity incident are co-located.
Any of the above may prevent Laird management processes from fully performing its contractual obligations, potentially resulting in reputation damage.
IT security and back-up procedures Flexing production between sites Finance Currency Exposures Laird is subject to various financial and scal risks by Use of financial instruments to virtue of its global operations and customer base.
assist in the management of foreign exchange and interest rate risk, principally forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps Matching local currency income with local currency costs 32 Risk description Potential Impact Mitigating activities Corporate Responsibility Regulatory Compliance In common with all global businesses we face complex Implementation of regulatory and and diering regulatory rules in all areas of our trade compliance policies and operations and markets.
A serious breach by Laird procedures could have an adverse eect upon Lairds business and the results of its operations may be adversely Compliance monitoring and testing aected.
programmes Professional trade compliance corporate function People Laird is highly reliant on the continued service of its Reward and incentivisation senior management, including executive directors and schemes for employees other key personnel.
HR management development The ability of Laird to meet the demands of the market and to compete eectively is dependent Successful integration of on the skills, experience and performance of its acquisitions and retention of employees and failure to retain such individuals could qualied personnel have an adverse eect upon the business and the results of its operations.
significant contracts Laird has arrangements with a number of major customers and suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed.
However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by individual purchase orders.
Share capital The Company has only one class of share and the rights attaching to each share are identical.
Details of the rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on its website.
The Company may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
Details of the voting procedure are set out in the notice of meeting.
At 31 December 2011 the issued share capital of the Company was 266,302,206 ordinary shares of 28.125p each.
Details of the share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2011 are shown in note 28 on page 93.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May 2012, the shareholders will be requested to renew the directors power to allot shares, or grant rights for or to convert any security into shares, in the Company: the disapplication of pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 1 March 2012 no shares have been purchased pursuant to this authority.
Shareholders will be requested to renew these authorities at the Annual General Meeting and details are set out in the notice of meeting.
Directors Re-election of directors The directors as shown on page 29 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2011.
Marty Rapp and Peter Hill ceased to be directors with eect from 31 August 2011 and 25 November 2011, respectively.
All of the directors of the Company will oer themselves for re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, with the exception of Andrew Robb and Bill Spivey who will retire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association which require shareholder approval for any amendments, set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for their appointment and removal.
The Company announced on 29 February 2011 that Paula Bell had been appointed as a non-executive director with eect from 2 March 2012 and she will therefore stand for re-election at the AGM.
33 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 None of the non-executive directors oering themselves for re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Biographical details and reasons for reappointment for the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Directors interests In the year to 31 December 2011 no director had a material interest in any third party contract of signicance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2011 are shown below.
These interests were unchanged at 1 March 2012.
Details of share options are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 43 to 54.
11 N J Keen 393,245 326,890 J C Silver 375,000 375,000 Sir Christopher Hum 4,500 4,500 Professor M J Kelly 2,250 2,250 A J Reading 40,000 22,499 A M Robb 37,500 37,500 Dr W R Spivey 158,233 158,233 Directors Conicts of Interest With eect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conicts and potential conicts of interest, where appropriate.
This is subject to only directors who have no interest in the matter taking the decision and having acted in good faith for what they consider to be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The authority for directors to act in situations of conict and the rules governing their duties in such situations are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
A register of conicts or potential conicts of interest has been prepared and it is available at every Board Meeting.
Directors Indemnities As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
Between 2005 and 2008, five of Lairds final salary pension schemes were merged.
The trustees of the schemes, including Nigel Keen who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving scheme, received an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger.
Employment policy Laird conducts business in multiple locations and is committed to complying with the relevant legal requirements in each of those regions.
Business unit management are responsible for implementing and communicating the Laird Equal Employment and Human Rights Policy Statement within their own business unit.
Various methods are used throughout Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local management teams.
Laird is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, including those with disabilities.
A copy of Lairds Equal Employment and Human Rights Policy Statement is available on the Companys website.
Employee participation The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its workforce and therefore encourages two-way communication with its employees.
Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
Laird communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within Laird, charity and community involvement and employee achievements.
Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors aecting the performance of their companies.
34 Change of control arrangements Four employees of the Company have long-standing agreements which provide compensation, in addition to the contractual notice period, of up to a maximum of two years base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover oer or scheme.
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over the two years following the date of change of control.
In addition, four employees of the Group have been issued with change of control provisions which provide for up to a maximum of one years base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a takeover oer or scheme, in addition to their contractual notice period.
The terms provide for a payment of one years base salary during the first six months following the date of change of control and for the next twelve months one years base salary which reduces pro rata to zero.
No director benets from these arrangements.
On a change of control, the Companys five year bilateral revolving credit facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by giving not less than 30 days notice to the Company.
Under the terms of the US Dollar Private Placement, within 60 days of a change of control, the Company must notify all Noteholders and oer to repay all outstanding amounts.
The Noteholders then have a period of 30 days to either accept the oer of repayment or continue with the Notes.
Corporate social responsibility In recognition that Lairds businesses and its activities impact a wide community of stakeholders including investors, customers, employees, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the signicance of social, environmental and ethical matters which may aect Laird.
A corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages 13 to 15.
Health and safety at work Laird is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against these.
In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health and safety practices.
Further information is shown in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 13 to 15.
Research and development Investing in research and development programmes delivers product innovation and manufacturing improvements within Laird.
Expenditure in 2011 on research and development amounted to 40.2 million 2010, 42.2 million, of which 9.1 million has been capitalised 2010, 9.5 million.
Laird continues to develop its technology capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at 6.9% of sales 2010, 7.4%.
Basis of preparation of the accounts As set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 55, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature are inherently uncertain.
The directors have considered the ability of Laird to maintain committed loan finance, meet existing debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Finance Directors report on pages 24 to 28.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities An analysis of debt is given in note 21 to the financial statements.
An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and fair value is given in note 27 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of financial risk management objectives and exposures to credit and liquidity risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy Laird requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly.
At the year end Laird had two UK operating subsidiaries and they had 52 days of purchases outstanding.
35 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2011 Auditors It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor.
Shareholders At 31 December 2011 there were 3,467 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs issued by the Financial Services Authority require notications relating to control over exercising voting rights attached to shares.
Categories of notiable interests include direct interests holdings of shares with voting rights attached, indirect interests those with access to voting rights and financial instruments which give the holder the formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached.
Notication must be made of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notiable threshold.
The requirements of the DTRs specify that notications of holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs.
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares in issue.
As at 1 March 2012 the Company had received the notications of control of 3% or more over the Companys total voting rights and capital in issue as set out below.
Number of Percentage Shares of voting rights Artemis Investment Management 26,844,736 10.08 Mondrian Investment Partners 23,052,759 8.66 Franklin Templeton 13,359,477 5.02 Schroder Investment Management 12,860,596 4.83 M&G Investment Management 12,069,721 4.53 JP Morgan Asset Management 11,837,738 4.45 Aberforth Partners 11,169,578 4.19 Norges Bank IM 9,819,757 3.69 Aviva Investors 9,542,398 3.58 Legal & General Investment Management 9,531,829 3.58 JO Hambro Capital Management Limited 9,240,946 3.47 Fidelity Investments FIL Limited 8,959,485 3.36 LSV Asset Management 8,927,150 3.35 Charitable donations In the year to 31 December 2011, the Company gave 2,288 to UK charities 2010, 5,460.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By Order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 1 March 2012 Registered oce 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
