Strategy Lairds strategy is to create shareholder Increasing value-add in software driven products and systems value by developing and oering a each device and delivering that possess the ability to control unique capability to our customers by product convergence and feedback information remotely, providing them with a wide range of Laird supplies bespoke, specialised improving eciency and safety for products, systems and solutions to components, systems and solutions the operator.
protect device performance and enable that are increasingly important in connectivity.
Our KPIs measure our modern electronic devices.
Higher We will continue to invest in and performance against this strategy.
speed, power and performance develop technologies that lead to of electronic devices, as well as product integration and which deliver Focus on specialist, the increasing trend to wireless attractive margins and after-market high-growth markets connectivity, drives an ever-growing revenues.
We focus on business in specialist need for our products and solutions.
A markets which exhibit good growth key part of our strategy is to develop Focusing on operational excellence potential, and we aim to be a leading our business by selling more specialised Operational excellence is a given player in those markets.
We serve a components and systems that have to our highly skilled and motivated breadth of markets where specialised greater added value, that combine our workforce throughout the world.
broad range of technology and which In addition, inherent across all our We believe this breadth strengthens oer the opportunity of higher margins.
activities, are our environmental and our business, allowing us to benefit social responsibility values which ensure from the upticks in particular growth In our Wireless Systems division we also we are a good citizen in the localities markets, but diversies the risk by not have the ability to oer bundled solutions in which we do business.
In order to being overly dependent on one single such as modules, sub-assemblies and ensure our products are of the highest market or customer.
fully embedded systems within one quality, we make a strategic choice device, which provide multi-functional to look for supplier partners whose We hold leading positions across the value, such as combining various wireless views are aligned to ours in corporate majority of our markets and we look to protocols such as WiFi and Bluetooth responsibility, towards the environment, improve market share including in areas into one solution.
other employees and to the community.
where we are not a leading supplier already.
We make strategic acquisitions We will continue to seek and invest in parallel high-growth sectors that are in other opportunities that allow us complementary to our existing served to expand our vertical integration and markets, where we can develop the combine our specialist product families.
Case Study: acquired businesses through the leverage Improving safety on of our capabilities and global scale.
An Developing systems to combine example of this is our acquisition of hardware and software the railroads Klver in March 2011, where we saw We have continued to develop a an opportunity to expand our existing range of systems that combine the Our AccuSpeed controller used thermal management product oering traditional hardware elements of a within our Wireless Automation into the growing medical market, and device with software that makes and Control Solutions business is also to expand the distribution of the for a user friendly experience.
Our a handheld device used for the Klver products globally, outside the focus on these systems brings both remote management of Class German market on which it had focused.
higher margins and more sustainable 1 freight locomotives.
The unit revenue streams, including aftermarket maximises safe and ecient Exploiting innovation revenues.
Our capabilities are growing locomotive operation, industrial and technology in this area and recent product railcar loading and rail yard Our commitment to engineering innovation has further allowed us operations by giving the operator research and development across the to bring systems with two-way complete secure control from business is fundamental to our ongoing information ow to the market in our a better vantage point in a safe success.
Our ability to innovate allows Telematics M2M and antennae operating environment, away from us to adapt to new programmes and businesses.
The unit also oers twokeep pace with industry evolution, combine cellular and GPS Satellite way digital data communication in markets that are inherently fastantennae, wireless modules and and operates with proprietary paced.
Our investment in R&D has input-output interfaces, which are all radio frequency RF protocols been maintained throughout the software controlled.
recent global downturns reecting its importance as a technology-based Acquisitions, such as Cattron, now part competitive advantage, across the of our Wireless Automation and Control whole of our business.
Solutions business, allow us to oer 9
