s r e m o t G s l u o C b a l p i C h a C p a e b u i l l i B t i e s Understanding Laird Delivering excellence to our customers Rapid prototyping World class supply chain and logistics Delivering on time all the time Delivering quality at the right cost Being our customers supplier of choice Recognised as a leader, by leaders Long-term customer relationships Diversied base Opportunities to cross-sell across product families Providing the technology our customers need Ability to continuously develop new technology and products Large range of products Bespoke solutions Experienced materials science process know-how Patent protection Well positioned to service our customers 46 sites globally Local support In-house tooling and automation capabilities Our customers are at the centre of everything we do.
Our aim is to provide them with the excellent service they know they can expect from us.
We aim to be the supplier of choice, delivering our customers the right products to meet their needs and to continuously provide innovation to encourage them to return to us for future programmes.
We can only deliver this by having excellent people we strive to be the employer of choice.
Our operational excellence can only be delivered by building strong partnerships with our valued supply chain whilst being a good corporate citizen in the communities in which we work.
10 L e a d e i c n i g v r T e e s c s h s n a o l l C o g d i l e r o s W Board of Directors Delivering excellence to comprehensive solutions, such as economies of scale in our logistics and our customers systems and controls, which combine international reputation.
We consistently win industry awards both hardware and software.
recognising our world class service Our operations are spread worldwide.
We are recognised by industry We can design the solution where our leaders for our reliability, service customers are, and then manufacture One of the hallmarks of our business and support from product and supply them just in time, is to provide rapid prototyping: after design through to delivery and wherever the products are needed.
We initial engineering design we can turn after-market sales, service and deliver the end products to them from around products quickly for further support, allowing us to build longthe most appropriate manufacturing testing, before the final manufacturing term relationships with customers.
supply chain from within our global programme is agreed.
manufacturing system we oer a Providing the technology our truly global service.
Within our Wireless Automation and customers need Control Solutions business we have an We hold leading positions in the For example, we may work with a after-sales service oering ongoing majority of our markets.
Our constant customer in California on the design support to customers to ensure they innovation in leading technology elements to nd their solution, are provided with the necessary solutions is a fundamental component but manufacture in China, selling service and diagnostics throughout of our business model, allowing us to locally to the Contract Equipment the product life.
stay ahead of the competition.
We Manufacturer CEM who completes prioritise investment in development the build of the entire end product, This ongoing support allows us programmes, product innovation which may then be shipped and sold to compete in vertical market for future platforms, and advanced anywhere in the world.
applications by supplying complete technical research through our solutions both hardware and Corporate Research Laboratory CRL We provide a comprehensive oering software - from our Wireless in Bangalore.
The CRL assists our to our customers with design and Automation and Control Solutions Performance Materials businesses with tooling capabilities, rapid prototyping and M2M businesses.
and rigorous testing that others cannot oer.
This is delivered with an We have a broad global business There has been an increasing trend in emphasis on quality and cost eciency supplying many customers with the the industry for more customisation in designs for customers, and from our most extensive range of bespoke of integrated systems where we have low-cost base in our global network of solutions that are critical to the proven ourselves to have the right manufacturing and logistics.
ecient functioning of their products capabilities and materials science to and applications.
The way we run our deliver.
We compete eectively by We work with our customers to business has been developed around oering a diverse range of tailored design, supply and maintain systems service priorities for our customers products and service, designing and connectivity solutions that allows from initial product creation to bespoke solutions for our customers, them to develop their businesses.
developed by our technology specialists in partnership with the Our global sales teams are based Being our customers customers in-house design team.
within specic business units, where supplier of choice we oer a network of customer We sell tailor-made solutions to a Well positioned to service support and development engineering.
wide variety of Blue Chip customers our customers We also recognise where there are to meet their requirements for We have an extensive global footprint opportunities to cross-sell across integrated, innovation-led design across the world with significant business units, combining product and manufacturing solutions.
In line manufacturing and sales operational ranges for an integrated solution.
with our strategy, we are progressing capability in Asia, North America and up the value chain, selling more Europe.
We are known for being value-add, whether it is increased local to our customers, but with the technology content or more benets of global capabilities and 11 Board of Directors Understanding Laird Continued Extensive global footprint 2011 Revenue by Market Segment by Product Segment by Destination by Origin IT Datacom 31% EMI Shielding 40%Asia 45%Asia 46% Transportation 23% Telematics 22% North America 36% North America 37% Wireless modules Industrial Medical 20% Other Europe 16% Europe 16% Military Thermal 16% UK 2% RoW 1% Handsets 11% Industrial remote 9% RoW 1% controls WACS Other 8% Consumer 7% Other Antennae 7% Signal Integrity 6% 12
