Operating Review Performance Materials Year ended and return on sales increased to 9% year on year, driven by sales of 31 December 2011 m 2010 m % 14.1% in 2011 from 13.7% in 2010. electromagnetic shielding components Revenue 305.0 282.8 8 Both were helped by sales of for smartphones and tablets.
Sales Underlying 43.0 38.8 11 higher margin thermal solutions and of our ngerstock and fabric-overoperating profit increased volumes in our marketfoam products to our computing and Return on sales 14.1% 13.7% leading EMI business.
telecoms customers had a softer second half of the year.
The division designs and supplies a The division has performed well full range of EMI electromagnetic throughout the year, and we have To complement our existing range interference shielding materials, benefited in particular from strong of Thermal solutions, Klver was thermal management solutions demand for tablets and smartphones.
acquired in March 2011, combining and signal integrity products SIP, We have seen good growth in sales its compressor based cooling providing critical protection for a to the automotive, medical and technologies with our passive and wide range of electronic devices, consumer markets, with more modest active thermal cooling solutions allowing them to function and connect growth in telecoms.
We have now successfully eectively.
These products isolate benefiting from demand for solutions integrated Klver into our Thermal and protect sensitive electronic required by higher frequency devices business and the acquisition has components and systems from the in the telecoms markets, such as EMI strengthened our position within the electronic emissions from other products used in servers.
Elsewhere within components, and lter and remove of the markets we service helps to Thermal, we introduced new high electromagnetic noise and improve diversify risk from the fortunes of any thermal conductivity product lines.
a devices performance through one specic market.
We have seen stronger demand for the ecient transfer of heat.
our advanced thermal solutions, such We maintained our leading positions as Thermal Electric Assemblies and Divisional revenues increased by 8% in EMI and Thermal technologies, Thermal Interface Materials, which in 2011 to 305.0 million 2010, 282.8 launching new products to the has helped balance the slower sales million driven by continued growth in market and oering solutions that from the IT market.
a number of the markets to which we competitors nd hard to replicate.
supply EMI and Thermal solutions.
One such example is the launch of New product introduction is key in our new  this business and during the year for Organic revenue growth was 9% halogen-free EMI gasket product example, we have provided bespoke 2010, 21%.
for high-temperature applications in thermoelectric cooling assemblies to network infrastructure, telecoms and a major Chinese telecoms company.
The majority, 65%, of the divisional automotive markets.
There has been an These have been developed revenues in 2011 were from EMI increase in demand for products from specifically to provide cooling for shielding materials, with 26% from the green markets, for components their base stations.
In addition we thermal management solutions and used within electric vehicles, LED have developed new forms of thermal 9% from signal integrity products.
interface material which eliminate the need for significant amounts of By market segment, 42% of the Our broad range of technologies polyethylene terephthalate PET divisions revenues were to the provides opportunities to improve lm, which is very susceptible to IT, telecommunications and data our position in other market niches heat degradation.
Overall, revenues communications sectors, 17% were to adjacent to those we currently serve.
from our Thermal business were the mobile handset market, with the Our Corporate Research Laboratory up 25% year on year, including the balance to the consumer electronics, CRL in Bangalore develops the next contribution from Klver.
industrial and instrumentation, medical, generation of materials which will help aerospace and defence markets.
to maintain our market leading position Our SIP product line has been for the years to come.
impacted in the latter part of the year Underlying operating profit in the by the slowdown in demand from the division increased 11% in the year to Our EMI shielding product lines IT and printer markets and we did not 43.0 million 2010, 38.8 million, performed well, with revenues up see the usual seasonal uplift in the 18 second half of 2011.
This particularly Performance Materials Overview aected our IT cable core product line and revenues were at on last year.
We have however, secured the majority of new programmes for a leading printer manufacturer, which bodes well for 2012.
The oods in Thailand in 2011 had Revenue by Market Segment Revenue by Product Segment an adverse eect on the supply of disc drives to the IT market, and are IT Datacom 42%EMI 65% expected to have an eect on sales Handset 17%Thermal 26% within our SIP business as customers Industrial Medical 15% Signal Integrity 9% remain cautious with orders until the Military supply chain recovers fully.
Other 13% Consumer 9% As electronic devices continue to evolve, with greater requirements Transportation 4% for higher power and speed, the solutions we provide to protect and enhance each devices performance Performance Materials Growth drivers: remain critical for our customers and products: Increased electronic content in their markets.
EMI: board level shields, fabric devices requiring more EMI and over foam, ngerstock, Thermal conductive elastomers Green markets e. g. electric Thermal: thermal interface materials, vehicles, LED market, thermoelectric assemblies rechargeable lithium batteries Signal integrity: ferrite cable More complex heat and EMI cores, chip inductors management required as devices Case Study: get smaller, faster and more Energy Eciency Critical for ecient performance powerful of electronic devices in New York City Materials, components, subsystems and systems Lairds Thermal business has specified with OEMs developed thermoelectric generator Invisible to the end-market user TEG systems to harvest electrical Short life cycles energy from heat sources.
This Developed with Corporate technology is most applicable to Research Laboratory sensors and meters where hardwired line voltage is not available Our business: or practical.
In a recent application Well established across Asia, the for a major energy service provider US and Europe in New York, our TEG system was Strong customer relationships installed on steam pipes to power sometimes supplying next the electronics used to monitor generation products on sequential steam ow and conditions.
programmes Leading positions in EMI and Thermal 19
