Board of Directors Nigel Keen Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Professor Michael Kelly, FRS FREng Executive Chairman.
BSc, MSc, Appointed a non-executive director in Appointed on 1 December 2006.
Following member of the Remuneration and A member of the Remuneration the departure of the Chief Executive Nominations Committees.
Currently Prince Philip due to ill health with eect from 25 of Gonville and Caius College, Professor of Technology at the November 2011, Nigel Keen is the Cambridge.
HM Diplomatic Service, University of Cambridge.
Formerly Executive Chairman, Chairman of retired.
Formerly HM Ambassador to Chief scientific Advisor to the the Nominations Committee and the Peoples Republic of China, having Department for Communities and a member of the Remuneration previously served as HM Ambassador, Local Government.
Chairman of Oxford Warsaw, as Assistant Under Secretary Cambridge Executive Director for Instruments plc, Deltex Medical of State for North Asia and the the Cambridge-MIT Institute and Group plc and Bioquell PLC.
Pacic, and earlier as Head of the Head of the School of Electronics, Hong Kong Department of the Foreign Computing and Mathematics Jonathan Silver and Commonwealth Oce.
at the University of Surrey.
Joined Andrew Robb Dr William Spivey Laird in 1986 and appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1994.
Previously Group Treasurer and Appointed on 1 September 2004.
Chairman of the Audit Committee member of the Remuneration and Non-executive director of INVESCO and a member of the Remuneration Audit Committees.
Formerly President Income Growth Trust plc.
Previously Finance Director and CEO of Luminent, Inc. having of Pilkington plc and P&O Steam previously held senior management Anthony Reading, MBE Navigation Co. Non-executive Chairman positions with AT&T Corporation of Tata Steel Europe Limited and and Lucent Technologies.
non-executive director of Tata Steel executive director and Independent Appointed on 1 September Limited, Kesa Electricals plc, Jaguar Lead Director of Novellus Systems 2004.
Senior independent Land Rover PLC and PayPoint plc.
and non-executive director of the non-executive director.
Chairman Raytheon Company and Cascade of the Remuneration Committee Microtech Inc.
and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Previously an executive director of Tomkins plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA and a former non-executive director of Spectris plc.
Non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey plc and e2v technologies plc.
