32 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 4 Board of Directors A wealth of experience The Lamprell Board of Directors represents a strong combination of industryspecific, regional and operational experience, supported by the diverse professional skills and experience of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Company is delighted to welcome Deena Mattar with effect from 1 April 2012 and Jonathan Cooper to the Board of Directors, further enhancing the Boards skills, experience and diversity.
1 2 3 and a number of directorships of 1 Jonathan Silver 59 associated with the Lamprell Group Chairman for more than 20 years before joining publicly listed companies.
Nigel is the the Board, providing legal advice on Senior Independent Non-Executive Jonathan Silver was appointed to the Board on 24 August 2007 and as the numerous matters including on the Director of Dragon Oil plc, where he is Companys listing on AIM and its the Chairman of its Audit Committee Chairman of the Company on 27 March 2009.
He is also a member of the move to the Official List.
Jonathan is and a member of the Remuneration currently a Director of Tri-Emirates and Nomination Committees.
Jonathan trained with a leading City of London Property Corporation and Tri-Emirates PW2 Limited.
3 Jonathan Cooper 43 law firm and qualified as a solicitor in 1978, working first in London and later Chief Financial Officer 2 Nigel Robert McCue 60 Jonathan Cooper joined Lamprell as in the United Arab Emirates.
In 1981, he started his own practice in the United Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer in October 2011.
Nigel McCue was appointed to the Jonathan is responsible for the finance Arab Emirates and merged that practice with Clyde & Co in 1989.
Since Board on 7 July 2006 as Non-Executive and administration activities of Director and was appointed to the Lamprell.
Prior to joining Lamprell he then he has headed up Clyde & Cos business in the region, creating the Executive position of Chief Operating worked for Sterling Energy plc in the Officer in May 2008.
In May 2009 he position of Finance Director and largest operation of any international law firm with a presence in the Middle was appointed to the position of Chief Company Secretary.
Previously, he Executive Officer of the Company.
Nigel worked at Gulf Keystone Petroleum East.
Jonathan chairs Clyde & Cos regional management board and has over 35 years of experience in the Limited as Finance Director and petroleum industry and, prior to being Company Secretary, and at Dresdner represents the region on the firms global management board.
Throughout appointed as the Chief Operating Kleinwort Wasserstein as a Director in Officer of Lamprell, he was a Director the Oil and Gas Corporate Finance his career in the legal profession, Jonathan has worked in the areas of and the Chief Executive Officer of Jura Team where he worked on mergers Energy Corporation, a company listed and acquisitions, public offerings and international banking and finance, mergers & acquisitions, private equity, on the Toronto Stock Exchange, and is as a strategic adviser to a wide range now the Chairman and a member of the of companies.
He began his career project and construction work involving him in most sectors of commercial Compensation Committee of that with KPMG where he completed his company.
He is also a Director of accountancy training.
Jonathan is a activity including international trade, energy, construction, shipping, Nemmoco Petroleum Limited, a private Fellow of the Institute of Chartered exploration and production company.
Accountants of England and Wales and commodities and insurance.
He has advised the boards of public and Prior to this, he was a Director and the has a PhD in Mechanical Engineering Chief Financial Officer of Lundin from the University of Leeds.
private companies from around the world extensively on their obligations, Petroleum AB.
Nigel has also held various positions with Chevron responsibilities and governance arrangements.
Jonathan has been Overseas Inc. and Gulf Oil Corporation O OVE VER RVI VIE EW W B BUS USIN INE ES SS S R RE EV VIE IEW W G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FIINAN NANC CIIAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S 33 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 5 7 6 7 Brian Fredrick 60 4 Christopher Hand 41 is a member of the Chartered Institute Chief Operating Officer of Taxation.
He spent most of his career Non-Executive Director Brian Fredrick was appointed to the Christopher Hand joined Lamprell in 1996 in the upstream oil & gas industry with and was appointed Chief Operating BP plc, where he joined the finance Board on 1 January 2009.
He Chairs the Remuneration Committee of the Officer in March 2010 and to the Board team in 1975, later becoming the first on 26 January 2011.
Christopher is Chief of Staff within the BP Group.
Company and is a member of the Audit From 1995 to 1999 he served as Chief and Nomination Committees.
Brian responsible for the operating activities of Lamprell.
Prior to this appointment Financial Officer for BP Europe and then spent most of his career in the financial as BPs senior representative in Russia.
services industry in Asia and the Middle Christopher held a number of positions in Lamprells commercial department, His career has involved assignments in East and worked in the United Arab Africa, the Middle East, Europe, Russia Emirates in the 1980s and 1990s.
He including Vice President Commercial from December 2006 to March 2010. and the Americas.
has also worked for HSBC in Hong Kong, where he was HSBC Asia-Pacific Prior to joining Lamprell, Christopher worked for a major construction 6 Richard Germain Daniel Raynaut Head of International between 2003 57 and 2007 and in Brunei, and Vietnam.
company in the United Kingdom.
He has a BSc honours degree in quantity Non-Executive Director He was the Chief Executive Officer of Richard Raynaut was appointed to the HSBCs operations in Mauritius, the surveying, a post graduate diploma in arbitration from the College of Estate Board on 7 July 2006.
Richard has Philippines and Indonesia for over 10 been involved in the oil & gas industry years.
He has served on the boards Management and an MBA from the Edinburgh Business School.
since 1977 when he was appointed as of a number of companies including an accountant at IHC Caland.
He Chairs A. Soriano Corporation and Concrete 5 Colin Goodall 67 the Audit Committee of the Company Aggregates Inc, both quoted on the and is a member of the Nomination and Philippine Stock Exchange, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committees.
Between Techcombank, one of the largest 1977 and 2004, he held a variety of private sector banks in Vietnam and Colin Goodall was appointed to the Board on 14 September 2008.
He positions at IHC Caland renamed SBM was Chairman of HSBC Bank Offshore, including Chief Accountant, Mauritius Ltd.
Chairs the Nomination Committee of the Company and is a member of the Audit Treasurer and Financial Controller.
From 2000 to 2004, he was appointed the and Remuneration Committees.
Colin was the former Chairman of Dana Chief Financial Officer of the offshore division and was an Executive board Petroleum plc and Parkmead Group plc and is the Chairman of Sindicatum member of Single Buoy Moorings Inc. From January 2005 onwards he has Sustainable Resources Ltd. and Golden Horde Ltd. and is a board member of been involved in Sri Lanka, with the charity Monaco Aide et Presence.
Colin qualified as a chartered accountant and
