04 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Complementary Business Areas Group positioning The enlarged Lamprell Group, through the acquisition of MIS, is a leading provider of diversified engineering and contracting services to the onshore and offshore oil & gas and renewable energy industries.
Positioning Lamprell business Lamprell is a leading provider of Oil & Gas New Build Jackup Drilling Rigs diversified engineering and Lamprell is firmly established as one contracting services to the of the worlds leading facilities for the onshore and offshore oil & gas construction of new build jackup drilling rigs.
With a highly sophisticated engineering Primary facilities capability and custom-built construction and load out facilities, Lamprell has Hamriyah gained a reputation as a reliable and professional builder of state-of-the-art Sharjah drilling rigs.
The Group has successfully Jebel Ali delivered several LeTourneau 116E and Dubai Investment Park Friede & Goldman Super Mod II jackup rigs to international and regional drilling Saudi Arabia operators.
Kuwait New Build Offshore Lamprells expertise in the new build Support functions offshore segment extends beyond jackup Operations, HSES, Engineering, drilling rigs and covers a wide range of offshore vessels and structures.
This Procurement and Supply Chain, includes the design and construction of Commercial, QA QC process modules for floating production, storage and offloading units FPSOs and floating storage and regasification Administration, Strategic units FSRUs|, tender assist drilling Development, Audit, Finance, barges, mobile offshore production HR, IT, Legal and Corporate units MOPUs, offshore drilling rig components and accessories, living Communications quarters, turrets and other offshore fixed structures.
Rig Refurbishment Since 1990, Lamprell has completed over 300 rig refurbishment projects.
The rig refurbishment scope varies with every project and can range from a simple repair to a major docking lasting several months for the upgrade or replacement of older and sometimes damaged equipment and machinery.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 05 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 The Company has successfully Renewable Energy INSPEC NDT, Mechanical & completed numerous refurbishment Wind Farm Installation Vessels Calibration Services projects for drilling contractors, including Lamprells strategic goal of becoming International Inspection Services Ltd. Noble Drilling, Ensco, Rowan, Saipem, the fabricator of choice in the growing INSPEC provides high quality Transocean, Nabors, National Drilling wind farm installation market is endorsed inspection services to several countries Company, Arabian Drilling Company by the experience and expertise that the within the Middle East.
Established in and Japan Drilling Company.
Group has gained with the new build 1993, INSPEC is predominantly engaged construction of wind turbine installation in the supply of inspection personnel Engineering & Construction vessels for Seajacks and Fred.
Olsen and equipment for heat treatment Lamprell Engineering & Construction Windcarrier: two major companies in and Non-Destructive Testing NDT E&C offers the combined expertise of this expanding marketplace.
services to the oil & gas, district cooling Lamprell and Maritime Industrial Services and other  MIS, both well-established entities The offshore wind sector provides industries including desalination and in the regions oil & gas sector.
With a Lamprell with the opportunity to utilise energy.
Its primary markets of operation strong regional presence, excellent its engineering skills in a sector where are the UAE, Oman and Bahrain.
project execution track record, certified there is a recognised lack of installation systems & processes and strong capacity.
Having constructed two such Sunbelt H S Safety Services 2 engineering capabilities providing vessels which are now operating in Lamprells Sunbelt H S safety services 2 engineering services from concept the European market and currently division provides complete safety design to commissioning, Lamprell constructing a further three, Lamprell solutions to its clients through a range E&C delivers fully integrated engineered has the right skills, experience and of specialised products and services.
solutions to the onshore and offshore expertise in this market area.
As an authorised distributor for a number oil & gas and renewable energy sectors.
of safety equipment manufacturers, Services Sunbelt ensures that it offers products Land Rig Services Engineering Services that adhere to British, European and Land Rig Services covers all projects Lamprells Engineering Services provides US standards.
Sunbelt also provides and services related to onshore drilling a range of engineering solutions from technical consultancy, services and rigs, oilfield service companies and concept engineering, FEED, design support specialised in the detection drilling equipment refurbishment for land engineering to detailed & construction and handling of the highly toxic H S gas.
The land rig services engineering including offshore drilling group operates from facilities in Hamriyah, rigs, land rigs, onshore and offshore Operations & Maintenance Jebel Ali, Dubai Investment Park and Engineering, Procurement & Construction Lamprells Operations & Maintenance Kuwait and also provides field services projects, pipelines, pressure vessels, O&M business has a proven record as required.
skids, modules, decks and jackets.
This of excellent performance and service is delivered by a team of experienced with a core workforce of over 500 multi-discipline engineers and designers tradesmen and administrative personnel using the latest engineering software who are supported by a larger base and 3D modelling techniques.
of skilled field staff from the various divisions of the Lamprell Group.
O&M Litwin PEL, part of the Lamprell Group, provides manpower, equipment and was established in Abu Dhabi, UAE materials services to a diverse customer in 2007 and offers Engineering & base at oil & gas and petrochemical Construction and multi-disciplinary facilities and plants, drilling rigs, engineering services to the oil & gas offshore facilities, marine docks industry and to the chemical & and marine vessels.
