Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Assessing performance: our KPIs Our mix of clients continues to drive a balanced market sector profile.
Our order intake and our attrition remain at healthy levels to sustain a good business.
But our performance on a number of KPIs in a more difficult marketsuggests we need to execute more effectively to deliver against our longer-term goals.
1 2 Engaging Clients Client Focused People A differentiated engagement helps us capture alarger share of Our people agenda is not only about ensuring that we wallet with our major clients.
However, we aim to keep our client understand how to hire and retain the right people and ensure list diverse enough across sectors and geographies to protect us they are in the right places for our clients as measured by our against any significant downturn in any one industry sector or attrition and nearshore offshore headcount metrics.
Our balanced market sector profile ensures we can grow be successful if we develop and leverage the thought leadership, the business sustainably over the longer term, regardless of the innovation and commercial acumen of our people while giving economic backdrop.
them the right environment to be productive.
Our people The drop in our client satisfactionin the context of a tougher satisfaction score is a proxy for how successful we have been market in 2011 reflected the difficulties we faced in the Benelux in inspiring and motivating our people.
and Sweden, whichresulted in a lower score.
This overshadowed a better performance in France.
Our people are focused on reversing this in 2012.
Working with our largest clients, we are building clear plans to drive sustainable long-term revenue streams with us and our ecosystem of partners.
1 Engaging Clients KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 Revenue for each market sector A balanced market sector profile Balanced market sector profile see pages 16 and 17 as a percentage helps ensure that Group revenue of Group revenue.
and profit is less susceptible to a downturn in any one segment.
As we identify the major clients with whom we hope to deepen our wallet share, we aim to keep a reasonable balance between sectors while not constraining the growth opportunities that may exist in a particular sector.
The numbers 1-4 in each figure represent the corresponding strategic programme as set out on page 19.
Expected financial outcomes are output-based KPIs.
22 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 3 4 5 Client Value and Delivering Value for Money Expected Financial Outcomes Being able to respond to the trend for clients to outsource more Growth above the market with sustainable margins will with efficient IM, AM and BPO offerings and for more offshore ultimately drive EPS growth and the cash returns which matter using a blended delivery model, will allow us to continue to to shareholders, with margins the ultimate test of whether clients pricecompetitively and win business.
Continued co-innovation value the differentiated offerings we aim to deliver to them.
with clients and partners resulting in high value differentiated We are introducing free cash flow as a KPI and a measure which and more profitable offerings is also a core component of our is included in our bonus plans and partner plans from 2012. strategy.
Our ability to get our offerings right should result in continued growth in Outsourcing revenue and a growing Outsourcing order backlog.
In Consulting and Professional Services, the proxy for the sustainability of future revenue streams will be the health of our book to bill.
Increasingly, our clients, people and shareholders also want to know that Logica is focused on people and planet as well as profit and the improved sustainability of our operations has become important in how we are judged.
Engaging Clients KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 Revenue for each market sector A balanced market sector profile Balanced market sector profile Find out more For more insight into what has see pages 16 and 17 as a percentage helps ensure that Group revenue driven performance in each sector of Group revenue.
and profit is less susceptible to a in 2011, see pages 16 and 17. downturn in any one segment.
As TTI became our largest sector, 3,702m 3,697m 3,950m overtaking the Public Sector.
we identify the major clients with Overall, we retain a balanced profile.
actual actual underlying whom we hope to deepen our wallet share, we aim to keep a reasonable balance between sectors while not constraining the growth opportunities that may exist in a particular sector.
Transport, Trade and Industrial 27% Transport, Trade and Industrial 28% Transport, Trade and Industrial 29% Public Sector 32% Public Sector 31% Public Sector 29% Energy and Utilities 18% Energy and Utilities 17% Energy and Utilities 18% Financial Services 15% Financial Services 16% Financial Services 16% Telecoms and Media 8% Telecoms and Media 8% Telecoms and Media 8% Unless otherwise stated, underlying numbers for 2011 in this section have been used for ease of comparison.
For definition of underlying, adjusted and pro forma numbers, see page 45.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 23 Business Review Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility 1 Engaging Clients KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 The percentage increase in the weighted Client satisfaction is a proxy for our Client satisfaction mean score for key questions in the client engagement and whether 3% 2% 1% annual Logica client survey.
we are adding value to our clients increase increase reduction business.
The weighted mean score is a measure of the overall effectiveness of our engagement with our clients and the change in satisfaction from year to year.
We aim to increase the client satisfaction and be rated among the key suppliers to our major clients.
All major business units will have KPIs around client satisfaction.
2 Client Focused People KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 A weighted mean score for key questions From 2011, our senior team has been People satisfaction in the annual Logica people survey, as measured on the results of the people 3.61 3.53 3.61 measured on a scale of 1 low to 5 high.
survey results and from 2012, we will extend this to all our leaders.
Annualised voluntary attrition is measured Retention of employees, alongside Attrition by the number of voluntary leavers as a ongoing training and development and 7% 14% 13% percentage of the total employee opportunities for interesting work and population.
There will always be a natural engagement in our wider community level of attrition due to people retiring, programmes, ensures that we are decisions to change careers and a maintaining and upgrading the domain competitive marketplace.
expertise that is a key differentiator for us.
It also measures our managers ability to retain their employees in a buoyant market.
The headcount based in Logicas Our onshore offshore mix continues Nearshore and offshore nearshore and offshore centres which are: to be an important differentiator in the 5,100 5,800 7,100 headcount India, Philippines, Morocco, and Central service we sell to clients as well as a and Eastern Europe.
key driver of our profitability as we aim to reduce our average cost of labour.
We expect our nearshore and offshore headcount to reach around 25% of total headcount over the medium term from its 2011 level of 17%.
24 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011
