Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Our business model There is demand from clients for an integratedbusiness and technology service.
Logica has a distinct competitive advantage.
Our service is delivered by innovative people who add value, and is underpinned by strategic resourcing and ongoing cost management to drive margin performance.
How we go to market  change and the technology on a day-to-day basis, the Successfully selling a service that move to online delivery of HR services, more insightful and effective our work for them becomes.
Its this mix of insider combines business and technology but each company will face some unique requires us to show our clients that challenges.
Similarly, running a database knowledge, our client engagement model weunderstand the business they are for the police see our case study on and our own expertise and experience page5 and online will imply different that helps us create real value for our in and the way technology is used and supported in their local culture security requirements tomanaging clients, as they move to outsource more.
sensitive manufacturing and production See Our markets on pages 10 and 11 Across sectors, clients buy a similar data for a client.
for a better understanding of why clients core service in either Outsourcing or Clients often want references from move to outsourcing.
Butclient another client in their sector, usually The bulk of what we do is in Europe engagementallows us to really help from anearby geography.
As we have or with European clients working outside theclienttoadapt the core service to strengthened our focus on client intimacy, of Europe as you can see from our geographic split of revenue and from our their needs whether it bein-depth we have become even more convinced of knowledge of policing and justice in the need to go-to-marketby sector and top client list on pages 12 to 17.
With new the UK: the understanding of legacy by geography.
Our client engagement clients, our value lies in our knowledge and and the activity of our client directors is experience of different industries.
Unlike applications inEuropean utilities: the staff to respond to queries in Finnish: or the coordinated this way too.
We explainour our smaller rivals, we have the scale to ability to supportan application for which clients and our offerings by sectoron run a global delivery model, industrialise documentation is written in Danish.
pages 16 and 17. processes, improve cost efficiency and The way we run HR processes for run parts of clients businesses for them, for less.
Unlike our more global rivals, our atelecoms operatorlike KPN, with a large Our competitive edge: client intimacy number of staffbased in the Netherlands and sector knowledge combined with global delivery is blended combining but working offsite, isdifferent to the way blended delivery European language capability with the The longer we work with our clients and cost efficiency of delivering from global wedeliver to a client withsites located across a number of different countries.
the more we get to knowtheir business, centres see pages 14 and 15.
Our people There are commonalities, such as their people and how they really use often become an indispensable part of What we deliver to clients There is demand from clients for an and Logica has a distinct competitive integrated business and technology service edge because of our Outsourcing, with contracts based on a combination of fixed Client intimacy price, multi-year commitment and fee rate-based work Insider knowledge Consulting and Professional Services broken down into two areas: Blended delivery Business Consulting and Professional Services, with contracts Skills and experience mainly priced on the basis of fee rates for skills and volumes Long-term client relationships Systems integration and projects, with contracts mainly based on fixed price, fixed term solutions priced per application and product 04 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 clients teams.
This gives us a genuine we do for our clients.
We may deliver a these activities globally.
Italso helps to competitive edge.
We use our Business service to a client that includes elements ensure the expertise and the operations Consulting teams to help clients create from other suppliers: software, hardware are being located where they are most more value from technology over time.
often applications are hosted on servers readily available, most cost effective that we may provide to the client or and most likely to meet client demand.
What we deliver to clients services for example, for applications In Outsourcing, this means that we Our service to clients falls in one of three that may be hosted using a public cloud understand the right server and software areas as shown in the table on page 6. service from a third party provider.
requirements, how to remotely manage Our material and other external a specific application, or how to manage What is neededto deliver for our charges are largely spent with suppliers clients: our people, our suppliers and ofhardware and software for use by us our assets and by our clients and the travel costs Our peoples innovation, thought of getting our people to meetings with leadership, productivity and commercial clients.
No one supplier accounts for more acumenare key to delivering results.
As a result Our 41,000 people are our biggest asset.
ofwhat we do, our most significant Their salaries and benefits expense, as non-people assets are intangibles.
These well as the cost of subcontracted labour, are largelysoftware licences, the costs of represent our largest single cost.
Among development associated with internallyour Key Performance Indicators KPIs is generated software solutions such as attrition, which measures the number of our smart metering solutions, our brand our people who voluntarily leave in any names and client relationships and the After Soham given year.
A key operational risk is our historical goodwill associated with building ability to attract, retain, develop and the businessthrough acquisitions Logicas vision is to be the security effectively utilise the skills, commercial see note 17 on page 114 for details.
partner of choice in cyber security, experience and performance contribution security governance, identity and access of our people.
We must be able to do this How we deliver a service to clients management, cloud security and Secure quickly and flexibly with an appropriate Delivering efficiently and at the right by Design.
Our work on the Police National balance of onshore, nearshore and costis crucial to retaining business Database in the UK shows how technology offshore resources.
withclients and protecting our margins.
Our resources include not just our Our service lines Outsourcing and own people.
Supporting other companies Business Consulting ensure that the See and hear more online annualreport.
com our-stories software like SAP, Oracle, Microsoft service we deliver iscompetitivefor our and hundreds of other more specialist clients.
Given the real synergies across applications isa core part of the work geographies, it makes sense to organise our service is delivered by people who add all underpinned by resourcing and value through their on-going cost management to drive margin performance through Productivity Productivity tools and industrialised processes Thought leadership Right people, right skills, right places recruitment of skills, Innovation managing attrition, appropriate onshore offshore mix Commercial acumen Managing labour costs fee rates, utilisation, skills optimisation Scale benefits in sales and marketing, truly integrated back office functions and efficient use of real estate Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 05 Business Review Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility sector and geography, withservice lines sharing of knowledge and large amounts expertise, working in areas like systems of data in a big company.
Our own internal architecture and design.
Our strength responsible for the efficiencies needed cost base is therefore set up to deliver in is the way we match up our specialist in delivery to clients.
Central functions these areas in the most efficient way.
In teams to meet specific needs for our are best-placed to design, procure, Business Consulting, this means having clients.
We can pull together a mix of manage and control our resources and people organised into clear practices industry and technical experts, and business systems.
so that, for example, we build a real specialists in particular fields like Finance, understandingof what best practice in HR or Customer Relationship Management Our financial model carbon emissions looks like as we are from across countries.
In this area, most Much of our revenue comes from recurring doing in our sustainability practice, see of the people who support our clients business, secured by long-term or repeat page 20.
We helpbusinessesgain insight do so from the clients home country.
Some of our top clients have Our geographical organisation helps us been with us for over 25 years.
We focus into their end users in a world of social media this is the focus of our Customer keep close to clients, sell more directly on growing alongside our existing clients Insight and Business Intelligence practice and deliver systems integration and and on winningnew clients with our today.
Practices share knowledge and project work more efficiently.
It also allows industry insight.
Improving our margins processes which allow us to deliver us to manage, recruit and reward our going forward is inextricably linked to the results quickly for clients.
See page 36 people more effectively.
value we create for clients.
for our disclosure of the results of our Outsourcing and Business Consulting How we organise to deliver How we contract with clients Larger outsourcing deals are based service lines.
The structure of our Executive Committee We are well known for our systems see page50 reflects a client-facing, around running a clients applications integration and professional services go-to-market approach organised by and or infrastructure for them.
Their main Delivering a service to clients Outsourcing Consulting and Professional Services What our clients Outsourcing: We deliver an Business Consulting: Clients Systems integration, buy end-to-end service across ask for consulting adviceto help professional services and Applications Management AM, transform operations, shape and projects: Integrating business Infrastructure Management IM implement change and evolve and technology has been a core and Business Process Outsourcing IT systems and services to meet competence since we started BPO.
Our delivery is based on business demands.
Our thought serving clients over 40 years ago.
combining our strengths as a leadership is an essential part of We are vendor-independent and vendor-independent systems the overall service we offer clients, have strong sector and technology integrator, our technology driving revenue in other parts knowledge.
Our people help clients partnerships with leading of the business as well.
Our four adapt packaged systems, modify applications providers like practices are: Applied Business existing systems and design new Microsoft, Oracle and SAP systems.
43% of our revenue Insight, Future IT, Sustainability and a blended delivery model.
Services and Business Change and comes from these areas.
We combine onsite, onshore, Transformation.
12% of revenue nearshore and offshore resources comes from Business Consulting.
to deliver an efficient and costeffective blend to clients in English and non-English speaking countries.
Outsourcing represented 45% of revenue in 2011.
How we organise The Outsourcing service line The Business Consulting Direct management in country, to deliver coordinates expertise and delivery service line coordinates coordinated centrally expertise and delivery 06 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 objective is usuallycost reduction.
Business Consulting services are usually Contracts are usually made up of different based on a fee rate, as technology elements, with some component of the consulting often is too.
Systems contract at a fixed price whether per integration, architecture and design is user, per call ticket or per application.
more often done on a project basis, where To manage standard applications like SAP, we charge a fixed price.
Revenue here is it tends to be per user.
For custom-built more cyclical, because its more linked to applications, it tends to be per application.
changes in the economy or technology.
A further element of the work is generally Clients may stop some project-based on a basis where we charge for time and work in a downturn.
But its also the part materials or at a fee rate.
Charging a fixed of our business where orders are often price encourages our clients to think about converted more quickly into revenue, how many applications they can really because they are shorter-term in nature.
Often, they end up choosing So we need to make sure we manage all to reduce the number of applications.
our resources effectively to be ready to In Consulting and Professional Services, adapt as demand changes.
some of our consultants work in specialist groups, while others work in industryspecific teams on systems integration and development projects.
This could be for a few days or for a more prolonged period, depending on what the client needs.
Its what you do with them As the number of satellite applications continues to grow, so does the wider value those satellites can deliver.
After all, without applications bringing benefit on earth, satellites are just expensive orbiting hardware.
Logica is helping to deliver some of the latest solutions space can offer.
See and hear more online: annualreport.
com our-stories Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 07 Business Review
