Engaging Clients KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 The percentage increase in the weighted Client satisfaction is a proxy for our Client satisfaction Find out more mean score for key questions in the client engagement and whether For more details on our top clients, 3% 2% 1% see pages 16 and 17. annual Logica client survey.
we are adding value to our clients increase increase reduction business.
The weighted mean score is a measure of the overall effectiveness of our engagement with our clients and the change in satisfaction from year to year.
We aim to increase the client satisfaction and be rated among the key suppliers to our major clients.
All major business units will have KPIs around client satisfaction.
Client Focused People KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 A weighted mean score for key questions From 2011, our senior team has been People satisfaction Find out more in the annual Logica people survey, as measured on the results of the people 75% of our people participated 3.61 3.53 3.61 in our People Survey conducted measured on a scale of 1 low to 5 high.
survey results and from 2012, we will in early 2012.
For more about our extend this to all our leaders.
people, see pages 8 to 9 and our Corporate Responsibility reports at www.
com sustainability Annualised voluntary attrition is measured Retention of employees, alongside Attrition Find out more by the number of voluntary leavers as a ongoing training and development and We want a healthy level of attrition 7% 14% 13% which is likely to be around current percentage of the total employee opportunities for interesting work and levels, with around 5,000 to 6,000 population.
There will always be a natural engagement in our wider community people exiting the business every year.
This allows us to make level of attrition due to people retiring, programmes, ensures that we are strategic resourcing decisions and decisions to change careers and a maintaining and upgrading the domain refresh our labour mix with new skills and the right mix of onshore competitive marketplace.
expertise that is a key differentiator and offshore without destabilising for us.
It also measures our managers our client delivery.
At this level, ability to retain their employees in we can invest in the management and skills development of the people a buoyant market.
we retain and ensure that both our people and our clients get the benefit.
The headcount based in Logicas Our onshore offshore mix continues Nearshore and offshore Find out more nearshore and offshore centres which are: to be an important differentiator in the Our headcount in these centres 5,100 5,800 7,100 headcount was up 22% in 2011.
The fastest India, Philippines, Morocco, and Central service we sell to clients as well as a growth was in India, up 17%.
key driver of our profitability as we aim Our Moroccan centre was broadly stable despite uncertainty in the to reduce our average cost of labour.
For more on the skills and We expect our nearshore and offshore countries served out of these headcount to reach around 25% of centres, see page 15. total headcount over the medium term from its 2011 level of 17%.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 25 Business Review Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility 3 4 Client Value and Delivering Value for Money KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 Revenue from Outsourcing contracts Longer-term value-added contracts Percentage of revenue as a percentage of Group revenue.
represent a more predictable revenue 37% 43% 45% from Outsourcing stream, assuming good project and risk management.
The investment in Outsourcing we have made over the last four years has been aimed at growing revenue from Outsourcing faster than overall Group revenue, reflecting where the opportunity for growth is in our markets.
Our goal is to continue to grow revenue Outsourcing from our current level of 45%.
The total value of orders booked In the Outsourcing business, the Outsourcing order backlog but not yet delivered in the Outsourcing order backlog gives us the best view n a 2.3bn 2.6bn business.
This metric was introduced of the longer-term visibility of revenue.
We would typically expect to have an order backlog greater than 50% of the previous years revenue at the beginning of any year.
Consulting and Professional Services In the more cyclical part of our Consulting and Professional orders booked in a period divided by business, this provides visibility of 108% 105% 112% Services book to bill revenue in the period for this part of future revenue.
A book to bill above the business.
100% means that the Company is booking orders greater than the revenue in the year, suggesting a good orderbacklog going forward.
Sales and marketing expense as a Over our 2008 base, we have our Reinvestments in percentage of sales.
clients by ensuring we can differentiate 7.4% 7.4% 7.3% future growth our offerings in the market vis--vis our competition.
Reduction in carbon emissions We aim to reduce our absolute carbon Improved sustainability measured as reduction in tonnes emissionsfrom our 2008 baseline, 5% 7% 0% of our operations of carbon dioxide emitted.
working towards a 50% reduction reduction reduction reduction by 2020.
Our main emissions are generated by where our people work, how they travel and the operation of our data centres.
Thinking more about how and where we work see page 8 provides an opportunity for improvement.
In 2011, we set out a carbon reduction roadmap, which identifies the KPIs that the business must work forward to meet our mid-and long-term goals.
26 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Client Value and Delivering Value for Money KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 Revenue from Outsourcing contracts Longer-term value-added contracts Percentage of revenue Find out more as a percentage of Group revenue.
represent a more predictable revenue For additional metrics around our 37% 43% 45% from Outsourcing Outsourcing business, see page 36. stream, assuming good project and For the longer term trends in this risk management.
The investment in market, see page 10.
Outsourcing we have made over the last four years has been aimed at growing revenue from Outsourcing faster than overall Group revenue, reflecting where the opportunity for growth is in our markets.
The total value of orders booked In the Outsourcing business, the Outsourcing order backlog Find out more but not yet delivered in the Outsourcing order backlog gives us the best view Important Outsourcing orders n a 2.3bn 2.6bn booked in 2011 and additional business.
End of 2010 End of 2011 Outsourcing metrics are detailed as a KPI in 2010.
We would typically expect to have on pages 3 and 36 respectively.
an order backlog greater than 50% of the previous years revenue at the beginning of any year.
Consulting and Professional Services In the more cyclical part of our Consulting and Professional Find out more orders booked in a period divided by business, this provides visibility of For additional Consulting and 108% 105% 112% Services book to bill Professional Services metrics, revenue in the period for this part of future revenue.
A book to bill above see page 36. the business.
Sales and marketing expense as a Over our 2008 base, we have our Reinvestments in Find out more percentage of sales.
clients by ensuring we can differentiate For more detail on our client 7.4% 7.4% 7.3% future growth engagement, see page 18 and our our offerings in the market vis--vis client stories at www.
Reduction in carbon emissions We aim to reduce our absolute carbon Improved sustainability Find out more measured as reduction in tonnes emissionsfrom our 2008 baseline, In 2011 the carbon reductions 5% 7% 0% of our operations realised in Europe were offset of carbon dioxide emitted.
working towards a 50% reduction reduction reduction reduction by increases in offshore locations by 2020.
Our main emissions are which are powered by more carbon-intensive energy sources.
generated by where our people work, We have been successful in how they travel and the operation achieving external recognition of our data centres.
Thinking more for our environmental credentials.
Logica was recognised as the about how and where we work leading IT services company in see page 8 provides an opportunity the Carbon Disclosure Project and entered the Dow Jones for improvement.
In 2011, we set out Sustainability Index for the a carbon reduction roadmap, which first time in 2011.
For more details, see our full report at identifies the KPIs that the business www.
com sustainability must work forward to meet our mid-and long-term goals.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 27 Business Review Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility 5 Expected Financial Outcomes KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 Percentage growth in revenue in the Provides a measure of our ability Pro forma revenue growth current year compared to revenue on to grow revenue.
This demonstrates -3% 1% 4% a like-for-like basis in the previous year, our ability to take advantage of i. e. taking into account the impact of market growth, to use scale to acquisitions, divestments and currency generate market share and to movements.
Exceptionally for 2011, leverage our global delivery we are using underlying revenue capability to expand revenue.
which excludes the revenue impact of contract charges taken in December 2011.
This represents a better like-for-like comparison with prior years.
Including the impact of contract charges, revenue growth was 3%.
Adjusted operating margin is a This measure is used to compare Adjusted operating margin percentage of revenue.
Adjusted quality of earnings with those 7.4% 7.4% 6.2% operating profit is operating profit of our peers.
Our medium-term excluding the results of discontinued strategic objective is to ensure operations, exceptional items and restructuring is considered as a amortisation of intangible assets initially business-as-usual expense within recognised at fair value in a business adjusted operating margin.
combination, whenever such items occur.
Exceptionally for 2011, we are using underlying adjusted margin which excludes the impact of contract and restructuring charges taken in December 2011.
Including the charges, adjusted operating margin was 2.9%.
Growth in net earnings attributable to EPS growth is an important measure Adjusted EPS growth equity holders of the parent company for shareholders of the earnings 2% -2% -8% excluding, whenever such items occur, generated by the business, after the result of discontinued operations, the effect of interest and tax.
exceptional items, mark-to-market gains and losses on financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, and amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination, net of tax where applicable, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the period.
Free cash flow is a derived measure of net Free cash flowis a measure of the cash Free cash flow NEW operating cash flow which takes operating generated by the business that can be 180m 84m 82m profit and adds back non-cash items reinvested in future growth or returned relating to depreciation and amortisation, to shareholders.
This metric will be adjusts for changes in working capital and used in our bonus plans from 2012. deducts capex, interest and tax paid.
28 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Expected Financial Outcomes KPI Definition Rationale Performance over three years 2009 2010 2011 Percentage growth in revenue in the Provides a measure of our ability Pro forma revenue growth Find out more current year compared to revenue on to grow revenue.
This demonstrates For more details on our revenue -3% 1% 4% growth by service line and segment, a like-for-like basis in the previous year, our ability to take advantage of see our Financial review on pages i. e. taking into account the impact of market growth, to use scale to 34 to 35. acquisitions, divestments and currency generate market share and to movements.
Adjusted operating margin is a This measure is used to compare Adjusted operating margin Find out more percentage of revenue.
Adjusted quality of earnings with those For a view of our margin 7.4% 7.4% 6.2% performance in 2011, see page 34. operating profit is operating profit of our peers.
Growth in net earnings attributable to EPS growth is an important measure Adjusted EPS growth Find out more equity holders of the parent company for shareholders of the earnings Our underlying profitability declined 2% -2% -8% on the back of a difficult market excluding, whenever such items occur, generated by the business, after in the Benelux.
See page 34 for the result of discontinued operations, the effect of interest and tax.
Free cash flow is a derived measure of net Free cash flowis a measure of the cash Free cash flow NEW Find out more operating cash flow which takes operating generated by the business that can be For more detail on our net debt 180m 84m 82m EBITDA guidance, financial position profit and adds back non-cash items reinvested in future growth or returned and progress on cash, see page 35 relating to depreciation and amortisation, to shareholders.
This metric will be and our full year results presentations on www.
com investors adjusts for changes in working capital and used in our bonus plans from 2012. deducts capex, interest and tax paid.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 29 Business Review
