Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report Report of the Directors Our Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31December 2011 will be laid before shareholders at our 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Find out more Our business activities and our We are a leading European business and technology service business model are described more fully on pages 4 to 7 and in the case company, employing over 41,000 people at the end of 2011. studies in this report.
Our principal activities are providing business consulting, systems integration and outsourcing to clients around the world, including many of Europes largest businesses.
Who are our major shareholders?
Find out more Regular monthly updates to Interests notified to us of 3% or morein our issued share capital our largest shareholders are posted on our website at are set out below as at 31 December 2011 and 12March 2012. www.
com investors The percentages have been calculated on the shares in issue at the date of notification.
Find out more Voting results can be found on The AGM will be held on 11 May 2012 at 10.30 am at our website at www.
com investors Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9AG.
All Directors are expected to attend.
What issues will be voted on at our AGM?
Find out more A summary of the business to be At our 2012 AGM all of the Directors will stand for election or conducted at the AGM is set out on page 57. re-election.
The other approvals to be sought from shareholders will include resolutions to purchase our own shares and to allot new shares for cash.
54 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial highlights Elsewhere in Results the report: Consolidated revenue Profit before tax Profit attributable Business review to shareholders The business review can be found in the following sections: A review of the development, 3,921m 33m 27m performance and financial position of the business as well as an 2010: 3,697m 2010: 193m 2010: 152m analysis of Key Performance Indicators KPIs : Basic earnings per share Basic adjusted earnings Net debt at year end our markets on pages 10 to 17 business review on pages 2 to 33 from total operations per share from continuing financial review on pages 34 to 45. operations Our 2012 outlook, future direction, strategic plan and guiding principles for the business: a view fromour CEO on page 3 1.7p 4.5p 295m a view fromour Chairman on page 47 2010: 9.6p 2010: 12.3p 2010: 280m ourstrategy on page 18 business review on pages 22 to 33 Further information about earnings per share is set out in note 15 on page 110. financial review on pages 34 to 45.
Future developments Further information on future developments can be found in the Research and development view from the CEO on page 3, the business review on pages 22 to 33 Amount invested Amount capitalised and in the financial review on pages 34 to 45.
44m 30m Group Key Performance Indicators 2010: 30m 2010: 21m KPIs aresummarised on pages 22 to 29.
Dividends These sections, together with the Corporate governance report set out on pages 58 to 68, are Final dividend per share Interim dividend per share Total dividend per share incorporated into this Report proposed paid 14.10.11 for 2011 by reference.
2.3p 2.1p 4.4p 2010: 2.3p 2010: 1.9p 2010: 4.2p If approved at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2012 to eligible shareholders on the register at close of business on 13 April 2012. Dividend waiver details are set out in note IX on page 149.
Shares of our employee benefit trusts is obliged to Share capital and issue of new act in the best interests of the share plans share capital beneficiaries.
At General Meetings, the Our share capital consists of one class Trustee may exercise discretion and vote of ordinary shares of 10p each.
Each share in respect of Trust shares although it may ranks equally and carries the same rights not always choose to do so.
Where shares to vote and receive dividends and other are beneficially held by an employee within a share plan they may direct the Trustee distributions declared.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or holding to vote on their behalf.
Our share plans of our shares.
are further explained on pages 74 to 76.
The rights attached to shares which The Directors require express are the subject of awards under any of our authorisation from shareholders to allot employee share plans are not available new shares.
This authority can be granted until any award or option is exercised and for a period of five years.
However, we the shares are allotted or transferred to follow best practice and seek shareholder the relevant individual.
The Trustee of each approval annually.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 55 Governance Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report are differently abled.
We give full and At the 2011 AGM authority was given The Board to allot new shares up to an aggregate Directors and changes during the year fair consideration to differently abled nominal amount of 52,864,783, The names, functions and biographical people with respect to applications for details of our current Directors are set out employment, continued employment, representing approximately one-third of the then issued share capital.
on pages 48 to 51 and are also available training, career development and Shareholders will be asked to renew this on our website at www.
promotion, having regard to each The following change to the Board took individuals particular aptitudes authority at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, the usual resolution to disapply place in 2011: 5 September 2011: Himanshu and abilities.
pre-emption rights will also be proposed.
Raja was appointed as an Executive Director During the year our issued share capital and Chief Financial Officer.
Employee involvement increased by 10,032,071 shares as a result Himanshu Raja will stand for election We are committed to ensuring that our employees share in the success of the of the issue of shares on the exercise of by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
All of options and awards of shares under our the other Directors intend to retire and Group and in particular employees are employee share plans.
encouraged to participate in our share Further details of the election and option and share purchase plans.
re-election of the Directors can be found We also continued our policy of Purchase of own shares on page 57and in the notes to the AGM informing and involving employees in At the 2011 AGM shareholders approved Notice on our website at www.
matters which concern them through an annualresolution giving us authority The governance structure of the Board the use of regular meetings between management and employees, corporate to purchase up to 160,196,313 of our own is illustrated on page 61 and the activities shares.
No shares were purchased during of the Boards governance committees are news letters, knowledge management the year.
Accordingly, at the 2012 AGM, summarised on pages 66 to 68. tools, the issue of bulletins and briefings and our intranet.
In addition, an annual the Directors will seek to renew the authority to make market purchases of Directors remuneration report staff survey is undertaken, the results of up to a maximum of 10% of issued share and Directors interests which are provided to the Board, HR and The Directors remuneration report is set all employees.
At the present time we have no plans to exercise this authority.
Directors interests in our share capital as at 31 December Charitable donations Restrictions on voting rights 2011 are shown on page 82 of the report.
Total UK charitable donations in 2011 All shareholders entitled to attend and were 191,000 2010: 155,000, the majority of which were made to vote at a General Meeting may appoint Directors and Officers insurance a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and We maintain insurance cover for all childrens charities.
A member may appoint directors and officers of Group companies.
In addition, indemnities are in force under Further information aboutour more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights which we have agreed to indemnify the employment and equal opportunities attached to a different share or shares Directors against all liabilities and related policies, including employee involvement, costs that they may incur in the execution can be found in the Our people and held by the shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Proxy forms must of their duties.
Copies of these indemnities Responsibility sections on pages 8 to 9 and 21, and on our website at be received by our registrars at least are kept at our registered office and are 48hours before the time appointed for open for inspection by any member.
Further information holding a meeting, as set out in any indemnities do not cover the Directors or about our employee share plans is set out on pages 130 to 135, in note 35.
Notice or in any form or proxy circulated Officers for fraudulent activity.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending People and Responsibility Political donations and contributions Employees, employment policies and Our policy is not to make any donations and voting in person at a General Meeting.
Further details may be found in the equal opportunities or contributions to political parties or Notice of Meetingsent to shareholders Diversity is a key component of our organisations and no such payments in advance of the 2012 AGM, a copy of corporate responsibility programme.
were made during the year.
which is also available on our website We are committed to providing equal at www.
opportunities to all employees irrespective of their gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age, religion, race or whether they 56 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Branches Auditors to elect Himanshu Raja as a Director We continue to operate a number of  LLP PwC have to re-elect each of the other Directors overseas branches which during 2011 been our auditors for a number of years.
a separate resolution will be proposed included branches in France, other parts The Audit Committee considers that the for each Director of the European Union, the Philippines relationship with the auditors is working to renew the authority to incur political and Saudi Arabia.
well and remains satisfied with their expenditure effectiveness.
The auditors are required to torenew the Directors authority to allot Creditor payment policy and practice rotate the audit partner responsible for the new shares.
We and our subsidiaries seek the best Group and key subsidiaries audits.
There possible terms from suppliers appropriate are no contractual obligations restricting Special Resolutions to their businesses and, in placing orders, our choice of auditor.
The following resolutions will be passed give consideration to quality, delivery, price The Directors have recommended the only if 75% or more of the votes cast are and the terms of payment which will be reappointment of PwC, who have in favour: agreed with suppliers when the details of expressed their willingness to continue in to renew the Directors authority to each transaction are agreed.
A resolution for their reappointment allot shares for cash other than on a continue to honour our contractual and will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
pro-rata basis other legal obligations and to pay creditors to renew the authority to purchase on the dates agreed in contract and Auditors right to information our own shares up to a maximum of purchase orders except where we are Each person who is a Director at the date 10% of issued share capital in legal dispute.
At 31 December 2011, of approval of this Report confirms that: to approve the calling of a General the number of days of annual purchases so far as he or she is aware, there is no Meeting other than an AGM on not represented by year-end trade creditors relevant audit information of which the less than 14 clear days notice.
for the Group amounted to60 days 2010: auditors are unaware: 68 days and for the Company amounted he or she has taken all the steps that The full details of the resolutions can be tonil days 2010: nil days.
he or she ought to have taken as a found in the Notice of Meeting, a copy Director to make himself or herself ofwhich is available on our website at Financial instruments aware of any relevant audit information www.
com or can be obtained and to establish that the auditors are from the Company Secretary.
Our exposure to financial risks including the use of financial instruments and aware of that information.
policies for hedging and the exposure to By order of the Board price, credit, cash flow and liquidity risk Events after the Balance Sheet date can be found in note 26 to the Financial No important events have occurred since Statements.
Change of control Annual General Meeting In some sectors in which we operate Our AGM will be held on 11 May 2012 Alice Rivers it is not unusual for some client or supplier at 10.30 am at Kings Place, 90 York Way, Company Secretary contracts to include a clause that may London N1 9AG.
12 March 2012 allow the termination of the contract in A summary of the resolutions to be the event of a change of control.
The only proposed at the AGM is set out below: Registered office other significant agreements to which Logica plc we are party that take effect, alter or Ordinary Resolutions 250 Brook Drive terminate upon a change of control to receive the Directors and Auditors Reading RG2 6UA following a takeover bid are our principal reports and the audited Accounts for United Kingdom debt facilities and related hedging 2011 instruments, where the counterparties to approve the 2011 final dividend of Registered in England and Wales 2.3p per share can require repayment in the event of No 1631639 a change of control.
There are no to approve the Directors remuneration agreements between us and our Directors report for 2011 or employees providing for compensation to reappoint  for loss of office or employment that occur LLP as auditors because of a takeover bid.
to agree the remuneration of the auditors Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 57 Governance
