Business Review Business Review A view from our CEO Our markets KPIs Our business model Our strategy Risks Our people Sustainability and responsibility Our strategy Over the past four years, we have created a consistent organisation, focused on a clear strategy based on client intimacy and a single brand.
Using our leadership positions, we have continued to develop strong long-term relationships with our major clients.
We have continued to increase our share of the market by growing with our current clients and developing relationships with new ones.
We set ourselves a clear plan to focus we have achieved a significant reduction our One Logica initiatives have on above-market growth and improve in overheads while improving the resulted in a more streamlined margins.
We planned to achieve this by sustainability of our operations, but we organisation in tune with changing concentrating on accelerating blended need to continue to work on reducing client needs.
But our clients feedback delivery, creating a One Logica culture our direct costs to improve margin is that we have more to do to align and driving competitive costs.
We set out our strong performance in France, our business and operating models to grow Business Consulting to engage Northern and Central Europe and across different geographies to better with ourclientssenior executives and International clustershas helped serve them.
develop Outsourcing Services to maximise us sustain good revenue growth our recurringrevenue.
We aimed to drive our blended delivery model has been As we look forward, we continue to our competitive advantage by increasing deployed more widely, with services expect challenges due to the shifting our offshore blend, combining our now being delivered to350 clients in demands in our clients needs and a strengths globally, driving operational 28countries in 12languages rapidly transforming technology and excellence and reducing costs to achieve our people satisfaction has continued business model.
In the next three years, we need to We have made real progress in adjust our skills and accelerate execution many areas: However, there are areas where we have in the areas that are critical to our we have strengthened our position not achieved what we set out to do: continuing success.
These include: with European clients, with growth in ourgross margin has not improved due the investments needed to remain our largest accounts up 11% and our to a competitive pricing environment.
competitive and to continue top 50 clients now accounting for 44% Gross margin has also been impacted strengthening large contract execution of revenue compared to 42% in 2010. by the costs of restructuring using our brand to deliver unique A significant proportion of the large deals announced in December needed to experiences to our clients and in 2011 came from these larger clients make the business sustainable over our people as illustratedon pages 10 to 17, we the longer term building new business models for continue to have a strong leadership there remains an opportunity to our clients and for our future.
position in Europe and have won new better leverage offerings, assets, deals withclients like Michelin and learning and experience across the Shell, which extend our reach into new Group, replicating pilots like the services as well as new territories Application Management programme our leadership positionin Outsourcing where the benefits from shared service Services in Europe has strengthened, and a common tool-set have reduced with our Outsourcing business growing turnaround times for clients from 6 to above the market and increasing as a 4.5 hours percentage of revenue within Logica our execution of Group plans has we are winning many more large deals, not been as consistent as we would with our Outsourcing order backlog have liked in Sweden and the UK.
up to 2.6 billion at the end of 2011 The Benelux market has also proved Business Consulting and Outsourcing more difficult than we had anticipated are clearly-established service lines, driving synergies and leveraging our strengths in different geographies 18 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 S h a r e h o l d e r s s t n e Our strategy centres on creating Key strategic programmes sustainable value by: engaging Our key strategic programmes are set our clients to drive superior growth: to limit  outbelow focusing on our most important asset beyond 2013 toaround 1% of revenue our people: delivering client value through having accelerated our 2012 and 2013 1 new business models: and improving restructuring into 2011. margins while delivering value for money to our clients.
3 Client Value As a business, our priority for 2012 We continue to develop Intellectual is to leverage these investments and Property-based offerings which clients efforts to ensure: value.
These include products, offered our Benelux businessreturns to profit Sustainable traditionally or on a  4 2 our Swedish and UK businessesdeliver Value SaaS model, and business platforms an improved margin Creation such as our HR BPO and fuel cards.
These our IM business is strongly competitive platforms resulted in important wins with going forward.
Shell, Ahold and BAE Systems in 2011.
As clients look to buy service as operating Over the longer term, our plan aims to rather than capital expenditure, new deliver a sustainable level of growth with as-a-service models in software, 3 deep foundations in our client intimacy infrastructure and business processes strategy, our sector knowledge and are gaining traction.
These give us the collaboration with our ecosystem partners.
opportunity to convert deep domain It is based on continuing investment to knowledge into new revenue streams create market differentiation.
We aim 1 Engaging Clients which give us distinctiveness in the for longer-term revenue growth rates at We will create market differentiation marketplace.
Maximising reuse of assets least in the low single digits regardless by leveraging our sector leadership and alsocreates opportunities for revenue of the economy, with a continuing trend Business Consulting-generated insight.
of Outsourcing growing faster than our We expect over two thirds of our revenue Consulting and Professional Services to be generated by our major clients.
4 Delivering Value for Money business.
We aim for operating profit Our go-to-market model around sectors Profitable growth relies on the ability improvement over the longer term, driven will ensure the development of a coherent to drive increased efficiency and reduce by a clear focus on reducing the cost of portfolio of offerings based on the current labour costs across the cycles.
Moving delivery and increasing productivity to and future needs of our major clients, towards a higher mix of Outsourcing improve gross margin.
industry trends and our own insights.
provides more revenue stability and For shareholders, this should result in Our Business Consulting revenue will pressure on pricing in Outsourcing is sustained EPS growth and a business that continue to grow and will stimulate more about longer-term efficiencies deliversstrong free cash flow generation.
Clients will than short-term economic cycles.
This will enable us to maintain a benefit from investments in client Our investment in standard global progressive and sustainable dividend management and thought leadership.
tools and processes in Application policy while undertaking investments to and Infrastructure Management are support our long-term success and create 2 Client Focused People enhancing the client experience, pioneering solutions for our clients.
Our People Vision is clearly articulated providing better visibility of cost drivers, through our Employee Value Proposition, enabling consistent, joined-up remote whichfocuses on driving engagement and offshore support, promoting more Find out more with our people.
A refreshed Logica effective collaboration across cloud Our European clients, go to career model and improvements in our and non-cloud based ecosystems, pages 16 and 17 performance management and strategic Our markets, go to pages and driving productivity improvements.
10 and 11 resourcing will support continuing More investments in processes and Outsourcing business, go to career development.
The aim is to give systems are critical to overhead reduction page 36 Outsourcing order backlog, people clear direction about career and business control.
Learning from go to page 36 development and to minimise unnecessary our experience in 2011, we will Margin performance, go to page 34 restructuring.
By ensuring we have the manage project and service delivery Sustainability of operations, right people with the right skills in the right risk betterthrough a well-defined go to page 20 places over the longer term, we expect Delivery Assurance programme.
Execution of Group strategy, go to pages 22 to 29 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 19 i l C P e o p l e Business Review
