Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 63 ] Directors Report Governance This report combines the Directors Report required to be produced by law and the management report and corporate governance statement required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit & Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and The UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 82 to 99.
Governance of the Company The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors, collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The Board is fully committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, as it believes this will help facilitate the sustained success of the Company.
As an English-incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 and its supporting guidance, all of which is available on the FRC website, www.
During the year to 30 September 2011 and to the date of this report, the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of the Code.
Almost all of the Companys business is based in South Africa, where the prevailing governance code is the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as King III.
While the Company and its subsidiaries are not subject to King III the Board has identified certain provisions which it feels are of benefit to the Companys overall governance framework, primarily in relation to ethical and other considerations as to how our business is managed sustainably, which we follow on a voluntary basis.
How the Board of Directors operates 2.1 The role of the Board The primary purpose of the Board is to create and deliver the long term success of the Company and protect the interests of shareholders.
The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction and control of the Company and is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and ensure that it takes full account of safety, environmental and social factors.
The Board is the senior decision making forum in the Company, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, most recently reviewed in November 2005.
This is available on the Companys website and confirms the Boards exclusive right to take decisions of strategic importance, or in relation to material financial and other commitments, or where significant reputational or other risk may exist.
Monitor and understand the risk environment in which the Company operates Develop the business model Report to shareholders on and provide entrepreneurial business performance, and leadership ascertain their views Appoint the CEO Oversee reporting to other Consider and approve strategy, stakeholders Monitor the delivery of strategy business plans and budgets Challenge or support management as necessary Oversee governance environment, including through oversight delegated to Board Committees Oversee the internal control framework Use of Board time in FY2011 5% 16% The Board met ten times during the year and used its time in those meetings as shown in the chart alongside.
Inevitably, any agenda item can involve a degree of overlap between two or more of the categories.
Governance Operational 35% Strategic 44% Risk www.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 2.2 Key Board roles The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are set out in writing and are summarised below, together with the primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors.
Chairman Roger Phillimore based in the United Kingdom Chief Executive Officer Ian Farmer based in South Africa Lead and manage the Board Provide leadership to the executive team in running the business Provide strategic guidance to the executive team Develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement Promote the highest standards of corporate governance Ensure effective internal controls and risk management systems are in place Ensure effective communication with shareholders Implement all Board approved actions Senior Independent Director Michael Hartnall Non-executive Directors To act as an intermediary for the other Directors when Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed necessary goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance To be available to shareholders if they have concerns Review the integrity of financial information and determine which contact with the chairman, chief executive or other whether internal controls and systems of risk management are Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or would be robust inappropriate Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors, be involved in the appointment and, where necessary, the removal of Executive Directors and monitor succession planning Given their geographical separation, the Chairman has a weekly call with the CEO to discuss current material matters, and the Chairman also visits the operations outside the Board meeting schedule to meet a wider range of senior executives and managers.
Clearly, having a detailed knowledge of South Africa, the mining industry, the PGM business and Lonmins operations is crucial to the Non-executive Directors ability to contribute.
On appointment each is provided with a tailored induction, and all are then expected to devote time to developing their knowledge and skills.
The Company supports this with a number of working sessions with a wide range of operational managers including site visits and external subject-matter experts throughout the year.
The Non-executive Directors have regular contact with the Exco members see Section 10 below and the broader management team through the working sessions as well as social occasions.
The Chairman routinely holds discussions with Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
2.3 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association empower the Board to appoint new Directors.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created, whose work is described in section 7 of this report.
In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals, whose skills and experience were gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
Above all, the Directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity and the courage to challenge constructively when appropriate.
Appointments are therefore made on personal merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for Non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for public inspection and the generic template is provided on the Companys website.
As the current composition of the Board and Exco demonstrates, Lonmin strongly supports the benefits of diversity, both in the boardroom and in the business.
As the Chairman confirmed in his remarks on page 5, our principal challenge is in meeting the transformation and employment equity targets we face in South Africa.
Given this, we are not choosing to impose further gender-based targets on ourselves, as these could create an unhelpful constraint on future Board appointments.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 65 ] Directors Report Governance 2.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 2.4 The Board of Directors The Board currently has eleven members: a Non-executive Chairman, eight Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The names of the current Directors and biographical details are set out on pages 60 and 61.
All served throughout the year, save for Mahomed Seedat, who joined the Board as a non-independent Non-executive Director on 1 January 2011.
In addition, Alan Ferguson served as an Executive Director until 31 December 2010, when his role was declared redundant.
Michael Hartnall has been a Director for almost nine years, and has indicated his intention to retire from the Board at the AGM in January 2012.
It is not currently intended to recruit another Director in his place.
2.5 Board balance and independence The Board believes that it has an acceptable number of members with a sufficiently diverse balance of backgrounds, experience and skills to discharge its functions effectively and to manage succession issues.
A Board with eleven members is felt to be at the upper end of the preferred range, but is not unwieldy.
The blend of individuals and their personal qualities are determining factors in the Boards effectiveness: importantly, no one individual or group of individuals is able to dominate decision taking.
The Board keeps its membership, and that of its Committees, under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
Cyril Ramaphosa was nominated to the Board by Shanduka, the parent company of Incwala, Lonmins BEE partner, and as a result, the Board does not judge that Mr Ramaphosa is independent.
In addition, Mahomed Seedat was formerly the Companys Chief Operating Officer and is therefore not regarded as independent.
However, all of the other Non-executive Directors are regarded as independent by the Board.
The experience, professional backgrounds and international diversity of the current nine Non-executive Directors can be summarised as follows: Industry sector experience Professional background Current country of primary residence 1 1 1 2 1 2 1 3 2 5 6 2 Natural Resources Management United Kingdom Financial Services Mining engineering South Africa Manufacturing Accounting Spain Actuarial Legal Political A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently reside, and the vast majority have strong links with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on pages 60 and 61. www.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 2.6 How we assess and refresh the Board There are three ways in which we make sure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the Company: performance evaluation, succession planning and annual re-election by shareholders.
Performance evaluation The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful in maintaining an effective, challenging and dynamic Board, not least in identifying improvement opportunities.
Last years evaluation, which was externally facilitated, confirmed that the Board was effective and identified two focus areas: Issue How was this addressed?
Closer involvement in contributing to the assumptions Additional board time has been devoted to debating supply and underpinning the development of strategy proposals demand fundamentals and metal price forecasts, the political and economic positioning of South Africa and the implications for its currency Increase Board level focus on delivery of the Companys A Transformation Committee was formed under the Social & Labour Plan commitments and other chairmanship of Cyril Ramaphosa, comprising Directors with transformation initiatives strong knowledge of doing business in South Africa.
Further information can be found on page 16 and in section 9 below This year the Directors were asked to complete questionnaires, the collective results of which were used to set the agenda for 1:1 meetings between Chairman and each Director.
This process confirmed that the Board believed that it remained effective, revealed no issues and identified three priorities for the next twelve months: While the Companys strategy remains appropriate, accelerating the delivery of this subject to favourable market conditions is crucial to the creation of value for shareholders: In pursuit of that strategy, there must be an unrelenting focus on safety, transformation and the delivery of operational results, specifically in achieving improved levels of cost-effectiveness: and While the Board is satisfied with the quality of the corporate risk register, further work needs to be done on the prioritisation of these risks to ensure that mitigation actions are delivered to greatest effect.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall, the Board met in November 2011 without the Chairman present to discuss his effectiveness as Chairman.
There were no areas of concern or any actions arising from this session.
The effectiveness of each of the Committees was also reviewed, both in the Chairmans conversations with each Director and by each Board Committee at their September 2011 meetings.
No material issues were identified in these reviews.
Succession planning The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directorships and key management roles.
The purpose of this is twofold to mitigate the risk of not having identified successors for key roles, and to identify development opportunities for talented individuals within agreed career plans, which may help to retain them in the Groups employment.
During the year, the Board discussed succession planning and, at its instigation, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the current plan and provided detailed feedback to management, which was summarised to the Board.
Around 80% of senior managers have now undertaken Career Path Appreciation interviews.
This tool aims, in conjunction with other psychometric tests, to establish current and projected executive capability and provide objective input into the succession planning process.
Re-election of Directors All Directors will retire from the Board at the Companys AGM in January 2012, and each wishes to seek re-election other than Michael Hartnall who has indicated his intention to retire from the Board after almost nine years service.
Sufficient biographical and other information is provided in this Annual Report and the AGM Circular to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The Nomination Committee has carried out formal performance evaluations of all the Nonexecutive Directors seeking re-election and concluded that each is effective and continues to demonstrate commitment to his or her respective role.
2.7 Board meetings The Board met ten times during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings, including two three-day trips to South Africa.
The other four meetings were called in response to specific events or to issue approvals, usually at short notice, and did not necessarily require full attendance.
In addition to their meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make themselves available to management whenever required and there are regular contacts outside the Board meeting schedule.
Attendance at Board meetings during their period of tenure in the year to 30 September 2011 was as follows: Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 67 ] Directors Report Governance 2.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 2.7 Board meetings continued Scheduled Extra Director meetings meetings Ian Farmer 6 of 6 4 of 4 Alan Ferguson 1 of 1 1 of 1 Michael Hartnall 6 of 6 2 of 4 Len Konar 6 of 6 3 of 4 Jonathan Leslie 6 of 6 0 of 4 David Munro 6 of 6 2 of 4 Roger Phillimore 6 of 6 4 of 4 Cyril Ramaphosa 6 of 6 2 of 4 Mahomed Seedat 5 of 5 3 of 3 Karen fide Segundo 6 of 6 2 of 4 Simon Scott 6 of 6 3 of 4 Jim Sutcliffe 6 of 6 3 of 4 Whenever a Director is unable to participate in a meeting, either in person or remotely, the Chairman will speak to them ahead of time to solicit their views on key items of business, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence the debate.
2.8 How the Committees support the Board in its work To fulfil its role in the time available, the Board must delegate some of its duties and powers to committees.
As well as the committees recommended in the Code, the Board has established two other Committees to deal with specific business needs, the Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Committees.
Importantly, each Committee and its members are provided with sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of the Committees during the year to 30 September 2011 is shown below, together with individual attendance at the Committee meetings held during their tenure.
Safety & Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Transformation Non-executive Directors 2 Michael Hartnall Member Member Member 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 1 4 Len Konar Chairman Member Member 4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 Jonathan Leslie Member Member Chairman 2 of 2 4 of 4 4 of 4 1 David Munro Member Member Member 2 of 2 4 of 4 1 of 1 Roger Phillimore Chairman 2 of 2 4 Cyril Ramaphosa Chairman 2 of 2 3 3 Mahomed Seedat Member Member 3 of 3 2 of 2 1 Karen fide Segundo Member Member Member Member 4 of 4 2 of 2 1 of 1 4 of 4 4 Jim Sutcliffe Member Member Chairman Member 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 2 of 2 Executive Director 4 Ian Farmer Member Member 4 of 4 2 of 2 1 From 20 July 2011 2 Ceased to be Chairman but remained a member on 20 July 2011 3 From 1 January 2011 4 From 11 November 2010, when the Committee was created.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 2.8 How the Committees support the Board in its work continued Each Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, remit and powers.
All Committee members are provided with appropriate induction on joining their respective Committees, as well as ongoing access to training.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committees save for private sessions of Committee members at the end of meetings are circulated to all Directors and presented by the Committee Chairmen at the next Board meeting.
The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows: Board of Directors Safety & Chief Executive Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Transformation Sustainability Officer Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Key: Board Committees Management Committees Executive Operations Price & Risk Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors, Executive Committee Executive Directors, Chief Commercial Officer members, operational Chief Commercial Officer, and three Executive & functional VPs and Head of Tax, Treasury & Risk, Vice Presidents plus certain executives and Head of Accounting & Reporting, one nominee of senior managers Executive Manager, Marketing Shanduka Resources 2.9 How the Board manages conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest.
As permitted in law, the Board is empowered to authorise such conflicts and has a documented procedure in place.
This requires that when a Director becomes aware that he or she: is in a situation which does or could create a conflict of interests: or has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company has an interest then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the situational or transactional conflict as soon as possible, and certainly prior to any transaction being concluded.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to their other appointments and in any event the Board carries out an annual review.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed in the recruitment process and authorised if appropriate by the Board at the first meeting following their appointment.
An annual review of the Directors external business interests and other appointments was carried out in March 2011.
Other than the agreements relating to the investment by Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited a company ultimately controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa in Incwala, the Companys BEE partner and the loans made by the Company to facilitate that investment, further details of which are set out in paragraph 4.4 below, no Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
The interests in the Companys shares of the Directors who held office during the year, and to the date of this report are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 82 to 99.
Save for Mr Ramaphosa, no Director held any beneficial interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
2.10 How we support the Board The Board is supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries of the Executive Directors or management whenever necessary, and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board is provided with detailed insight into shareholders views including, where appropriate, the opportunity to meet major investors.
Copies of sell-side analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors, as are summaries of their views collected anonymously by the Companys financial PR advisors and summaries of shareholders views collated by the Companys joint brokers.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 69 ] Directors Report Governance 2.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 2.11Directors remuneration A report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 82 to 99.
2.12 Protection available to Directors In law, Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Companys business dealings.
As a consequence, they face potentially significant personal liability under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure & Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and or imprisonment.
The Company believes that it is in the Companys best interests to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission, as it enables us to attract prudent individuals to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors & Officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including the Directors.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
As permitted by law, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued which, in general terms, protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from liability.
Under the terms of these indemnities, the Company may advance money to fund a Directors defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company.
The indemnities are expressed to operate only to the extent that the Directors and Officers liability insurance policy fails to respond to a claim.
All these indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and to the date of this report.
Relations with shareholders 3.1 Owners of the Company Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 15,000 registered shareholders.
We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa.
Our South African branch register has approximately 3,000 beneficial owners of our shares, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in STRATE, representing approximately 21% of the Companys shares in issue.
We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 700 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Companys shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other corporate shareholders.
The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights up to 11 November 2011: Percentage of the Companys total shares and voting rights Number of shares At date of At date of Nature of and voting rights notification this report Holding Xstrata Plc 49,826,225 24.67 24.59 Direct Prudential plc group companies 17,322,632 8.54 8.55 Direct Legal & General Group Plc 7,706,524 3.99 3.80 Direct Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 6,158,652 3.04 3.04 Indirect All ordinary shares of the Company carry the same rights, and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the size of their holding.
3.2 How we communicate with our institutional shareholders The Code encourages dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Companys best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally.
Detailed feedback from these visits is shared with the Board and investors views in relation to governance and remuneration obtained ahead of the AGM are also collated for the Board.
The Chairman periodically offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise.
In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has given a standing invitation to key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss the Companys remuneration policy and practice whenever necessary.
The Senior Independent Director SID, Michael Hartnall, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
He will retire from the Board in January 2012, and Jim Sutcliffe has accepted the Boards invitation to become the SID from that date onwards.
Relations with shareholders continued 3.3 How we communicate with our private shareholders The Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, and the Board has followed these principles for many years.
A business presentation is given to shareholders at the AGM by the CEO, and all Directors are available to answer questions both formally at the meeting and informally afterwards.
Shareholders vote on separate resolutions on substantially different issues, and we use electronic poll voting, with the results being announced to the markets and displayed on our website at the conclusion of the AGM.
Recognising Lonmins geographical diversity, this enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account whether they are able to attend the meeting or not and also provides a highly democratic voting method.
In line with best practice, our default means of communication with shareholders is online.
This saves the expense, paper and other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents without knowing whether they are wanted.
Shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time, should they so wish.
In recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Companys website contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information on the Groups activities including our public reporting documents and copies of all presentation materials given to institutional investors.
3.4 The AGM The 2012 AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 26 January 2012 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Companys website.
Among the resolutions to be proposed are those seeking shareholders authority for the Directors to be empowered to allot equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Full details are set out in the AGM circular.
3.5 Dividend As noted in the Chairmans Letter on pages 4 to 5, the Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 15 cents per share to be paid, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, on 3 February 2012 to shareholders on the registers at the close of business on 13 January 2012.
Under our dividend policy, the Board no longer declares interim dividends, and this final dividend if approved by shareholders will be the total dividend for the year ended 30 September 2011 of 15 cents per share total dividend 2010 15 cents per share.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures 4.1 What Lonmin does The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of PGMs.
Details of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and segmental analysis appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 30.
Detailed information on the Groups activities can be found in the Business Review.
In addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings, Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa through a branch which is registered in that country as an external company.
4.2 Business Review The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform shareholders and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this report.
8R, the management report is the Business Review consisting of all the sections referred to below: The Chairmans Letter on pages 4 and 5: The Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 6 to 9: The Key Performance Indicators KPIs on pages 10 and 11: The discussion of the Companys Business Model and Strategy on pages 12 to 15: The Transformation section on pages 16 to 19: The Operational Review on pages 20 to 30: The Financial Review on pages 31 to 35: The discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 36 to 40: The Sustainability Review on pages 41 to 59: The discussion of essential contractual arrangements on page 73: The Operational Statistics on pages 150 to 152: and This Directors Report, which collectively contain a discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 71 ] Directors Report Governance 4.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.2 Business Review continued We have been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social KPIs, and the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers in those areas, when drafting this Business Review.
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
The Business Review is designed to provide shareholders with an understanding of the Companys business and the environment in which it operates, and, of necessity, only focuses on material issues and facts.
The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
The Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
No assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements in the Business Review will be realised.
Statements about the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys control.
The information contained in the Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Business Review during the financial year ahead other than as required by law or regulation.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forwardlooking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company identified in the Business Review.
The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Shareholders should note that the Business Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
4.3 Principal events of the year The principal events of the year are covered in the Business Review.
Post year end, on 3 October 2011, the Company announced a conditional share subscription agreement with the Companys BEE partner, Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited Shanduka.
This transaction is subject to a number of conditions precedent, including a successful Feasibility Review of the proposed development and expansion of mines situated in Limpopo Province, South Africa, owned by the Companys subsidiary, Messina Platinum Mines Limited Messina.
As envisaged, Shanduka will be entitled to subscribe for 50% plus one share in the enlarged issued share capital of Messina and will also become the operator of these assets.
The principal objectives of this transaction are to create value for Lonmin shareholders from these existing semi-dormant assets, to support Shanduka in becoming an operational platinum miner and thereby to assist the Company in meeting its Mining Charter Phase Two equity target of 26% ownership by HDSAs by 30 September 2014.
There were no other material events from 30 September 2010 to the date of this report.
4.4 Transactions with Related Parties There was one transaction with a related party during the year, other than those of a revenue nature in the ordinary course of business.
This involved the loan of R80 million to Incwala Platinum Pty Limited, the Companys BEE partner as more fully disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements.
4.5 Employees The Group employed 27,796 people in South Africa and eight people in the United Kingdom at the end of the year.
Information on the Groups policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Sustainability Review on pages 41 to 59 and the Transformation section on pages 16 to 19.
4.6 Research and development Group companies continue to be actively involved in research and development in the areas of mineral extraction, processing and refining to unlock new technology opportunities and to extract optimal value from our assets.
Numerous projects are in progress across the business, including: ongoing work on the characterisation of ores, leading to improved specifications for processing equipment and reagents: improving the stability and availability of the smelting furnaces through new sensor technologies, better mineralogical understanding and design improvements: development of a new process, for which a provisional patent application has been filed, to significantly upgrade the PGM concentrates from the BMR leading to an overall waste reduction, reduction in residue tolling costs and improved PMR efficiencies: and development of pilot studies for a new process for the production of finished metals at the PMR.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.7 Policy on the payment of creditors The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better Payment Practice Group website, www.
The Company pays its bills in accordance with contractual terms, being either suppliers standard terms of payment or alternative terms proposed by the Company.
Trade creditors of the Company at 30 September 2011 represented four days 2010 seven days of its annual purchases.
4.8 Charitable and political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to 2,734 $4,367 2010 35,500 $55,117.
All of these donations were made to further advance the reputation and interests of the Company.
During the year, Group companies undertook a number of long term community development projects in South Africa at a cost of R8.32 million $1.13 million 2010 R1.3 million $0.2 million.
These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed by the Group as the normal costs of implementing its Social & Labour Plans.
A fuller explanation of this expenditure is contained in the Sustainable Development Report for the year which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
4.9 Share capital and reserves The issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2011 is set out in note 24 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions relating to their transfer are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association, but holders of ordinary shares are entitled: to receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting: to attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy: and to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
In general there are no restrictions on the holders ability to transfer their shares or exercise their voting rights, save in situations where the Company is legally entitled to do so usually where amounts remain unpaid on the shares after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
In addition to the ordinary shares of $1 each, the share capital also comprises 50,000 sterling deferred shares of 1 each, which were created in 2002 and issued to a nominee company to comply with the requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000.
These shares do not rank equally with the ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders are not entitled to receive notice of, or attend, speak or vote at, any general meeting, nor are they entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,930 million at 30 September 2011.
The Company has established an employee benefit trust, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various employee share schemes.
The trustee, who is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
Subject to legislation and the Companys Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares subject to the authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 73 ] Directors Report Governance 4.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.10 Use of authorities granted at the 2011 Annual General Meeting At the AGM held on 27 January 2011, shareholders approved three authorities for the Directors in connection with the Companys share capital: Amount of authority outstanding at the end Authority Utilisation during the year of the year Power to allot equity securities with a The only shares issued during Authority remains outstanding in full nominal value of up to $67.3m and, the year were in connection with until the next AGM or, if earlier, if by way of a fully pre-emptive rights issue, employee share schemes, and 26 April 2012 a further $67.3m do not count against this authority Power to allot equity securities for cash The only shares issued during the Authority remains outstanding in full other than by way of a pro-rata issue with year were in connection with until the next AGM or, if earlier, a nominal value of up to $10.1m employee share schemes, and do 26 April 2012 not count against this authority Power to make market purchases of its The Company made no purchases Authority remains outstanding in full own shares, up to a maximum of of its own shares during the year until the next AGM or, if earlier, 20,200,000 shares being approximately 26 April 2012 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being $1 and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days No shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 364,924 ordinary shares of $1 each for cash, solely to satisfy the exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Companys employee share schemes.
4.11 Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
4.12 Essential contractual arrangements Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business of the Company: Mineral rights for any mining company, its mineral titles are of crucial importance and therefore the New Order Prospecting Rights and New Order Mining Licences granted by the South African Department of Mineral Resources in respect of our operations in that country fall into this category, as do the various Old Order prospecting and mining rights currently held pending conversion into New Order rights.
Contracts for the purchase of materials and services while most of the inputs needed by the Groups mines and refining facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on two State-owned near-monopolies, Eskom for the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water.
Long term contracts are in place with both vendors and there is extensive engagement, both at industry and Lonmin levels, with these critical suppliers.
Financing arrangements the Company and Group have a number of loan and other funding facilities with South African and international banks.
These facilities were restructured during the year and are described in more detail in Note 18.
Contracts relating to labour we have formal recognition and collective agreements with trade unions representing the vast majority of the Groups employees in South Africa, most notably the NUM, but also CEPPWAWU, Solidarity and UASA.
These govern the relationships between the parties and the basis on which wages and other allowances paid to our employees will be determined.
Contracts for the sale of goods the majority of the Groups production of PGMs in the year was sold to either BASF or Mitsubishi.
The Group has highly valued long term relationships and contracts with both companies.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 4.13 Significant Agreements change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as debt facilities and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Companys bank debt facilities in the amount of approximately $945 million spread across three separate bilateral ZAR facilities and a syndicated USD facility, which includes seven banks.
These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new terms to continue the facility are not agreed within ten days of a change of control in respect of the ZAR facilities and 30 days in respect of the USD facility, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within fifteen days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control, except that certain provisions in some of the Companys share schemes may be triggered.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they only vest and become payable on their normal maturity date three years from the date of grant and subject generally to continued employment of the participant.
Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the Companys other share plans will vest on a change of control to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
Further information on these plans is in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 82 to 99.
Accountability and Audit 5.1 Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Responsibility Statement can be found on page 101.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 75 ] Directors Report Governance 5.
Accountability and Audit continued 5.2 How the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, using the US Dollar as its reporting currency.
Details of the Groups financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 35 and in the Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 36 to 40.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Please refer to the going concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 35.
5.3 Relationships with the external auditors The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the Directors.
Following their re-election at the 2011 AGM, KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in London and supported by an audit partner based in Johannesburg.
As required under section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
The Audit & Risk Committee 6.1 Role of the Audit & Risk Committee The Audit & Risk Committee is delegated by the Board with written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in January 2007.
The primary purposes of the Audit & Risk Committee are: To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and regulatory announcements relating to its financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings: and To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied.
6.2 Composition of the Audit & Risk Committee The members of the Committee are named in section 2.8 of this document and their biographical details can be found on pages 60 and 61.
Len Konar and Michael Hartnall have considerable financial and accounting experience and Jim Sutcliffe and Karen fide Segundo contribute to the Committee with their significant corporate experience.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, CFO, Head of Accounting & Reporting, Head of Treasury, Risk & Tax, Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
The internal and external auditors attend Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with each of them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
6.3 Number of Audit & Risk Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 2.8 of this document.
The Audit & Risk Committee 6.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee during the year The Committee has an annual workplan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to focus.
Activities in the year: Internal controls and risk External auditors Financial reporting Received reports from the external Reviewed reports on audit findings Reviewed the half year and auditors and internal auditors on annual financial statements their audits and assessment of the Agreed the audit approach and and the significant financial control environment scope of the audit work to be reporting judgements undertaken by the external auditors Reviewed feedback from the and the fees for the same Reviewed the liquidity risk and assurance letters submitted by the basis for preparing the around 80 senior managers across Considered non-audit work Group accounts on a going the Group undertaken by the external auditors concern basis and reviewed and compliance with the policy the related disclosures in the Reviewed output from the risk annual report reviews which required managers, Considered the independence of the the Exco and the Board to identify auditors and their effectiveness Reviewed disclosures in the risks and evaluate them before and based on the feedback from a survey annual report in relation to after mitigating controls were agreed targeted at various stakeholders internal controls, risk and implemented and the Committees own assessment management, principal risks and uncertainties and the work Agreed the internal audit programme of the Committee and considered the effectiveness of the internal auditors Reviewed the Quarter four and Quarter two production reports Considered the level of alignment between the Companys key risks and internal audit programme Considered and approved the structure, scope of cover and renewal terms of the Groups insurance programme Assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment Received matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline and a report from the investigations department 6.5 Internal audit The Head of Internal Audit reports jointly to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and to the CFO.
He heads an internal audit department comprising five in-house auditors, supported by  LLP PwC who provide specialist services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury, which it would be impractical to resource internally.
A total of 58 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both management and the Committee, and which align with the principal risks faced by the Company.
Internal audit reports are reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the Exco.
Audit findings and the related management actions are tracked and verified periodically by Internal Audit after being reported by management as complete.
Material findings and recommendations are summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
All action points are recorded on a database to facilitate monitoring and accountability.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Companys whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations unit comprising thirteen investigators.
The primary focus of this team is on the theft of PGMs, but they also have a significant workload in helping counter copper cable theft, white collar crime and other criminal and unauthorised activities impacting the business.
A review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire completed by those in the business who had been audited and the external auditors.
Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors, including the quality of reporting to the Committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the Committee concluded that Internal Audit was in all respects effective.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 77 ] Directors Report Governance 6.
The Audit & Risk Committee 6.6 External audit The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors including approving the annual work plan and, on behalf of the Board, the audit fee.
The Committee believes that in certain limited areas it is in the Companys and its shareholders interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain services, given their detailed understanding of the Group.
As a safeguard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditors being compromised, the Company adopted an Audit Engagement Policy in 2010, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
Under this policy, the external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might otherwise either create a conflict of interests or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee monitors the balance between audit, audit related and non-audit spend to ensure that auditor independence is maintained.
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits: Audit-related Non-audit services services Chief Financial Officer $200,000 $100,000 Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $0.2 million 2010 $0.1 million representing 10.5% of the audit and audit related fees.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audited-related services and non-audit services can be found in note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the Companys policy in this area.
The Audit & Risk Committee has evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors.
As part of this process, the Committee considered feedback on the years audit gathered through a survey facilitated by the Secretary to the Committee.
Respondents to the survey included the financial management team at corporate and business level and the internal auditors.
The following factors were also considered: The external auditors compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners: The external auditors qualifications, expertise and resources and their own assessment of their internal quality procedures: and The stability and continuity that would be provided by continuing to use KPMG, particularly following the transition of the head office finance function from the United Kingdom to South Africa.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective and has recommended to the Board that their re-election at the AGM should be proposed to shareholders.
The Committee also approved the auditors remuneration having first compared the proposed fees to the prior years fees and also relative to other companies of similar size and nature.
Nomination Committee 7.1 Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is delegated by the Board with written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in November 2006.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken: To recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: To ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and To oversee compliance with the Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
The Committee reports its material findings and recommendations to the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes are circulated to all Directors.
7.2 Composition of the Nomination Committee All of the Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee save for Cyril Ramaphosa and Mahomed Seedat, both of whose counsel would be sought whenever appropriate.
The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except when the matters under consideration relate to him or succession to his role.
Similarly, where a matter under discussion related to their own position, that Non-executive Director leaves the meeting.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 60 and 61.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the CEO.
It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work.
Nomination Committee continued 7.3 Number of Nomination Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met twice during the year.
7.4 Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year During the year, the Committee: Reviewed the Committees report within the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the Board: Evaluated the effectiveness and commitment of those Directors standing for re-election to the Board, whether on an annual basis or following their first appointment to the Board, concluding that each was able, committed and effective in their roles and had sufficient time to fulfil their duties: Recommended to the Board that new three year terms of office be offered to David Munro, Karen fide Segundo and Jim Sutcliffe, subject to their re-election to the Board at the AGM: Considered the composition of the Board in the light of Michael Hartnalls intention to retire at the 2012 AGM and recommended to the Board not to appoint another Non-executive Director: and Reviewed the composition of the Board Committees in light of Michael Hartnalls intended retirement and recommended the appointments of Len Konar as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee, Karen fide Segundo as a member of the Remuneration Committee and David Munro as a member of the Transformation Committee.
The Committee also recommended that Jim Sutcliffe be appointed Senior Independent Director from the date of Michael Hartnalls retirement.
7.5 Our policy on appointments to the Board As noted in the Chairmans Letter on page 5 and in section 2.3 above, all recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and take into account the benefits of diversity in all its forms.
A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants, or consider open advertising, to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates from a range of backgrounds for the Committees consideration.
Mahomed Seedat was appointed as a Non-executive Director during the year through an objective process run by the Nomination Committee during the prior financial year.
He brings extensive knowledge of the South African mining industry, sound judgement and, as a Historically Disadvantaged South African, his valuable personal perspective on the need for the Company to meet its transformation imperatives.
As he had worked for the Company in a senior executive role for three years, the Nomination Committee had a deep understanding of his capabilities, and did not feel it necessary to bear the costs of an external search consultancy or open advertising.
Safety & Sustainability Committee 8.1 Role of the Safety & Sustainability Committee The Safety & Sustainability Committee is delegated by the Board with written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in March 2008.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as necessary to the Audit & Risk Committee, on safety and sustainability including health, environment and community matters, and particularly as pertaining to the risk and management of these issues within the Group: To have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with safety and sustainability: To assess the effectiveness of managements attitudes and approach towards, and activities in, managing safety and sustainability related risk: To assess periodically the effectiveness of the Groups policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing safety and sustainability related risk: To review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk: To review the Groups performance indicators in connection with safety and sustainability matters: To review the Groups public disclosures on safety and sustainability matters and approve these as necessary: and To report to the Board on developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability matters which may be relevant to the Groups operations, its assets or employees.
More detailed information concerning the Groups sustainability related activities is set out on pages 41 to 59, and in the Sustainable Development Report, which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 79 ] Directors Report Governance 8.
Safety & Sustainability Committee continued 8.2 Composition of the Safety & Sustainability Committee The members of the Committee are disclosed in section 2.8 of this document and their biographical details can be found on pages 60 and 61.
At the request of the Committees Chairman, the EVP Processing who is responsible for sustainability issues for the Group, the EVP Mining and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Head of Tax, Treasury and Risk also attends certain meetings.
Other managers attend as necessary when their specialist expertise is required, or incidents have occurred in operations under their control.
8.3 Number of Safety & Sustainability Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met four times during the year.
8.4 Activities of the Safety & Sustainability Committee during the year The Committee has an annual workplan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to focus.
Activities in the year: Safety Sustainability Governance, regulatory and reporting Received reports from accountable Received reports from accountable Reviewed changes to local and managers on fatalities and all managers on all serious environmental international safety, health and serious safety incidents including incidents including a detailed analysis environmental regulations a detailed analysis of factors of factors contributing to an incident contributing to an incident and the and the corrective and preventative Considered feedback from corrective and preventative measures measures taken to prevent recurrence external auditors following their taken to prevent recurrence assurance review of selected Reviewed reports on key indicators data in the annual report and Reviewed reports on key safety and trends Sustainable Development indicators and trends Report Reviewed reports on health and Reviewed outcome of safety maturity community indicators and trends Reviewed key sustainability audit and reviewed strategic plan to related risks and associated improve safety Considered the potential impact of mitigation plans emerging climate change regulation in South Africa and reviewed the Reviewed disclosures in the Companys strategy to manage annual report and sustainable the implications of the same development report Considered report on legal, regulatory and environmental issues concerning water management and reviewed progress on Groups integrated water management strategy 9.
Transformation Committee 9.1 Role of the Transformation Committee The Transformation Committee was created by the Board in November 2010 and has powers summarised in its terms of reference.
The primary purpose of the Transformation Committee is to ensure that the Company meets or exceeds its commitments and obligations and that the interests of all stakeholders including shareholders are properly recognised in the areas of transformation and empowerment and it supports the Board in the following areas: To develop strategies, policies and processes and set goals and targets for transformation and empowerment, and assess the means by which such strategies are proposed to be implemented and goals achieved, with the goal of ensuring there is a disciplined, co-ordinated and sustainable approach to transformation: To monitor, review and evaluate progress made by management in meeting the Companys obligations in respect of transformation and empowerment, including the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements and external commitments made in relation to the same: To ensure effective communication on transformation issues between management, the Board and various stakeholders: and To guide and otherwise provide encouragement and counsel to management in relation to transformation and empowerment.
Transformation Committee continued 9.2 Composition of the Transformation Committee The members of the Committee are disclosed in section 2.8 of this document and their biographical details can be found on pages 60 and 61.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the EVP Human Capital & External Affairs and the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, neither of whom do so as of right.
Other senior managers attend as needed when specialist input is required.
9.3 Number of Transformation Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met twice during the year.
9.4 Activities of the Transformation Committee during the year The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to focus.
Activities in the year: Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and recommended approval of the same to the Board: Reviewed the Committees annual workplan: Considered an analysis of future employment needs and reviewed HR strategy and current initiatives to assess how Lonmin was placed to manage its challenges in this area: Reviewed the revised Social and Labour Plan SLP to be submitted to government following the 2010 revision of the Mining Charter and recommended approval of this to the Board: Reviewed progress against 2011 objectives and 2014 targets in relation to the SLP, and transformation generally: Considered strategic options in relation to meeting the Mining Charter target of 26% HDSA equity participation by 2014: Considered distribution of value-added amongst various stakeholders as shown on page 19 : and Reviewed key performance indicators and trends.
Executive Committee The members of the Exco are the Executive Directors and senior executives as set out on page 62.
The members include one member nominated by Shanduka Resources, the Companys principal BEE investor who has no executive responsibilities, but who participates fully in the Committees activities.
The CEO chairs the Committee, which meets monthly.
Its responsibilities include the following key areas: To develop strategy for submission to the Board: To develop, implement and monitor operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: To review financial performance, forecasts and targets: To prioritise initiatives and allocate resources: To identify and drive efficiencies across the Group: To approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend to Board: To develop and monitor the Groups policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking into account legal requirements, regulations and best practice: To review ICAM findings for all serious incidents: To oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans: To develop and monitor the internal control environment: and To develop and implement Group wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage negotiations benefits with unions.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 81 ] Directors Report Governance 11.
Operations Committee The members of the Operations Committee are the members of the Exco and a wider group of around 25 operational and functional executives and senior managers across the Group.
The CEO is Chairman of the Operations Committee.
The Committee meets once every month and its primary responsibilities are: To assess operational and financial performance across the business including mining, processing, technical services, human capital, safety, environment and health: To monitor progress of various initiatives: and To provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
Price & Risk Committee The Price & Risk Committee is chaired by the CEO and the members are the CFO, Chief Commercial Officer, Head of Treasury, Tax & Risk, Head of Financial Planning and Analysis and the Executive Manager, Marketing.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, principally nickel and copper.
The Committee meets as and when required.
For and on behalf of the Board Rob Bellhouse Company Secretary 11 November 2011 www.
