Ian Farmer 49 Chief Executive Officer 3.
Simon Scott 53 Executive Director British and South African British and South African South African and British Roger was appointed Chairman in 2009, Ian joined the Company in 1986 and A South African registered Chartered having served as an independent Nonafter working in the then UK and Accountant, Simon joined the Company executive Director since 1997, and also Zambian operations was appointed and the Board in September 2010 and chairs the Nomination Committee.
Born Finance Director of Lonmin Platinum in became CFO in November 2010. and raised in South Africa, Roger is a South Africa in 1995, holding this role A graduate with accounting and graduate in economics and law and until he joined the Board and transferred commerce degrees, he also attended has career-long experience of the to London in 2001.
He was appointed the management development international mining industry.
He is a as CEO in September 2008, following programme at the University of Cape non-executive director of Harry Winston seven years as Chief Strategic Officer.
He has held a number of financial Diamond Corporation and his previous A chartered accountant with a B. Compt management roles in South Africa, with non-executive experience includes Hons degree, he is resident in local and global employers, including a Engelhard Corporation.
Ian is a member of total of nine years with Anglo Platinum.
the Safety & Sustainability and Most recently he was CFO of JSE-listed Transformation Committees.
Aveng, an engineering and construction group with significant involvement in the mining sector.
Jim Sutcliffe 55 Independent Director South African Non-executive Director Dutch Non-executive Director British Cyril was nominated by Shanduka, Appointed in 2005, Karen is a member Appointed in 2007, Chairman of the Lonmins principal BEE partner of which of the Audit & Risk, Nomination, Remuneration Committee and a member he is the controlling shareholder, and Remuneration and Safety & Sustainability of the Audit & Risk, Nomination and appointed to the Board in July 2010.
A graduate in law, with an Transformation Committees.
An actuary A law graduate, he was the first General MBA from a US university, she spent by profession, Jim has extensive UK Secretary of the National Union of more than thirty years working globally and South African business experience, Mineworkers and assisted in building with Shell, becoming their first female including senior executive roles with it into the most powerful union in South country head in 1983.
After two years as Prudential UK and Old Mutual, being Africa.
In 1991, he was elected Secretary CEO of Shells global Gas & Power CEO of the latter for seven years.
He is a General of the ANC and led the team business, she spent five years developing director of the Financial Reporting negotiating the end of apartheid, and leading Shells renewable energy Council and chairs the UK Board for subsequently chairing the Assembly which business.
Karen is a Non-executive Actuarial Standards, and is also a drafted the countrys first democratic Director of British American Tobacco director of Liberty Group and Liberty constitution.
He then moved into the where she chairs the Corporate Social Holdings, Sun Life Financial and private sector, founding Shanduka Group Responsibility Committee, a director of chairman of FXPro.
which he continues to chair.
He is also Pyry and a member of the supervisory Chairman of MTN and Mondi and board of E. ON.
serves on the board of a number of other companies and advisory bodies, including South Africas National Planning Commission.
Cyril chairs the Transformation Committee of the Board.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 61 ] 7.
Michael Hartnall 69 Senior Non-executive Director British Non-executive Director South African Independent Director British Appointed to the Board in 2007, he is Appointed to the Board in March 2010, Appointed in 2003, Michael is a member also a member of the Nomination, Safety a member of the Nomination and of the Nomination and Remuneration & Sustainability and Transformation Transformation Committees and, since Committees and, until July 2010, chaired Committees.
David was most recently July 2010, chairman of the Audit & Risk the Audit & Risk Committee.
A chartered Development Director of Kazakhmys Plc Committee.
Len holds degrees in accountant, he held senior general and and prior to that CEO of RMC Group Plc, accounting and commerce from South financial management positions in a Chief Development Officer of BHP Billiton African and US universities.
After number of manufacturing companies, Plc and a director of Billiton Plc responsible qualifying as a Chartered Accountant, culminating in sixteen years as FD of for its global aluminium and base metals he pursued an academic career at the Rexam.
He is also a Non-executive businesses.
A mining engineering University of Durban-Westville, before Director of BAE Systems, and chairs that graduate, he has extensive experience moving into commercial roles.
He now has companys Audit Committee.
He was a of mine management in South Africa.
a broad-ranging business career, chairing member of the Hampel Committee which the boards of leading South African devised the first version of the UKs companies including Exxaro Resources Combined Code.
Michael intends to and Steinhoff International and serving on retire from the Board at the AGM in others including Sappi and Alexander January 2012.
A member of the King Committee on Corporate Governance, he is also a member of the Corporate Governance Forum and the Institute of Directors.
Mahomed Seedat 55 Non-executive Non-executive Director British Director South African Appointed to the Board in 2009, he is a Appointed to the Board on 1 January member of the Nomination and 2011, he is a member of the Safety & Remuneration Committees, and chairs Sustainability and Transformation the Safety & Sustainability Committee.
Mahomed has extensive After graduating in Jurisprudence and knowledge and experience of South qualifying as a barrister, Jonathan spent African mining, gained from a senior level 26 years with Rio Tinto, including nine executive career with Anglo Coal, BHP years service on the board.
His roles at Billiton and latterly three years as Chief Rio Tinto included Mining Director and Operating Officer of Lonmin, from Chief Executive of the Copper and September 2007 to December 2010.
He A graduate in electrical engineering, subsequently was CEO of Sappi and the Mahomed is also a director of Mechel Executive Chairman of Nikanor and is Mining and chairs the Boards of Lonmins currently CEO of Extract Resources.
