Ian Farmer 49 Chief Executive Officer 6.
Thandeka Ncube 42 Business Transformation Manager, British and South African Shanduka Resources South African Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 60.
Thandeka works with Shandukas investee companies advising on transformation and broad based empowerment.
Simon Scott 53 Chief Financial Officer-designate a Social Sciences degree from the City University of New York South African and British and an MBA from Henley Business School.
She began her Biography included in Board of Directors section on page 60. career working with various government institutions, developing strategy and policy for small and medium enterprises, then joined 3.
Albert Jamieson 53 Chief Commercial Officer British the retail banking side of Standard Bank, where she again Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after eight years at Impala Platinum, focused on the needs of SMEs.
where he was responsible for their concentrator operations.
At Lonmin, he has held a number of senior management and 7.
Natascha Viljoen 42 EVP, Process Division South African executive positions in the mine production and commercial areas Natascha joined Lonmin in 2008 from BHP Billiton, where she of the business including responsibility for investments in Africa, was General Manager for Klipspruit mine.
Her initial responsibility South America, North America, Australia and Japan.
The was for managing Lonmins concentrators, and in May 2011 commercial portfolio currently comprises business development, she was promoted to her current role, covering all concentrating, strategy, marketing and sales, exploration, legal and life of smelting and refining operations.
She holds an engineering business planning.
degree and is currently busy with an executive MBA with UCT.
Her career stretches over various commodities and disciplines 4.
Barnard Mokwena 47 EVP, Human Capital & External Affairs in the mining industry with nine years in senior management South African roles.
Before BHP Billiton she held positions with Anglo Platinum Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005, having previously and AngloGold.
worked in senior management positions in a range of sectors for a number of companies including Sentech and the South African Rail Commuter Corporation.
Mark Munroe 42 EVP, Mining South African Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the Mining business, becoming VP Capital Projects & Engineering before being appointed as EVP Mining in June 2009.
Mark joined Lonmin from DRDGold, where he spent six years, holding a number of senior management positions including General Manager of DRDGold and CEO of DRDCapital.
Prior to that, he worked for AngloGold for twelve years.
He is a mining engineer and also has a degree in economics.
