[ 14 ] Strategic Overview A strategy that creates wealth for stakeholders.
The world is likely to require stable and increasing quantities of PGMs from quality suppliers for decades to come.
We have the experience and the know how to safely and sustainably meet a significant portion of this demand from our large scale prime PGM assets situated in the heart of South Africas premier league on the Western and Northern Limbs of the Bushveld Igneous Complex.
We have built a team which understands how to operate and deliver in the mining industry and the global PGM markets.
We have developed a strategy to navigate these uncertain times and we have the expertise and know how to safely and sustainably deliver our growth and cost control ambitions, underpinned by sound technical planning.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 15 ] Our four primary Strategic Objectives Underpinned by six integrated foundations Safety Culture and Values Our quest is for zero harm and Create a culture based on our values of: becoming the safest primary Zero Harm: PGM producer.
Integrity, Honesty & Trust: Transparency: Respect for Each Other: High Performance: and Employee Self-Worth.
Market Intelligence Growth Understand the global economy and the PGM market supply and demand Focus on stable, sustainable fundamentals is to ensure sound and informed decision making.
growth from our core Marikana Productivity operations and grow our other Underpinned by sound technical competence which is critical to achieving our safety, assets from this base.
Transformation Ongoing commitment to achieving the Mining Charter targets on ownership, procurement and employment equity.
Sustainability Cost Management An integrated approach to safety, health, the environment, community development, Move down the industry cost and employee relations, as well as attracting, developing and retaining scarce skills are curve into the lower half.
critical to sustaining our operations.
Communications Effective communication with all stakeholders, celebrating successes and managing relationships.
Balance Sheet Capacity Maintain modest net debt to support growth while retaining stability and flexibility.
We continue to believe that investing to safely grow our production capacity will enable us to take advantage of the attractive long term fundamentals for the PGM markets.
