[ 16 ] Transformation We are committed to transformation.
These issues are core to the continued success and growth of our business and are a fundamental element of our licence to operate.
The Context we Operate in Some of our targets will be readily achievable but we The South African Government is working hard to cannot overstate the challenge the industry faces in reverse the legacy of apartheid and to reverse achieving some of the 2014 goals outlined in the Charter, inequality, normalise wealth distribution and create not least when many are dependent on historical issues opportunity for HDSAs.
This process is known as BEE around educational access for HDSAs being resolved.
The cost associated with implementing what is Major businesses operating in South Africa have an effectively social transformation is not easily quantifiable.
important responsibility for helping to deliver this The mining industry is important for South Africas change within their spheres of influence.
The mining GDP and as the country positions itself to attract investment for growth and job creation, remaining industry, as one of South Africas key economic drivers and major employers, has an especially competitive will be equally important.
We have a clear plan which outlines our actions and Lonmin endorses this initiative and during the year the targets be they legislation or internally driven.
We will Board constituted a Transformation Committee under strive to achieve all its goals and will openly and the chairmanship of Cyril Ramaphosa, a Nonhonestly monitor our progress against it.
executive Director and former Secretary-General of the ANC, to oversee our response.
Our Goals We have six headline transformation targets, as well as a number of subsidiary ones, which are linked to The Mining Charter Originally issued in October 2002 the Charter creates our Social and Labour Plan commitments to the South African Government: a statutory framework which formalises the mining industrys transformation responsibilities.
Equity Achieve 26% equity ownership in Lonmin During 2009-2010, the government and industry or equivalent units of production by HDSAs by stakeholders reviewed the Charter, leading to a revised September 2014: version being published in September 2010, alongside 2.
HDSAs Increase the participation of employees a new Scorecard.
from designated groups within each level of management to at least 40% by 30 September The Imperatives of Transformation why it matters 2014: Our licence to operate in South Africa depends on our 3.
Women in Mining Increase female participation transformation performance.
This is both a legal obligation our mining licences are conditional on at the mine by 10% by 30 September 2014 from 2010 as base year : delivery of our Social and Labour Plan SLP commitments and a moral responsibility to 4.
Housing Work towards individual and family recognise and do what we can in supporting the accommodation for staff, moving away from wider goals of the country.
hostel systems: It is equally true that the very inequality these initiatives 5.
Procurement To meet the charter targets of our are designed to combat can best be addressed by total discretionary spend with HDSA suppliers by building a strong, stable and economically vibrant 30 September 2014: and South Africa, supported by sustainable economic growth.
That depends on reliable long term investment 6.
Communities Improve the quality of life for by companies such as ours, itself dependent on security employees and their communities around our of tenure on which that investment can be built.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 17 ] Our progress so far The following table shows the progress we have made and our goals.
Lonmin Transformation Scorecard FY11 Actual FY11 Target FY12 Target FY14 Target Ownership 18% 18% 18% 26% HDSA in management excl.
white women 32% 185% 35% 40% HDSA in management incl.
white women 47% 48% 50% 60% Women in mining 4.3% 4.4% 4.9% 10% Hostel conversion blocks completed 26 26 21 100% Community spend Rm 42 44 70 164 Human Resources Development % of payroll 3.8% 3.5% 4.5% 5% Number of ABET trainees 601 823 823 3,292 Number of learnerships 184 276 211 406 Number of bursaries per annum 44 43 100 100 Number of sponsorships per annum 30 27 40 46 Number of graduates in development programme per annum 29 29 36 34 Number of portable skills learners 57 55 213 424 BEE procurement spend Capital 28% 10% 35% 40% BEE procurement spend Material 41% 15% 50% 50% BEE procurement spend Services 48% 40% 70% 70% Overall HDSA in management including white women based on projected headcount.
Regulatory requirement is 40% per management level.
Equity Shanduka is our BEE partner through the Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala structure with representation on our Board and Exco and an 18% equity interest in Western Platinum Limited WPL and Eastern Platinum Limited EPL.
We are committed to exploring ways that will ensure that we achieve our remaining BEE credit targets by 2014.
At the end of the year, we reached an agreement with Shanduka on Limpopo.
The proposed transaction gives Shanduka the opportunity to gain a controlling equity interest in Limpopo and become a PGM mining and operating company, in line with DMR objectives.
Ultimately, it gives Shanduka the opportunity to manage and operate the Limpopo division.
As part of Shandukas acquisition of 50.03% of Incwala in 2010 Shanduka acquired the Lonmin Employee Masakhane Trusts LEMT, which Lonmin was instrumental in setting up, shares in Incwala and in each of the Cornerstone Investors in Incwala.
During the course of 2011 the proceeds of the sale of the LEMTs shares were released from escrow resulting in the payment of around R199 million to almost 22,000 qualifying current and previous Lonmin employees a triumph for sustainable broad based BEE.
It is envisaged that our requirement for further credits will include broad based community and employee share schemes.
com [ 18 ] Transformation continued Women in Mining We are targetting women for our mining related skills programme.
This year 109 women participated and 40 have been employed as miners at Lonmin.
HDSAs and Human Resources Development HRD Housing It is imperative that we attract, develop and retain a The critical shortage of affordable housing is one of skilled workforce and foster diversity, providing a work South Africas major challenges, at both a regional environment that enables our employees to reach their and national level, and requires the cooperation of potential and add value to the Company.
both government and the private sector.
It is also a major challenge for the mining industry generally, Our success depends on our ability to address the involving changes to historical practices like hostel legacy of inequality in South Africa by providing our accommodation.
HDSA employees with developmental opportunities and attracting, developing and retaining the best We estimate that approximately 50% of people living talent at every level.
in a fifteen kilometre radius of our operations are housed in informal dwellings with little or no access to In 2011 we spent approximately $29 million on HRD basic services, and suspect that this will include a programmes, including the training of our employees, significant number of our employees.
Adult Basic Education Training ABET and investing in the education of young people in the Greater Lonmin The Lonmin human settlement strategy consists of Communities GLC.
three elements: hostel conversion, the existing Marikana Housing and the long term housing programme.
Our recruitment policy gives preference to HDSA candidates and among our permanent employees in We are committed to converting and upgrading our management positions and including white women, four hostels to achieve the occupancy rate of one 46.5% are categorised as HDSAs, up from 43.3%.
person per room as well as converting and upgrading We have also introduced a bonus metric in the some into family units and we plan to have converted Lonmin Corporate scorecard to accelerate HDSA our hostel space into a cumulative total of 2,790 units employment in management positions and are on 824 family and 1,966 single by 2014. track for our 2014 targets.
In 2011 we met our target converting 26 hostel blocks into 542 bachelor and 104 family units and saw 179 Women in Mining WiM employees become owners of homes which were We continue to target WiM, believing it to be a key sold through the Marikana Housing Development challenge.
In 2011 we recruited 473 women of whom twenty We missed our 2011 target for building affordable joined our management team.
We employ 2,073 employee houses, but have completed 1,728 properties women, representing 7.46% of our employees with to date.
The provision of mass affordable housing approximately 52% of those 1,071 working in core however will remain a major challenge.
We believe it to be beneficial for our wider Procurement Lonmin has made excellent progress in this area, both transformation goals to set a target of increasing female participation at the mine to 10% by 30 September in terms of our targets and in terms of a sector leading long term approach.
Nonetheless, this is an area in which we face both historical and cultural difficulties, not least in Many local HDSA run companies do not have the making underground work appealing to women, experience or resources to meet our business needs something which has not always been easy.
so supplier development is an integral part of our We are targeting women for our mining related skills preferential procurement strategy.
This year 109 women participated, 40 of We have made good progress and have met our whom have now been employed as miners at Lonmin.
HDSA procurement targets for the year.
We are also providing women with fitness programmes to help strengthen their upper body, to minimise the risk of them failing the crucial mining fitness tests.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information [ 19 ] Housing Community In 2011 we met our target converting 26 hostel Communication with our communities and blocks into 542 bachelor and 104 family units and stakeholders is key.
We have established a Bapo 179 employees became home owners.
development team to identify job creation opportunities and have introduced an annual Stakeholder Forum.
Communities and Stakeholders In Summary A successful and profitable Lonmin should also Lonmin is on a transformation journey, which is one benefit our employees, their families, the communities we welcome and to which we are fully committed.
Its in which they live and be for the wider benefit of South the right thing for our business as well for the country.
Some things will be straightforward, others less so.
Our assessment of the Mining Charter Scorecard at One of many ways we engage with our stakeholders 30 September 2011 is shown on page 44. is through the recently introduced Annual Stakeholder Forum which provides an engagement opportunity In the graphic below we illustrate how we have used and forms part of our more structured approach to the cash received from selling our metals in 2011.
every $1 we received, we spent 81 cents in South Africa, including tax paid to SARS.
The return to We have also established a Bapo Ba Mogale Lonmins shareholders amounted to only one cent per Development Team to identify job creation opportunities Dollar, on this basis.
and we continue to support a number of projects in the Greater Lonmin Community GLC.
In a country changing as fast as South Africa, and one which is on a journey from such a difficult place in terms of its social and economic heritage, community relations must be key to achieving that change.
Trust needs to be built, not taken for granted, and we are striving to achieve that for the benefit of all our stakeholders, as well as the Company itself.
Distribution of cash received from selling our metals in 2011 People employee pay and investment in communities 36% South African suppliers 26% Overseas suppliers 3% South African government 2% Reinvestment spent with South African suppliers 17% Reinvestment spent with overseas suppliers 2% Money spent in South Africa 81% Debt repaid 11% Money spent outside South Africa 5% Interest paid on loans 2% Other 14% Dividends to shareholders 1% www.
