"OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW COPPER COPPER Financial highlights $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Operating profit !, ""#$ !, ""#$ EBITDA !, %& %, &"" Net operating assets %, #"", !"
# John MacKenzie Capital expenditure $, &% #, %& CEO Share of Group operating profit !
% Share of Group net operating assets $%% # % OPERATING PROFIT 2010: $2,817 m $ 2,461 m SHARE OF GROUP OPERATING PROFIT 2010: 29% 22 % EBITDA 2010: $3,086 m $2,750 m 01 Operating safely, GROUP STRATEGY ACTIONS sustainably and responsibly Investing in world class assets in the most Coppers managed operations resumed a attractive commodities downward trend in lost time injuries, though one A key focus in 2012 will be in progressing the death was recorded at Los Bronces.
The business Quellaveco project in Peru to the approval stage, continues to assess its safety performance and while a pre-feasibility study is under way to has set new and more demanding targets around examine options for expansion at our 44% owned risk management improvement.
Employing the best people Organising efficiently and effectively Our Copper team aims to raise the bar in terms significant steps were taken during the year of both its commitment to the business and its to upgrade the business risk management wider community outreach, as exemplied in its prole: this included more comprehensive risk multi-stakeholder dialogue and nancing management training, as well as the progressive 01 SAG mill under construction initiatives around its new projects.
in the new Conuencia implementation of risk standards and of a new set grinding plant that forms part of leading risk indicators.
of the Los Bronces expansion project in Chile.
68 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review Leading copper consumers BUSINESS OVERVIEW electricity infrastructure.
The key growth 2011 estimated rened copper consumption area will continue to be the developing We have interests in six copper operations in 2011 estimated World total: 19,931kt world, led by China and, in the longer Kt Chile.
The Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde term, India, where industrialisation and mines are wholly owned and we hold a China urbanisation on a huge scale continue to 75.5% interest in Anglo American Sur 7,780 propel copper demand growth, and where AA Sur, which includes the Los Bronces Europe copper consumption per capita is still well and El Soldado mines and the Chagres 3,994 below that of the advanced economies.
We have a 44% shareholding in the Rest of world Collahuasi mine the other shareholders are What has really distinguished copper in 3,280 Xstrata, with 44%, and a Mitsui consortium, recent times as reected in its strong N. America holding the balance of 12%.
The mines also price performance has been its 1,957 produce associated by-products such as underperformance on the supply side, Japan molybdenum and silver.
which is supporting more robust 1,038 fundamentals for the metal.
Copper mine In addition, we have a controlling interest in South Korea output has suffered disproportionately from the Quellaveco and Michiquillay projects in 863 a range of constraints on output, including Peru and a 50% interest in the Pebble project a long term decline in ore grades, slow India in Alaska, with Northern Dynasty Minerals 610 ramp-ups at new projects, strikes, technical holding the balance.
Brazil 409 Constraints on the supply side are likely INDUSTRY OVERVIEW to prove a structural feature of the market, Source: Brook Hunt a Wood Mackenzie company Coppers principal use is in the wire and driven by continuing declines in ore grades cable markets because of the metals at maturing existing operations and new electrical conductivity and corrosion projects, a lack of capital investment and resistance.
Applications that make use of under-exploration in the industry, as coppers electrical conductivity, such as wire well as political and environmental including the wiring used in buildings, challenges in many current and prospective cables and electrical connectors, make up copper areas.
The industry is capital intensive and is Coppers corrosion-resistant qualities nd likely to become more so as high grade numerous applications, particularly plumbing surface deposits are exhausted and deeper pipe and roof sheeting, in the construction and or lower grade deposits are developed.
industry, which accounts for a further 20% of This, combined with the need to develop demand.
Coppers thermal conductivity also infrastructure in new geographies, requires makes it suitable for use in heat transfer greater economies of scale in order to be applications such as air conditioning and commercially viable.
Scarcity of water refrigeration, which constitute some 10% of in some countries, for example in Chile total demand.
Other applications include and Peru, is also necessitating the structural and aesthetic uses.
construction of capital and energy Copper mining is an attractive industry, intensive desalination plants.
with a moderate concentration of customers During the period 20002008, China and suppliers, and relatively good average increased its share of first-use rened metal profitability over the long term.
Producers consumption from 12% to an estimated are price-takers: hence, opportunities for 28% and grew further to approximately product differentiation are limited, either 37% in 2009 and 2010.
Growth in Chinese at the concentrate or metal level.
Access consumption continued in 2011, while to quality orebodies, located in regions demand elsewhere fell sharply.
providing stable political, social and regulatory support for responsible, sustainable mining, should continue to be the key factor distinguishing project returns and mine profitability.
With no fundamental technological shifts expected in the short to medium term, forecast long term demand is likely to be underpinned by robust growth in coppers electrical uses, particularly wire and cable in construction, automobiles and Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 69 Copper price c lb OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW COPPER 01 In the Conuencia area of 02 Taking topographical Los Bronces, this overland measurements at conveyor transports new Conuencia, with the coarse ore to a stockpile, new stockpile building from where the ore is fed to in the background.
STRATEGY AND GROWTH The Los Bronces expansion project successfully delivered first production in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Following the forecast 12 month ramp-up, the Groups copper production, including the attributable share of the Collahuasi joint venture, will increase to more than 900,000 tpa.
Additional growth in the medium term will come from the Quellaveco project, and from Collahuasi, where a pre-feasibility study into further expansion continues.
We are also continuing to evaluate development options for the Michiquillay resource and Pebble, with 01 concept and pre-feasibility studies under way at both projects.
In Chile, we are conducting extensive exploration in the prospective Los Bronces district and at the West Wall project in the Valparaso region, in which Anglo American and Xstrata each has a 50% interest.
In November 2011, entirely in accordance with its rights, Anglo American announced the completion of the sale of a 24.5% stake in AA Sur, comprising a number of the Groups copper assets in Chile, to Mitsubishi Corporation LLC Mitsubishi for $5.39 billion in cash.
This transaction highlighted the inherent value of AA Sur as a world class, tier one copper business with extensive reserves and resources and significant further growth options from its exploration discoveries, valuing AA Sur at $22 billion on a 100% basis.
There is continuing litigation between 02 Anglo American and Codelco in respect of the option agreement between them Copper stocks and price relating to AA Sur described fully in note 34 to the financial statements.
Anglo American will continue to defend its rights vigorously, while remaining open to working with 1,000 500 Codelco to reach a settlement that recognises the strength of Anglo Americans 450 legal position and protects the interests of Anglo Americans shareholders.
400 750 The sale demonstrated our commitment 350 to delivering value for shareholders.
Anglo American remains fully committed 300 500 to its major inward investment programme in its Chilean business and to continuing its 250 significant social and community investment programme in Chile.
200 250 As announced in September 2011, we are participating in a sales process to dispose of 150 our effective 16.8% interest in Palabora 0 100 Mining Company.
A review of this investment Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 in the second half of 2011 concluded that the asset was no longer of sufficient scale to suit Shanghai Stocks Comex Stocks the Groups investment strategy.
LME Stocks Copper price c lb Source: Anglo American Commodity Research 70 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Copper stocks kt Operating and financial review FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Operating performance A further project to raise throughput to 160,000 tonnes of ore per day, resulting in an Attributable production Copper generated an operating profit of annual average copper production increment tonnes 2011 2010 $2,461 million, 13% lower than in 2010. of 20,000 tonnes of copper over the mines Copper 599,000 623,300 The higher average copper price for the year estimated life, is under way and is expected to was more than offset by lower sales volumes Total attributable copper production of be commissioned in 2013.
A pre-feasibility and higher operating costs.
Higher power study is also in progress to evaluate options 599,000 tonnes was 4% lower than in 2010. and fuel-related costs affected all operations, This was mainly due to lower production from for the next phases of major expansion at particularly Los Bronces due to a period of Collahuasi, with potential to increase Collahuasi, Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde.
exposure to the elevated marginal cost of production up to 1 Mt of copper a year.
power on the central Chilean grid.
At Attributable production at Collahuasi In Peru, Anglo American is focused on Collahuasi, the decision to incur additional was 10% lower at 199,500 tonnes.
The logistics costs in order to maximise sales obtaining the necessary permits for the decrease was due to expected lower grades, while the Patache port shiploader was abnormally high rainfall and heavy snow Quellaveco project to progress to Board being repaired also had an adverse effect approval.
Early-stage work is continuing at affecting throughput, and an illegal strike on unit costs.
Output at Mantos Blancos the Michiquillay project and drilling relating to the geological exploration programme and Mantoverde was 8% and 4% lower Markets has recommenced after completion of at 72,100 tonnes and 58,700 tonnes Average price 2011 2010 respectively, due to lower grades.
discussions with the local communities.
Average market prices It is envisaged that the Michiquillay project Production at Los Bronces was marginally c lb 400 342 will move to the pre-feasibility stage following higher at 221,800 tonnes, the operation Average realised prices the completion of drilling analysis and benefiting from 19,000 tonnes achieved c lb 378 355 orebody modelling.
from the start-up of the expansion project Copper prices increased strongly during the Activity at the Pebble project in Alaska and higher throughput as a result of asset first half of the year, and reached a record continues with the focus on completing optimisation initiatives.
This increase in nominal high of 460c lb as demand production was offset by anticipated lower the pre-feasibility study by late 2012 and increased and supply remained constrained.
targeting production early in the next grades, a temporary failure in a return However, as concerns grew over the outlook solutions pipeline impacting copper cathode decade.
An environmental baseline for the world economy, the price moved off document highlighting key scientific and production, and safety stoppages following this peak and was more volatile in the second a fatal accident in September.
Production socio-economic data was delivered to half of the year as Europes sovereign debt at El Soldado also increased by 16%, to government agencies in late 2011. crisis continued to affect sentiment.
46,900tonnes, owing to higher ore grades Outlook following a period of mine development.
After dropping sharply in September, the The ramp-up of the Los Bronces expansion copper price recovered during subsequent to full capacity over the next 12 months will The impact on Collahuasis sales volumes months to end the year at 343c lb, arising from the December 2010 shiploader lead to signicantly higher production levels.
representing a decrease of 25% from its However, this will be partly offset by the lower failure at the Patache port, was successfully February high.
For the full year, the realised overcome in the first half of the year through ore grades expected at Collahuasi in 2012. price averaged 378c lb, a 6% increase the implementation of a contingency plan Industry-wide input cost pressures are compared with 2010.
This included a that included shipping copper concentrate expected to continue over the short term, negative provisional price adjustment for through the ports at Arica, Iquique and particularly in relation to power and fuel 2011 of $278million, versus a net positive Antofagasta.
The shiploader was repaired related costs.
However, these will be partially adjustment in the prior year of $195 million.
and fully operational by July 2011. mitigated by the increased production from the expanded Los Bronces operation.
Our Projects The delivery of first copper production from global supply chain network and strong supplier relationships will continue to play the Los Bronces expansion was achieved a vital role in identifying opportunities to on schedule in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The ramp-up period is expected to take reduce costs and improve the quality and security of the key services and materials that 12 months before full production is reached, during which time processing plant support our operations.
throughput will increase from 61,000 tonnes Persistent market concerns arising from to 148,000 tonnes of ore per day.
The uncertainties over the near term outlook for expansion will increase the mines output the global economy will continue to lead to by an average of 200,000 tonnes of copper relatively pronounced short term volatility in per annum over the first 10 years.
Robust demand from the emerging economies, the At Collahuasi, an expansion project to increase concentrator plant capacity to lack of new supply and increasing capital intensity for new supply, however, means that 150,000 tonnes of ore per day, to yield an additional 19,000 tonnes of copper the medium to long term fundamentals for a year over the estimated life of mine, was copper remain strong.
commissioned in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 71
