OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK Event risk Damage to physical Impact: The direct costs of repair or replacement Mitigation: Specialist consultants are engaged to assets from re, combined with business interruption losses can result analyse such event risks on a rotational basis and explosion, natural in financial losses.
provide recommendations for management action catastrophe or to prevent or limit the effects of such a loss.
breakdown of critical Root cause: Some of the Groups operations are machinery.
located in areas exposed to natural catastrophe such Contingency plans are developed within the Group as earthquake extreme weather conditions.
The to respond to significant events and recover normal impact of climate change may intensify the severity levels of business activity.
The Group purchases insurance to protect itself The nature of the Groups operations exposes it to against the financial consequences of an event, failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls, re, subject to availability and cost.
explosion and breakdown of critical machinery, with long lead times for replacement.
Employees The ability to recruit, Impact: Failure to retain skilled employees or Mitigation: Anglo Americans objective is to develop and retain to recruit new staff may lead to increased costs, be the Employer of Choice in the mining sector.
appropriate skills for interruptions to existing operations and delay in A comprehensive Human Resources strategy has the Group.
been devised to support that objective, focused on the attraction, retention and development of A risk of strike or other Industrial disputes may have an adverse effect on talented employees and the effective deployment industrial relations production levels, costs and the results of operations.
of talent across the Group.
The Group seeks disputes may occur.
constructive relationships and dialogue with trade Root cause: The Group is subject to global unions and employees in all its businesses.
The location of the Groups assets and development projects can be remote or in countries where it is challenging to recruit suitably skilled employees.
Employees in the key countries where the Group operates are unionised.
Negotiations over wage levels or working conditions can sometimes fail to result in agreement.
Contractors Inability to employ the Impact: Disruption of operations or increased costs Root cause: Mining contractors are used at a services of contractors to may arise if key contractors are not available to meet number of the Groups operations to develop mining meet business needs or production needs.
Delays in start-up of new projects projects, mine and deliver ore to processing plants.
In periods of high commodity prices, demand for contractors may exceed supply.
Mitigation: Effective planning and establishment of effective working relationships with key contractors are utilised to mitigate this risk.
Business integrity Failure to prevent acts of Impact: Potential impacts include prosecution, Mitigation: The Group has very clear principles on fraud, bribery, corruption fines, penalties and reputation damage.
the manner in which it conducts its business and or anti-competitive expects all employees to act in accordance with its behaviour.
The Group may suffer financial loss if it is the victim of values.
Policies and awareness programmes are in a fraudulent act.
place to ensure consistent understanding of the Groups expectations.
Root cause: In certain countries where the Group operates the risk of corruption is high, as indicated by The Groups internal control environment is designed indices prepared by independent non-governmental to prevent fraud and is regularly reviewed by an organisations NGOs.
internal audit team to provide assurance that controls are designed and operating effectively.
52 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review Joint ventures Failure to achieve Impact: If similar standards are not implemented in Root cause: Some of the Groups operations are expected standards joint ventures, higher costs or lower production may controlled and managed by joint venture partners, of health, safety result and have a bearing on operational results, asset associates or by other companies.
Management of and environment values or the Groups reputation.
non-controlled assets may not comply with the performance in Groups standards.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by way of a thorough evaluation process before commitment to any joint venture and implementation of ongoing governance processes in existing joint ventures.
Acquisitions and divestments Failure to achieve Impact: Failing to deliver expected acquisitions Root cause: Benets may not be achieved as a result expected benets can result in adverse financial performance, lower of changing or incorrect assumptions or materially from any acquisition production volumes or problems with product quality.
different market conditions or deficiencies in the due or value from assets The Group could nd itself liable for past acts or diligence process.
omissions of the acquired business without any Delays in the sale of assets or reductions in value may adequate right of redress.
arise due to changing market conditions.
Failure to achieve expected values from the sale of Mitigation: Rigorous guidelines are applied to the assets or delivery beyond expected receipt of funds evaluation and execution of all acquisitions that may result in higher debt levels, underperformance of require the approval of the Investment Committee and those businesses and possible loss of key personnel.
Group Management Committee and, subject to size, the Board.
Infrastructure Inability to obtain Impact: Failure to obtain supporting facilities may Root cause: The potential disruption of ongoing adequate supporting affect the sustainability and growth of the business, generation and supply of power is a risk faced by the facilities, services and leading to loss of competitiveness, market share Group in a number of countries in which it operates.
The Groups operations and projects can be located power, road, rail and in countries or regions where power and water Failure of rail or port facilities may result in delays port, etc.. supplies are not certain and may be affected by and increased costs as well as lost revenue and population growth, the effects of climate change reputation with customers.
Failure to procure or lack of investment by owners of infrastructure.
shipping costs at competitive market rates may reduce profit margins.
The Group relies upon effective rail and port facilities for its products and will be expected to provide shipment of product in some circumstances to customers premises.
The Group relies on third parties to provide these services.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to work closely with suppliers of infrastructure to mitigate the risk of failure and has established contingency arrangements.
Long term agreements with suppliers are sought where appropriate.
Community relations Disputes with Impact: Failure to manage relationships with Mitigation: The Group has developed communities may arise local communities, government and NGOs may comprehensive processes to enable its business from time to time.
disrupt operations and adversely affect the Groups units to effectively manage relationships with reputation as well as its ability to bring projects communities and actively seeks engagement with into production.
all communities impacted by the Groups operations.
Root cause: The Group operates in several countries where ownership of rights in respect of land and resources is uncertain and where disputes in relation to ownership or other community matters may arise.
The Groups operations can have an impact on local communities including the need, from time to time, to relocate communities or infrastructure networks such as railways and utility services.
"Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 53 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW IRON ORE AND MANGANESE IRON ORE AND MANGANESE Financial highlights $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Operating profit !, ""#$ !, ""#$ Kumba Iron Ore !, %& !, !%"" Iron Ore Brazil !# %& Chris Grifth Samancor "" !# CEO Kumba EBITDA !, %% !, # "" Net operating assets %, $ & $$, & $ Capital expenditure, %# $, $% Share of Group operating profit !"
% !#% Share of Group net operating assets %$% &% Paulo Castellari-Porchia CEO Iron Ore Brazil OPERATING PROFIT 2010: $3,681m $ 4,520 m SHARE OF GROUP OPERATING PROFIT 2010: 38% 41 % EBITDA 2010: $3,856 m $4,733 m 01 Operating safely, GROUP STRATEGY ACTIONS sustainably and responsibly Investing in world class assets in the most Kumba had an outstanding safety performance attractive commodities in the year, ending 2011 fatality-free and with an At our Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil, more LTIFR 33% below 2010. than 200 km of pipeline that will transport iron ore Employing the best people slurry from the mine in the state of Minas Gerais to Envision, Kumbas broad-based employee share the port of Au has been installed.
participation scheme, which includes over 6,000 Organising efficiently and effectively permanent employee members, reached its first In our manganese businesses, a change in maturity in 2011.
At the conclusion of its first five product mix, to focus on less energy intensive year phase it was valued at $319 million.
01 Construction of a pump station FeMn production, has helped offset the high cost at the mine site of Minas-Rio environment experienced in the year.
iron ore project in Minas Gerais state, Brazil.
54 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review three global producers of manganese alloy.
2011 Iron ore BUSINESS OVERVIEW 1 production Its operations produce a combination of ores, Our Iron Ore portfolio principally comprises Total 1,825 Mt alloys and metal from sites in South Africa a 65.2% shareholding in Kumba Iron Ore and Australia.
Limited Kumba, a leading supplier of seaborne iron ore, and Iron Ore Brazils INDUSTRY OVERVIEW 100% interest in Anglo Ferrous Minas-Rio Minerao S. A. a 49% shareholding in Demand for iron ore globally is linked LLX Minas-Rio, which owns the port of primarily to the state of the global steel Au currently under construction from industry and, more specifically, to the which iron ore from the Minas-Rio project steel manufacturing sector in China.
will be exported together, the Minas-Rio The country is the largest steel producer project, and a 70% interest in the Amap and consumer in the world and accounts iron ore system.
for more than two-thirds of global seaborne iron ore imports.
Kumba, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, produces a leading quality Western Europe 1.5% In 2011, global steel production increased 6% Other Europe and CIS 10.6% lump ore.
Export ore is transported via the to 1.5 billion tonnes 2010: 1.4 billion tonnes, North America 5.9% Sishen-Saldanha Iron Ore Export Channel to South America 19.4% of which 685 Mt were produced in China Africa 4.0% Saldanha Port.
The rail and port operations 2010: 627 Mt, an increase of 9% 2010: 10%.
Asia 32.9% are owned and operated by the South African Chinas seaborne iron ore imports rose by Oceania 25.7% parastatal Transnet.
Kumba is well positioned Source: CRU 11% to 684 Mt 2010: 619 Mt.
The balance to supply the high growth Asia-Pacic and 1 of Chinas iron ore needs was met by Apparent production of iron ore pellets, Middle East markets and European steel sinter fines and lump.
domestic iron ore production, which rose markets in light of an expected decline in by approximately 7% to 305 Mt.
lump ore supplies from other sources.
2011 Iron ore Kumba operates three mines Sishen mine 1 consumption STRATEGY AND GROWTH in the Northern Cape, which produced Total 1,825 Mt Anglo Americans core strategy is to grow 38.9 Mt of iron ore in 2011, Thabazimbi mine our position in iron ore and to supply premium in Limpopo, with an output of 0.9 Mt, and iron ore products against a background of Kolomela mine, also in the Northern Cape, declining quality global iron ore supplies.
which was brought into production during We have a unique iron ore resource prole, 2011 and produced 1.5 Mt during the year.
with extensive, high quality resource bases In 2011, Kumba exported more than 85% in South Africa and Brazil.
significant of its total iron ore sales volumes of 43.6 Mt, future growth will come from Minas-Rio with 68% of these exports destined for China including expansion potential and and the remainder for Europe, Japan, South expansion at Kolomela.
Korea and the Middle East.
Kumba seeks to sustainably maximise total Our Minas-Rio iron ore project is located shareholder value by enhancing the value in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio fide of its current operations through the Janeiro and will include open pit mines and a Unaccounted imports stock changes 2.6% Western Europe 6.7% implementation of its asset optimisation beneficiation plant in Minas Gerais producing Other Europe and CIS 9.1% programmes, capturing value across the high grade pellet feed.
On completion of North America 4.2% value chain through its commercial and Phase 1, ore will be transported through a South America 3.5% Africa 0.8% logistics strategy, executing its growth 525kilometre slurry pipeline to the port of Asia 72.5% projects and ensuring that it has the Au in Rio fide Janeiro state.
Amap, in Amap Oceania 0.6% organisational resources and capabilities state in northern Brazil, continues to ramp up Source: CRU to execute its strategy.
1 its pellet feed and sinter feed production, Apparent consumption of iron ore pellets, sinter fines and lump.
which reached 4.8 Mt in 2011, and is Kumba plans to grow its business organically expected to produce 5.5 Mt in 2012. in order to achieve production of 80 to 90Mtpa of iron ore by 2020, 70 Mtpa from Our Manganese interests consist of a South Africa and the remainder from other 40% shareholding in Samancor Holdings, countries in Africa.
which owns Hotazel Manganese Mines and Metalloys, both in South Africa, and a Minas-Rio will capture a significant part of 40% shareholding in each of the Australianthe high growth pellet feed market with its based operations Groote Eylandt Mining premium product featuring high iron content Company GEMCO and Tasmanian Electro and low contaminants.
Phase 1 of the Metallurgical Company TEMCO, with Minas-Rio project will produce 26.5 Mtpa, BHP Billiton owning 60% and having with first production scheduled after management control.
Samancor is the completion and commissioning of the worlds largest producer of seaborne project, which is anticipated in the second manganese ore and is among the top half of 2013.
During the year, civil works Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 55
