OVERVIEW OUR STRATEGY A STRATEGY THAT DELIVERS PERFORMANCE 01 02 Our four strategic elements drive Anglo American INVESTING !
IN WORLD CLASS towards our aim of being the leading global mining ASSETS IN THE MOST ATTRACTIVE company the investment, the partner and the employer COMMODITIES of choice through the operational excellence of world We own, operate and grow world class mining class assets in the most attractive commodities and a assets in those commodities that we believe resolute commitment to the highest standards of safe deliver the best returns through the economic and sustainable mining.
cycle and over the long term.
Cynthia Carroll Chief Executive We aim to focus on those commodities in which we have advantaged positions and on large scale assets with long lives, low cost proles and with clear expansion potential, that is: copper, diamonds, iron ore, INVESTING metallurgical coal, nickel, platinum and World class assets thermal coal.
in the most attractive commodities HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR We successfully delivered three of our four strategic mining growth projects on or ahead of schedule during the year: the Barro Alto nickel operation in Brazil, the BECOMING Los Bronces copper expansion in Chile and THE LEADING ORGANISING OPERATING MINING COMPANY the Kolomela iron ore mine in South Africa.
efficiently and Safely, effectively sustainably and Investment, partner We also made good progress during the year responsibly and employer at the Minas-Rio iron ore project in Brazil, of choice the fourth of our strategic growth projects.
We are continuing to manage a number of challenges in a high inationary Brazilian mining environment.
To mitigate these challenges, we are implementing various EMPLOYING measures including acceleration activities The best people within the previously announced 15% capital expenditure increase, to target first ore on ship in the second half of 2013.
In December 2011, we announced the approval of the Grosvenor metallurgical coal project in the Bowen Basin of Queensland, Australia.
This greeneld project is expected to produce 5 Mtpa of metallurgical coal from 01 At the Sakatti exploration 03 Metallurgical Coals head 05 Apprentices gain site in northern Finland, of operations Dieter Haage experience carrying out its underground longwall operation over a geophysicist Circ right and Joy Mining site essential maintenance projected life of 26 years with capital Malo-Lalande left manager Manie Swanepoel in Metallurgical Coals discusses data obtained at Moranbah Norths longwall.
Dawson mine workshops expenditure forecast at $1.7 billion.
from our Ground in Queensland, Australia.
04 Fishermen working in Electromagnetic Before starting the job, Beyond our organic growth programme, Corral fide los Chanchos Bay, Superconducting a comprehensive risk we took the unique opportunity in off the town of Chaaral in Quantum Interference management assessment Chile, where our new Device EMSQUID with is undertaken, which November to acquire the Oppenheimer desalination plant, which Anglo American chief incorporates extensive familys shareholding in DeBeers, taking will serve the Mantoverde executive Cynthia Carroll.
safety measures, copper mine, will secure a our interest in the worlds leading diamond including isolation and 02 Barro Alto: Safety technician sustainable water supply, lock-out procedures.
Rodrigo Jordani Braga at the while protecting the ocean plants viewing point.
For more information turn to page 16 10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Overview T he technology we have developed this year has been vital in the delivery of our strategic growth projects.
This has been a very exciting year for Anglo American.
Brian Beamish Group Director of Mining and Technology For more information on technology and innovation, visit www.
THE BEST PEOPLE AND EFFECTIVELY AND RESPONSIBLY Our people are as vital to our success as In two vital areas of our business asset Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly our mining assets.
optimisation AO and procurement we have is embedded in everything we do.
The safety We are committed to our people, who beaten our own expectations.
The initial aim of of our people is our key core value and we determine how effectively we operate and capturing $1 billion of value for each initiative are relentless in striving to achieve our goal build our reputation with our investors, originally covered the entire Group.
partners and fellow employees every day, 2011 year end, however, we had exceeded our We are committed to environmental and whom we require to uphold our values.
targets in respect of both AO and procurement, stewardship and minimising the each of which has delivered benets of more Ultimately, it is our people who will realise environmental impact of our operations.
than $1 billion from core businesses alone over our ambition and deliver our strategy to be the past three years.
We aim to make a sustainable and positive the leading global mining company.
difference to community development HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR and act with integrity to build respectful relationships with the societies in which $2.2 billion of sustainable AO benets At the end of December 2011, 51% of we work.
Anglo American employees at management level in South Africa were historically The operation review OR process, initiated HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR disadvantaged South Africans.
We believe in 2010, got under way at various sites In November 2011, Platinum announced we are now well placed to achieve the at all the business units: the ORs are a details of Project Alchemy a R3.5 billion enhanced targets for 2014 set out in collaborative effort, creating teams that $430 million community economic South Africas revised Mining Charter.
are able to identify value improvement empowerment transaction that will During 2011, we invested $79 million opportunities and leverage our global best provide equity ownership to certain host practice across the Groups complete 2.2% of total employee costs in direct communities around four operations mining value chain.
training activities, and supported over that have not previously benefited from 3,000 bursars, apprentices, graduates AO knowledge and principles are being Platinums extensive broad based black and other trainees.
embedded within the business through economic empowerment transactions, as a comprehensive change management well as key labour sending areas.
The mine We are now in a position where more programme.
host communities that are set to benefit are than 90% of employees in southern Africa those around Twickenham, Mogalakwena, check their HIV status every year.
Regular $1.3 billion in procurement benets were Amandelbult and Rustenburg.
Platinum has HIV counselling and testing HCT ensures delivered by our businesses.
been involved in the upliftment of its mine that we achieve early diagnosis of HIV A new corporate centre-led supply chain host communities for a number of years and infection and timely access to care.
organisation model enabled more effective this transaction will help to develop For more information management of purchased materials and self-sustaining communities that are not turn to page 32 services: it is already operating in the top solely dependent on mining.
quartile of its peer group.
The Barro Alto operation, consisting of Around three-quarters of Anglo Americans the mine and the newly constructed nickel total procurement spend of more than processing plant, has an exemplary safety $13billion a year is in developing countries.
record and was recently recognised as the safest mine in Brazil.
The mine For more information has operated for almost seven years turn to page 20 2,509 days without a single lost time injury.
The project was completed with a benchmark LTIFR of 0.04.
For more information turn to page 24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 11
