OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Balance sheet Liquidity and funding Equity attributable to equity shareholders Net debt, including related hedges, was of the Company was $39,092 million $1,374 million, a decrease of $6,010 million at 31December 2011 31 December from $7,384 million at 31 December 2010.
This variance was The decrease in net debt reects strong mainly due to the increase in Group operating operating cash ows and proceeds on the profit, and the proceeds on the disposal of disposal of 24.5% of AA Sur.
24.5% of Anglo American Sur AA Sur.
Net debt at 31 December 2011 comprised Investments in associates were $340million $12,873 million of debt, partially offset by higher than at 31 December 2010, principally $11,732 million of cash and cash equivalents, as a result of a significant improvement and the current position of derivative in earnings at fide Beers.
Property, plant liabilities related to net debt of $233 million.
and equipment increased by $739 million 1 Net debt to total capital at 31 December compared to 31 December 2010, due to 2011 was 3.1%, compared with 16.3% at ongoing investment in growth projects.
There 31 December 2010. were no assets classied as held for sale at 31December 2011 compared to assets, At 31 December 2011, the Group had net of associated liabilities, of $188 million undrawn committed bank facilities of at 31December 2010 due to the sale of the $8.4 billion.
remaining Zinc assets during the year.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking Cash ow account of reasonably possible changes in Net cash inows from operating activities trading performance, indicate the Groups were $9,362 million 2010: $7,727 million.
ability to operate within the level of its current EBITDA was $13,348million, an increase of facilities for the foreseeable future.
11% from $11,983 million in the prior year, Corporate Activities and reecting strong prices across the Groups Unallocated Costs core commodities.
Following a reassessment of our estimate Net cash used in investing activities was of the likely outcome of existing insurance $4,853 million 2010: $2,470 million.
claims and a low number of new claims Purchases of property, plant and equipment, received, liabilities in the insurance captive net of related derivative cash ows, amounted have reduced in 2011.
This reduction, to $5,764 million, an increase of $770 million, combined with an increase in insurance reecting major spend on the Groups premium income, has more than offset the strategic growth projects.
Proceeds from unallocated corporate costs in 2011, resulting disposals, principally the Groups remaining in an operating profit recorded within Zinc portfolio net of cash and cash Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs.
equivalents disposed were $533 million Dividends 2010: $2,795 million.
Anglo Americans dividend policy will provide Net cash inow from nancing activities a base dividend that will be maintained or was $1,474 million compared with net increased through the cycle.
The Group has cash used of $2,400 million in 2010. maintained this policy and recommended a During the year the Group paid dividends final dividend of 46 US cents per share, giving of $818million to company shareholders, a total dividend for the year of 74 US cents and $1,404million in dividends to per share, subject to shareholder approval non-controlling interests.
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 April 2012.
As previously stated, taking into account the Groups substantial investment programme for future growth, future earnings potential and the continuing need for a robust balance sheet, any surplus cash will be returned to shareholders.
"Analysis of dividends US cents per share 2011 2010 Interim dividend !"""
"""# Recommended final dividend #$ $% Total dividends %# &# 1 Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt divided by total capital."
Total capital is net assets excluding net debt.
"46 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review Sensitivity analysis in respect of currency and commodity prices Set out below is the impact on underlying earnings of a 10% uctuation in certain of the Groups commodity prices and exchange rates 7 1 10% Average price sensitivity Commodity 2011 2010 US$ million 2 Platinum $!, ""#$ oz $"", #""$ oz %$& 3 Metallurgical Coal $#$!"
"$ "" CLP USD % % &""$ & 1 oz denotes ounces, t denotes tonnes, c denotes cents, lb denotes pounds."
3 Average realised FOB price of export metallurgical coal.
4 Average realised FOB price of export thermal coal South Africa.
5 Being the average LME price.
6 Average price represents average iron ore South Africa export price achieved.
7 Excludes the effect of any hedging activities.
Stated after tax at marginal rate.
Sensitivities are the average of the positive and negative and the impact of a 10% change in the average prices received and exchange rates during 2011.
Increases in commodity prices increase underlying earnings and vice versa.
A strengthening of the South African rand, Australian dollar and Chilean peso relative to the US dollar reduces underlying earnings and vice versa.
Related party transactions Forward looking statements Related party transactions are disclosed in This OFR contains certain forward looking note 36 to the financial statements.
statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses Basis of disclosure of the Group.
These statements and This operating and financial review OFR forecasts involve risk and uncertainty describes the main trends and factors because they relate to events and depend underlying the development, performance on circumstances that occur in the future.
and position of Anglo American plc the There are a number of factors that could Group during the year ended 31 December cause actual results or developments to differ 2011, as well as those likely to affect the materially from those expressed or implied future development, performance and by these forward lookingstatements.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided in the reporting statement on the operating and finance review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board in January 2006.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 47 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT Understanding our key risks and developing appropriate responses is critical to our future success.
We are committed to a robust system of risk identication and an effective response to such risks.
The management of risk is critical to the success of Anglo American.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks which can have a financial, operational or reputational impact.
Effective management of risk supports the delivery of the Groups objectives and achievement of sustainable growth.
David Challen Chairman, Audit Committee 1.
Analysing risks and controls Identifying risks Analysing risks A consistently applied methodology to manage identied risks and controls is used to identify key risks at Group Once identied, the process will business units, operations and evaluate identied risks to establish to manage projects.
The risk management financial and non-financial impacts, identied risks process is undertaken through a likelihood of occurrence and root 2 series of risk workshops at least causes.
Consideration of current annually at business units, sites and controls to mitigate the risks is also at key stages in projects.
An update undertaken to enable a prioritised is performed every six months.
register of risks to be created.
1 ANGLO AMERICAN ASSESSMENT OF STRATEGIC, OPERATIONAL AND 4.
Determining management PROJECT RISKS Management is responsible for actions required 3 monitoring progress of actions to If additional controls are required mitigate key risks and is supported these will be identied and through the Groups internal audit responsibilities assigned.
programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls to mitigate key risks.
4 The results of the key risk management process are Determining reported to the Audit Committee Reporting management every six months.
and monitoring actions required 48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review Commodity prices Commodity prices Impact: Commodity price volatility can result Root cause: Commodity prices are determined for all products that in material and adverse movement in the Groups primarily by international markets and global supply AngloAmerican operating results, asset values, revenues and and demand.
The demand for commodities will produces are subject cash ows.
largely be determined by the strength of the global to wide uctuation.
Falling commodity prices could prevent the Group from completing certain transactions that are Mitigation: The diversied nature of the important to its business and which may have an commodities that Anglo American produces provides adverse affect on its financial position e. g. inability some protection to this risk, and the policy of the to sell assets at values or within timelines expected.
Group is not to engage in commodity price hedging.
If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained The Group constantly monitors the markets in period, the ability of the Group to deliver growth which it operates and reviews capital expenditure in future years may be adversely affected as growth programmes to ensure supply of product reects projects may not be viable at lower prices.
Liquidity risk The Group is exposed Impact: If the Group is unable to obtain sufficient Mitigation: The Group has an experienced to liquidity risk in terms credit due to capital market conditions, it may not be Treasury team who are responsible for ensuring that of being able to fund able to raise sufficient funds to develop new projects, there are sufficient committed loan facilities in place operations and growth.
fund acquisitions or meet its ongoing nancing needs.
to meet short term business requirements after taking As a result, revenues, operating results, cash ows or into account cash ows from operations and holdings financial position may be adversely affected.
of cash, as well as any Group distribution restrictions which exist.
The Group limits exposure on liquid funds Root cause: Liquidity risk arises from uncertainty through a policy of minimum counterparty credit or volatility in the capital or credit markets due to ratings, daily counterparty settlement limits and perceived weaknesses of the global economic exposure diversication.
environment or possibly as a response to shock events.
Liquidity risk also arises when lenders are insecure about the long term cash generative capacity of the Group.
Counterparty risk The Group is exposed Impact: Financial losses may arise should those Mitigation: The Group Treasury team is responsible to counterparty risk counterparties become unable to meet their for managing counterparty risk with banks where from customers, certain obligations to the Group.
Anglo American places cash deposits.
However, the suppliers and holders Treasury operations of joint ventures and associates Root cause: Severe economic conditions or shock of cash.
are independently managed and may expose the events as experienced in recent years can have a Group to financial risks.
major impact on the ability of financial institutions and other counterparties that the Group has For other counterparty risks the Groups businesses relationships with to meet their obligations.
have in place credit management procedures.
Currency risk The Group is exposed Impact: Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Root cause: The global nature of the Groups to currency risk where most important currencies inuencing operating costs businesses exposes the Group to currency risk.
transactions are not and asset valuations the South African rand, Chilean Mitigation: Given the diversied nature of the Group, conducted in US dollars.
peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, and pound the Groups policy is generally not to hedge currency sterling may adversely affect financial results to a risk.
Mitigation in the form of foreign exchange material extent.
hedging is limited to debt instruments and capital expenditure on major projects.
Ination The Group is exposed to Impact: Higher rates of ination may increase Root cause: Cost ination in the mining sector is potentially higher rates of future operational costs if there is no concurrent more apparent during periods of high commodity ination in the countries depreciation of the local currency against the prices as demand for input goods and services can in which it operates.
US dollar, or an increase in the dollar price of the exceed supply.
Mitigation: The Group manages costs very closely This may have a negative impact on profit margins through its asset optimisation and supply chain and financial results.
initiatives and, where necessary, through making efficiencies in employee and contractor numbers.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 49 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK Health and safety Failure to maintain the Impact: In addition to injury, health and environmental Root cause: Mining is a hazardous industry and high levels of safety damage, impacts could include fines and penalties, working conditions such as weather, altitude and management can result liability to employees or third parties, impairment of temperature can add to the inherent dangers of in harm to the Groups the Groups reputation, industrial action or inability to mining, whether underground or in open pit mines.
employees, contractors, attract and retain skilled employees.
Government Mitigation: Anglo American sets a very high communities near our authorities may force closure of mines on a temporary priority on safety and health matters.
A safety risk operations and damage or permanent basis or refuse mining right applications.
management process, global standards and a safety to the environment.
The recruitment and retention of skilled people and environment assurance programme form part of Occupational health required to meet growth aspirations can be impacted a consistently applied robust approach to mitigating risks to employees by high rates of HIV AIDS.
and contractors Anglo American provides anti-retroviral therapy to include noise-induced employees with HIV AIDS and undertakes education hearing loss, occupational and awareness programmes to help prevent infection lung diseases and or spread of infection.
HIV AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa in particular is a threat to economic growth and development.
Environment Certain of the Groups Impact: Potential impacts include fines and penalties, Root cause: The mining process, including blasting operations create statutory liability for environmental remediation and and processing orebodies, can generate dust and environmental risk in other financial consequences that may be significant.
noise and will require the storage of waste materials the form of dust, noise in liquid form.
Governments may force closure of mines on a or leakage of polluting temporary or permanent basis or refuse future mining Mitigation: The Group implements a number substances from site right applications.
of initiatives to monitor and limit the impact of its operations and operations on the environment.
uncontrolled breaches of tailings dam facilities, generating harm to the Groups employees, contractors, the communities near the Groups operations, air quality, water purity and land contamination.
Exploration Exploration and Impact: Failure to discover new Mineral Resources Mitigation: The Group invests considerable sums development are costly of sufficient magnitude could adversely affect future each year in focused exploration programmes to activities, with no results and the Groups financial condition.
enable resource discovery and development to guarantee of success, reserves.
This investment includes the use of leading Root cause: Exploration and development are but are necessary for technology in exploration activity.
speculative activities and often take place in future growth.
challenging or remote locations from a climate, altitude or political perspective.
Political, legal and regulatory The Groups businesses Impact: Potential impacts include restrictions Root cause: The Group has no control over may be affected by on the export of currency, expropriation of assets, local political acts or changes in local tax rates.
political or regulatory imposition of royalties or other taxes targeted It recognises that its licence to operate through developments in any at mining companies, and requirements for local mining rights is dependent on a number of factors, of the countries and ownership or beneficiation.
Political instability including compliance with regulations.
jurisdictions in which can also result in civil unrest, nullification of existing Mitigation: The Group actively monitors regulatory the Group operates, agreements, mining permits or leases.
and political developments on a continuous basis.
including changes to Any of these may adversely affect the Groups scal regimes or other operations or results of those operations.
50 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review Climate change The Groups operations Impact: Potential impacts from climate change Root cause: The Group is a significant user of energy are exposed to changes are difficult to assess and will depend on the and one of the key commodities it produces is coal.
in climate and the need circumstances at individual sites, but could include Mitigation: In addition to the initiatives to monitor to comply with changes increased rainfall, ooding, water shortages and and limit the impact of operations on the environment, in the regulatory higher average temperatures.
These may increase the Group continuously seeks to reduce energy environment aimed at costs, reduce production levels or impact the results input levels into its operations.
The asset optimisation reducing the effects of of operations.
programme seeks to make operations more climate change.
Policy developments at an international, national energy efficient.
and sub-national level, including those related to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and subsequent international agreements and emissions trading schemes, could adversely affect the profitability of the Group.
Regulatory measures may affect energy prices, demand or the margins achieved for carbon intensive products such as coal.
Supply risk The inability to obtain Impact: Any interruption to the Groups supplies Mitigation: The Group takes a proactive approach key consumables, raw or increases in costs adversely affects the Groups to developing relationships with critical suppliers materials, mining and financial position and future performance.
and improving the effectiveness of the Groups processing equipment purchasing leverage.
Root cause: During strong commodity cycles, in a timely manner.
increased demand can be experienced for such supplies, resulting in periods when supplies are not always available to meet demand.
Anglo American has limited influence over manufacturers and suppliers.
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources The Groups Ore Impact: Deviations from the estimated price of Mitigation: The Group is experienced in managing Reserves and Mineral commodities, production costs and mining and Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources and has robust Resources estimates processing recovery rates may have an impact on procedures in place to reduce the likelihood of are subject to a number the financial condition and prospects of the Group.
All factors are consistently of assumptions which monitored by management.
Root cause: All assumptions related to Ore Reserves may be incorrect.
and Mineral Resources are long term in nature and are The Groups procedure on reporting of Ore Reserves subject to volatility owing to economic, regulatory and Mineral Resource estimates is summarised on or political inuences.
Operational performance and project delivery Failure to meet Impact: Increased unit costs may arise from failure Root cause: Increasing regulatory, environmental, production targets to meet production targets affecting the results of access and social approvals can increase construction or project delivery operations and financial performance.
Failure to meet costs and introduce delays.
project delivery timetables and budgets may affect Operational performance can be affected by technical operational performance, delay cash inows, increase and engineering factors as well as events or capital costs and reduce profitability, as well as have circumstances impacting other critical inputs to the a negative impact on the Groups reputation.
mining and processing of minerals.
Mitigation: Management oversight of operating performance and project delivery through regular executive management briengs, a continuous focus on improvement of operations through the asset optimisation programme, and consistent application of the Groups methodology for new projects are key to managing this risk.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 51
