Operating and financial review declining from their peak on the back of OTHER MINING continuing global economic uncertainty, taking fertilizer prices with them, which led AND INDUSTRIAL to lower demand for both.
COPEBRS For the year as a whole, fertilizer sales Business overview totalled 955,700 tonnes, 4.2% below 2010.
Copebrs is the second largest integrated DCP sales were 124,500 tonnes, in line with phosphate fertilizer producer in Brazil.
2010, while phosphoric acid sales were 4.8% Copebrs operations are vertically higher at 100,200 tonnes.
integrated, covering mining of its own Operating performance phosphate ore, beneficiation of the ore to Copebrs generated an operating profit of produce P O concentrate and processing 2 5 $136 million, representing a 68% increase on into intermediate and final products.
This performance reected Copebrs mine in Ouvidor in the state of higher international and local market prices, Gois currently produces up to 5.9 Mt of coupled with operational gains from asset ore per annum dry basis and is a prime optimisation initiatives in particular.
phosphate deposit in Brazil with one of The strong performance was partially the highest grades of ore available in the offset by increased input costs, particularly country approximately 13% P O.
The 2 5 sulphur and ammonia, combined with the company has approximately 15% of current strengthening of the Brazilian currency.
Brazilian phosphate mineral resources and has a remaining mine life of 41 years at Projects current production rates excluding the A debottlenecking project, designed Gois II browneld expansion.
to increase capacity of Granulated Mono-Ammonium Phosphate by The phosphate ore run of mine is treated 60,000 tonnes and of DCP by 25,000 tonnes at the co-located beneficiation facility, by 2015, is under review.
The project is producing approximately 1.35 Mt of final estimated to increase annual EBITDA by phosphate concentrate per annum at an more than $35 million, through increased average dry grade of around 37% P O.
Copebrs operates two chemical processing complexes located in Catalo in the state Given the phosphate markets sound of Gois, and Cubato in the state of fundamentals, the original Gois 2 expansion SoPaulo.
Copebrs produces a wide project undertaken in 2008 and designed to variety of products for the Brazilian increase phosphate production by more than agriculture sector, including low analysis 100%, may be re-assessed from a different 20% P O content and high analysis 2 5 product-mix perspective.
40% P O content phosphate fertilizers, 2 5 Outlook dicalcium phosphate DCP for the animal Prices for agricultural commodities in Brazil feed industry, as well as phosphoric and remain at healthy levels, resulting in good sulphuric acids.
Although international Financial overview fertilizer prices softened towards the end Market of the year owing to the global economic Phosphate sales increased by 24% in 2011, uncertainty, they remain relatively high.
as a result of strong domestic demand early Nonetheless, the uncertain global economic in the year due to the mini crop a smaller outlook affected demand in the Brazilian secondary crop, mainly corn, grown in the market late in the year, as farmers decided first half of the year, demand for fertilizers to postpone purchasing fertilizer.
Prospects by sugar cane farmers and farmers are, however, positive and the current higher purchasing fertilizer ahead of the summer inventories of imported fertilizers may crop as a result of competitive fertilizer prices preclude further imports early in 2012, relative to grain prices.
improving the overall dynamics for domestic The balance between supply and demand fertilizers later in the year.
for phosphates tightened further through the year owing to reduced supplies from China and Saudi Arabia: this contributed to the average phosphates price for the year increasing to $700 t 2010: $510 t. From October, however, grain prices started Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 85 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL CATALO Operating performance TARMAC Catalos operating profit declined by 19% Business overview Tarmac reported an operating loss of to $54 million.
The companys financial Catalo Mining Minerao Catalo, which $35million, compared to a profit of performance was negatively affected by is located in the cities of Catalo and Ouvidor, $48million in 2010.
On a directly comparable lower production and sales volumes, higher in Gois state, Brazil, is one of the worlds basis, however, taking into consideration the costs related to Catalos reintegration into three largest niobium producers.
impact of European businesses that were the Anglo American Group, local inationary sold in 2010, Tarmacs operating profit As an alloying agent, niobium brings unique pressures, and the impact of the Brazilian showed a reduction of $55 million.
Tarmacs currencys appreciation against the dollar.
properties to steels, such as increased directly comparable EBITDA performance formability, corrosion resistance, weldability Production for the year of 3,900 tonnes was 32% lower.
and strength under tough working represented a 3% decline 2010: 4,000 environments, including extreme high or Quarry materials tonnes following a significant change of low temperatures.
Such steels are known Asphalt volumes benefited from carry-over production prole as the mine advanced as high strength low alloy steels.
of demand resulting from the severe weather further into the transition ore between at the end of 2010, as well as some continuing Around 90% of total global niobium weathered material and unoxidised ore, government infrastructure investment, consumption is used as an alloying element, resulting in lower Nb recoveries.
Set against particularly in respect of local authority in the form of ferro-niobium FeNb in high this, improvements in the concentration and road maintenance.
In comparison to 2010, strength steels, such steels being used metallurgy processes at the Boa Vista plant concrete volumes decreased, reecting a in the manufacture of automobiles, ships, led to higher recoveries.
This, combined with reduction in demand from major projects high pressure pipelines, as well as in the higher average grades, and the inclusion of such as the Olympic Village and Gatwick petroleum and construction industries.
The the Copebrs tailing from Mine 2, with its Airport, and reduced housing and other product is exported to the main steel plants higher contained Nb grade, allowed Catalo building expenditure.
Cement production in Europe, the US and Asia.
to offset the impact of the transition ore. levels improved over 2010 as a result of the Financial overview Projects ongoing efficiency programme.
Management Markets The Boa Vista Fresh Rock project was efforts continue to be focused on mitigating Niobium demand and prices have remained approved in October 2011.
The existing the significant impact of rising input costs, in generally stable, notwithstanding volatility plant will be adapted to process new rock particular hydrocarbons, through initiatives across world markets and uncertainty instead of oxidised ore, leading to an increase such as increasing the use of recycled asphalt around the global economy, particularly the in production capacity to approximately materials to recapture bitumen.
6,500 tonnes of Nb per year from the sovereign debt situation in Europe and the The outlook for the year ahead remains lacklustre pace of economic recovery in current 3,800 tonnes.
uncertain and dependent to a large extent the US.
Outlook upon the UK governments response to weak In 2011, world crude steel production rose Despite the record levels of sales and prices domestic growth and wider economic by 6.8% to reach a record 1,527 Mt.
Total in 2011, growth rates for niobium are likely to uncertainty across the euro zone.
Against this demand for niobium rose in tandem to remain capped worldwide in the near term.
background, volume declines are anticipated more than 70,000 tonnes of Nb content The European sovereign debt crisis is likely to across major product categories in 2012, have a significant negative bearing on sales in FeNb form for 2011, which eclipsed the reecting announced reductions in public previous record gure of 65,800 tonnes to Europe.
sector spending, exacerbated by declining achieved in 2008. private sector spending.
In the short term, additional niobium sales are likely to be diverted on a spot basis The UK joint venture discussions with to China and, to a lesser extent, the US.
Lafarge are proceeding through the required Prices are expected to come under pressure regulatory processes.
from a stronger Brazilian real and the Building products uncertain economic outlook in Europe and Performance was severely impacted by the US.
the closure of the Precast business, one-off non-recurring separation costs and the continuing decline in housing, retail and commercial markets, which affected all products.
Volumes suffered as a consequence of both the general market decline and a competitive pricing environment, where customers and competitors remain more focused on price and less on other value drivers.
Cost-reduction initiatives remain a high priority.
Several key projects are also under way to enhance quality and improve customer service.
The underlying market outlook continues to remain challenging in the short term.
86 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011
