OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIAMONDS DIAMONDS Financial highlights $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Share of associates operating profit !
"""# EBITDA $#% $$$ Share of Group operating profit !% #% 1 Philippe Mellier Groups associate investment in DeBeers &, & &, ""$ CEO DeBeers 1 Excludes outstanding loans owed by fide Beers, including accrued interest, of $301 million 2010: $355 million."
OPERATING PROFIT 2010: $495 m $ 659 m SHARE OF GROUP OPERATING PROFIT 2010: 5% 6 % EBITDA 2010: $666 m 01 $794 m BUSINESS OVERVIEW In addition, DeBeers has a 74% shareholding in South Africa-based DeBeers Consolidated Anglo Americans diamond interests are Mines Limited DBCM, with a broad based represented by our 45% shareholding in black economic empowerment BEE DeBeers.
The other shareholders in consortium Ponahalo holding the balance.
DeBeers are Central Holdings Ltd representing the Oppenheimer family DeBeers owns 100% of DeBeers Canada, interests, which beneficially owns 40%, and which operates the companys first two the Government of the Republic of Botswana diamond mines outside the African continent.
DeBeers owns 100% of The Diamond DeBeers is the worlds leading diamond Trading Company DTC a division of company and, with its joint venture partners, DeBeers UK, the rough diamond distribution employs approximately 16,000 people arm of DeBeers.
It also has a 50% interest in both DTC Botswana and Namibia DTC, with around the world.
The company produces approximately 35%, by value, of the worlds the GRB and GRN holding matching rough diamonds from its mines in Botswana, respective shareholdings.
Canada, Namibia and South Africa.
Diamdel, wholly owned by DeBeers, is DeBeers is a 50 50 partner with the GRB the market leader in the sale of rough, in the Debswana Diamond Company, and uncut diamonds using innovative online a 50 50 partner with the Government of auction techniques, to small, mid-tier and large manufacturing, retailing and the Republic of Namibia GRN in Namdeb Holdings.
Namdeb Holdings owns 100% trading businesses each of Namdeb land mining and DeBeers, through 100% owned Element fide Beers Marine Namibia marine mining.
Six Technologies, is the worlds leading supplier of industrial super-materials.
Element Six operates internationally, with 10 manufacturing sites worldwide and a global sales network.
It is a leading player in the markets in which it operates.
01 The Debmar Atlantic, moored 35 kilometres off the Namibian coastline.
80 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review At the consumer end of the value chain, FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Consumer demand forecasts $ Polished wholesale prices DeBeers proprietary diamond brand Anglo Americans share of operating profit Forevermark, offers a differentiated from fide Beers totalled $659 million, an proposition for consumers based on quality increase of 33%, reecting fide Beers and integrity.
Forevermark diamonds are focus on fullling Sightholder demand available in select jewellers in markets and capturing the full benefit of significant including China, Hong Kong, Japan, India, price growth in 2011.
Forecast In May, Nicky Oppenheimer, chairman of the DeBeers and LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis DeBeers board, announced that, with effect Vuitton are 50 50 partners in the high-end from July 2011, Philippe Mellier had been retailer DeBeers Diamond Jewellers DBDJ.
DBDJ has stores in the most fashionable areas of some of the worlds great cities, On 4 November, Anglo American announced including New York, Beijing, Hong Kong, its intention to acquire CHLs entire 40% USA 38% London, Paris, Tokyo and Dubai.
interest in DeBeers for $5.1 billion cash.
Japan 10% Under the terms of the existing shareholders India 10% China Hong Kong 13% agreement between Anglo American, CHL INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Taiwan 2% and the GRB, the GRB has a pre-emption Gulf 7% Up to two-thirds of the worlds diamonds, by right in respect of a pro rata portion of the Turkey 2% Rest of world 18% value, originate from Africa, while significant CHLs interest in DeBeers, enabling it to Source: fide Beers sources have been discovered in Russia, participate in the transaction and to increase Australia and Canada.
its interest in DeBeers, on a pro rata basis, to up to 25%.
In the event that the GRB Most diamonds come from the mining of exercises its pre-emption rights in full, under kimberlite deposits.
Another important the proposed transaction, AngloAmerican source of gem diamonds is secondary would acquire an incremental 30% interest in alluvial deposits formed by the weathering DeBeers, taking its total interest to 75%, and of primary kimberlites and the subsequent the consideration payable by Anglo American 2016 deposition of released diamonds in rivers to CHL would be proportionately reduced.
Markets Rough or uncut diamonds are broadly In 2011, the DTC achieved its second classied either as gem or industrial quality, highest ever level of sales $6.5 billion, with gem being overwhelmingly 99% a 27% increase over the prior year the larger of the two markets by value.
The first half of the primary world market for gem diamonds is year saw exceptional consumer demand USA 34% in retail jewellery, where aspects such as growth which, when coupled with lower Japan 8% carat, colour, cut and clarity have a large India 15% than historical levels of global diamond impact on valuation.
China Hong Kong 18% production, resulted in very strong polished Taiwan 2% Gulf 6% DeBeers, and its partner DTCs in Botswana and rough diamond price growth.
While Turkey 2% and Namibia, supplies its customers known reecting the robust market fundamentals, Rest of world 15% as Sightholders with parcels of rough rough diamond prices in this period included Source: fide Beers diamonds that are specifically aligned to their an element of speculative buying in the Note: These gures provide estimates respective cutting and polishing needs.
and forecasts of the size and growth of main diamond consumer markets based on pipeline During the second half of the year, both and consumer research commissioned by STRATEGY AND GROWTH retail and cutting centre sentiment was fide Beers.
impacted by the challenging macroDeBeers is focused on: economic environment, restricted liquidity Capturing price growth in the cutting centres and a slowdown in the rate of growth of consumer demand at retail.
Driving cost efficiencies As a result, DeBeers experienced lower Delivering upstream mining projects levels of demand for its rough diamonds and prices receded slightly from the highs seen Capturing consumer demand.
However, in total, 2011 was a very strong year on the demand side, with record levels of consumer demand growth estimated at between 11% and 13% over the full year, and DTC price growth of 29%.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 81
