OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly 2011 Global social investment SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY To complement our KPI initiatives, in expenditure 2011 we also piloted a new community Integrating the Social Way Total: $122m development peer review process.
The Launched in 2009, our Social Way contains reviews draw on internal expertise as well a mandatory set of standards that prescribe as resources from partners such as CARE rigorous minimum requirements for social International to ensure that our investments performance within the Group.
By the in community development are as effective end of 2011, each operation had completed as possible.
Following the success of the its third annual assessment of its level of pilots the process will be rolled out in 2012. compliance against the 24 requirements of the Social Way.
Informed by this assessment, SOCIAL INVESTMENT operations with any non-compliances develop social and community improvement AngloAmericans social investment spend plans that provide roadmaps to full in local communities totalled $122 million compliance with the Social Way.
in 2011, up from $111 million in 2010 and $82.5 million in 2009, and on our Education and training 23% We have been pioneering approaches Health and welfare 9% expenditure of $28 million back in 2000. to developing small businesses in Water and sanitation 2% To help manage this growth, we have Institutional capacity development 1% South Africa since the 1980s and developed a standardised reporting Community development 41% more recently have extended these Environment 1% process for all our social investments.
The activities into Chile, Brazil and Peru.
Energy and climate change 1% aim is to facilitate consistent reporting of Sports, arts, culture and heritage 6% Disaster and emergency relief 5% In 2011, there was a strong focus on outputs, and to identify the most effective Employee matched giving 1% integrating the requirements of the projects, delivery methods and partners Other 10% Social Way into AngloAmericans project with a view to maximising the value that stage gate reviews and our due diligence AngloAmerican and its host communities processes for mergers and acquisitions.
2011 Global social investment Through this process, functional experts expenditure by region work with project teams at key stages in the Total: $122m ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT new mine development process in order to ascertain whether the teams are compliant We believe that enterprise development with technical, financial, environmental and is one of the most effective means for social requirements before they may proceed ensuring sustainable benets for our host to the next project stage.
We believe that the communities.
We have been pioneering inclusion of our social standards in this approaches to developing small businesses process, which was started in 2010, is already in South Africa since the 1980s and more recently have extended these activities into showing results in terms of more thorough preparation for permitting processes and a Chile, Brazil and Peru.
better understanding of community concerns Zimele South Africa and expectations at an early stage in new AngloAmericans pioneering Zimele projects.
This has facilitated the earlier enterprise development programme was identication and management of potential established in South Africa more than South Africa 52% risks, and also contributes to developing and Rest of Africa 10% 20 years ago, with the aim of empowering maintaining positive relationships with our United Kingdom 1% black entrepreneurs through the creation Americas 28% host communities.
Australia 2% of small and medium sized enterprises Other 7% Monitoring and evaluation of our social SMEs.
Through our commitment to the performance continued to receive priority UNDP Business Call to Action in support attention during 2011.
In addition to assessing of the Millennium Development Goals, we our performance through our Group-wide are committed to creating and sustaining complaints and grievance mechanism, we 15,000 additional jobs in up to 1,500 new have made important progress in using businesses by 2015. our comprehensive set of 32 output key Zimele consists of five separate funds the performance indicators KPIs for social Supply Chain Fund, the AngloAmerican investments that were piloted and reported Khula Mining Fund, the Community Fund, the on for the first time in 2010.
A review of our Olwazini Fund and, most recently, the Zimele progress against some of these indicators Green Fund.
While these funds operate on a is provided on page 31.
Ensuring and commercial basis, they are guided by the maintaining consistency in reporting against social purpose of creating economically these indicators, and in the use of our viable enterprises through the provision complaints and grievance mechanism, of equity loans, mentoring and access to remains an important focus area.
"30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review Social investment output indicators Total number of community development projects delivering benets to "", #$% communities in 2011 Total number of businesses supported #$, &$"" Jobs created maintained through enterprise development initiatives, % % Beneciaries of education projects &, %## Beneciaries of sports, arts, culture and heritage projects $, % # Beneciaries of community development projects, ""#, & Beneciaries of disaster and emergency relief projects """", ""%% Beneciaries with improved livelihood, $"", & value enhancing opportunities."
In 2011, CARE Brazil these funds supported 1,085 businesses AngloAmericans Barro Alto project in Brazil and provided R567 million $78.1 million has concluded the first three year period of in funding for businesses that employed partnership with local NGO, CARE Brazil.
19,575 people, with a combined turnover Enterprise development forms a strong focus of R574 million $79.1 million.
of the partnership, which also includes activities to improve public education and Emerge Chile social development in the communities Launched in 2006, our Emerge programme surrounding our operation.
Through this has achieved its ambitious goal of supporting initiative, local residents have the opportunity thousands of SMEs in Chile.
On one hand, our to participate in a free training course on alliance with Fondo Esperanza, an institution entrepreneurial management aimed at that grants micro-credit, has helped more developing business opportunities in the than 25,000 small businesses through region.
The third group of small business business skills training and community bank owners has now completed the course.
The community bank model in which members run their own businesses In 2011, we piloted a new and act as co-guarantors by committing community development peer to pay back all the loans has delivered review process.
The reviews exceptionally high loan repayment rates.
draw on internal expertise as On the other hand, the medium sized well as resources from partners business programme has helped more such as CARE International to than 200 entrepreneurs through the ensure that our investments in provision of training, financial assistance, community development are as mentoring and follow up.
In 2011, Emerge effective as possible.
was strengthened through a new partnership with international enterprise development NGO Technoserve to carry out support to medium sized businesses.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 31 Operating and financial review OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION Employing the best people What it takes: F ORESIGHT AND INITIATIVE TO CREATE CHANGE 01 02 04 03 BRIDGING THE SKILLS GAP IN AUSTRALIA A thriving industry depends on a steady intake of new talent.
For that reason, the Australian governments Resourcing the Future report was cause for concern.
The 2010 report predicted a major and growing shortfall of qualied tradespeople across the Australian construction, gas and mining industries unless employers acted quickly to bridge the skills gap.
The findings of the report came as no surprise to Debbie Butler, principal of operations training at Metallurgical Coals HR division, who had already been working on her own study of AngloAmericans trades workforce, which showed stagnation in the intake of apprentices.
But Debbie also saw an opportunity.
As the governments needs dovetailed with our own, the timing proved perfect to join forces to develop an innovative new pathway for bringing fresh talent into the business.
Working with the National Apprenticeships Steering Committee, Debbie helped design a Metallurgical Coal-specic Advanced Entry Adult Trades Programme.
The programme recognises workers existing experience and equips them with the additional skills they need to attain full trade qualications in just 18 months providing the potential to save AngloAmerican A$6.3 million per programme 18 months or per intake 21 participants.
Clockwise from top: But the programmes value is not only financial.
Opportunities to 01 Debbie Butler centre addresses upskill our people, develop career paths and increase the talent pool students on the are all vital components as we aim to become the employer of choice.
apprenticeship scheme at Metallurgical Coal.
With Debbie driving it forward, AngloAmerican became the first employer in the mining sector to implement the new initiative and, 02 03 04 Apprentices at work in the workshop s in 2011, 21 participants enrolled in the programme.
It now represents an of Metallurgical Coals important element of Metallurgical Coals workforce planning strategy to Moranbah North mine in ensure the business has sufficient experienced and qualied employees Queensland, Australia.
Main picture, right An apprentice right gains This programme will help us in our commitment to identify, develop and experience carrying out retain the very best people in our industry people like Debbie Butler.
essential maintenance in the workshops at Moranbah To watch the video, visit North.
com a comprehensive risk-management assessment is carried out, incorporating extensive safety measures, and including isolation and lock-out procedures.
32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION Employing the best people We are determined to be an employer of choice.
That means acting quickly and decisively to ensure that we have the talent our business needs for its future growth.
Mervyn Walker Group Director of HR and Corporate Affairs Operating and financial review Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 33
