OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW METALLURGICAL COAL METALLURGICAL COAL Financial highlights 1 $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Operating profit !, !
"""# EBITDA !, $%% $, $%& Net operating assets &, # &, %% Seamus French Capital expenditure #$ % CEO Share of Group operating profit !"
"!% ""% Share of Group net operating assets !"
!% $#% OPERATING PROFIT 1 Following a strategic review during the year, Peace River Coal is now managed as part of the Metallurgical Coal business 2010: $780 m unit and accordingly is presented as part of the Metallurgical Coal segment.
It was previously reported within the Other Mining and Industrial reporting segment.
Comparatives have been reclassied to align with current year presentation.
$ 1,189 m SHARE OF GROUP OPERATING PROFIT 2010: 8% 11 % EBITDA 2010: $1,134 m $1,577 m 01 Operating safely, GROUP STRATEGY ACTIONS sustainably and responsibly Investing in world class assets in the most In 2011, Metallurgical Coal recorded a 24% fall in attractive commodities its lost time injury frequency rate, and there were In December 2011, we took an important step no deaths at any of its operations.
in our investment programme to triple our hard Employing the best people coking production by 2020 by approving the Initiatives such as our employees passionate $1.7 billion, 5 Mtpa Grosvenor Phase 1 project.
commitment to rebuilding the local communitys Organising efficiently and effectively infrastructure following the oods, working with Successful mitigation actions to recover from government to bring fresh talent into the business, 01 Looking over the thickener at lost volumes following exceptional heavy rain and developing sector leading operations Moranbah Norths coal handling in late 2010 and early 2011, combined with preparation plant CHPP.
The management systems are examples of a company thickener separates the ne tailings asset optimisation improvements, led to record that is really making a difference.
solids from the water, enabling the run-of-mine production at the open cut operations.
process water to be recycled back through the CHPP.
60 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review BUSINESS OVERVIEW Global seaborne metallurgical Dawson is an open cut operation, which coal exports in 2011, produced 7.7 Mt in total 3.9 Mt Anglo American is Australias second largest Total 249.5 Mt attributable of coking and thermal coal.
metallurgical coal producer and third largest global exporter of metallurgical coal.
Peace River Coal is an open cut operation, which produced 0.9 Mt of metallurgical coal Our coal operations in Australia are based on in the year.
In 2011, Anglo American acquired the east coast, from where Metallurgical Coal the remaining minority interests in Peace serves a range of customers throughout Asia River Coal in British Columbia, Canada.
and the Indian sub-continent, Europe and Currently the Trend mine is operational with South America.
Our metallurgical coal significant growth opportunities being operation in Canada, Peace River Coal, explored for the complex.
mainly serves customers in Europe, Japan and South America.
Metallurgical Coal owns an effective 23% interest in the Jellinbah and Lake Vermont Metallurgical Coal operates six mines in mines in Queensland: both are metallurgical Australia: one wholly owned, and five in which coal producers.
Five of the mines Australia 55% USA 24% are located in Queenslands Bowen Basin: In 2011, Metallurgical Coals mines produced Canada 12% Moranbah North metallurgical coal, Russia 3% an attributable 14.2 Mt of metallurgical coal, Indonesia 2% Capcoal metallurgical and thermal coal, all for export, and 13.4 Mt of thermal coal, of China 1% Foxleigh metallurgical coal, Dawson which 46% was exported.
Other 3% metallurgical and thermal coal and Callide Source: GTIS, CRU, Wood Mackenzie and AME Metallurgical Coals resource base totals thermal coal.
Drayton mine thermal coal some 3.6 billion tonnes of coal.
This includes is in the Hunter Valley, New South Wales.
high quality greeneld metallurgical coal All of the mines are in well established Global seaborne metallurgical resources close to existing infrastructure.
locations and have direct access to rail coal imports Total 249.5 Mt and port facilities at Dalrymple Bay and Gladstone in Queensland and Newcastle INDUSTRY OVERVIEW in New South Wales.
Metallurgical coal, composed of coking Moranbah North is an underground longwall coal and PCI coal, is a key raw material for mining operation with a mining lease covering blast furnace steel production.
Coal is mined from the Goonyella furnace-produced hot metal represents Middle Seam, approximately 200 metres approximately 70% of global crude steel 1 below the surface.
The mine produces production, making metallurgical coal an around 4.5 Mt attributable of high uidity, important raw material.
hard coking coal for steel manufacturing.
Global metallurgical coal supply of around Production in 2011, however, was 2.5Mt 1billion tonnes is mainly consumed in the attributable, primarily due to the effect that country of origin.
China is the biggest ooding had on the site early in the year.
consumer of metallurgical coal, consuming Methane-rich seam gas is supplied to a Japan 24% 2 approximately 700 Mt in 2010.
As a result Europe 17% power station at Moranbah North, thereby China 17% of its substantial domestic production, reducing the mines carbon dioxide India 13% however, China only relies on imported coal South Korea 12% equivalent CO e emissions by around 2 for approximately 8% of its total requirement.
Taiwan 4% In 2011, the international seaborne Other 3% Capcoal operates two underground mines metallurgical coal market comprised Turkey 2% and an open cut mine.
Together, they Source: GTIS, CRU, Wood Mackenzie and AME some 250 Mt, the major destinations being produced around 5.0 Mt attributable of Japan, China, India, South Korea, Brazil and hard coking coal, pulverised coal injection Taiwan, as well as many countries in Europe.
Capcoal Historically, Australia has supplied two-thirds also supplies methane-rich seam gas to of the seaborne metallurgical coal market: Energy Developments Limiteds power ood related constraints, however, limited the station, contributing to Queenslands power countrys global contribution to below 60% grid, while reducing the mines CO e in 2011.
The market has traditionally comprised Foxleigh is an open cut operation and predominantly long term annually priced produced 1.4 Mt attributable of high contracts.
A shift to shorter term pricing in quality PCI coal in 2011.
The mine is 2011, however, saw the majority of contracts engaged in an asset optimisation process priced on a quarterly basis, with a growing to increase production.
1 World Steel association, Steel Statistical Yearbook, July 2011.
2 CRU Metallurgical Coke Outlook November 2011.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 61 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW METALLURGICAL COAL 01 Anglo American Board visit to Moranbah North in October 2011: the mines highly automated control room.
02 Excavator loading coal on to a load haul truck in the open pit at Foxleigh mine.
STRATEGY AND GROWTH Emerging markets, particularly in the Asia-Pacic region, are likely to remain the driving force behind metallurgical coal demand, both in the short and long term.
In light of this, Metallurgical Coals strategy is to signicantly increase the value of the business by optimising existing operations and to develop new operations to supply mainly high margin export metallurgical coal.
Four specic programmes have been 01 developed to implement this strategy: A structured programme of asset optimisation is designed to deliver industry-best operational performance over the existing asset base.
An attractive and well developed organic growth pipeline aims to triple high value metallurgical coal production over the next decade.
Growth opportunities include several advanced projects at the feasibility or pre-feasibility stage, as well as a long pipeline of additional opportunities.
The high quality hard coking coal advanced opportunities include the Grosvenor Phase1 and Phase 2 and Moranbah South projects in Queensland and the Roman expansion project in British Columbia.
The export thermal advanced projects include Drayton South and Dartbrook in New South Wales.
Anglo American has also received 02 preferred respondent status of 30Mtpa Metallurgical coal growth dedicated port capacity at Abbot Point in Advanced stage projects only Queensland, with several other logistics Mt options secured, such as dedicated trains, to underpin its industry leading 50 growth plans.
We are exiting from low margin domestic Roman Peace River thermal coal production.
The operations at Drayton in New South Wales have been 40 upgraded and, since September 2011, all production has been converted to higher margin export products.
A process is under All hard way to divest the Callide mine.
Once Callide coking coal 30 has been disposed of, Metallurgical Coal will Grosvenor and Moranbah South be solely an export business.
In line with increasing demand from the steelmaking industry in both existing and 20 emerging markets, Metallurgical Coal is Asset optimisation realising increased value from developing superior specialised product offerings tailored to individual customers in the 10 steel sector.
Base Methane is highly concentrated at many of our metallurgical coal mines in Australia.
Our coal business in Australia has invested more 0 than $120 million over the last five years to 2010 2015 2020 abate 8 Mt of emissions using available commercial scale technologies.
All gures on Anglo American equity basis.
62 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review These include initiatives such as the resulted in a strong metallurgical coal market Projects Moranbah North and Capcoal power for most of 2011.
Record quarterly prices In December 2011, the development of stations.
By capturing methane, which would were settled across all metallurgical coal the $1.7 billion, 5 Mtpa Grosvenor Phase 1 otherwise be vented, these power stations categories in the April to June 2011 quarter, metallurgical coal project was approved.
prevent 2.1 Mt of CO e emissions from resulting in overall 2011 average prices being This represents the first phase of our 2 entering the atmosphere each year and well above historical levels.
investment programme in Australia to grow generate 75 MW of electricity equivalent our high margin, hard coking coal production.
Anglo American led the industrys to taking about 580,000 cars off the road.
Grosvenors first development coal will be metallurgical coal quarterly price settlements produced in 2013, with full commercial Furthermore, Metallurgical Coal is a in three consecutive quarters during 2011, production expected in 2016.
Advanced cornerstone investor in Australia-based providing a well-supported market reference stage project studies continue at Moranbah MBD Energy, which is expected to for premium hard coking coals and PCI South, Dartbrook and Drayton South in commence trials of its leading-edge carbon coals.
The majority of Anglo Americans Australia, and also at Roman in Canada to capture and conversion technology, using metallurgical coal sales were placed against achieve our objective of tripling hard coking algal synthesisers, at three of Australias term contracts with quarterly negotiated coal production by 2020 to meet expected biggest greenhouse gas-emitting, coal red price settlements.
growth in demand for both metallurgical and power plants.
Negotiations continue on the proposed divestment of the Callide mine as Attributable production 000 2011 2010 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW part of Metallurgical Coals strategy to exit the Export metallurgical coal 14,190 15,570 low margin domestic thermal coal business.
Metallurgical Coals operating profit Thermal coal 13,426 14,461 Callide primarily supplies domestic power increased by 52% to a record $1,189 million.
stations in Queensland, producing 8.0 Mt Higher realised export selling prices and a Production declined following Queenslands of thermal coal in 2011, with expansion strong production recovery in the second half record rainfall, with oods affecting both potential from its resource base of more of the year more than offset the impact of rain the open cut and underground operations.
on production and a strong Australian dollar.
As a consequence, sales of high quality Production at the Queensland operations Outlook metallurgical coal decreased by 11% to was affected by heavy rainfall and Metallurgical Coal will be a 100% exporter, 14.0 Mt for the year.
However, successful subsequent ooding in late 2010 and in with a focus on high margin hard coking coal mitigation actions taken early in the year to the first quarter of 2011, which resulted in growth, following the planned divestment of recover lost volumes and ongoing asset force majeure declarations being in effect Callide.
Sustained productivity increases optimisation improvements led to record until June 2011.
Export metallurgical coal at both the underground and open cut run-of-mine production at the open cut production decreased by 9% compared operations, together with the industry leading operations.
For the second half of the year, to the prior year, primarily as a result of the expansion plans already announced, will all metallurgical coal open cut operations set impact of these adverse weather conditions, position Anglo American as a leading new production records, demonstrating the although the business made a strong producer of premium products in a highly strong effort to recover from the ooding recovery in the second half of the year, attractive market.
A mitigation programme aimed at particularly at the open cut operations.
Unit reducing the impact of rain at the open cut In the short term, continuing global economic costs increased as a result of lower operations has been completed, which will uncertainty is expected to challenge the production, the additional costs associated signicantly reduce the impact of such events recovery of the steel market during 2012. with ood recovery initiatives, and the strong in the future.
Measures to control ination in emerging Australian dollar.
economies such as China and India have At the underground operations, productivity Markets restrained economic growth.
In addition, improvement was a major focus during the Anglo American weighted an uncertain policy response to tackle the year, with the implementation of a structured average achieved FOB price European sovereign debt crisis has also $ tonne 2011 2010 internal programme to raise the longwall weakened economic activity.
Despite the Export metallurgical coal 251 177 operations productivity to benchmark levels.
short term macro-economic uncertainty, The programme also involved partnership Export thermal coal 101 87 the medium to long term prospects for agreements with equipment suppliers to Domestic metallurgical coal demand remain robust as thermal coal 34 33 establish best-in-class practices.
New weekly China and India continue to grow strongly.
production records have since been set at Attributable sales volumes both longwall underground operations.
In the absence of weather related disruptions, 000 tonnes 2011 2010 Scheduled longwall moves in the second half Australian supply is expected to continue to Export metallurgical coal 13,983 15,729 of the year reduced production below prior recover to pre-ooding levels.
However, Export thermal coal 6,274 6,384 year levels, however, a partial drift failure at persistent industrial disruptions may impact Domestic Moranbah delayed the restart of the longwall the full recovery of supply in Australia.
thermal coal 7,455 8,342 following its move.
Despite short term macro-economic Optimisation of the entire coal supply uncertainties and monetary tightening chain through streamlined logistics measures in China impacting steel management and new product offerings production in the second half of the year, to customers through blending, continue metallurgical coal supply shortages due to deliver significant benets and value to to wet weather and industrial disruptions our customers.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 63
