GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT REMUNERATION REPORT REVIEW INDEPENDENT REMUNERATION REPORT REVIEW This letter contains the findings and FINDINGS CONCLUSIONS conclusions from our review of the The Committee comprises entirely of On the basis of the document review processes followed by Anglo Americans independent non-executive directors.
It referred to above and the interviews Remuneration Committee the Committee met formally on three occasions in 2011. with the Chairman and Secretary of the during 2011.
The review was undertaken at Committee, we are comfortable that the your request as Chairman of the Committee We reviewed the minutes of each meeting Committee has discharged its duties in line in order to provide shareholders with along with any supporting papers or with the Policy of Executive Remuneration assurance that the processes followed by documentation that was tabled.
We found stated in Anglo Americans Annual Report.
the Committee supported the policy stated that the decisions taken by the Committee in Anglo Americans Remuneration Report.
were in line with Anglo Americans stated remuneration policy namely that levels of It is our view that the processes followed by Yours sincerely reward, whilst competitive, require the Committee during 2011 fully supported demanding performance conditions to be Mark Hoble the Companys remuneration policy.
Please met which are consistent with shareholder Partner nd below a description of the process that interests.
We are satisfied that the Mercer Limited we followed in coming to our conclusion, Committee closely adheres to the stated Tower Place along with our detailed observations and policy of setting base pay levels at the median London EC3R 5BU recommendations.
of comparable companies, that at least 50% 1 February 2012 of remuneration for the executive directors REVIEW PROCESS is performance related and that variable pay is consistent with business performance, In order to reach our view we undertook market conditions and retention of talent.
the following: We note that the Committee received a A review of the Committees terms report from an outside consultant which of reference veried this market position.
A review of the minutes of the Committee We are satisfied that the Committee covering the period from January to challenges the proposals put forward December 2011 by executive management and adopts a rigorous and robust approach to A review of any brieng materials prepared decision making.
for the Committee during the year We are also satisfied that the Committee An interview with Chris Corrin in his seeks the advice of external consultants on capacity as Secretary to the Committee technical issues where appropriate and gives An interview with the Chairman of the careful consideration to the information and Committee recommendations that it receives, before reaching an informed decision.
Furthermore we note that the Committee undertook shareholder consultation during the year in relation to changes to the Long Term Incentive Plan.
116 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011
