Overview The main outperformer among the COMMODITY commodities produced by Anglo American was coking coal, particularly in the first MARKETS half of the year, as producers continued to recover from the ooding and industrial DEVELOPMENTS DURING 2011 disruptions in Queensland.
While prices An attractive pricing environment prevailed for coking coal declined in the second half of the year, at the end of 2011 they were for much of the year, underpinned by strong broadly in line with the prices achieved in supply and demand fundamentals.
In 2011, average prices for Anglo Americans main December 2010. commodities were on average 5% to 39% Thermal coal also demonstrated relatively higher than in 2010. resilient pricing, drifting by only 4% in the second half of the year.
All other commodities A YEAR OF TWO HALVES produced by Anglo American fell by 13% to 23% in the second half of the year.
Commodity prices were particularly strong during the first half of 2011, despite disrupted The December 2011 average price of copper, coking coal, thermal coal and iron ore all trade ows caused by the Japanese remained well above analyst consensus earthquake tsunami and the uncertainty created over the European sovereign forecasts of long term through the cycle prices, with only nickel and PGM prices at debt crises.
or below long term outlooks.
Pricing in the first half was well supported While analysts adjusted their near term price by Chinas demand growth, which remained resilient notwithstanding a general tightening forecasts as 2011 progressed, their long term price expectations have been increasing, in of monetary policy to control ination.
Together with steepening cost curves and particular for thermal coal, copper, steel and iron ore. One of the driving forces behind the widespread supply disruptions, this provided upgrades to long term prices has been the a level of support for pricing, with new record levels set in metallurgical coal, copper and recognition of the challenges in delivering new supply and an anticipated increase in iron ore. the capital and operating costs.
An attractive pricing environment prevailed for much of the year, Indexed 2011 commodity prices underpinned by strong supply and demand fundamentals.
160 150 Measures to tighten monetary policy and control ination in emerging economies 140 such as China and India started to have 130 the intended effect and the rate of growth decelerated in the second half of the year.
120 In addition, a lack of coordinated policy response to tackle the European sovereign 110 debt crises impacted investor sentiment 100 and credit availability.
As industrial activities slowed and commodities consumers 90 destocked across the inventory chain, demand for commodities was negatively 80 impacted.
On the other hand, supply 70 continued to recover from various disruptions earlier in the year.
As a result, individual 60 commodity prices responded, trending lower towards the end of the year.
Oct 11 Dec 11 Dec 10 Feb 11 Apr 11 Jun 11 Aug11 Iron Ore Metallurgical Coal Thermal Coal Copper Nickel Platinum Source: Anglo American Commodity Research Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 07 Price Index, December 2010 100 OVERVIEW MARKETPLACE A UNIQUE AND DIVERSE PORTFOLIO While Chinese intensity of use per GDP MATURING for commodities such as copper and steel may have peaked in recent years, we EMERGING MARKETS expect sustained growth for PGMs and, particularly, diamonds.
LONGER TERM TRENDS IN Of course, China is not the last country COMMODITY DEMAND expected to experience this cycle of Although the short term macro-economic commodity demand: India and other outlook appears uncertain, the medium to rapidly growing emerging economies long term prospect for global commodity such as Indonesia, the Philippines and demand remains robust as China continues Turkey are expected to be significant to urbanise and industrialise.
China is consumers of commodities.
Just as China an important market for most of the lled in the gap left by slowing demand commodities produced by Anglo American.
growth in the developed world, these Nevertheless, as China shifts from an countries will generate increasing rates investment intensive to consumption driven of commodity demand growth as they economy, the growth rate in demand for steel progress economically.
materials is expected to moderate to a more sustainable level.
SUPPLY CONSTRAINTS AND This shift, however, is expected to drive INCREASED CAPITAL INTENSITY a stronger demand growth rate for While demand is clearly one key driver of commodities such as diamonds and PGMs.
prices, supply side factors also play a crucial These products have completed less than half of their build-up to expected long term role in commodity price performance.
Mine-specic costs, both capital and demand per capita in China, implying that significant growth potential exists.
operating, have been rising markedly since around 2004 and are expected to continue Both commodities are experiencing similar to provide upward pressure on prices across growth patterns in intensity of use, which the mining industry over the medium term.
reect comparable rates of growth in intensity of use per gross domestic product Commodities such as diamonds GDP in rapidly industrialising countries and PGMs have completed less than such as China.
Typically, intensity of use half of their build-up to expected reaches a peak quite quickly, to be followed long term demand per capita in by a declining growth rate though overall China, implying that significant consumption continues to rise.
For example, the availability of more readily mined copper deposits has declined over Indexed intensity of use China the last decade, while falling average grades, 2011e increasing infrastructure requirements, 1.1 growing technical complexity and more 1.0 frequent use of underground mining have resulted in cost escalation signicantly above 0.9 general ination.
Such structural challenges have been exacerbated by industrial action, 0.8 shortages of equipment and skilled labour, higher mining taxes and royalties, a weaker 0.7 US dollar and increasingly onerous 0.6 environmental and social legislation.
This is not a commodity-specic 0.5 phenomenon: similar cost ination is being 0.4 experienced across the mining industry and, as a result, both capital and operating 0.3 cost escalation have had an impact on the rate of introduction of new capacity across 0.2 most commodities.
12 14 16 18 20 22 2 4 6 8 10 US$ PPP GDP per capita Steel Copper Autocatalyst PGMs Diamonds Source: Anglo American Commodity Research 08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Demand per GDP Overview These materials are typically used in 2011 portfolio composition OUR STRATEGY investment and infrastructure development of major diversied mining 5 in earlier stages of economic development.
companies IN ACTION Anglo American Base metals copper, nickel and niobium.
OUR AMBITION, STRATEGY AND These commodities are typically used UNIQUE PORTFOLIO more during the consumptive stages of BHP Billiton economic growth, which correlate to the Anglo American aims to be the leading middle stages of economic development.
global mining company the investment, the partner and the employer of choice Precious metals and minerals platinum Rio Tinto through the operational excellence of and diamonds, in both of which we are world class assets in the most attractive a global leader.
commodities, and a resolute commitment These businesses are typically later cycle, to the highest standards of safe and Vale sustainable mining.
We believe attractive with peak demand coming from richer, more developed areas.
commodities to be those that generate superior returns through the economic Anglo Americans current portfolio is uniquely Xstrata cycle, based on favourable supply-demand diversied, with material exposure to fundamentals.
We consider world class metallurgical coal and iron ore, which both assets to be those that are low cost, large, benefit from continued industrialisation in long life and with clear expansion potential.
emerging economies, while also having 0% 50% 100% exposure to later cycle businesses through 1 Investment Anglo Americans current portfolio 2 platinum and ultimately, diamonds, as GDP Consumption 3 is uniquely diversied, with material Late cycle per capita increases.
4 Other exposure to metallurgical coal and iron ore, which both benefit from Source: Company information CASH FLOW ALLOCATION continued industrialisation in 1 Includes iron ore, metallurgical coal, manganese.
emerging economies, while also 2 Includes aluminium, copper, nickel, zinc.
In a long cycle industry such as mining, 3 Includes thermal coal, petroleum, platinum, having exposure to later cycle the inevitable investment decisions, diamonds.
businesses through platinum and 4 capital allocation and balance sheet Includes Other Mining & Industrial ultimately, diamonds.
Anglo American, Other Rio Tinto, management require sound judgement Other Xstrata.
5 to build a sustainable and value Based on 2011 EBITDA contribution In order to achieve this, we own, operate 2010 operating profit in the case of Vale.
Anglo American is based on pro-forma and grow, through discovery and acquisition, full consolidation of fide Beers 2011 EBITDA.
The Board of Anglo American has a mining assets in those commodities and balanced and disciplined approach businesses that we believe deliver the best to capital management, focusing on: returns through the economic cycle and over the long term.
We aim to focus on businesses Delivering value accretive growth in which we have advantaged positions, through our attractive projects pipeline i. e. large scale assets with long lives, low cost and opportunistic M&A to supplement proles and with clear expansion potential.
Anglo American has a unique and diversied A clear dividend policy, providing a portfolio.
Its mix spans: base dividend that will be maintained or increased through the cycle.
Bulk commodities iron ore, metallurgical coal, thermal coal and manganese ore.
Maintaining a robust balance sheet through the cycle.
Returning surplus cash to shareholders.
Anglo Americans unique and diversied portfolio has material exposure to early-, midand latestages of industrialisation Early stages of industrialisation Later stages of industrialisation Iron Ore Copper Nickel Thermal Coal PGMs Metallurgical Manganese Niobium Phosphates Diamonds Coal Lower GDP capita Higher GDP capita Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 09
