OVERVIEW MARKETPLACE AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE TIMES IN WHICH WE LIVE Real GDP relative to US THE MACRO!ECONOMIC OUTLOOK THE ECONOMY at purchasing power parity, as percentage of US By the end of 2011, most of the worlds Japan leading economies had reported a material FALTERING ECONOMIC RECOVERY weakening.
China, India and Brazil reported Early in 2011, the world economy appeared slower GDP growth rates and falling ination.
Germany This opened up the scope for looser policy.
Most regions were enjoying robust economic growth after the Brazil and China have already moved to loosen policy settings and this should help dislocation of the global financial crisis and France a severe recession.
The large emerging to cushion their economies in 2012.
Lower economies notably China, India and Brazil ination should enable the RBI to loosen monetary policy, which should also support were leading the upswing, but there were UK also more encouraging trends in the major Indias economy.
In 2012, real GDP growth should be lower than in 2011, but the major advanced economies.
During the year, all of the worlds major economies faltered, emerging economies should avoid a Brazil sharp downturn.
contributing to a marked global slowdown.
In the longer term, we expect China First, there were some significant shocks further significant growth in during the year.
Political uncertainty in North the main emerging economies Africa and the Middle East pushed up oil as they catch up with the India prices, which depressed activity in the major advanced economies.
Additionally, Japans earthquake tsunami and consequent nuclear Surprisingly, the US economy strengthened power emergency led to a severe fall in late in 2011 as the effects of higher oil prices 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 domestic production and severely disrupted 2000 and the disruption from Japans natural global supply chains, notably in the auto 2010 disaster began to fade.
While there are still 2020 industry.
The recovery has been slow.
some concerns around the economys Source: IMF and Oxford Economics Second, policy settings in the emerging underlying growth rate, further policy economies became much more restrictive stimulus should support a continuing in the first half of 2011, contributing to the recovery in 2012.
Manufacturing activity slowdown in the second half.
In particular, Europe remains the principal source of purchasing managers index central banks tightened monetary policy concern.
There are growing worries that the 50 no change aggressively as they sought to restrain crisis has now become so complex there is inationary pressure.
The Brazilian central 65 no practicable solution.
It is possible this bank was particularly aggressive and its could lead to a further intensication of the monetary tightening led to a pronounced crisis in 2012 and a deep recession.
The Reserve likely, policymakers seem to have done Bank of India RBI and the Peoples Bank enough to contain the crisis.
Governments of China PBOC also tightened policy have emphasised their commitment to 55 appreciably, with the macro-economic stabilising the euro and the European Central effects becoming clearer during 2011.
Bank ECB has become more involved in Third, Europes financial crisis intensied 50 providing liquidity.
This should be enough to during 2011.
Critically, the crisis spread remove the extreme downside risks to the from small peripheral economies to larger economy and the financial system.
45 economies at the core of the euro zone.
In the longer term, we expect further During the year, financial markets began significant growth in the main emerging to question the government solvency of economies as they catch up with the 40 Spain and Italy.
With real GDP per became much more nervous about the capita still well below levels in the US, there is implications of strained government nances considerable scope for the convergence of 35 on the European banking system.
In spite of a living standards through technology transfer series of policy initiatives, markets remained and productivity gains.
Over the next decade, sceptical that policymakers would resolve the 30 this should mean all of the major emerging crisis.
Increasing market volatility and rising economies grow rapidly.
risk premiums contributed to a European 2005 2012 China economic slowdown.
US Euro area Source: ISM, NBS and Markit 06 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011
