Operating and financial review 01 A Tarmac National Contracting team during a major night time road resurfacing operation in the UK.
02 Catalos niobium plant in Gois state, Brazil.
The existing plant is being adapted to process new rock instead of oxidised ore, which will raise annual niobium production capacity from 3,800 tonnes to 6,500 tonnes.
SCAW METALS Scaw Metals generated an operating profit of $40 million, a 76% decrease compared with 2010, largely as a result of the sale of Moly-Cop and AltaSteel that was concluded in December 2010.
On a directly comparable basis, however, taking into consideration the impact of the sale of Moly-Cop and AltaSteel in 2010, Scaw Metals operating profit showed a reduction of $23 million.
Scaw Metals directly comparable EBITDA performance was 24% lower.
A strong performance was recorded by Grinding Media in spite of margin pressure owing to the strong rand.
At Wire Rod Products, performance improved on the back of strong demand for offshore and mining products and improved business efficiencies.
At Rolled Products, performance was affected by weak demand from the construction sector and selling prices not fully recovering rising input costs, resulting in reduced margins.
At Cast Products, a number of foundries suffered from a lack of demand for larger castings in the year, as well as a strong rand, signicantly impacting the business results.
The situation improved towards the end of 01 the year as the demand for railway, power generation and general engineering components saw the securing of important orders for the forthcoming year.
A strong focus by management on costsaving initiatives in all operations and sales to downstream businesses has mitigated the effects of weak margins.
In addition, the closure of lossmaking operations and a focus on pursuing new markets with higher margins has enabled Scaw Metals to lessen the impact of weak economic conditions.
Total production of steel products at Scaw South Africa was 677,400 tonnes, a decrease of 5% over the prior year.
02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 87 GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION GOOD GOVERNANCE: LEADERSHIP AND OPENNESS Good governance is not merely following a set of rules, but ensuring that the highest standards of behaviour begin at board level and ow throughout the organisation.
During the year, Nicky Oppenheimer CHAIRMANS retired from the Board and in April, we welcomed Phuthuma Nhleko as a INTRODUCTION non executive director NED who has an The UK Corporate Governance Code the excellent international business track record.
Code states that the purpose of corporate These changes continue our comprehensive governance is to, facilitate effective, refreshment programme.
Sir John Parker entrepreneurial and prudent management In 2011, we intensied our Business Integrity that can deliver the long term success of the company.
For us, this means not merely training, that commenced in 2009, to ensure that our workforce is fully equipped to following a set of rules, but ensuring that the IN THIS SECTION highest standards of behaviour begin at manage potential scenarios relating to bribery and corruption more detail about 88 Chairmans board level and ow throughout the this is included on page 102. introduction organisation.
Good governance takes different forms: whether it be adopting New to this section on pages 98 to 100 88 Board effectiveness best practices early such as the annual as part of our commitment to disclosure 90 The Board re-election of all directors in 2011, or and openness, are detailed reports on committing to building a diverse board.
items discussed by our Committees during 92 Executive Management Two key developments in the corporate the year.
93 Role and composition governance eld during 2011 were the We are pleased to confirm that we complied of the Board publication of the report from Lord Davies with the Code for the period under review.
93 Excellence in the on the representation of women in the For more information on this, please see the board room boardroom and the implementation of the checklist on our website.
guidance on adequate procedures under 95 Board in action For more information visit the Bribery Act.
com 96 Investor We believe that diversity in the boardroom, communication in terms of background, skills and experience, BOARD EFFECTIVENESS encourages independent and challenging 98 Board Committees debate and leads to better decision As chairman, I manage the Board and 101 Audit Committee report making.
Iwas privileged to have served on oversee the operation of its Committees.
102 Effectiveness of Lord Davies steering group and therefore Myaim is to ensure that they should internal control and risk welcomed his Women on Boards report, operate effectively via directors with the management published in February 2011, which states that relevant range of skill sets and experience evidence suggests that companies with a to ensure they are t for purpose.
In this strong female representation at board and report I will explain how we cultivate a top management level perform better than talented and diverse board whose those without and that gender diverse boards performance is regularly reviewed and have a positive impact on performance.
our 2010 annual report, we already An external evaluation of the Board by a announced our intention to increase the facilitator with no prior relationship with the representation of women on the Board from Anglo American Group, commenced towards 20% to about 30% excluding the chairman the end of 2011.
This involved interviews with by 2013.
The Group is also committed to the Board members on an individual basis increasing the pipeline of diverse talent within and attendance at a Board meeting by the the organisation and specifically increasing external facilitator.
The results of this review gender diversity overall and within the are being analysed as this report is nalised management population.
At a Group and and therefore an update on the results of this business unit level we have established externally facilitated assessment will be internal targets through to 2014, progress disclosed in next years report.
against which is tracked regularly, with Group assisting the spread of best practice in this area.
88 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance Achievements against 2010 board effectiveness action plan Action plan resulting from 2010 board effectiveness review Action plan update 2011 Relationship between Increase contact between directors and management The ow of management information to the Board Board and management during intervals between board meetings was enhanced and the frequency of dissemination of this was improved Introduce more free owing informal discussions Structured board dinners took place during the year outside board meetings the pre-board meeting where matters such as strategy and the HR talent dinners will be more structured whilst retaining an review were discussed informal style Improving Board meeting Enhance the information ow to NEDs between Items disseminated such as economics reports effectiveness board meetings to allow for a more focused board agenda Introduction of iPads to ensure timely provision Successful implementation with a high percentage of board materials choosing electronic over paper copies Management to consider the optimum level of detail Ongoing items such as company risks, operational in presentations to the Board safety and performance will be provided in such detail as is appropriate Committees S&SD Committee outside stakeholders to be Implemented during the year for more information invited to address some committee meetings see page 98 relating to the S&SD Committee Nomination Committee talent strategy Detailed talent strategy presented to NEDs in February Remuneration Committee the Committee will allot More time allocated accordingly more time for members only discussions Key focus points Political and regulatory uncertainty: business Please see detailed report on page 102 highlighted by NEDs integrity processes Bribery Act 2010 Safety and the environment Board papers were amended to show more detail on these issues Strategy Two day strategy meeting held in June Project execution Detailed quarterly project dashboards reviewed by the Board Talent development and management succession Presentations from the chief executive in February and June see detail on succession on page 99 Performance of NEDs Site visits The number of visits was increased in 2011 including a special visit to Moranbah in Australia see page 95 Induction of board A half day exploration seminar took place in February and a full day mining seminar took place at the July board meeting The achievements against the action plan In relation to NEDs involvement in As I said last year, corporate governance owing from the 2010 board effectiveness developing the strategy of the Company, is a much abused term to us, it is much review are detailed in the table above.
As we held a two day strategy meeting in more than simply following a set of chairman I interviewed each director to June 2011, in which the entire Board and guidelines.
My aim in this report is to illustrate review those issues raised during the board senior management participated.
Six key our commitment to creating value with the evaluation process and on any other issue focus areas were agreed upon.
The right people making the right decisions within of concern to them as individual directors.
proposed increase in the Companys share a board and committee environment that This process also provides an opportunity in the DeBeers Group is but one example promotes challenge and debate.
to review the personal performance of a of the agreed strategic priorities that are director on a one-to-one basis.
Sir John Parker that Iam happy to confirm that each board Chairman members performance is effective and they each continue to demonstrate full commitment to the role.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 89 GOVERNANCE THE BOARD CHAIRMAN Sir John Parker THE BOARD FREng DSc Eng, ScD Hon, DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA 69, joined the Board as a non executive director on 9 July 2009 and became chairman of Anglo American plc on 1 August 2009.
Sir John is also chairman of the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Safety and Sustainable Development S&SD Committee.
Sir John is recognised as a highly experienced and independent chairman, has chaired five FTSE 100 companies and brings a broad range of leadership experience across a variety of industries in many countries.
He is a non executive director of Carnival Corporation, EADS and deputy chairman of Sir John Parker Cynthia Carroll Ren Mdori DP World.
Sir John is President of the Royal Academy of Engineering, and a Visiting Fellow of the University of Oxford.
Sir John recently stepped down as chairman of National Grid plc and as chancellor of the University of Southampton.
He was previously senior non executive director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England and joint chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE Cynthia Carroll David Challen Sir CK Chow Sir Philip Hampton BSc, MSc, MBA 55, was appointed chief executive on 1 March 2007, having joined the Board on 15 January 2007.
Cynthia Carroll chairs the Group Management Committee GMC and the Executive Committee ExCo and sits on the S&SD Committee.
She is a non executive director of BP plc and fide Beers and chairs Anglo American Platinum.
Key achievements: comprehensive internal reorganisation, new asset optimisation and supply chain initiatives, while sustaining the Ray ORourke Mamphela Ramphele Peter Woicke project pipeline during the downturn, and laying the foundation for a record financial performance in 2011 In accordance with changed the composition of the the UK Corporate projects team and introduced greater Governance Code, Anglo American will systematisation into the project evaluation continue to propose process.
In 2011, three major projects the re-election of all were successfully delivered on, or ahead its directors on an of schedule annual basis.
continues to drive our sustainable development agenda, including leading our corporate participation at the 2011 Phuthuma Nhleko Jack Thompson COP17 Summit.
Cynthia Carroll is the former president and CEO of Alcans Primary Metals Group and a former director of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd and Sara Lee Corporation.
90 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance FINANCE DIRECTOR Sir CK recently retired as chief executive Mamphela Ramphele PhD, BComm, MB Ch B officer of the MTR Corporation in Hong Kong, Ren Mdori a position he held between 2003 and 2011.
Doctorate in Economics 64, joined the Board on 25 April 2006.
She He was formerly chief executive of Brambles is a member of the Nomination and S&SD 54, was appointed to the Board on 1June Industries, GKN PLC and non executive Committees.
Mamphela Ramphele is the 2005, becoming finance director on chairman of Standard Chartered Bank founder of Letsema Circle, a specialist 1September 2005.
RenMdori is a member Hong Kong Limited.
Prior to joining GKN transformation advisory company and the of GMC and ExCo and chairman of the PLC he worked for The BOC Group plc for chair of Gold Fields Limited and the Investment Committee.
He is a non executive 20 years, joining its board in1993.
Technology & Innovation Agency of South director of SSE plc formerly Scottish and Africa.
She is a non executive director of Southern Energy plc until 25 June 2012, Sir Philip Hampton Mediclinic and Remgro, a trustee of the MA, ACA, MBA fide Beers and Anglo American Platinum.
Nelson Mandela Foundation, and an adviser Ren Mdori recently joined the board of 58, joined the Board on 9 November to the Veolia Institute.
She is the chair of Petrofac Limited as a non executive director.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Eduloan.
Her experience in international Key achievements: Committee and a member of the Audit financial institutions and of South African has maintained a robust balance sheet, Committee.
Sir Philip is chairman of social issues is of great value to the Company.
which is well positioned for market volatility The Royal Bank of Scotland and brings Mamphela Ramphele was formerly co-chair to Anglo American significant financial, led the negotiations with Lafarge on the of the Global Commission on International strategic and boardroom experience across combination of the cement, aggregate, Migration, a World Bank managing director a number of industries.
ready mixed concrete, asphalt and and vice chancellor at the University of contracting businesses in the UK of His previous appointments include chairman Cape Town.
She was also the chair of Circle Lafarge and Tarmac of J Sainsbury plc, finance director of Lloyds Capital Ventures, a Black Economic TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, Empowerment Company.
ensured funding of fide Beers deal without British Gas plc, British Steel plc, an executive recourse to acquisition nancing.
director of Lazards and a non executive Jack Thompson BSc, PhD He is a former finance director of The BOC director of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
61, joined the Board on 16November Ray ORourke 2009 and is a member of the Remuneration HONFREng, CEng, FICE, FIEI and S&SD Committees.
He is currently a SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR 65, joined the Board on 11December 2009. non executive director of Molycorp Inc.
He is a member of the Audit and S&SD and Tidewater Inc. Jack Thompson brings David Challen MA, MBA Committees.
Ray ORourke has a proven experience gained at all levels of the mining track record in delivering complex and large industry and has received wide recognition 68, joined the Board on 9 September 2002 scale projects around the world, mobilising as a mining executive.
He also has extensive and was appointed as the senior independent large numbers of people with great success boardroom experience in both executive non executive director in April 2008.
He is and applying leading project management and non executive roles.
chairman of the Audit Committee and a practices.
As a member of the S&SD member of the Nomination and Jack Thompson was previously chairman Committee, he has a keen interest in safety.
David Challen and CEO of Homestake Mining Co. vice is currently chairman of the EMEA He founded the ORourke Group in 1977, chairman of Barrick Gold Corp. and has governance committee at Citigroup and having begun his career at Kier and JMurphy served on the boards of Centerra Gold Inc. senior non executive director of Smiths Group & Sons.
In 2001, the ORourke Group acquired Century Aluminum Co. Phelps Dodge Corp. John Laing, to form Laing ORourke, now plc.
He is currently a deputy chairman of the Rinker Group Ltd and Stillwater Mining.
David Challen continues Europes largest privately owned construction to demonstrate his independence by company, of which RayORourke is chairman Peter Woicke MBA challenging and questioning management.
69, joined the Board on 1 January 2006, Previously he was chairman of J. Henry Phuthuma Nhleko chairs the S&SD Committee and is a member Schroder & Co. Limited, where he spent most BSc, MBA of the Nomination and Remuneration of his professional career.
51, joined the Board on 9 March 2011 and is Committees.
a member of the Audit Committee.
Phuthuma He is currently chair of the trustees of the Nhleko is a non executive director of BP plc NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Ashesi University Foundation and a member and an executive director of Pembani Group of the boards of Saudi Aramco, the Institute Sir CK Chow Pty Limited.
Phuthuma Nhlekos extensive DEng Hon, CEng, FREng, HonFHKIE, FIChemE for Human Rights and Business and the international business experience has lent Chesapeake Bay Foundation.
61, was appointed to the Board on 15April further strength to our Board.
2008 and is a member of the Nomination From 1999 to 2005, Peter Woicke was In his former position as President and CEO of and Remuneration Committees.
He is Executive Vice President of the International MTN, Phuthuma Nhleko showed impressive currently a non executive director of AIA Finance Corporation IFC and under his leadership and vision in transforming MTN Group Company Limited.
Sir CK was knighted leadership, the IFC expanded the provision from a highly successful South African mobile in 2000 for his services to industry.
of environmental and social know how to its operator into a considerable force in mobile clients through its Sustainability Initiative.
telecommunications services in emerging Prior to joining the IFC, Peter Woicke held markets.
He previously served as a director on numerous positions over nearly 30 years a number of boards in South Africa, including with J. P. Morgan and he was also a managing Nedbank Group, Alexander Forbes, Bidvest director of the World Bank.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 91 GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Company has two principal executive Peter Whitcutt John MacKenzie committees.
The Group Management BCom Hons, CA SA, MBA MSc Eng, MBL Committee GMC which meets 46, is Group director of strategy and 43, is CEO of Copper.
He joined the fortnightly is responsible for formulating business development.
He joined Anglo American Gold and Uranium strategy for discussion and approval by Anglo American in 1990 within the Division in 1990 and was promoted the Board, monitoring performance and corporate finance division.
He worked on the to vice president of Anglo Coal, South American managing the Groups portfolio.
The merger of Minorco, the listing of Anglo American Operations in 1999.
In 2004, he became general Executive Committee ExCo which meets in 1999 and the subsequent unwinding of the manager of the Minera Loma fide Nquel operation at least every two months for a two day cross holding with fide Beers.
He was appointed in Venezuela.
John MacKenzie was appointed CEO session is responsible for developing and group head of finance in 2003, CFO of Base Metals of Base Metals Zinc operations in 2006, becoming implementing Group wide policies and in August 2008 and to his present position in CEO of Copper in 2009. programmes and for the adoption of best October 2009.
Norman Mbazima practice standards across the Group.
FCCA, FZICA EXCO MEMBERS 53, is CEO of Thermal Coal.
He joined Paulo Castellari-Porchia the Anglo American Group in 2001 GMC AND EXCO MEMBERS BCom, MBA at Konkola Copper Mines PLC.
He 41, is CEO of Iron Ore Brazil.
He was was global CFO for Anglo Coal and became Cynthia Carroll previously CEO of Anglo Americans executive director of finance at Anglo American See page 90 for biographical details.
Phosphates and Niobium businesses Platinum in June 2006, and later stepped in as joint in Brazil and served in Anglo Americans former acting CEO.
He was appointed CEO of Scaw Metals Base Metals division.
His 18 year career with the in 2008 and was appointed CEO of Thermal Coal in Group included positions at AngloGold Ashanti and October 2009.
Ren Mdori Minorco in a number of corporate finance and Neville Nicolau See page 91 for biographical details.
BT Mining Engineering, MBA Walter fide Simoni 52, is CEO of Platinum.
He joined the BSc Mining Eng Anglo American Group in January 56, is CEO of Nickel.
Walter fide Simoni 1979, subsequently working in the Brian Beamish joined the Anglo American Group in Gold and Uranium Division at different managerial BSc Mechanical Engineering 1978.
He was appointed president levels in all the major operating areas in South Africa.
55, is Group director of mining and of Anglo Base Metals Brazil in 2005.
He became In 2000-2001, he was the technical director of technology.
He was chief executive Anglo American Brazil CEO in 2006 and CEO of AngloGolds South American operations, based in of Base Metals between 2007 and Nickel in October 2009.
He became COO Africa of AngloGold 2009 and has more than 30 years of mining Ashanti in 2004 and was appointed CEO of Seamus French industry experience in various commodities and Anglo American Platinum in 2008.
He spent 20 years at Anglo American 49, is CEO of Metallurgical Coal and Duncan Wanblad Platinum, including four years as executive director joined the Group as regional CEO of BSc Eng Mech, GDE Eng Management of operations between 1996 and 1999.
He was 45, is Group director of Other Mining Mervyn Walker previously on the BHP Billiton Executive Committee and Industrial.
He began his career at MA as global vice president of business excellence Johannesburg Consolidated 52, is Group director of human from 2005.
He was resources and corporate affairs.
He appointed to the board of Anglo American Platinum Godfrey Gomwe is a solicitor by training and joined and various of its subsidiaries in 2004 becoming BAcc, CA Z, MBL Anglo American in 2008 from Mondi, where he was the executive director in charge of projects and 56, is executive director, group HR and legal director.
He was appointed joint acting CEO of Anglo American South Africa.
He is series of senior roles at British Airways, including Anglo American Platinum in 2007, before taking chairman of Anglo American Zimele, HR director, legal director, director of purchasing over as CEO copper operations of Anglo American Anglo Americans Transformation Committee and and director of UK airports.
He is also non executive in 2008.
He became Group director of Other Mining Tshikululu Social Investments.
He is a non executive chairman of pension schemes for AMEC plc.
and Industrial in October 2009. director of Anglo American Platinum, Kumba Iron David Weston Ore and Thebe Investment Corporation Pty Ltd. MBA, BSc Eng He was previously finance director and COO of 53, is Group director of business Anglo American South Africa and chairman and performance and projects.
He chief executive of Anglo American Zimbabwe.
spent 25 years with Shell and was Chris Grifth president of Shell Canada Products before joining B Eng Mining Hons, Pr Eng the Anglo American Group in 2006 as chief 46, is CEO of Kumba Iron Ore. executive of Industrial Minerals Tarmac.
He has been with Anglo American David Weston served as the Groups technical for almost two decades.
He was director between April and October 2009.
He is also Anglo American Platinums head of operations a non executive director of International Power plc for joint ventures before being appointed CEO and Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. of Kumba Iron Ore in 2008.
92 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011
