12 0VS NBSLFUQMBDF To give customers more of what they want we must understand the way they think and how they behave.
Our Customer Insight Unit CIU uses a combination of customer analytics and research feedback to spot trends and examine the issues that affect our customers and the decisions they make.
In June 2010 we established our Pressure on household budgets meant Consumer Barometer.
Our CIU now consumers remained selective in their conducts a monthly online survey of a spending determined to take control and changing sample of 4,000 people, prioritise the things that matter to them comprising non-M&S customers as well most.
In this climate consumers turned as those who shop with us.
We ask them a tothe brands they trust seeking the range of questions: from how they feel reassurance that they are making sound, about their lives to spending patterns and quality purchases.
We complement these Clothing findings with additional qualitative research from a smaller group, which This year the overall clothing market provides us with more detailed insights.
There was growth in the mid-market, but the top end This information helps ensure customers and value sectors suffered, as customers are at the heart of all our business sought out affordable quality, decisions and this section shares some of demonstrating they were prepared to what our CIU has told us this year.
They adopted a buy once, buy Market overview well attitude preferring to invest in quality Building the basics Good quality wardrobe staples performed well this year as customers invested in pieces they know will last.
2010 11 was another challenging year for products that last.
retailers and consumer confidence At the same time, restricted budgets remained fragile.
Following a sharp meant consumers wanted retailers to slowdown and then recovery during 2009, inspire them to spend on their wardrobe.
confidence levels have uctuated over the They searched for something new and last 12 months, as illustrated in the index exciting to update their look and make opposite.
Customers were prepared to build their wardrobe with great This fragility was driven by a prevailing quality staples, like knitwear and denims.
As we moved However, they wanted clothing with a point towards 2011, consumers became of difference: complementary to their increasingly cautious about the economic Killer heels that dont kill existing wardrobe but not multiple outlook as they considered the potential OurInsolia footwear technology versions of what they already owned.
implications of the new Governments helps you to dance the night away by spending cuts, VAT increases and rising Responding to this, we delivered unique reducing the pressure on your feet.
innovations and the latest styles.
High Ourlatest advertising campaign impact advertising campaigns and strong highlighted this M&S point of Our Consumer Barometer shows visual merchandising helped attract difference and sales of Insolia optimism is more buoyant, with customers, adding interest and excitement increased 186%.
consumers showing a determination to and conrming in their minds that M&S stay positive in the face of adversity.
offered great quality, exclusive products.
Though the Governments austerity measures were widely anticipated and, in the main viewed as necessary, consumers reacted differently according to age.
Mid age groups felt their budgets have been most squeezed, with families feeling there was little room left for manoeuvre.
Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 Financial statements Overview Strategy Performance & Marketplace Operating review Financial review Governance & other information 13 Consumer confidence index GfK 10 5 0 -5 -10 -15 -20 -25 -30 -35 -40 -45 Home Multi-channel The housing market remained slow for the The market expanded rapidly this year, third consecutive year.
Consumers chose with new transactional websites appearing to spruce up their homes rather than through media such as Facebook and move, updating looks using elements new players entering the online market.
such as cushions, bedding, towels and Customers no longer regard e-commerce smaller accessories.
Big ticket furniture as new technology: consequently their items were less sought after.
We expectations are high and they expect to responded with more innovation, more be able to access brands at any time of colour and more contemporary inuences, day from any location.
Shoppers are adding less expensive items to our ranges looking for an enhanced buying for quick and easy updates.
experience, not just a solution to a problem.
Food This year we used our website to engage The food market has been slow this year, new customers, showcase more product with the majority of growth coming and run unique promotions.
Supermarkets introduction of our mobile web and the engaged in heavy discounting to draw increased exibility of Shop Your Way customers from each other.
However, made our products even more accessible though price remained a consideration, to customers.
consumers were not enticed by the concept of cheap food.
Instead they Future trends wanted to feel as though they were Throughout the year customers told us Treat yourself This Valentines Day over 500,000 getting a good deal on quality food.
couples enjoyed a romantic night in with our gourmet that if they are going to spend they want Dine In menu.
After more than two years of austerity their money to be well spent on brands consumers wanted to treat themselves, that they trust.
We expect this to continue, Move not improve Customers turned to M&S for especially on important occasions like with customers seeking out meaningful on trend accessories to brighten their homes.
Food was purchases that make a difference to their seen as an affordable treat, with more lives.
indulgent products such as steaks and In an uncertain environment, shoppers are desserts proving popular.
looking for confident retailers who will At M&S we continued to differentiate deliver choice, quality, value and something ourselves from the supermarkets by extra special.
Our Only at Your M&S constantly offering innovation through messaging will reinforce our authority, introducing numerous new and updated showcase our innovations and differentiate lines.
We also used bigger promotions, us further from the competition.
such as our Roast Dinner for 5, to help our customers get more of the food they love at great value.
To nd out more visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2011 Directors report 04 Jun Sep Dec 05 Mar Jun Sep Dec 06 Mar Jun Sep Dec 07 Mar Jun Sep Dec 08 Mar Jun Sep Dec 09 Mar Jun Sep Dec 10 Mar Jun Sep Dec 11 Mar
