Chairmans statement The group has taken a major step in its development through the acquisition of Dunlop Aerospace.
Coupled with the improving civil aerospace market and the continuing strength of our defence business, further strong growth has been achieved.
Another record year Canada, which will grow the groups defence Since then, to comply with corporate Profits before tax, exceptional items and systems division.
An actuator product line governance best practice and ensure an goodwill were up 15 per centanother record was bought from Eaton Aerospace which appropriate balance between executive and year.
Excluding the 11.2 million adverse complements the existing business established non-executive directors, John Stobie and currency impact following the further recently by Meggitt Safety Systems.
The Dr Richard Greaves agreed to stand down weakening of the US dollar, underlying profits contribution from 2003s acquisitions has also from the Meggitt PLC board with effect from were up by a notable 29 per cent.
Since cash been strong: Meggitt Western Design, Meggitt 1st March, 2005.
John and Richard will generation was again impressive with an Airdynamics and Meggitt Defense Systems remain senior members of the management operating cash flow before exceptional Caswell have proved excellent companies.
board and continue to play key roles in the operating costs of 111.0 million, the board group in future.
Aerospace looks up is proposing an 8 per cent increase in the The outlook for 2005 looks very encouraging Outstanding employees final dividend to 4.8 pence.
The market for new large civil Our success is, of course, utterly dependent aircraft, as evidenced by Boeing and Airbus on the skills and application of our employees.
Largest acquisition delivery forecasts, will recover strongly in the Their support in a year of massive change The most important corporate event of the next two years.
Civil aircraft traffic continues and development has been outstanding year was the acquisition of Dunlop Aerospace.
to increase which benefits our spares and and essential to our growth and excellent This was Meggitts largest ever acquisition, repairs activity.
The outlook for military shareholder returns.
I must conclude by increasing our presence in the aerospace expenditure, particularly in the USA, remains extending my thanks and congratulations market significantly.
This provides a solid base for further to them all.
rights issue and the subsequent strong growth improvement in the groups business.
in the share price, the group is capitalised at over 1 billion.
Board changes Meggitt also bought Wilcoxon Research, a At the annual general meeting in May, Mike manufacturer of sensors, which will enhance Stacey decided to stand down as non-executive the groups electronics division and Schreiner, chairman and resigned from the board.
Mike an aerial targets manufacturer located in joined a very different Meggitt in 1990 and played Sir Colin Terry a major part in the changes that have created Chairman todays highly successful, focused group.
I wish him a long and enjoyable retirement.
4 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Avionics and gearbox cooling The V-22 Osprey, the worlds first production tilt rotor, carries 24 combat personnel or up to 20,000 pounds of internal or external cargo at long range at twice the speed of a helicopter.
From combat search and rescue to fleet logistics and special warfare support, mission success for this highly advanced machine depends on components as reliable as they are technically ingenious.
Our cooling products contribute to the efficient and fault-free operation of key systems such as the avionics and gearbox from day to dayor when trouble strikes.
Thats when our standby lube pump kicks in to provide around 30 minutes critical flight time should the primary pump fail.
