Chairmans statement Comparatively few information technology businesses have that we needed a change of emphasis to move forward.
been around as long as Misys.
Few software vendors have So we have adopted a more organic development model that managed more technology evolutions, or reinvented themselves we believe will deliver better products for our customers more during the course of so many industry changes and economic quickly, and create greater shareholder value.
Misys today is one of the largest industry-specific We want Misys to lead the industry-specific software markets in software vendors in the world.
An investment of 100 in growth, customer satisfaction and total shareholder return.
We Misys at its listing in 1987 was worth over 1,600 at the have always generated a lot of cash.
It is our view that we can end of May 2004. drive shareholder value best by reinvesting this in our business, The last few years have been among the most difficult in our in large-scale in-house software development and, when 25 year history, demanding deep reserves of resilience and appropriate, in repurchasing our shares as in our recent tenacity.
We have, in the past, demonstrated the will and programme.
Product development remains fundamental: our creativity to forge a new strategic direction, and I believe we total spend last year was 88m.
Partnerships will assume are doing that again.
So while we are proud to reach our 25th increased significance in our strategic plans, while acquisitions anniversary, we should save the full celebrations for when we undertaken in the near term are likely to focus on extending return to growth and are once more generating significant product functionality and broadening market coverage.
We have set ourselves demanding targets.
We intend to deliver 2003 04 results With revenue, operating profit and earnings every software release on time and reduce the time to market, per share all lower than last year, we do not consider the as well as significantly improving the productivity of our results satisfactory.
They reflect a difficult first half of the year: development spending.
We intend to re-double our efforts to our second half performance was much stronger, however.
raise recognition of and preference for the Misys brand, backed Our cash performance remained strong with the Company as by superior marketing skills.
Our ambitions call for growth in a whole achieving more than 100% conversion of operating market share, augmented by high levels of customer retention.
profit before goodwill amortisation into cash.
Misys also This approach demands additional, broader-based management returned 95m of cash to shareholders through a share skills, centred on attracting and retaining talented people, superior repurchase programme.
market understanding and customer service, advanced product The Board recommends a final dividend of 4.08p per share.
development and product lifecycle management.
This would raise the full year dividend to 6.52p, an increase of 15%.
Looking forward, the Board intends to continue to Throughout 2003 04, we have prepared the ground for increase the dividend each year, but in such a way as to raise operational success.
We have made good progress in building the level of dividend cover to a level more appropriate to the common skills in product development and management, and needs of the business over the medium term.
in our delivery of professional services.
We have launched new products and tapped additional revenue streams.
We are Building our future During the 1990s, when markets were increasingly presenting ourselves to our markets in a more booming, our acquisition-led corporate strategy successfully cohesive manner, behind a consistent Misys brand.
Having, by this approach, established a powerful presence in our markets industries We are making real strides in product management, although with high information technology IT spend we recognised there is some way to go before we can be considered Source: Datastream.
Assumes pre-tax dividends re-invested, without charge, in outstanding.
Working with customers, all our businesses have Misys stock at the closing prices applicable on the relevant ex-dividend dates.
completed product road maps for their products.
These are 4 1987 Misys Ltd becomes Misys plc and is listed on UK Unlisted Securities Market critical to our operations going forward.
By actively managing MISYS HAS A POWERFUL DRIVE TO WIN AND A STRONG PRESENCE each products lifecycle, we can reflect industry and market dynamics and technological developments, and provide IN ITS MARKETS.
WE HAVE PUT GREAT EFFORT INTO OUR functionality that anticipates customers future needs, REPOSITIONING, AND SENSE A MORE UPBEAT MOOD INTERNALLY as well as their current priorities.
WE HAVE TERRIFIC PEOPLE, Misys customers rely on our systems and solutions.
The majority ATTRACTIVE PRODUCTS, SUBSTANTIAL RESOURCES AND A of these are enterprise-critical: without them customers ability COMMITMENT TO DELIVER ON OUR PROMISES to function and to serve their customers in turn would be compromised or curtailed.
The products we deliver need to be robust and reliable as well as cutting edge in terms of their architecture, technology and engineering.
Delivering large development projects and product upgrades on schedule to an orderly succession plan to take forward our new direction.
fulfil market requirements, efficiently and cost-effectively, will We have assembled a seasoned and energetic team with be a minimum prescription for success.
We are continuing enormous range and depth of experience to take Misys on investment in our development and service centres in India and the next stage of its journey, including Ian Dyson who joined the Philippines to improve productivity and to complement our the Board as a non-executive Director in October 2003. development facilities in Europe and the United States.
This Sesame The intention to divest our financial services business, trend is accelerating.
However, adverse conditions in the Our people All our targets and ambitions depend on the investment markets and uncertainty over the regulatory quality of our people.
Over the last three years we have evolved environment have delayed our timetable.
Regulatory clarity and a talent management programme that spots, develops and improved market conditions remain our preconditions for this promotes our best managers.
As a result, we have appointed or disposal.
In the meantime, we will continue to invest in the promoted 65% of our top 250 managers to their present roles development of this business.
during the past two years.
We ask a lot of our top people and they Looking forward Cost containment rather than expansion are of a calibre that would be sought after by any competitor.
continues to dominate customer thinking.
In both banking and healthcare, customers are keen to consolidate vendors For everyone, the changes within the Company and the demands and standardise systems wherever possible: increasingly the of highly competitive markets have meant considerable pressure purchasing decision is enterprise-wide and made centrally.
I want to take this opportunity to acknowledge my Everything we are doing is designed to ensure we get close colleagues commitment and professionalism, and the results to our customers and put their commercial, technological their efforts have achieved.
While it was not a banner year for and functional requirements at the heart of what we do.
Kevin Lomax Chairman financial performance, our preparations for the future should stand us in good stead.
Misys has a powerful drive to win and a strong presence in its The Board At Board level there have been changes with the markets.
We have put great effort into our repositioning, and retirements of two long serving colleagues and friends.
Ross sense a more upbeat mood internally and increased activity Graham, Corporate Development Director, retired in December externally.
We have terrific people, attractive products, 2003, followed in May 2004 by John Sussens, Group Managing substantial resources and a commitment to deliver on our Director.
It would be difficult to exaggerate their contributions promises.
As a co-founder of Misys, I am confident we are to building Misys.
In the last five years we have implemented building another 25 years of success.
1990 Misys is listed on the London Stock Exchange 5
