CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board is confident that MITIE is well placed for the future.
MITIE Group PLC MITIE has had a successful year.
It has been a year of change but it has also been a year of progress.
The Company continues to achieve a good rate of growth and is consolidating its position as a leader in the provision of Building and Support Services.
David C Ord CHAIRMAN Working together as a team 02 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Results MITIE employees are passionate about providing quality Turnover rose to 694.5 million, an increase of 22.7%, and services to their customers and this attitude is apparent at all profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment levels of the Group.
Profit before tax rose by I would like to thank each and every employee for their 20.1% to 38.2 million.
Headline earnings per share rose by considerable efforts during the past year.
I also owe a debt to 14.1% to 8.3p Note 7. my Non-Executive colleagues, Sir John Jennings, Manish See Group Profit and Loss Account Chande and Cullum McAlpine, and thank each of them for their support.
During the year, Donald Macpherson, our Dividend Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, retired after 11 The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.4p per years service.
Donald brought immense experience to the share, making a total of 2.5p for the year, an increase of MITIE Board and I would like to thank him for his valuable 31.6%.
We will continue to review our dividend policy on a contribution to the Company during its formative years.
Corporate Governance Share Buyback Programme An effective system of Corporate Governance is fundamental The Board today announces that it intends to make market to fulfilling the Groups corporate responsibilities.
By its purchases of shares in the Company pursuant to the statements and actions, the Board emphasises a culture of authority granted to it by Shareholders at the last Annual integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility.
The General Meeting of up to 30 million shares.
policy of the Board of MITIE is to manage its affairs in Board Changes accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and the MITIEs founding Chairman, David Telling, died on 31 Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code October 2003 after a long struggle with cancer.
David was on Corporate Governance incorporated into the UK Listing the inspiration behind MITIE and it was his drive and Authority Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services personal philosophy that created the conditions for MITIEs Authority.
David was passionate about providing opportunities Outlook for people to realise their full potential.
The Management MITIE has thrived on a spirit of entrepreneurial energy.
That Incentive Through Investment Equity business model spirit burns brightly throughout the Group.
We have a team enabled MITIE to grow rapidly.
He attracted a large number of Directors who bring considerable experience, knowledge of the high calibre people into MITIE and they have grown and skill to the decision making process.
the business into a major UK support services group.
We will continue to expand the business by making further I was appointed to succeed David as your Non-Executive strategic acquisitions and by maintaining the culture of Chairman on 25 September 2003.
I was delighted to accept starting new businesses to provide opportunities for quality this challenge and I am determined to reinforce his vision people.
and values, while taking MITIE forward.
I believe that there is still considerable potential in the MITIE model and we have The Board is confident that MITIE is well placed for the future.
continued to initiate new start-ups.
This will be accompanied by select strategic acquisitions, where appropriate.
David C Ord CHAIRMAN People In the past six months I have had the privilege of meeting many members of the MITIE management team and I have been impressed with their commitment and enthusiasm.
They are united by a determination to grow the business.
I am confident that they have the vision that will enable MITIE to continue to achieve its growth targets.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 03
