Chairmans statement: This restructuring programme In October, Mark Robertshaw Both the Board and is now in its second year, joined us as Chief Financial management have been and despite the improved Officer and executive concentrating on reducing underlying operating Director from Gartmore cost and improving working results before goodwill Investment Management.
This work amortisation and operating Martin Flower joined the will continue.
At the same exceptionals that your Board in December as a time Morgan is also Company has enjoyed in non-executive Director.
focusing on profitable 2004 and the previous year, Martin spent many years with revenue growth via the the Board has decided that Coats plc and is currently continuous development of cash should be deployed to senior non-executive Director its technologies combined, the programme to ensure its of Severn Trent plc.
Simon with geographic expansion success.
Hence a dividend Heale joined the Board in into emerging markets and has not been declared for February 2005.
He presently lower cost countries.
It is the intention to holds the position of CEO of The Board recognises that consider the resumption of The London Metal Exchange I am pleased to report that there is still more to be dividend payments at the and has previously held 2004 built on the successes done to reach the levels appropriate time for the various positions in The Swire of the previous year.
of profitability and growth Company.
In to which Morgan aspires.
The restructuring programme, addition, Mark Lejman, CEO Thank you for your continuing The Morgan Board announced in February 2004, of the Carbon division, and support.
is on track and is delivering There have been a number Hartmut Eisele, CEO of the the planned savings and of changes to the Board Magnetics division, will be Lars Kylberg positive impact on cash flow during the year.
Sir Alan Cox appointed as executive Chairman and debt.
retired at the AGM after nine Directors as from 1 March years service.
We welcome all of Your Company is now in chaired the Audit Committee them to the Board and look a substantially stronger for seven years.
Sir Clive forward to working with them.
financial position than last Whitmore retired at the end year.
The successful rights People and the future of the year after ten years issue, announced service and was our senior Restructuring means many in February 2004, raised non-executive Director changes to the business and approximately 54 million and also chaired our its people.
Tough decisions and the continuing disposal Remuneration Committee have had to be made which of non-core businesses for six years.
I should like to puts strain on our employees progressed, with the notable thank both of them on your at all levels.
Morgans sale of the Auto and behalf for their loyal service employees have responded Consumer business in over the years.
Nigel Young, very well to the difficult June 2004 for 30.5 million.
our Finance Director, left in challenge and I should like Net debt has continued to September and we thank to thank them on your behalf decrease throughout the year him also.
for their hard work which has and is now approaching helped deliver the improved half its level of two years ago.
03 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
