NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:30 am Page 4 Sir David Alliance CBE Getting changed This is a period of transition.
Were making changes to our business model so we can compete with greater effectiveness in an intensively competitive retail market.
These changes apply across products, customer communication and terms of trade.
Adding a fresher fashion offer to our product range has already started to improve response rates, and increasingly active, targeted and effective marketing is helping us meet the challenge of changing shopping habits.
Our new TV venture is further proof of the kind of dynamism needed to continue outperforming the entire home shopping sector as well as taking on all retail formats.
Chairmans statement NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:30 am Page 5 N Brown Group plc 3 Report and Accounts 2004 PRE-TAX PROFIT M DIVIDENDS PER SHARE P TURNOVER M 2004 49.1 2004 5.84 2004 470.5 2003 54.8 2003 5.84 2003 457.3 2002 59.0 2002 5.75 2002 449.0 2001 53.4 2001 5.20 2001 400.5 2000 47.7 2000 4.55 2000 354.7 Excluding goodwill amortisation and operating exceptional items of 18.1m 2003, 0.7m The year ended 28 February 2004 was one of transition, half and we have taken corrective action by tightening increasingly uncompetitive.
We are presently seeking change and adjustment as the group concentrated on up the credit limit policy across the board to avoid the optimum exit route, but this decision has given rise improving its competitive position in its core business customers becoming over-indebted.
This will impact to an exceptional charge of 9.0m in this years results.
while cutting out some lower profitability activities.
New on sales growth but should bring down the ratio of channels to market, notably the internet, telemarketing bad debts to sales next year.
During the year we have FINANCIAL SERVICES and a new joint-venture television shopping channel, increased bad debt provisions by 4m which accounts First Financial provides financial services, primarily will, we believe, result in new orders while improvements for half the reduction in the rate of gross margin.
to our home shopping customer database.
Operating in the fashionability of our product ranges and profit was 2.4m, down from 2.7m the previous year.
presentation have already made our catalogues The postal strike during October 2003 severely This was due to a reduction in second half income much more appealing.
disrupted mailing patterns, particularly in the South East arising from changes implemented in the home region, at a crucial point in the season.
Whilst most of shopping business which affected warranty income These, and many other measures put in place by an our deliveries are made by our own couriers, catalogue and the level of unsecured loans made.
We still believe active management team which has reviewed every mailings and statements are handled by Royal Mail.
that there is strong growth potential in financial services, aspect of our business over the year, will enable us to The result was a significant loss of business, which we and we are reviewing opportunities to launch a credit respond successfully to the ever increasing competitive partially recovered in the pre-Christmas period by card and expand into secured lending.
pressure and the changes which are occurring in the introducing a number of promotional discounts and way customers shop today.
free gifts, but these had a detrimental impact on both BOARD APPOINTMENTS gross margin and marketing costs.
I am delighted to welcome two new directors to the Our overall aim is to be the leading direct marketing board.
Dean Moore joined as our new group finance company for destination shopping, developing specific We have continued to be successful in increasing director in December 2003, and John McGuire has product niches for the 30 age group.
In the past year sales per customer, with a 4% uplift for established recently taken up the role of non-executive director we have made good progress towards achieving this customers, including further success from proactive and chairman of the audit committee.
John has and we are continuing to implement the strategy this order building and telemarketing activity.
Our challenge extensive knowledge of the banking and financial year with energy and commitment.
is to increase the number of active customers on the services sector, and succeeds Robert Youngjohns database.
Recruitment was more effective than the who gave us excellent service over 4 years before Group turnover for the year ended 28 February 2004 previous year resulting in a 5% increase in new he was promoted to a post in the United States.
was up 2.9% at 470.5m, although profit before tax, customers.
The established base however has operating exceptional items and amortisation of seen a 2% decline.
OUTLOOK goodwill was down 10.5% at 49.1m, as highlighted in We have made a number of improvements to the the group profit and loss account.
The financial strength We expect the expanded product ranges to drive higher business in the last year but the retail environment is of the business, with net assets of 246.6m and interest response rates but we are also undertaking a range more competitive than ever.
Sales for the first 10 weeks cover of 9.0 times pre-operating exceptional items and of promotional activities to stimulate response from of the new financial year are level with the same period amortisation of goodwill, enables the total dividend to non-orderers, including new catalogue formats and last year.
We are continuing to make progress in the be maintained at 5.84p per share.
focused telemarketing and email campaigns.
areas where we have clearly focused product offers.
Sales of clothing and footwear are up by 2% but HOME SHOPPING The outlook for home shopping in its widest context is the reduced credit exposure is resulting in home Turnover from home shopping was up by 3.0% at strong but there will continue to be a gradual shift from and leisure sales being down by 5%.
452.9m, with operating profit before amortisation of catalogues to digital media such as the internet and goodwill and operating exceptional items down 10.9% television shopping channels.
Our e-commerce sales We aim to develop the group by broadening our at 51.0m.
The key issues behind the results were the have been tremendously successful and have almost channels to market, and identifying product ranges detrimental impact of the postal strike in Autumn 2003 doubled to 28m during the year.
We are now looking to and customer groups where we can establish a and a reduction of 1.6% in the rate of gross margin due exploit the ability of more of our customers to place their competitive edge, and where the demographic to an increased proportion of sales from discounted orders online as this results in higher order values, trends are most favourable.
activities and higher charges for bad debts.
reduced operating costs and increased loyalty.
The Autumn 2004 catalogues have a revised format and Our key initiative has been to increase the level of To participate in the growth of television shopping we contain product range extensions which I believe will fashionability of our product ranges in order to improve have formed a joint venture with Northern & Shell Network deliver further progress.
We are excited by the prospect customer response rates.
Customer choice has been Limited which owns the Express group of newspapers of the launch of the television shopping channel and the extended, presentation improved within the catalogues to create the Express Shopping Channel which will offer opportunities within online retailing.
We continue to and overlap of product ranges between the different a wide range of merchandise.
This venture, which will significantly outperform the home shopping sector, and catalogue brands tightened.
The result has been a broadcast on digital television from Autumn 2004, will I would like to thank our dedicated workforce for their gradual strengthening of core product ranges and a have initial start up losses but is planned to be profitable contribution during another testing year for the group.
slowly increasing share of overall sales from the more before the end of its second year.
As part of the strategic review of the groups activities Credit is an important element of our customer we have concluded that the Teleview television rental proposition and the average interest bearing balance business cannot produce an acceptable return on the has increased significantly in recent years.
We started to capital invested, as the combination of lower retail see some signs of increasing arrears early in the second prices and the wider availability of credit has made rental SIR DAVID ALLIANCE, CBE NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:30 am Page 6 N Brown Group plc 4 Report and Accounts 2004 Personal shopping A more individual attitude Wed like to know all our customers personally.
Enhanced database management techniques, new marketing ideas, an increase in the number of new customers and very encouraging results from a recent customer satisfaction survey all indicate a better understanding of our target markets.
One significant trend is a more confident and positive attitude to fashion that transcends the traditional age groupings.
Indeed, our younger titles show the strongest growth over the last year.
Customers NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:30 am Page 7 Satisfaction Customer satisfaction is continuing to increase.
Delivery times and product quality have both improved.
These kinds of positive experiences are crucial to keep building better perceptions in a sector where expectations are growing.
Attitude Customers place attitude before age in todays marketplace.
People are buying into traditionally younger ranges.
They want faster fashion and a convenient alternative to the high street.
NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:30 am Page 8 N Brown Group plc 6 Report and Accounts 2004 Convenience shop Online, on time and on TV Shopping habits are constantly changing.
Were keeping up with them and looking after customers round the clock.
The challenge is getting the mix of channels right and making them work.
Were improving and rationalising catalogues, making our promotions more positive and effective, expanding our door-to-door sales operation, collecting e-mail addresses for low-cost targeted marketing and regularly achieving over 1m a week via e-commerce.
This demonstrates the impact new channels can have on our business.
More exciting still is the home shopping TV channel were jointly launching later this year.
Channels NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 11:28 am Page 9 Telephone Web Proactive order building and More of our customers are placing telemarketing activity continues their orders online resulting in to be successful in increasing reduced operating costs and higher order values.
Catalogues The main stimulus to online ordering is still the printed catalogue and we are changing our marketing promotions to drive customers back to their catalogues with gifts and discounts.
TV Our newly formed television shopping channel will enhance our ability to exploit the gradual shift from catalogues to digital media.
NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:31 am Page 10 N Brown Group plc 8 Report and Accounts 2004 Life style Faster fashion and hipper homes Our offer is now wider and better than ever.
New lines in clothing and accessories are catching up with high street reputations in the fashion stakes, footwear and menswear have been given a wider appeal and are proving more popular, and our home furnishing and domestic product range has everything for a happy, stylish and functional home.
We specialise in providing the widest choice of sizes and fittings for the mature woman at top-value prices.
Products NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:31 am Page 11 N Brown Group plc 9 Report and Accounts 2004 1 Trade Winds bistro dinnerware set 2 Four piece copper base pan set 3 Dirt Devil 1600 watt upright carpet cleaner with 6-stage Hepa filtration 4 Renoir range leather suite with wood bun feet 5 Servis washing machine, 14 wash programme, 1,000 rpm spin speed 6 Easy walker with multi-function computer folds away for easy storage 7 Wood curtain pole sets beech, chestnut or light ash 8 Mens fleece top available in up to 66 chest 9 Flexible leather court shoe available in wide fittings 1 2 3 5 4 6 7 8 9
