Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that NEXT has had another successful year, we achieved good growth in both sales and profits.
Earnings per share rose by 34% to 92.1p, enhanced by the beneficial effect of share buybacks over the last two years.
We began to buy back our shares in March 2000 and since then we have bought and cancelled 109 million shares, representing 29% of the shares in issue at that date.
The long term growth in earnings per share continues to be one of our key objectives, and we will continue to buy back our shares when it is in the interests of our shareholders.
Two of our non-executive directors will be retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting: Alistair Mitchell-Innes was appointed in 1989 and throughout his 15 years with us he has maintained an independent approach, always probing the policies and performance of the executive team in his persistent yet thoughtful way.
I was delighted when he accepted the invitation to become Deputy Chairman in May 2002.
Alistair has also been the Chairman of the NEXT Pension Scheme since 1991 and has agreed to continue in that role for a short period in order to ensure an efficient handover to his successor.
Ann Burdus joined the Board in 1993 and we have all benefited from her wide experience in marketing as well as her common sense approach to business.
On behalf of everyone at NEXT I would like to thank Alistair and Ann for their contribution to our success and wish them well for the future.
We appointed Nick Brookes to the Board in June 2003 and we are currently looking for another non-executive director.
I am pleased to announce that John Barton has accepted the invitation to become Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of this years AGM.
The success of NEXT owes so much to: The strength and skills of a well motivated management team.
The enthusiasm and dedication of all our employees.
The support of our suppliers with whom we work in partnership to provide products of good quality and value for our customers.
I thank them all for their contribution to another successful year.
David Jones CBE Chairman 25 March 2004 2
