Chairmans statement Peter Blackburn Trading results Over recent months we have We enjoyed good growth with most of our major customers during the year, with underlying retail sales, excluding the impact of currency, started to put the business on a acquisitions, divestments and the 53rd week, increasing by 3.5 per cent.
After a dip in growth during the second quarter, as a result of the sounder footing, with a focus on exceptional summer weather, underlying retail sales recovered in the core strengths and the start of a second half despite the loss of a major savoury products contract.
Total sales from continuing operations rose by 10.4 per cent to 1,426.0 million number of structural cost saving 2003: 1,291.5 million, including the Solway acquisition and the benefit of a 53rd trading week: the latter boosted turnover by around two per cent.
This has involved refocusing and restructuring our Continuing operating profit before acquisitions, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 17.7 million was 10.4 per cent lower operations, and taking determined at 101.3 million 2003: 113.0 million.
The principal factor in this reduction was the under-recovery of substantial raw material cost action throughout the group to inflation, particularly in our chilled Convenience foods businesses.
However, steady progress was made in recouping these cost increases reduce our cost base.
during the second half, so that we enter the new year much closer to Although this has been a difficult full recovery.
The Convenience sector was also affected by the loss of a major savoury products contract with Sainsburys and by disruption to and disappointing year for Northern ordering and working patterns during the period of record temperatures.
Foods, and we recognise that much All this was reflected in a 23.0 per cent reduction in Convenience remains to be done, by the time continuing operating profit before acquisitions, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items to 56.1 million 2003: 72.9 million.
our new Chief Executive joined us in Our Grocery operations, in contrast, traded well, increasing their continuing March 2004, we had moved towards operating profit contribution before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items by 12.7 per cent to 45.2 million 2003: 40.1 million.
creating a more solid platform for Our biscuit business recovered strongly, as expected, from the difficult her to develop.
Under her leadership, trading conditions of the previous year, while Green Isle continued to grow its share of the frozen pizza market and Dalepak benefited from we look forward to realising the a good summer barbecue season.
undoubted potential that lies in Operating profit was 20.4 per cent higher than the previous year our excellent products, growing at 85.0 million due to lower exceptional costs.
sales, strong customer relationships, Following a 9.7 per cent increase in interest costs to 21.4 million 2003: 19.5 million as a result of our continuing share buyback well-invested assets and capable programme and the acquisition of Solway Foods in June 2003, pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 86.0 and committed people.
million 2003: 97.5 million, a reduction of 11.8 per cent.
Pre-tax profit was 28.7 per cent lower than in the previous year at 75.4 million 2003: 105.8 million.
The reduction in our share capital through buybacks helped to mitigate the effect of the divestments and reduced operating profit.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were 7.0 per cent lower than in the previous year at 13.77 pence 2003: 14.81 pence.
Basic earnings per share were 12.78 pence 2003: 18.73 pence, a reduction of 31.8 per cent, reflecting the profit on sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands in the prior year.
Analysed in the turnover and segmental analysis 02 Chairmans statement Northern Foods plc Exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Biscuit merger There was a post-tax net exceptional charge of 1.4 million this year, The merger of our Foxs and Elkes biscuit businesses, which was compared with a credit of 24.2 million in the prior year.
This comprised announced in September 2003, is on track to deliver targeted cost a net profit on the sale of businesses of 12.0 million 2003: 54.6 million savings of 2.0 million per annum from 2004 2005, at a one-off and operating exceptional costs of 13.4 million 2003: 30.4 million implementation cost of 2.1 million.
In addition to direct cost savings, relating to business reorganisation.
Goodwill amortisation was we believe that the integration of the businesses is delivering real 3.7 million 2003: 3.1 million.
commercial benefits as retailers gain an increased appreciation of our overall capabilities in the biscuit market.
The new structure also facilitates Dividend and share buyback a single-minded focus on production efficiencies by our factory The board recommends an increased final dividend of 5.60 pence per management team.
Together with the increased interim dividend of 3.30 pence paid in March, this makes a total dividend for the year Procurement of 8.90 pence 2003: 8.70 pence, a rise of 2.3 per cent.
This increase An experienced new executive with responsibility for group-wide reflects the boards confidence in the operational and financial strengths procurement joined us in September 2003, and the development of a of the group and our strong cash generation, and continues our highly qualified central team is well advanced.
We are already seeing long-standing commitment to a progressive dividend and the some benefits from the simplification and centralisation of purchasing creation of shareholder value.
in areas such as ingredients and packaging, but we expect substantial further gains to be realised over the coming years as we progressively We have also continued to make market purchases of our shares, move responsibility for procurement away from individual operations, acquiring a total of 24.4 million shares during the year at a cost and begin to realise the true potential of our scale as a 1.5 billion of 37.1 million.
Such purchases helped to mitigate the earnings turnover food group.
dilution arising from our disposals.
We have now returned a total of 143.6 million to shareholders since we began our share buyback Shared services programme in February 2000.
We have also begun to move functions such as finance, administration and IT out of our individual operations and into a new, well-equipped Acquisitions and largely paperless shared service centre in Wakefield.
We expect this We made two acquisitions during the first half, as part of our drive to yield significant benefits in improved efficiency and lower costs in to align Northern Foods with faster growing segments of the UK food the years ahead.
The purchase of the remaining 60 per cent of Solway Foods on 30 June 2003 for 26.7 million, plus 7.2 million of inherited debt, Addressing underperformance further increased our exposure to rapidly growing chilled convenience Underperforming areas of the group have received particularly close food areas including sandwiches, prepared salad meals and pasta snacks.
Determined action at Park Cakes in Oldham This business has traded well and met all our expectations.
The acquisition has resulted in substantial efficiency gains, turning the site from a loss of San Marco from Heinz for 0.9 million on 22 May 2003 has in the first half to profit during the second half.
strengthened the portfolio of our Goodfellas frozen pizza business and contributed to its continued success in the market place.
Capital expenditure We have reduced our investment programmes and these are now close Refocusing and restructuring to depreciation levels.
All expenditure is being carefully targeted to ensure I assumed the role of Executive Chairman on an interim basis on that we invest only in core categories and where we are confident of 4 September 2003, when we began the process of recruiting our achieving appropriate returns.
new Chief Executive, and held this position through to the end of the financial year.
This was a period of considerable activity designed to Customer research improve the business by refocusing on our core strengths, leveraging During the second half we commissioned a major survey of our key some of the advantages of our scale in the market place, re-engaging customers by external consultants, investigating attitudes to Northern with our customers, addressing efficiencies and cutting costs.
Foods as a group at all levels in these organisations.
This has contributed to an enhanced understanding of what the major retailers expect from Disposals us, and how we can further improve our relationships during the next We disposed of two non-core businesses during the year, realising a stage of our development.
cash inflow on disposals of 50.9 million and generating a net profit on sale of 9.4 million.
Foxs Confectionery was sold to Big Bear Limited for All these actions were part of a very busy second half during which we 9.4 million on 5 September 2003: and our Batchelors and Beck Smith created a more stable business for our new Chief Executive to take forward, operations in Ireland were sold to a new company, formed by Barrys Tea though much remains to be done to realise the groups full potential.
and Bank of Scotland, for 95.5 million including cash balances of 33.2 million on 30 January 2004.
Since the year end, we have sold the Taken together, our initiatives have already delivered cost savings of Emile Tissot frozen foodservice business to Dawn Fresh Foods Limited approximately 3 million and are targeted to produce annualised for 3.5 million on 1 May 2004: and the Eden Vale Minsterley fresh savings of some 15 million by our financial year to March 2006. chilled dairy products business to Uniq Prepared Foods Limited for 16.5 million on 22 May 2004.
Northern Foods plc Chairmans statement 03 Chairmans statement continued People I am confident that we have The quality of our people remains one of the key strengths of Northern Foods, and I greatly appreciate the commitment that begun to take the right actions to employees at all levels have shown to improving the performance of the business during the difficulties of the last 12 months.
equip Northern Foods to compete in this most demanding climate.
Early in 2004 we were saddened by the deaths of Nicholas Horsley, Chairman of the group from 1969 to 1988, and Jack Clayton, Finance I look forward to the increasing Director from 1973 to 1986.
A tribute to both by our former Chairman Christopher Haskins appears on page 19 of the Annual review.
benefits to Northern from the refocusing and restructuring initiatives Outlook Although the company has underperformed in recent years, the inherent already in hand, and to further strengths of Northern Foods remain substantial.
We make great food that is enjoyed by consumers.
Our focus on growing market sectors and developments under the leadership successful customers has enabled us consistently to achieve enviable rates of sales growth.
Our balance sheet is strong, our assets are in good of our new Chief Executive.
shape and our technical expertise and track record in innovation are second to none in the UK.
New operating structure These strengths are vital in a market place where competition is becoming ever more intense.
This has been reflected in the recent On 2 June 2004 we announced the creation by Pat ODriscoll of a new operating board for Northern Foods.
We will in future report our results slowing of food sales reported by some of our largest customers.
The growing consolidation and reorganisation of UK food retailing can only in three sectors: chilled, ambient and frozen.
Because of the size of our chilled operations, these will be managed as two businesses.
Each of our increase the pressure on producers and suppliers to deliver value to their customers.
Trading conditions in the coming year will be challenging for four new businesses two in chilled and one each in frozen and ambient will be headed by a member of the operating board, which will also all food manufacturers.
include the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Company Secretary, together with new directors of human resources, manufacturing and risk Northern had a strong first quarter last year before the contract loss in July, but trading in the first seven weeks of the current year is in management health and safety.
We have appointed a highly qualified candidate to the human resources position and he will join the group line with expectations, with underlying retail sales up 2.0 per cent.
External recruitment for the manufacturing position is under way.
We are also undertaking a group-wide business review I am confident that we have begun to take the right actions to equip Northern Foods to compete in this most demanding climate.
I look which will thoroughly evaluate the opportunities for Northern Foods.
forward to the increasing benefits to Northern from the refocusing and restructuring initiatives already in hand, and to further developments Board changes I am delighted to welcome Pat ODriscoll to the group as our new Chief under the leadership of our new Chief Executive.
Her appointment was announced shortly before Christmas and she joined the company and the board on 29 March 2004.
Pat was Peter Blackburn Chairman the outstanding candidate, identified by the consultants who handled our external selection process, and brings to her new role broad experience 2 June 2004 of the food industry, having worked for several of the major UK retailers.
She has also held senior management positions with extensive responsibilities, most recently as Retail Vice President of Shell Europe.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Jo Stewart for his contribution to Northern Foods over his 15 years with the group.
Following the creation of the new operating board, Howard Sims will retire as an executive director on 30 June 2004.
Howard joined Northern in 1998 through the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray Group plc, of which he was Chief Executive, and was appointed to the board in January 2003.
He had worked for Cavaghan & Gray since 1971 and played a truly outstanding role in building its business.
We are grateful for his contribution to Northern and wish him well for the future.
04 Chairmans statement Northern Foods plc
