Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, This financial year is the first year of our Strategy for Growth announced in July 2003 and covering the period to April 2006.
I am pleased to report an excellent start, particularly in respect of the increase in earnings per share of 22.9% to 50.9p 2003 41.4p.
Progress against the other specific targets in the plan is set out in the Operational Review by the Chief Executive which follows my statement.
Based on these results and the Boards view of future prospects, the Board We believe that the dynamics of the vehicle rental market in Spain offer has decided to recommend to shareholders a final dividend of 10.6p per the Group an exceptional opportunity to build on its initial success.
This will make the total dividend for the year 17.6p an increase intend to build a substantial business in the Spanish market using Fualsa of 10% on last year, covered 2.8 times.
The dividend will be payable on as a platform for expansion.
How large a business we can develop is the 10 September 2004 to those shareholders on the register on 6 August 2004. question we are currently addressing in order to establish the framework for our strategy beyond April 2006.
Our UK business faced challenging trading conditions in the summer of 2003 due to short term competitor pricing pressure.
However, as a result of Our underlying philosophy will continue to be the prudent management of the actions taken by management, the business has not only produced a the Companys assets in order to deliver long term sustainable growth.
good set of results but also emerged stronger for the experience.
In May, I advised the Company that it was my wish to stand down as Looking to the future, the UK business will continue to form the core of the Chairman no later than the AGM in 2005, but sooner if the Board had settled Groups trading operations and we remain confident of our ability to expand on a suitable candidate as my successor.
I have been either Chairman or our market share and business here.
Our position as the leading van rental Chief Executive of the Group for nearly 20 years.
With the help and support company in the UK leaves us well placed to take advantage of opportunities of my colleagues, most of whom today fill the top positions in the Company, that will arise to expand our fleet and network either via acquisition or the I have seen the Companys market capitalisation and earnings increase establishment of new greenfield locations.
The strengths of the business some twenty fold over this period.
Shareholders have seen the dedication which brought us to this position and in particular our product Norflex, our and drive that the management have brought to the Company in the unique structure and the commitment and dedication of our employees, will delivery of our previous five year Strategy for Growth, which saw earnings be as valid to our future as they were to our past.
As a management we will double during the period 1999 2003, and in the results for this year, the remain focused on the key measures of our business such as utilisation and first year of our new three year Strategy for Growth.
I have no doubt that will look for the many small improvements that will ensure that we remain this commitment to shareholders will continue for the future.
Finally, I want to thank all the men and women who work so hard to make The continued excellent performance of Fualsa, our Spanish rental Northgate such an outstanding company.
Their commitment to serve the business, resulted in the exercise of our option to purchase a further 40% interests of customers, often under difficult circumstances, is a large of the equity on 3 May 2004.
As anticipated the consideration was e22.3m measure of the Groups success.
the maximum payable under the terms of the purchase contract.
In addition, we reached agreement to effect the early exercise of the option for the Michael Waring remaining 20%, which also took place on 3 May 2004.
The consideration for Chairman this final 20% remains payable in 2006 and will be determined using a multiple of 8.5 times the average profits after tax for calendar years 2004 and 2005, subject to the maximum consideration payable being e14.9m.
02 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 2 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Earnings per share have increased by 22.9% in the first year of our three year Strategy for Growth increasing from 41.4p to 50.9p Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 03
