John Stier, aged 38, Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director and Company Mr Irens joined the Board as Non-Executive Mr Stone was appointed a Director and Chief Secretary Chairman on 7 January 2000.
He was Executive on 31 October 1999.
He was Mr Stier was promoted to Group Finance previously Chairman of Cannons Group plc.
formerly with Accenture where he was an Director on 15 May 2003.
Prior to joining He is a Non-Executive Director of Urbium plc associate partner.
He previously held senior Northgate, he held senior financial positions and the Evolution Group plc, and a Director management positions with Digital with Thames Water plc and Shanks plc.
of a number of other unlisted companies.
Equipment Corporation UK and EDS.
David Meaden, aged 42, Non-Executive Director Divisional Managing Director, Divisional Managing Director, Mr Fryer was appointed a Non-Executive Human Resources Systems Division Public Services Division Director on 15 December 1999.
He was Mr Aldis was promoted to the Board on 27 Mr Meaden was promoted to the Board on 27 previously with Marconi, Lucas Industries, May 2004.
He has been Managing Director of May 2004.
He has been Managing Director of Rank Xerox and Rolls Royce.
He is also Northgates Human Resources Systems Northgates Public Services division since Chairman of Celoxica Limited.
HRS division since 1998 and has overseen May 2001, with overall responsibility for the rapid growth of this division and the Northgates development in the local 9.
Nick Starritt, aged 50, integration of RebusHR into the Group.
government, criminal justice and public Non-Executive Director safety markets.
Mr Starritt was appointed a Non-Executive 7.
David Hodgson, aged 47, Director on 27 May 2004.
Sir Stephen Lander, aged 56, includes four years as the Group ViceMr Hodgson was appointed a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director President of Human Resources for BP plc: he Director on 27 May 2004.
He is a Partner at Sir Stephen was appointed a Non-Executive was also a Non-Executive Director of General Atlantic Partners, the IT investment Director on 29 January 2004.
He was RebusHR before its acquisition by Northgate.
firm which has an approximately 14% stake previously Director-General of the Security He is European Managing Director of Sirota in Northgate.
He serves as a Director of a Service from 1996 until 2002.
He also sits on Consulting Limited.
number of public and private information the Board of HM Customs & Excise, and is an technology companies.
adviser to Detica Limited and fide La Rue Limited.
Member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
