04 P&O Annual Report 2004 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement our Ports portfolio and in September Results we announced proposals to change The Group results reect a substantial fundamentally the way we run our Ferries improvement in trading performance.
business in response to difficult industry Operating profit from continuing operations conditions.
We also achieved net property before exceptional items increased to sales of 371 million in 2004.
268.3 million 2003 202.7 million despite adverse currency movements of Outlook approximately 20 million.
Strong profit 2005 has seen a good start for our Ports growth was achieved in our major business, business.
World containerised trade is Ports, while the cyclical upturn continued growing strongly and many of our ports to benefit Container Shipping.
Ferries benefit from a favourable local competitive experienced difficult trading conditions environment.
We expect to allocate which led to a fundamental business review, approximately 1 billion of capital to the the results of which are now being portfolio over the next five years.
end of 2004, our total capacity was over 15 million teu, with expansion rights which Pre-exceptional profit before tax increased could increase this to 31 million teu.
The Lord Sterling of Plaistow GCVO CBE end of 2005, we expect total capacity to be There were significant exceptional items Chairman approximately 17 million teu.
Over and primarily impairment and reorganisation above this we are examining a range of charges and profits and losses on sale of possible opportunities around the world that businesses totalling 380.2 million could, over time, add up to a further 2003 23.2 million before tax, of which 10 million teu.
267.1 million related to the restructuring of Ferries announced in September and The market for Ferries remains challenging, 65.4 million to the restructuring of the particularly for the tourist business.
However, Groups interest in P&O Nedlloyd.
After freight continues to grow strongly and the exceptional items, interest and tax, the enhanced freight service that we are offering Group recorded a loss of 235.4 million following the fundamental business review 2003 profit 59.2 million.
With a new management team now in place, we are on Earnings per share and dividend target to achieve the forecast cost savings Before exceptional items and goodwill from the review.
amortisation, the earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock were 19.4p 2003 12.4p.
Royal P&O Nedlloyd is continuing to benefit The basic and diluted loss per 1 nominal of from strong volumes and freight rates.
deferred stock was 34.7p 2003 earnings Assuming that current industry and 6.5p.
In line with the announcement of market conditions continue, they expect future dividend policy on 2 February 2004, a significant improvement in operating the Board recommends a final dividend of profit this year.
6.0p per 1 nominal of deferred stock which, together with the interim dividend of We intend to make further net property 3.0p, would give a total dividend of 9.0p for sales of 250 million in 2005.
The dividend will be paid on 1 June in March 2005 the 47 million sale of 2005 to deferred stockholders on the a significant part of our Kings Cross register at the close of business on development which already brings the 29 March 2005. total of net property sales so far for 2005 to 157 million.
By the end of the year we Strategic progress expect Property to account for less than 2004 was an important year in P&Os 10% of our net operating assets.
A major objective reduced size of the portfolio, together with was achieved with the restructuring of the our having sold the resorts and other assets Groups interest in Container Shipping.
P&O which were significant contributors to now holds a 25% interest in the listed Royal earnings, means that Property is likely to P&O Nedlloyd N. V. Capital expenditure of make a smaller profit contribution in 2005.
140 million was invested in expanding P&O Annual Report 2004 05 Chairmans statement For the Group as a whole, excluding This is my final annual statement to Property, operating profit is anticipated to stockholders.
I have been Executive improve further in 2005.
Chairman for 22 years and a Board member for 25 years.
In one sense the connection Employees goes back much further, to Sterling The strength of our operating result is a Guarantee Trust, the company I founded in credit to our employees.
2004 saw the 1969 which played a white knight role in Group undergo considerable change once defending P&O against a hostile takeover more and as a result it has been a period bid in 1983.
I still meet many people at our of uncertainty for some colleagues.
annual general meetings who were Employees within our Ferries and Properties stockholders in those days.
I know that Sir businesses have been working in Bruce MacPhail, my colleague and close challenging markets as we have friend from the very beginning, who stood restructured those businesses.
I would like down only last year as Managing Director, to pay tribute to all employees for their would agree that it has been a remarkable dedication and achievements during the year.
Board I have no doubt that a further notable Rodney Galpin will be retiring from the Board chapter of the Companys history will be as senior non-executive director after this written as P&O moves forward in the years annual general meeting.
Rodney capable hands of Sir John Parker, Robert joined the Board in 1996.
We have benefited Woods and the rest of the management greatly from his counsel over the years and team.
It is with great pride that I have served I would like to record my own gratitude, as the Company and I would like to thank all well as that of my fellow directors, for his those at sea, ashore and retired for the commitment to P&O.
loyalty and support they have given the Company and me personally during these I was delighted to welcome Sir John Parker years.
to the Board in February 2005 as Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate.
Sir John is Chairman of National Grid Transco plc, senior non-executive director of the Bank of England and a non-executive director of Carnival.
His considerable experience, particularly in maritime The Lord Sterling of Plaistow industries, will be invaluable to P&O as it GCVO CBE moves forward.
Chairman We also welcomed David Williams to the Board as a non-executive director in January 2005.
David is Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
His extensive financial experience across a broad range of industries will be a great asset to the Group.
