Chairmans statement Ken Harvey : Chairman : Pennon Group Plc We have made excellent progress this year.
Our strong results demonstrate further profitable growth in South West Water Limited and Viridor Waste Limited, affirming our strategy once again of focusing on these two key businesses.
South West Water continued to perform well and drinking South West Water Limited water quality and bathing water compliance levels in the region are at an all time high.
South West Waters key objectives include providing exemplary levels of product and customer service.
Viridor Waste has traded strongly, building on the growth Independent market research carried out amongst the achieved during the past decade.
companys customers continues to confirm high levels of satisfaction with the overall service provided by the company.
The company is also continuing its good Financial overview performance against Ofwats prescribed customer Levels of Service Indicators targets and is one of the industry Group turnover rose by 13.0% to 471.3 million, due leaders in managing water leakage and security of supply.
mainly to the increased revenue arising from the Ofwat approved tariff increases in South West Water and from A milestone was achieved during the year with the continued strong trading by Viridor Waste.
completion of the original Clean Sweep coastal bathing water treatment programme.
The successful delivery of Before an exceptional item, operating profit increased by this initiative is great testament to the endeavours of 7.3% to 136.3 million, profit before tax increased by South West Water employees, contractors and key 6.2% to 78.8 million and earnings per share before regional stakeholders, including customers, who have all deferred tax rose by 4.9% to 57.7p.
contributed to the completion of the biggest enviIn line with the Boards previously stated progressive ronmental improvement programme of its kind in Europe.
dividend policy, a final dividend of 27.8p per share is Other initiatives taken by South West Water have made a recommended, which, with the interim dividend of 13.2p, significant contribution to the region now having the will result in a full year dividend of 41.0p an increase of highest percentage length of high quality rivers in England.
In April 2004, South West Water submitted its Final Following its successful reintroduction last year, the Business Plan to Ofwat detailing its proposed strategy, Board once again intends to offer shareholders a scrip estimate of expenditure needs and effect on average bills dividend alternative.
The Director General of Water Services will publish his Draft Determination on price limits for the water industry in August this year and then his Final Determination in December of the prices effective from 1 April 2005.
2 Pennon Group Plc Viridor Waste Limited Strategy and prospects Viridor Waste again performed strongly with operating The Boards priority continues to be the creation of profit contributions from landfill and power generation shareholder value through its strategic focus on water, increasing by 23.2% and 46.1% respectively.
This will be achieved by South West Water continuing to outperform the One acquisition was made during the year and one just current regulatory contract and growing its regulatory after the year end.
These reinforced the companys stated asset value ahead of net debt up to 2005 and Viridor strategy of capitalising on its strong position in landfill Waste capitalising on the opportunities arising from its disposal, exploiting opportunities in renewable energy successful focused strategy.
and pursing profitable opportunities in line with the Governments developing waste management strategy.
Board matters During the year, the acquisition of the UK landfill and landfill gas business of Shanks Group Plc was pursued.
It I was pleased to welcome Mr Gerard Connell as a Nonwas not successful due to a substantially higher bid being executive Director to the Board on 1 October 2003.
Whilst the business would have tied-in well with Connell has extensive financial and business experience Viridors strategy, as stated on a number of occasions, and is currently Group Finance Director of Wincanton Plc.
any acquisition we make has to satisfy the Groups He has been appointed as Chairman of the Boards Audit criteria for investment in the waste sector, as well as Committee.
reinforcing Pennons progressive dividend policy.
We were therefore not prepared to increase our price for Employees these assets to a point where our investment criteria would not have been satisfied.
In the seven years it has been my privilege to be Chairman of the Group, many structural and organisational changes Approach received by the Board have taken place as the Group seeks to become more efficient and profitable.
Throughout the many changes, Earlier this summer, following media speculation, the our employees have continued to demonstrate a high Board confirmed that it had received a preliminary and level of loyalty, commitment and professionalism and I conditional approach for the entire issued share capital thank them and my fellow Directors most sincerely for of the Company from a consortium of financial investors.
their individual and collective efforts.
The Board unanimously decided that the approach failed to recognise the strategic value of Pennon, its track record and the future prospects of its two core businesses.
South West Water has consistently outperformed its regulatory contract, while Viridor Waste continues to offer significant opportunities for earnings growth.
The Board rejected the approach and this was confirmed after K G HARVEY, Chairman, Pennon Group Plc consultation with some of the Groups largest shareholders.
24 June 2004 Pensions The Group pension schemes showed an indicative net deficit at 31 March 2004 of 54.0 million, a level similar to that reported at the same time last year.
A recovery in investment values has been offset by an increase in liabilities and higher expectations for future inflation.
In line with recommendations from the scheme actuary, the Group resumed paying employer contributions in 2002 03 and increased these to 11.5% of pensionable pay in 2003 04.
