Chairmans statement Arla Foods UK plc share price vs FTSE 250 Arla FTSE 250 2003 2004 A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D Arla Foods UK plc share price vs FTSE Food Producers and Processors Arla FTSE Food Producers and Processors 2003 2004 A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D Arla Foods UK plc has out-performed the FTSE 250 and FTSE Food Producers and Processors indices in the period and up to the date of signing the accounts.
The first full year of trading as Arla Foods UK plc has been one of very good progress towards all our key objectives: building our brands, forging ever stronger relationships with milk producers, developing our leadership in technology and providing growth potential for our customers.
I am pleased to announce that our results are in line with our expectations, and that the expected synergy benefits of the merger are on track for delivery ahead of schedule.
02 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Results on track Close ties with milk producers This report covers an 18 month period to 30 September 2004, following I am delighted to report that Arla Foods Milk Partnership AFMP has the change in our year end to correspond with that of our major continued to expand, and now has almost 1,400 members who will shareholder, Arla Foods amba, the EUs largest farmer-owned dairy supply us with more than one billion litres of milk in the current milk year co-operative.
Our results include just over 11 months of trading by the to 31 March 2005.
There are waiting lists for membership in every region.
enlarged business, created by the merger of Express Dairies plc and Through its investment arm, Milk Partnership Ltd formerly Express Milk Arla Foods Plc on 22 October 2003.
Partnership Investments Ltd, AFMP has also become the third largest shareholder in the group, with an interest of around five per cent, Sales for the period were 1,677.0 million 2003: 714.7 million and reflecting our shared commitment to building ever closer ties between underlying pre-tax profit was 52.1 million 2003: 28.0 million.
milk producers and the processing industry.
We have also continued Underlying pre-tax profit for the 12 months to 30 September 2004 to expand and develop our very successful strategic alliance with the was 42.0 million.
Exceptional costs of 36.5 million reflect extensive Milk Link farmers co-operative, notably through the development of plant and administrative rationalisation following the merger, the sale our new Scottish dairy on their Lockerbie site.
and closure of Express Chilled Distribution and the proposed closure of HT Webb.
Profit before taxation was 1.9 million 2003: 11.6 million.
Despite price reductions by our major competitors in June and July, we maintained the milk price paid to our milk producers until Strong finances 1 September 2004.
Regrettably, our major competitors have either Net debt at 30 September 2004 was 164.1 million, compared with reduced or announced their intention to review their milk price further, 126.9 million in our first post-merger balance sheet at 31 March 2004. whilst we have decided to hold our milk price to at least January 2005.
This increase is the result of the planned continuing high levels of capital We continue to pay milk producers the highest base price compared expenditure in new plant.
We retained comfortable interest cover by with competitors, but have to ensure that we remain competitive.
operating profit, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, of 4.1 times.
Board change Mikael Christiansen, one of Arla Foods ambas nominated executive Increased dividend directors, ceased to exercise his executive responsibilities on The board recommends a final dividend of 0.7 pence per share, 30 April 2004 and subsequently left the board at our Annual General compared with the interim dividend of 0.5 pence paid at this stage in Meeting on 22 July 2004.
Subject to the approval of shareholders, this will be paid on 11 February 2005 to those on the register at 21 January 2005.
Total People dividends for the 18 month period are therefore 1.8 pence per share, The last 18 months have been a difficult period for everyone in the of which 1.3 pence relates to the 12 month period to September, business, as they have faced the considerable uncertainty caused by which will be our financial year going forward.
Former Express Dairies the merger and subsequent rationalisation.
Some 1,500 employees will shareholders have also benefited from a special dividend of 9.6 pence have left the company by mid 2005.
I would like to pay tribute to the per share, paid on 4 November 2003, following completion of the exemplary way in which everyone has accepted the need for change merger.
It is the boards intention to pursue a dividend policy in line in the long term interests of the business, and for their very positive and with long-term earnings potential and cash flow, whilst maintaining co-operative response to our proposals.
Outlook and prospects Strong brands, new technology Our brands continue to perform strongly, we anticipate significant growth The merger in October 2003 created a leading UK dairy company with in Cravendale milk when additional processing capacity comes on stream a broad range of added value products, strong brands, comprehensive next summer, and we anticipate that the market for the supply of fresh nationwide supermarket fresh milk distribution and a demonstrable milk to supermarkets will remain highly competitive.
There is currently commitment to working in partnership with milk producers.
We have significant inflation in the supply chain affecting milk producers and built on this strong base by achieving further strong growth in our processors alike.
In common with our competitors this cost inflation is brands, particularly Cravendale and Lurpak.
We have maintained our affecting oil, plastic bottles, utilities and steel trolleys and we continue share of the supermarket fresh milk sector, in the face of intense to monitor the situation.
We believe that we are strongly placed given competition, and continued to outperform the market in home delivery.
the quality of our assets, strengthened further by our new investments In September we opened Europes most technologically advanced fresh at Stourton and Manchester, and our improved distribution capability milk dairy at Stourton, Leeds, on budget and ahead of schedule, and in Scotland when our new Lockerbie dairy opens in the spring.
With our major investment to upgrade our Manchester dairy is on track for our rationalisation programme nearing completion, ahead of schedule completion in mid 2005.
We have extended our Scottish coverage and and in line with our original cash cost projections, we will realise the full will be opening our new dairy at Lockerbie in 2005.
We are also making projected synergy benefits of the merger almost a year ahead of plan.
further major investments to add capacity for Cravendale milk production at Stourton, and to create a new added value milk plant at Ashby fide la Zouch.
I look forward to continuing to build close and mutually beneficial partnerships with both milk producers and customers, and thereby Rationalisation ahead of plan delivering value to our shareholders.
The post-merger rationalisation of production has proceeded ahead of plan, with the closure of our Bamber Bridge dairy and the glass bottling line at Hatfield Peverel.
In September we also closed our old central Leeds dairy following the opening of Stourton, and announced the closure of our Ruislip and Newcastle upon Tyne dairies in 2005.
The integration of head office and other administrative functions is Sir David Naish DL proceeding to plan.
The rationalisation programme as a whole will be Chairman complete by the middle of 2005, with costs in line with our original projections.
Early in 2005 Arla Foods UK plc will withdraw from its wholesale cheese business, HT Webb.
Before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and adjusted for operations to be discontinued and discontinued activities.
After adjusting for the unaudited results for the six months to 30 September 2003.
Excludes the effect of price increases to consumers, principally by the major retailers, which the retailers requested be passed back to milk producers.
The different passback element paid to milk producers by each dairy company reflects the proportion of each companys liquid milk business to which passback applied.
03 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
