02 PHS Group plc Chairmans statement Significantly improved turnover, profitability and cash generation driven by a combination of both organic and acquisition growth.
I am pleased to report that significant progress has been made People Investment in our most important asset, our people, and our during this, the fortieth year in the Groups history, delivering policy of promoting from within wherever possible, continues to be improved performance through a combination of both organic a key contributing factor to our strong results.
The management of the washroom service business has recently been reorganised with Ian Osborne being appointed as Managing Financial highlights of the year include: Director of PHS Washrooms from April 2004.
Ian has been with PHS Turnover increased by 18.1% to 165.3m 2003: 139.9m.
for more than three years as Managing Director of PHS Waterlogic, which has delivered strong growth in both turnover and profitability, Operating profit increased by 21.5% to 50.1m 2003: 41.2m.
Operating profit margins improved to 30.3% 2003: 29.5%.
I would also like to thank the entire workforce for their hard work, skill and commitment that has made an enormous contribution Profit before tax increased by 20.6% to 43.5m 2003: 36.0m.
to the strong results achieved this year and made PHS into the Basic earnings per share increased by 19.6% to 5.87p successful business that it is today.
Outlook We will continue to focus on becoming the best workplace Net cash inflow from operating activities increased by 23.4% services provider in the UK, offering quality and value to our customers to 57.8m 2003: 46.8m reflecting an operating profit to cash and a challenging, rewarding career for everyone in the Group.
Our commitment to continuing to deliver a high level of growth in turnover, profit and cash generation, whilst maintaining or Investment of 61.6m in 18 acquisitions including the 24.9m enhancing profit margins, remains at the heart of our plans.
acquisition of Airstream Services May 2003 and the 13.9m These centre on the further development of innovative services acquisition of Johnsons Washroom Services August 2003. and products to drive organic growth, supplemented by selective Interest cover remains strong, being covered 7.6 times by earnings-enhancing acquisitions.
Bob Mackenzie Total dividend for the year of 1.70p per share 2003: 0.55p.
Chairman PHS continues to deliver strong results with organic growth in turnover of over 4%.
Underpinning this organic growth, our marketing initiatives continued to focus on new business development, customer retention and improving the productivity of our highly motivated sales force.
Supplementing organic growth, we invested 61.6m in earnings-enhancing acquisitions.
The most significant were the 24.9m investment in Airstream Services and 13.9m investment in Johnsons Washroom Services, both of which were bolted-on to our existing washroom service business.
We also made our first overseas acquisition as a listed company purchasing All Water Systems Limited, a Dublin-based point of use water dispenser business for 5.2m.
This brings our total investment as a listed company to 129.3m, significantly exceeding the target set at flotation in June 2001 of investing 100m in acquisitions over the following three years.
As in previous years, we recognise the importance of our procurement initiatives in achieving effective cost control and quality of supply by developing longer-term relationships with our suppliers.
This initiative has again proved successful with a number of new supplier contracts negotiated in the year that are expected to deliver ongoing annual savings of 1.8m.
Organic growth in turnover is the estimated increase in turnover in the year, excluding the effect of acquisitions.
It is not possible to determine the post-acquisition turnover precisely as the businesses acquired are incorporated into the existing operations.
