CHAIRMANS STATEMENT REAL PROGRESS IN A DIFFICULT YEAR Financial results US Federal Government, Newark InOnes Group sales for the year were 764.6 million largest customer, increased by over 14 per cent 2003: 759.0 million.
This comprised sales of during the year.
668.2 million in the Marketing and Distribution Division and sales of 96.4 million in the eCommerce sales per day were up 52 per cent year on year within the Marketing and Industrial Products Division.
Distribution Division, reaching 71 million during Operating profit for the year was 68.8 million the period.
This business was transacted 2003: 80.3 million, producing an operating through the 282 live eProcurement partnerships margin of 9.0 per cent 2003: 10.6 per cent.
that we have in place with larger customers, Adjusted operating profit for the year was and with many other customers via our 73.8 million 2003: 82.9 million before web sites.
rebranding costs of 2.4 million and goodwill amortisation of 2.6 million, producing an In order to support higher levels of customer service, we extended product ranges across adjusted operating margin of 9.7 per cent 2003: 10.9 per cent.
Operating profit was the Marketing and Distribution Division during the year.
This was most evident in the affected by the increased depreciation following the roll-out of the customer relationship Americas, where we added a total of 56,000 products to Newark InOnes portfolio, bringing management software and investment in the Lige distribution centre.
Staff Profit before tax in the year was 54.6 million 2003: 59.8 million.
Profit before tax, goodwill The commitment of staff across the Group has been impressive and, on behalf of the Board, I amortisation and gain loss on business disposals was 57.1 million 2003: 67.2 million.
would like to thank all our employees for their effort during a demanding year.
This effort has Earnings per share for the year were 8.9 pence also been recognised externally by a number of 2003: 9.3 pence.
Adjusted earnings per share prestigious awards from suppliers and industry for the year before rebranding costs, bodies alike, discussed in the Operating Review.
amortisation of goodwill and the gain loss on business disposals were 10.1 pence We were pleased to welcome Laurence Bain, 2003: 11.2 pence.
Group Chief Operating Officer, to the Board on Sir Malcolm Bates 1 July 2003.
Sir Robert Horton, Deputy Chairman The Board is recommending a final dividend of Chairman, is retiring from the Board after 5.0 pence 2003: 5.0 pence making a total for completing nine years of distinguished service the year of 9.0 pence 2003: 9.0 pence.
The and we are grateful to him for his sterling dividend is covered 1.0 times by profit contribution and wise counsel throughout his attributable to ordinary shareholders and time as a Director.
1.1 times by profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill amortisation and Outlook Overview The investment programme of the past few profit on disposal of businesses.
The final This year can be characterised as one of dividend is payable on 23rd June 2004 to years has provided a platform from which to significant achievement in difficult trading drive growth.
It has also created capacity in shareholders on the register on 28th May 2004. environments.
Whilst our markets remained systems and distribution centres to weak or patchy for most of the year, the Group Balance Sheet accommodate sales increases.
The Group achieved a 3.5 per cent increase in sales per The Groups financial position is sound.
Net has already demonstrated the ability to assist day year-on-year.
This reflects the Groups debt at 1st February 2004 was 201.9 million large and small customers to improve their progress in winning market share in Europe 2003: 209.2 million and interest was covered productivity and is well positioned to take and, amid signs of a recovery in the market, a 5.2 times by operating profit before one-off advantage of growth opportunities in its key stronger performance from our North American rebranding costs and goodwill amortisation.
In markets as they develop during the current operations in the final quarter of the year.
June 2003, the Group raised $225 million of year.
Our focus is now firmly on disciplined and new financing in the US private placement efficient programmes to ensure that those During the year, the Group also concluded a market.
The funds raised were used to repay opportunities are seized.
year have included the implementation of major We enter a new year confident that, should the information systems in the UK and US, the Business progress market recovery be sustained, the Groups opening of a new distribution centre in China, During the year, the Group has focussed on operational gearing should enable us to deliver the full automation of the new distribution growing business with larger corporate value for customers and shareholders alike.
centre in Europe and a substantial increase in accounts, developing its eCommerce capability product ranges.
This programme has and extending its product portfolio.
Our businesses are now equipped with a far greater We achieved strong growth in corporate ability to understand the needs of their accounts by strengthening existing relationships customers and the flexibility to offer products and winning significant new business.
Our and services that meet those needs.
In capabilities in vendor-managed inventory and addition, the brands of some of the Groups eProcurement create a powerful proposition major businesses were brought together under that has enabled us to add customers a new brand suffix, InOne, reflecting the including Bombardier, The UK Atomic Energy increasing co-ordination of our activities.
In addition, sales to the CHAIRMANS STATEMENT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 05 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
