02 Premier Foods plc Chairmans statement Introduction 01 I am very pleased to introduce the first set of full year results for Premier Foods since it became a public company on 23 July 2004.
This has been a significant year for the Group with important developments and excellent progress towards our objective of becoming the leading supplier of ambient food products to UK markets.
In terms of our business structure, we have: Integrated the Ambrosia desserts business, acquired in December 2003: Sold Materne, the French jams and compote operation, as part of the Initial Public Offering IPO : Undertaken the IPO in July 2004, which enabled a restructuring of the Companys debt to be made, but also incurred significant one-off costs: Acquired from Kraft on 13 February 2005, the Birds desserts business.
Premier Foods has adapted quickly to life as a public At the same time, operationally the business has company with the strengthening of corporate governance, performed well in spite of a fire at the Bury St Edmunds the building of shareholder relationships and the factory at an important time of the year.
This impacted development of an effective Board.
It is fortunate to have sales: nevertheless sales of the continuing business non-executive directors with enormous experience of the grew 2%, excluding acquisitions, and 8.8% in total.
food industry complementing the skills of the management team, which I know will serve the Company well in the The strategy of acquiring and focusing on brands, and coming years.
improving efficiencies was successful and led to margin growth and an increase in operating profits for continuing The Company is confident it has the right strategy and the operations prior to exceptional items and amortisation of right management to make 2005 a year of further progress 27% to 97.3m.
However exceptional and one-off costs as the benefits of actions taken in 2004 continue to totalling 34m were charged to profits resulting primarily come through.
As we stated at the time of the IPO, the directors intend to adopt a competitive and progressive dividend policy reflecting the long-term earnings and cash flow potential of the Group, whilst maintaining an appropriate level of dividend cover.
The directors are recommending payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended David J Kappler Chairman 31 December 2004 of 9p per share, payable in May 2005.
