Chairmans statement Charles Jamieson and Financial and operating performance Sir David John KCMG Chairman As announced in October 2004, Premier is reporting its results in US dollars for the first time.
As this is the currency of the oil and gas business, the Board believes that the US dollar accounts will give a clearer picture of the performance of the groups business, minimising the impact of US dollar exchange rate fluctuations.
Our results for 2004, both operating and In 2004, profits after tax were US$43.8 million 2003: US$66.5 financial, have been built on the benefits million.
On a comparative basis, net profits increased by 57 per of the restructuring in 2003, good cent 2003: US$27.9 million from ongoing operations reflecting the restructuring completed in September 2003.
This profit exploration results and commercial deals, improvement largely reflects higher oil prices and lower interest particularly in Mauritania, together with charges following the restructuring.
Operating cash flow after high oil prices.
This has established an taxes and interest amounted to US$109.6 million 2003: ongoing operations US$135.8 million and, at year-end Premier was excellent foundation to continue to debt-free with net cash balances of US$19.6 million 2003: US$12.7 deliver strong performance.
We are therefore currently fully funding our capital expenditure on fields, developments and exploration appraisal from operating cash flow, keeping the balance sheet strong in order to preserve financial flexibility.
2 Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 I am pleased to report that Premier shares have increased in value by 350 per cent over the five years to 22 March 2005, making the company a top ten performer in the FTSE 250.
Production for the year, on a working interest basis, was broadly flat Shareholder returns at 34,700 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd 2003: ongoing I am pleased to report that Premier shares have increased in value operations 35,100 boepd.
Our producing fields are performing by 350 per cent over the five years to 22 March 2005, making the well and have exceeded planned levels in the first quarter of 2005. company a top ten performer in the FTSE 250.
Our objective We continue to focus on maintaining world class health, safety remains to reward shareholders principally through share price and environmental performance, and in Indonesia our operated growth, and to consider returns via share buy-backs or special West Natuna gas facility passed a milestone in June 2004 of three dividends, when appropriate.
years continuous operation without a lost time incident.
Field development work on West Natuna, and the Chinguetti field in In December 2004, the Board authorised a share buy-back Mauritania has progressed well.
programme of up to 10 million.
In our view the then prevailing share price was significantly below our valuation of net assets Oil and gas proven and probable booked reserves at year-end per share, and the company has benefited from a cash flow amounted to 177 million barrels of oil equivalent mmboe on surplus above the needs of the business, due to the high oil price.
These reserves have been confirmed A successful programme was carried out at an average price of by independent review.
Total recoverable resources, including 5.32 per share, adding to remaining shareholders value per discoveries not yet booked pending appraisal commercialisation, share.
Further share purchases will be considered in the have increased by 10 mmboe to an estimated 210 mmboe.
On the exploration front, participation in 11 exploration and Outlook appraisal wells yielded a good success ratio of 50 per cent or more At the end of 2004, the Board carried out a review of the companys for the second year running.
Six successes were recorded in 2004, strategy.
The existing policy of growing net asset value per comprising Gajah Baru in Indonesia, Sinapa-2 in Guinea Bissau, share, and hence share price, through exploration success and the Tevet discovery and three Tiof appraisal wells in Mauritania.
commercial deal-making, was endorsed with renewed emphasis Further appraisal and commercialisation work is planned in on the commercial front.
An ungeared balance sheet and strong respect of these discoveries.
cash flow from production give us an excellent foundation for investments in our focus countries in Asia and Africa.
In 2005, we Board are undertaking an exciting exploration programme of up to Following the implementation in the revised Combined Code 16 wells in eight countries, and will continue our search for of the Higgs report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive attractive new commercial opportunities.
directors, which is effective for 2004, the Board has undertaken its first formal independent evaluation, the outcome of which was extremely satisfactory.
A major focus for the non-executive directors in 2003 and 2004 has been the appointment of a successor to Chief Executive, Charles Jamieson.
A thorough selection process was carried out looking at both external and internal candidates.
I am delighted that the decision taken was to promote Simon Lockett, whose appointment was announced in September 2004.
Simon has Sir David John KCMG been with Premier for ten years, fulfilling a number of roles, most Chairman recently as Operations Director, and he takes over as Chief Executive with effect from 24 March 2005.
Charles remains an executive director and will retire in June 2005 after 25 years with the company, the last 13 years as Chief Executive.
On behalf of the Board, employees and shareholders, I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his outstanding contribution to the successful development of your company, which has never been in better shape.
I wish Charles the best of good fortune for the future.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3
