co. uk CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In my first statement to shareholders, I am pleased to report on a strong performance by your company.
In the past year we have achieved record earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
All our businesses delivered good performances and prospects for the future have been enhanced by investment in the Groups clearly defined strategy.
Last year, my predecessor commented that the Group had completed its repositioning into the public transport market, supporting the strategic goal of becoming the leading transport services organisation in Europe.
In 2004, we have seen the benefits of our strategy come through at the same time as we have continued to invest more for the future.
In terms of financial results, total turnover from continuing operations increased by 13 per cent to 1,800.2 million, whilst pre-tax profit, Sir Richard excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items increased by Broadbent Chairman 15 per cent to 116.3 million.
Earnings per share on the same basis increased by 25 per cent to 44.9 pence per share.
Strong cash generation continued to be a key feature of the Groups businesses with operating cash inflow increasing by 9 per cent to 258.6 million IN 2004, WE HAVE SEEN THE BENEFITS OF 2003: 236.8 million.
OUR STRATEGY COME THROUGH AT THE A final dividend of 14.07 pence per share is recommended by the SAME TIME AS WE HAVE CONTINUED TO Board, which together with the interim dividend of 4.83 pence per INVEST MORE FOR THE FUTURE.
share, paid in October 2004, makes a total dividend of 18.9 pence per share, an increase of 5 per cent.
The final dividend will be paid on 3 May 2005 to all shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 1 April 2005.
Just as significant as the financial results, has been the progress made towards our strategic goals.
In the UK, we are the largest bus operator in London, a market that continues to experience growth, as well as a leading player in the regional bus market.
Our new UK rail franchise in Wales and the Borders has completed its first full year of operation.
In mainland Europe, we entered the important German rail market, added further businesses to our Italian, Portuguese and Danish operations and saw improved returns from the investments made in earlier years.
The bus and rail markets are worth over Euro 100 billion annually in Europe and we are well placed to capitalise on this opportunity.
2 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 www.
co. uk Having established our strategic goals and positioned the Group Mark Saxton, who held the position of Group Human Resources to pursue them, the task now and for the next few years is to Director since February 2000, has left the Group.
Mark has made drive to achieve them.
This means continuing to invest to maintain a major contribution over the past five years and I would like to take our leading position in the UK and to capitalise on the potential this opportunity to wish him well for the future.
we have created in mainland Europe.
It also means managing Gareth Cooper retired as the Groups Non-Executive Chairman on the Group to benefit from the economies of scale and scope 31 October 2004 and I took up the position on 1 November having that flow from the development of an integrated European joined the Board on 2 July.
We record our warm appreciation to transport presence.
Gareth for his contribution and wish him a long and happy retirement.
Reflecting this, we have announced a reorganisation of the senior During Gareths five years on the Board, Arriva has been transformed.
management team under the Chief Executive, Bob Davies, with the It has repositioned itself as a major pan-European public transport following board level appointments being made: operator with significant positions in the UK, Scandinavia, the Netherlands, Germany, Iberia and Italy.
Our task is to build on this Group Managing Director Operations: David Martin, who is also strong foundation.
appointed to the new position of Deputy Chief Executive, takes responsibility for all operations in the UK and mainland Europe.
Finally, I would like to record the Boards appreciation and thanks David was previously the Board Director responsible for to all of our employees who have contributed to the successful International operations.
Since joining the Board, I have seen the benefits of the investment that is underway in both employee Group Managing Director Corporate Affairs: Steve Clayton training and development.
This commitment to creating an undertakes this new role with responsibility for Human Resources, environment where everyone has the opportunity to succeed Health, Safety and the Environment, Corporate Communications is essential to the Groups future success.
and all Government Relations activities across the Group.
Steve was formerly the Board Director responsible for UK Bus operations.
Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman Group Managing Director Finance: Steve Lonsdale is appointed to this position with responsibility for Finance, Legal and Secretarial matters.
Steve was formerly Finance Director.
This is an experienced and tight-knit management team.
I look forward with confidence to further progress towards the Groups strategic goal of becoming the leading transport services organisation in Europe.
Against this background of significant business development, I attach high priority to good corporate governance and to ensuring that, as the business grows, the corporate framework within which it operates develops accordingly.
The Board evaluation process conducted this year led to a number of changes being made to Board and Board Committee procedures.
These were mainly designed to ensure that the Board focuses clearly on the major strategic issues and to refine and extend the role of some of the Board Committees in line with the growth of the business.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
