CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report another year of The Board DIVIDEND PER SHARE pence excellent progress.
The financial results The composition of the Board remained 40 exceeded our own targets, and shareunchanged during 2004.
However, memholders again enjoyed returns that bership of the Remuneration Committee 34.0 outperformed both the sector and the has changed and details are set out in this 30 28.0 stock market.
Judith Sprieser has taken over as 25.5 The financial results were at the top Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 20 end of peer group performance.
Net succeeding Peter Harf, whom we thank revenues rose by 10% at constant for his wise counsel.
Peter will remain on exchange rates and 4% at actual the Board.
10 exchange rates: net income rose by 20% Since the year end, Graham Mackay to 586m.
has joined the Board as an independent 0 02 03 04 The Company has continued its Non-Executive Director.
He has also programme of returning cash to joined the Remuneration Committee.
He shareholders through both progressive brings considerable commercial and DIVIDEND COVER times adjusted dividend increases and share buybacks.
international experience and I welcome 3 The interim dividend was increased by his appointment.
I am sure he will make a 14% and the directors propose to valuable contribution to the Board and 2.5 2.4 2.3 increase the final by 29%, giving a total the Company.
2 for the year of 34 pence a share an After serving on the Board since 1998 overall increase of 21%.
This dividend, if and 1999 respectively, Ana Maria Llopis approved at the AGM, will be paid on 26 and Hans van der Wielen have decided to 1 May 2005 to shareholders on the register step down from the Board at the on 4 March 2005. conclusion of the Annual General The Company has continued its rolling Meeting and will accordingly not be share buyback programme, repurchasing offering themselves for re-election.
I 0 02 03 04 19.4m shares during the year at a cost of would like to thank them for their 283 million.
Over the entire procontribution to the Companys success.
gramme to date, the Company has now George Greener has now served on repurchased 3% of its outstanding your Board for more than nine years and I believe shareholders are well served shares, returning 308m to shareholders.
is no longer considered to be independent by the strategy and the management.
The programme will continue, with a in line with the recommendations of On behalf of the shareholders and the 300m target over the 12 months to the Combined Code on Corporate Board, I thank Bart and his colleagues September 2005.
He has therefore relinquished for their hard work and excellent results.
the role of senior independent NonI also thank shareholders for their Annual General Meeting Executive Director and Kenneth Hydon continuing support.
The agenda for the AGM on 5 May has succeeded him in this role.
George 2005 contains resolutions seeking will remain on the Board.
adoption of the accounts, approval of the final dividend, the remuneration Outlook policy, re-election of directors and reReckitt Benckisers success is due to a Adrian Bellamy Chairman appointment of auditors.
The Board compelling vision and a simple but highly hopes that shareholders will continue to effective strategy, well executed by a endorse its policies, which have clearly talented and motivated management proven successful.
team under the leadership of Bart Becht.
