02 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Chairmans Statement These results reect the excellent progress that has been made during 2004 The Groups profit before interest and tax excluding exceptional items, amortisation of goodwill and profit on sale of subsidiaries has increased by 29.9 million to 4.1 million 2003: 25.8 million loss.
Our results reect the benets of the restructuring programmes undertaken in Europe and the Americas and the continued focus on top line growth and cost control.
Throughout 2004 we have seen continuous improvements in price and occupancy, which have culminated in a strong nish to the year.
As a result we entered 2005 in a much stronger position than 12 months earlier.
I am also delighted to announce that Regus is now a FTSE 250 constituent company.
ACQUISITIONS In August 2004 we consolidated our position in the USA with the acquisition of HQ Global Holdings Inc HQ.
The deal was nanced through the combination of a Placing and Open Share Offer, which raised 119.0 million after expenses, and new debt facilities of 85.3 million $155.0 million.
The integration of HQ is now substantially complete.
We are very pleased to have achieved this well ahead of our original timetable of 18 months.
As a result the costs of integration and any associated disruption have been minimised.
In addition, the financial benets we had previously estimated have started to accrue earlier.
We achieved 10.3 million $19.6 million of annualised synergies in the period to 31 December 2004 and identied a further 1.9 million $3.7 million to be realised in 2005.
This exceeds our original targeted synergies of at least $20.0 million by the end of 2005.
BILL OSBORNE, SENIOR ESTATE SURVEYOR IBM, EMEA We were rationalising our property portfolio in Glasgow and when we looked at the Regus proposition for exible and cost effective ofce space, it was an easy decision to make to move our people into the Regus ofces.... WORLD ARE GOING ABOUT THEIR BUSINESS MORE EFFICIENTLY AND EFFECTIVELY THANKS TO THE 03 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 OVERVIEW OF RESULTS There were a number of exceptional items, profitability and, following an excellent fourth I will outline our statutory results, in line with which gave rise to a net loss of 8.6 million quarter last year and with HQ successfully current accounting practice, before going on before tax.
These relate mainly to the costs integrated, we have strong momentum to discuss what we term underlying results, of closing loss making centres and costs going into 2005.
Our forward order book which serve to provide a clearer indication incurred in integrating the HQ business.
excluding HQ is some 10.0 million higher of Regus year on year performance.
The than the same period last year and we have underlying results exclude exceptional items, BOARD AND DIRECTORS seen a substantial rise in enquiry levels as amortisation of goodwill and profit on sale of On 11 March 2005, Stephen East 47 was well as a reduction of discounting for new subsidiaries which are considered one off or appointed to the Board as a non-executive sales.
Costs remain rmly under control.
non-integral to the operating business.
Stephen was formerly Finance Director of MEPC plc.
Prior to that he had In the USA, our largest market, there is clear Revenue for the period was 312.2 million run his own consultancy business and held evidence of increasing activity levels and compared with 256.6 million in 2003. senior positions with Redland PLC.
He is a the outlook in Asia Pacic is similarly very The analysis of revenues and contribution non-executive director of Star Energy Group positive.
During 2005 we will look selectively by geographical segment is set out in the plc.
He has been appointed as a member to open new centres in both these regions Operational and Financial Review.
Loss before of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination to address rising demand.
Although the interest and tax was 6.5 million against a Committees.
outlook in Europe is less certain, we are loss of 25.5 million in the previous year.
making steady progress in our key countries I would like to pay tribute to our Chief and, where necessary, are addressing those Underlying profit before interest and tax was Executive, Mark Dixon for his inspirational centres trading below their potential.
4.1 million against a loss of 25.8 million in leadership during the year.
I would also like 2003 while underlying earnings per share to thank our Group Finance Director, Rudy We have invested substantially in the rose to 0.3p from a loss per share of 4.7p in Lobo and our two non-executive directors, business over the past year, particularly in the the previous year.
Roger Orf and Martin Robinson, for their acquisition of HQ, but also in our Meeting immense contribution and hard work.
Room and Virtual Ofce businesses and we At 31 December 2004, Regus had cash of expect these to contribute signicantly to our 82.3 million and net funds of 4.9 million.
The Board is fully committed to achieving performance in the coming year.
We will also high standards of corporate governance continue to manage our property portfolio Setting aside the effect of the HQ acquisition and we are pleased to report good progress actively, taking advantage of lease renewals and currency uctuations, REVPAW, our key against the regulatory changes in this area.
to realign our cost base and remove excess revenue statistic, increased by 14%.
was in part due to increases in occupancy OUR TEAM MEMBERS together with a greater focus on Meeting At 31 December 2004 there were 2,521 With the current levels of occupancy and Rooms and Virtual Ofces, both reporting employees in Regus.
The ability of our team good pricing momentum into 2005, the Board double digit growth over 2003. members to deal with difficult economic is confident that Regus has a solid platform and trading conditions, undertake a major in place for strong growth in revenues, profits We have become a cash generative Group acquisition and integration and still keep a and cash during 2005. realising 24.2 million in operating cash downward pressure on costs, is testament ow pre exceptional items compared with an to all our staff and the corporate culture they 8.8 million operating cash outow in 2003 promote.
Our continued success is rooted as the impact of the Groups restructuring in their ability to adapt, innovate and act.
JOHN MATTHEWS programme took effect.
The acquisition of CHAIRMAN HQ will enable us to improve and maintain OUTLOOK 11 March 2005 our strong cash ow.
The reorganisation of our business has created a platform for growth and improving JOHN H DEGNAN, DIRECTOR VIGNETTE CORPORATION The Network Access program is cost effective and ideal for our mobile workforce.
Flexibility in locations, congurations, and the amount of time we need ofces or conference rooms are of utmost importance for Vignette.
This program acts as an extension of our own property portfolio.
WORKPLACE SOLUTIONS THE REGUS GROUP DELIVERS.
THESE BUSINESSES ARE INCREASING THEIR...
