Annual report 2004 Chairmans statement 6 Renishaw fundamentally believes that success comes from innovative and patented products and processes, low-cost, high-quality manufacturing, and the ability to provide excellent local customer support in all our markets.
Trading I have pleasure in announcing a successful Operating profit increased by 15% to set of results for the 12 months ended 30th 18.1m 2003 15.6m despite a reduction June 2004. in one-off currency profits on forward foreign exchange contracts of 0.4m this Turnover rose by 15% to 127.7m year and 3.0m in 2003.
measured at constant exchange rates.
Profit after tax amounted to 16.1m This represents the highest turnover in compared with 14.3m in the previous 01 the Company's history.
Sales rose in all year, giving rise to earnings per share markets with the exception of the UK, growth of 12% to 22.1p 2003 19.7p.
most notably in the Far East including Japan, but also in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe and Russia.
This reflected growth in all our product lines, but with above-average growth in Digitising including dental, Encoders, Calibration and Machine Tool products.
First quarter Renishaw is awarded with Renishaw receives Rotarys The National Training Award Paul Harris award The NTA is the UKs premier accolade for Alan Hill, President of the Rotary Club of organisations and individuals that have Cotswold Tyndale presented the award and achieved lasting excellence through training.
praised Renishaw plc as a proactive partner and friend to Rotary.
Right receiving the award on behalf of the Company, from England cricketer Right Sir David McMurtry r with the David Gower c, were Helen Benkenstein Paul Harris Certificate of Appreciation Award and Brian Marsh.
presented to Renishaw plc in recognition of its support of Rotary activities.
01 Sir David McMurtry 02 The award winning OMP40 7 Manufacturing Marketing There has been significant investment Our activity in marketing throughout at the New Mills and Woodchester sites the world has continued at a high level.
in additional capacity and capability, All our recently established subsidiaries in including CNC lathes, additional machines Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Austria, for incorporation into the Companys Sweden, Canada, Israel and South Korea automated milling, turning and inspection have grown well in their markets and are system and surface-mount electronic already making a significant contribution assembly inspection and test equipment.
to the Groups overall results and Phase II development at Woodchester is distribution infrastructure.
now complete: a further 30,000 sq feet The Group is planning to open additional of manufacturing space will become offices in both China and Russia.
available at this site later in the year.
02 Second quarter Renishaw raises over Sir David honoured with the 6,000 for UKs Children IMechEs James Clayton Prize in need Charity In December, Sir David was awarded the Institutions James Clayton Prize for 2002, On Friday 21st November, employees jointly with Eur.
arrived in fancy dress and held various This annual joint award was made for the events to raise 3,211.
Renishaws inventions and imaginative applications devised Charities Committee matched this and which have had a huge impact not only within a cheque was sent to the fund raising appeal.
engineering but also in such fields as medicine Right Cliff Powell events organiser and Jane Ind and sciences.
Charities Committee with the presentation cheque.
Annual report 2004 Chairmans statement continued 8 Research and development The Groups ongoing commitment to research and development, which has continued through the recent economic downturn, has resulted in the successful launch of a number of new products during the year, including the UCC2 and SPA2 CMM controller system, the NC4 non-contact laser system for high speed toolsetting and tool breakage detection, RMP60 RMI radio system, the inVia reflex Raman microscope interfaced with scanning electron microscopes for precision single point sample analysis, a range of rotary magnetic encoder products and additional software products.
01 Expenditure on our research and Awards Personnel development increased to 22.0m I am delighted to report that the Group With recruitment primarily targeted at 2003 20.2m including related has again won a number of awards.
The local production and overseas sales engineering costs.
Queens Award for Enterprise was won in personnel, particularly in the Far East Capital expenditure respect of the OMP40 compact spindle and our recently established subsidiary probe.
This, I am pleased to say, was the companies, numbers employed in the Capital expenditure, including that on 10th Queens Award in the Companys Group worldwide have grown to 1,754 new manufacturing equipment, amounted history.
To all of them I express my to 15.6m 2003 8.2m, of which 6.5m Award at the Mach 2004 Exhibition was gratitude for their commitment and drive 2003 2.7m was spent on freehold awarded in respect of the SP25M scanning in maintaining Renishaw as a world property, with the new offices in Japan probe for The Best Quality Control leader in its field.
Further investment was Product or System.
The Worshipful made in IT hardware and software I should also like to congratulate Joe Company of Scientific Instrument Makers throughout the Group, but particularly McGeehan on his recent award of a CBE.
awarded their 2003 Annual Achievement for design systems, marketing and Award in respect of the RESR management systems and angle encoder.
In addition, the Company won the 2003 Liquidity National Training Award and was the The Group continues to maintain a high regional winner of the National Languages level of liquidity, with net bank balances at for Export Award.
Third quarter RESR angle encoder honoured Renishaws SP25M probe, by The Worshipful Company of Winner in MWP awards Scientific Instrument Makers At the Metalworking Production Awards, the SP25M was judged winner of the Best Renishaws RESR encoder was awarded quality control product or system.
the Annual Achievement Award 2003 by The Worshipful Company of Scientific Instrument Right Andy Butter receives the award from Makers.
Renishaw was also joint winner of the Amanda Stretton, TV presenter, and David award in 1994 for its Raman microscope.
Andrew, Sales & Marketing Director from sponsors of the category, Hardinge Machine Tools.
Right Renishaws RESR angle encoder systems.
01 New surface mount technology 02 2004 Queens Award presentation: l to r Sir David McMurtry, Henry equipment installed at Woodchester Elwes Her Majestys Lord-Lieutenant of Gloucestershire, Andrew Harding representing Renishaws Machine Tool Products Division 9 Prospects and dividend Activity picked up considerably in the second half of the year and forward order books have continued to increase.
Although exchange rates continue to limit the Groups ultimate profitability, we are optimistic for the current year and confident of the Groups longer term prospects.
Your Board proposes a final dividend of 12.39p per share, giving a total for the year of 18.0p 2003 16.7p.
02 Sir David R McMurtry CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Chairman and Chief Executive 21st July 2004 Engineering costs Capital expenditure Shareholders funds Other Land and buildings Research and development Plant and vehicles % of sales m % of sales m 15.6 15 m 22.0 20.2 11.7 19.4 20 40 12 120 10.7 18.4 109.3 107.7 107.7 105.2 97.1 14.7 8.9 15 30 9 8.2 90 10 20 6 60 5 10 3 30 Fourth quarter Award for Renishaw Renishaw honoured with SAS, France its 10th Queens Award Renishaw SAS was commended as Sir David McMurtry, Chairman and Chief laureate of the Palmares fide la technologie Executive, said that Renishaw was delighted categorie: Capteur Prizewinner for to receive its tenth commendation and paid Technology, category: probes.
The award is tribute to the Groups employees in the UK organised by the journal Mesures.
and overseas who have contributed to the success of its OMP40 probe worldwide.
Right Louis Gonzalez l receives the award Right OMP40 compact spindle probe.
from Mesures Managing Editor, Jean Franois Peyrucat.
