Chairmans Statement BOARD CHANGES basic earnings per share down 25.0% at 11.87p.
Operating 2004 was one of the most tumultuous years that Rentokil cash flow was excellent at 231.8 million, representing 89% Initial has experienced.
In the period from mid May to the end of reported, pre-exceptional, post-tax profit.
Net debt was of July, the board decided that a significant change of direction 72.3 million lower than 2003 at 1,135.6 million.
was required to halt the decline in the companys performance and reinvigorate it for the future.
To that end, over those DIVIDEND ten weeks, the chairman, Sir Clive Thompson and the chief The board is recommending a final dividend of 4.78p per share executive, James Wilde stepped down from the board and giving a full year dividend of 6.71p, an increase of 10.0% over left the company.
During that period the remaining directors 2003.
This will be payable on Friday 3rd June 2005 to all asked me initially to become non-executive chairman and then shareholders on the register on Friday 6th May 2005. executive chairman until a new chief executive was appointed.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW I am delighted that Doug Flynn joined the company as chief When I became chairman in May 2004 I undertook an extensive executive on the 4th April 2005.
Doug was formerly chief operational review of the company.
I found that the company executive of the global marketing services company Aegis had some very positive attributes with excellent businesses and Group PLC.
Dougs extensive international experience at driving able and talented people.
There were strong cultural strengths through structural change, building strong management teams of loyalty, discipline and attention to detail.
Moreover, the and growing businesses to meet challenging and competitive people I met were also enthusiastic, dedicated and keen to markets are exactly the qualities the board believes are required do well for both themselves and the company.
He has considerable experience of running a diversified global services business made up of multiple However, I also realised that there had been serious underoperating units and has a proven track record of developing investment in many of the businesses for a number of years.
businesses operating in diverse geographies.
The main actions taken in the last year have been to: In March we reported that Roger Payne intended to take early Build up to and then maintain optimum levels of sales retirement and step down as finance director of the company, personnel, service engineers and marketing managers although he will remain in his current role whilst a successor Change the culture to one of devolved responsibility is sought.
Roger has made a significant contribution to the so that the company becomes more nimble and quicker company over the past nineteen years and, in particular, has on its feet been very supportive to me since I assumed the role of Step up the pace of bolt-on acquisitions within our chairman last year.
core businesses Find the best ways to effectively reward and motivate RESULTS our employees worldwide The underlying trading was broadly in line with market Accelerate our investment in Information Technology expectations and with the guidance I first gave in May 2004. developments Turnover from continuing operations was 2,435.3 million: Create better commercial exploitation of our innovations profit before tax and after exceptional items, which were identified in the November Trading Statement, was I will report on the advances we have made in those 347.2 million and after exceptional items was 297.8 million.
areas in the chief executives review on pages 11 and 12.
Adjusted earnings per share were down 13.2% to14.30p, with 4 As an integral part of my review findings we have made some senior management additions with the appointment of a group human resources director and a group acquisitions director.
They both report directly to the chief executive and are members of the company executive board.
PEOPLE 2004 was a difficult year for everyone who works within Rentokil Initial.
During the course of my operational review I was delighted to find so many competent, capable and enthusiastic colleagues wherever I was within the Rentokil Initial operational world.
On behalf of the shareholders I would like to thank all of our employees for their effort and goodwill during 2004.
PROSPECTS In November 2004, I stated that a further deterioration in trading results would continue into the first half of 2005, but that, thereafter, the benefits of the investments and cultural changes should start to come through, even though the year as a whole was likely to give a weaker performance than in 2004.
The actions initiated in July 2004 aimed at re-energising the company have continued into 2005.
If 2004 was a tumultuous year for Rentokil Initial, I see 2005 as being the year of transition.
Brian McGowan Executive Chairman 13th April 2005 5
