Chairmans letter Dear shareholder environmental performance alongside delivery of consistently strong The recovery in the global financial results.
While much remains to be done in this area we are economy that gathered very encouraged by an increasingly productive dialogue with momentum in 2003 stakeholder organisations.
Our sustainable development continued in 2004.
As a programmes are responding positively to a range of issues including result of strong demand biodiversity, climate change and HIV AIDS.
The Groups social and across our portfolio of metals environmental contribution helps to sustain our pipeline of project and minerals, accompanied opportunities in many countries and has a business case which I by increased prices, we believe is compelling.
achieved a record financial The year 2005 will see the tenth anniversary of the formation of performance.
Rio Tintos dual listed structure and unified management, which has An important factor has fully met its objectives and continues to provide great strength to been the strength in metal Rio Tintos operations and governance.
and minerals demand in the It is with great sadness I report the sudden death on US and Asia, where China 27 January 2005 of Bob Adams, our executive director for planning has been prominent but and development.
Bob was a major contributor to Rio Tintos markets in Japan and growth over 35 years, having joined our planning department in elsewhere have also recovered.
Rio Tinto holds a long established 1970.
He was a key figure in building Rio Tinto into a leading position in these markets: 40 years in the case of Japan and 30 international mining group.
He was respected and liked by all who years in China.
Our strong position today reflects these long term knew him and his wise counsel and advice will be sorely missed.
At our forthcoming annual meetings we shall see the retirement Chinas rapid economic development has led to the adoption of Sir Richard Giordano, Leon Davis and John Morschel, all of by the Government of measures to achieve more balanced growth whom have been outstanding contributors to the board and to our in the economy.
However, we continue to believe that Chinas continuing success.
I should particularly like to thank Dick and Leon growth trend will remain well above the global average in the as deputy chairmen for the support they have given me in my initial years ahead.
Their long experience of the Group has been In 2004, commodity prices were higher across the board and invaluable in a transition period.
the US dollar was more stable against our main producing We recently welcomed three new colleagues to the board.
Adjusted earnings were a record Richard Goodmanson, executive vice president and chief operating US$2,221 million, US$839 million or 61 per cent above 2003 and officer of DuPont, was appointed on 1 December 2004. exceeding the previous high of US$1,662 million achieved in 2001.
Ashton Calvert, former secretary of the Department of Foreign Net earnings were US$2,813 million, or 204 US cents per share, Affairs and Trade of the Government of Australia, and Vivienne Cox, including a US$592 million net gain on exceptional items.
executive vice president of BP plc for Integrated Supply and Trading Total cash flow from operations including dividends from joint and also for Gas Power and Renewables, were both appointed on ventures and associates at US$4,449 million was also a record and 1 February 2005.
Each of them will add to the overall skill and 28 per cent higher than 2003.
An active portfolio management experience of the Rio Tinto boards which is a vital underpinning of programme, focused on the disposal of non core assets, generated our high standard of corporate governance.
an additional US$1.5 billion in cash.
This has further strengthened Looking forward, we expect to see continuing underlying our balance sheet, allowing us to undertake a major capital demand growth for metals and minerals despite some economic investment programme.
We are now beginning to see a supply While our record financial performance reflects the strong response to higher prices but this will take some time to impact on markets for our products, it also underlines the quality of our asset the currently tight markets.
While prices may ease from current portfolio which has been developed over many years on the basis of levels in 2005 we expect they will generally remain above the long a long term commitment to shareholder value.
The future direction of the US dollar remains a significant Investments over recent years have created a platform for uncertainty and, as was the case in 2003, could have a major earnings growth.
This, coupled with a positive view of future growth impact on earnings.
prospects, has given the board confidence to increase our annual In 2004 I had the opportunity to visit many of our operating dividend to 77 US cents per share for 2004 an increase of 20 per locations.
I have been impressed not only with the scale and cent from 2003.
This also means that the 2005 interim dividend complexity of the operations themselves but the depth of payable in September can be expected to be 38.5 US cents per management and skill with which they are operated.
We intend to maintain our progressive dividend policy from therefore like to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of the this higher baseline.
The board has also decided the current Groups employees throughout the world in 2004.
Their strength of the Groups cash flow means that in addition to commitment to Rio Tintos core values underpins the strong results comfortably funding the current and planned investments, capital they continue to deliver for shareholders.
can be returned to shareholders without reducing our flexibility to pursue other development opportunities.
Subject to market conditions, Rio Tintos intention, therefore, is to return up to US$1.5 billion of capital to shareholders during the course of 2005 and 2006 through share buyback programmes.
A sustainable business also requires commitment to social and Paul Skinner Chairman Adjusted earnings excludes the effect of exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion is necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfil their purpose of reflecting the Groups underlying performance.
A reconciliation to net earnings can be found on page 86.
2 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements CHAIRMANS LETTER
