2 SABMiller plc CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another milestone year From our South African origins, weve risen to the top league of the international brewing industry by the planned and careful process we outlined five years ago.
The result is a spread of operations, well balanced between fast-growing developing markets and cash-generating developed markets.
Dear Shareholder that were still in the early stages and beverage sales of 174 million hectolitres.
I am delighted to report that the financial much remains to be done.
Our Central Also over this period, the companys year to 31 March 2004 has been an American operation delivered higher market capitalisation has grown from outstanding one for your company.
earnings, thanks to the actions weve 3.4 billion to 6.6 billion, and we have Turnover increased by some 41% while taken to improve its brand portfolio and risen from number 81 in the FTSE 100 adjusted earnings per share were up by enhance its efficiency.
There were strong to number 34 as at market close on 44%.
Pleasingly, for the first time, our results from South Africa in both beer 20 May, the day of our preliminary adjusted earnings per share showed an and soft drinks, helped by the rise of results announcement.
Since our listing, increase in all our major currencies.
In the rand against the dollar.
The rest our total shareholder return has been view of this performance, the board has of Africa produced an impressive a gratifying 74% compared with negative recommended an increase in the final performance and we again saw good 17% for the FTSE 100 as a whole.
dividend to bring the total for the year growth in Europe with Russia doing In 1999, we set out a three-part to 30 US cents, a 20% increase.
strategy for growth improving our dividend, which is covered 2.6 times by Meanwhile, weve continued to volumes, margins and cash flow in South adjusted earnings, is at a level that we strengthen our position in new, emerging Africa: expanding our positions in other believe should grow over time in line with markets by acquiring further operations developing markets: and seeking major, the trend of any increase in earnings.
in China and by forming a joint venture value-adding investments in both Net cash flow generated in the year in India with Shaw Wallace breweries.
totalled US$2,292 million from operating Also during the year, weve developed Our London listing, as we said at the activities.
The balance sheet remains our European portfolio with the time, would enhance the ability of strong with gearing at 43.3% this after acquisition of Birra Peroni in Italy and SAB to take advantage of increasing US$576 million of capital expenditure, gained entry to Morocco and Algeria consolidation in the international brewing of which 33% was in new capacity and through our joint venture with Castel.
industry and to compete with other 67% in maintenance expenditure.
During international brewers for development the year we launched a successful Five years of progress opportunities throughout the world.
Its now five years since SAB was listed Milestones over the five years It is particularly gratifying that all our on the London Stock Exchange.
In include our success in Poland: the businesses did well.
In the US, results 1999, we had 39 breweries, operated purchase of Pilsner Urquell in the from Miller Brewing Company acquired in 18 countries and sold 48 million Czech Republic in 1999: our move in 2002 have answered many peoples hectolitres of beer and 70 million into India in 2000: being the first scepticism about our ability to restore hectolitres of beverage overall.
Contrast international brewer to enter Central the business to financial health.
The that with todays figures: 81 breweries: America in 2001: forming a pan-African turnaround programmes now in place operations in 43 countries on four alliance with Castel to invest in new are already having an effect on continents: annual beer sales of African markets in 2001: and, in 2002, performance, though I should point out 138 million hectolitres and total acquiring Miller Brewing Company, SABMiller plc 3 invite a new independent director, John Manzoni, to join the board and he will take office from 1 August 2004.
Lord Renwick will hand over the chairmanship of the remuneration committee to Miles Morland, classified as an independent director and I will step down as a member of the committee.
Louis Camilleri will step down from the board to concentrate on his executive duties in Altria Group, Inc.. Full details of the changes are outlined in the corporate governance report.
Mike Levett has made an enormous contribution in his 20 years with the company, first on the South African and then on the UK board.
He leaves with our gratitude and best wishes for the future.
I would also like to thank Louis Camilleri for providing advice and support to the management and to recognise his crucial role in the Miller transaction.
We welcome, most warmly, John Manzoni to the board.
We also said goodbye during the year to former board members Pete Lloyd and Mike Simms, both of whom retired from the company having made the second largest brewer in the US.
As a brewer, we believe we have a tremendous contributions to our South More recently, we achieved incremental special duty to promote the responsible African operations and, more recently, to expansion in China and Poland, we use of alcohol.
Consumed sensibly, building our business around the world.
acquired Peroni in Italy and formed alcoholic beverages can make a positive In a year of outstanding results, a new Indian joint venture.
In addition, contribution to peoples quality of life.
I must also thank the 39,500 employees weve grown to become one of the We do, however, recognise that of our operating companies.
They are worlds largest Coca-Cola bottlers.
irresponsible consumption can have the ones who have made it all possible From our South African origins, negative consequences.
To this end, and the board and I are grateful for weve risen to the top league of the we continue to invest in alcohol their skills and hard work.
In thanking international brewing industry by the education and research programmes them, we also salute our business planned and careful process we outlined and recently introduced a strict code partners whose local knowledge and five years ago.
The result is a spread of of practice to cover all our marketing expertise have made such a difference, operations, well balanced between fastand advertising.
especially in newer markets such as growing developing markets and cashChina and India.
In his Board and corporate governance In summary, the last five years have chief executives review, Graham Mackay We are fortunate to have a board of seen your company grow and develop explains how we now plan to carry this the highest quality and integrity with a beyond all recognition.
Despite the many strategy into the future.
good balance of skills and experience.
challenges we face in an uncertain world, Nevertheless, at a time of growing public the strategy continues on course and we Corporate social responsibility scrutiny and developments such as the look to the future with confidence.
Many of our markets are challenging Higgs Review, we want to be sure we places to work and require great meet the most exacting standards of sensitivity in dealing with partners, local governance while recognising the communities and employees.
Corporate sometimes different expectations of social responsibility, or CSR, is therefore shareholders in different jurisdictions.
ingrained in everything we do.
Our To address the requirements of the commitment starts at the top with a new Combined Code on directors Meyer Kahn board-level committee responsible independence, were strengthening the Chairman for our CSR performance.
Some balance of independent representation 1% of pre-tax profits go to help the on the board and its committees.
Mike communities in which we operate, Levett will not be seeking re-election at through programmes covering the forthcoming annual general meeting education, welfare and entrepreneurship.
and we have used this opportunity to
