4 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Chairmans Statement The year 2004 was a year S&N is now one of the The results for 2004 demonstrate how the diversity and geographic of considerable progress worlds leading brewers spread of our business allows us for the Company, with with strong positions in to manage challenging conditions comparable operating 15 countries including in local markets and still meet our overall financial objectives.
profit up 7.1%, and leadership in the UK, comparable earnings Russia, and France.
Beer Strategic development In 2004 we made good progress per share up 12.7%.
volumes grew organically in developing our business interests, by 4.5%, and all three of Footnote: All references to operating profit, both in the UK and internationally.
profit before tax and earnings per share are our divisions improved stated before amortisation of goodwill and In the UK the integration of Bulmer, the their operating profit.
number one cider manufacturer, was a great success with sales growth and integration benefits being generated.
Adding cider to our UK beer interests enhances the prospects of both sides of the business by giving us a broader portfolio to serve our customers and consumers.
In Portugal the integration of Luso, the mineral water business that we acquired along with the balance of Central fide Cervejas, is performing well and provides similar benefits to our Portuguese operations.
We look forward to continuing improvement S&Ns twin focus on building powerful in performance from both businesses now that they are fully integrated parts brands and enhancing operational of the Group.
efficiency will strengthen the Groups Our wider strategic opportunities have been enhanced as we announced major competitive position in all its markets, investments in Asias two most populous countries, India and China, building on and further build returns for shareholders.
The Asian Sir Brian Stewart, Chairman beer market, already the worlds second largest region after Europe, is growing quickly and has enormous potential, based on rising consumer incomes and current low per capita consumption.
In China the purchase of a 19.5% stake in Chongqing Beer Company CBC was completed in November.
CBC is the number five brewer by volume in China.
It is a strong and profitable business built around its base in Chongqing as well as successful expansion along the Yangtse river valley and the East coast.
S&Ns equity investment will assist in CBCs expansion plans through organic growth and further acquisition.
In December 2004 we announced the combination of United Breweries and S&N beer interests in India.
The combined businesses will have a market share of 51%, strong positions in all key beer markets in India and will implement a unified marketing strategy, enhance production efficiency and reduce costs.
Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 5 Operations investment in sales, distribution and In many of our markets the issue of The details of our performance are advertising.
Operating profit increased production, marketing and consumption included in the Operating and Financial by 12%.
Gross margins remained of alcohol reached a new prominence Reviews.
I would just like to highlight strong, and there was an excellent this year.
S&N welcomes this debate a few points.
second half performance from the and believes we have an important role Baltika brand up 13% for the year, to play in ensuring our products are The results for 2004 show good 25% in the second half.
progress against our key measures.
Organic growth in beer volume was The results are a reflection of the breadth In 2004 we have taken the lead with 4.5%.
Greater efficiency and a focus of management skill and resources a number of initiatives to improve on our premium brands enabled us to within our executive team.
S&N has the knowledge amongst consumers over increase brand investment by 17% and team, strategic geographic positions and responsible consumption, as well as at the same time deliver a 7% rise in momentum to drive sustainable growth improving our internal procedures for Group operating profit.
We enter 2005 and returns from our business.
The product development and marketing.
a more competitive business, with Groups operations made considerable We look forward to working with other greater efficiency, higher investment progress in 2004, and we look forward brewers and stakeholders to ensure in our brands and good momentum with increased confidence to growing the brewing retains and develops its in our key markets.
business and building returns in 2005 reputation as a responsible and and beyond.
Our UK business has performed particularly well and these results show Governance Dividend a strong turnaround from 2003.
S&N seeks to comply with best practice The Board has proposed a final dividend Volume in our top four brands, Fosters, and the principles behind corporate payment of 13.75p for 2004, an Kronenbourg 1664, John Smiths governance.
I believe we have a Board increase of 2.5%.
If approved, the and Strongbow was up 4.5% driving with the diverse talents needed to ensure final dividend will be payable on 4 May operating profit growth of 11%.
good governance as well as guiding the 2005 to shareholders on the register There were also major improvements Company strategically and commercially.
at 1 April 2005. in operational efficiency, including In October, I was delighted to welcome Outlook synergies from the successful integration Sir Ian Robinson who joined the Board Trading so far in 2005 is in line with of Bulmer.
Sir Ian recent trends in all our major markets.
is Chairman of Hilton Group plc, and Looking forward, our UK business is a highly respected international The results are a well positioned to deliver top line growth businessman.
He has a wide range of driven by brand investment, innovation reflection of the breadth experience in a number of industries, and distribution gains, whilst continuing of management skill and the Board will particularly benefit to deliver significant cost savings.
from his deep knowledge of building and resources within and developing international businesses.
In Western Europe, and France in our executive team.
Over the next year or so as part of our particular, beer markets are likely planned succession I expect to see to benefit from easier summer Our International business also the appointment of additional new comparatives, but underlying performed well despite weak economic non-executives.
performance in 2005 is likely to be conditions across Western Europe and relatively subdued as the outlook for Two colleagues have retired over the a colder and wetter summer than in consumer confidence remains weak.
last year: Henry Fairweather, Group 2003.
Our continued focus on premium HR Director, who retired after 35 years In BBH we expect continued volume brands combined with greater efficiency with the Company, 18 of which were and sales momentum as we extend our allowed us to grow operating profits by as a Director, and Neville Isdell who leadership through the strength of our 1.1% in markets where volumes were resigned from the Board following his brands and by operating our businesses generally depressed.
Despite these appointment as Chief Executive of The in a more integrated manner.
challenging conditions we have not Coca-Cola Company.
sacrificed long term brand building, In this context, S&Ns twin focus on and we increased advertising spend in I would like to thank them both for their building powerful brands and enhancing the year giving us greater competitive tremendous contribution to S&N.
operational efficiency will strengthen strength as we enter 2005. the Groups competitive position in all Corporate responsibility its markets, and further build returns In Eastern Europe, BBH had a strong Meeting our obligations to the wider for shareholders.
recovery in the second half, and for the communities in which we trade has year as a whole beer volumes grew 18%.
always been a critical consideration for This strong volume performance was our business, not least because of the driven by significant downstream important social role of beer and cider.
