ScottishPower has benefited from its clear focus on energy and the more settled conditions that have returned to its markets.
Charles Miller Smith, Chairman 2 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 2 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Chairmans Statement know we need to do more to remind staff, customers and the etting better public that we all bear responsibility for safe practices.
ScottishPower has benefited from its clear focus on ScottishPower will publish a full report on its social and G energy and the more settled conditions that have environmental impact later in the year.
We have got better at supplying customers with power and have improved performance by Board Appointments sharpening up our processes for providing energy and investing There have been several changes to the Board this year.
Simon in organic growth projects to build long-term value.
Our Lowth joined the Board as Director, Corporate Strategy and businesses continued to make good progress and delivered their Development, in September 2003.
Judi Johansen, President and planned targets for 2003 04.
Chief Executive of PacifiCorp, was appointed in October 2003.
The groups earnings per share for the year were 36.4 Mair Barnes and Sir Peter Gregson will retire at the pence, an improvement of 8% for the 12 months.
Profits, AGM after completing two terms of office each.
We thank them earnings and investment increased: debt and interest charges for their support and wise counsel and wish them well.
fell, and the statistics on customer service, network reliability, In their places we welcome Vicky Bailey, formerly an and energy and risk management are all positive.
The fourth Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the US quarter dividend of 6.25 pence per share brings the total Department of Energy, an ex-member of the Federal Energy dividends for the year to 31 March 2004 to 20.5 pence compared Regulatory Commission who has also served as an Indiana state to 28.7 pence last year.
Our goal now is to increase dividends regulator, and Nancy Wilgenbusch, a distinguished community broadly in line with earnings.
administrator and President of the Marylhurst University in Portland, Oregon.
Their experiences of US business, Business Progress government, academic and community management strengthen Our US businesses made further strides in operating efficiency the close regulatory and community relations we are forging.
PacifiCorp benefited from strong economic trends in its service territories, with increases in Staff customer numbers and load growth, while simultaneously On behalf of shareholders and the Board, I want to acknowledge reducing costs.
We invested in network expansion and the dedication of our staff whose hard work has achieved this generating plant capacity and in the year we have been awarded performance and thank them for their efforts.
$100 million in additional annual revenue from US rate cases.
PPM, our newest business, invested substantially in additional Outlook wind generation and gas storage capacity.
ScottishPower believes that the next 12 months offers promising Our UK businesses also did well.
We expect that our strategy of investing for Division lifted operating profit by 7% thanks to continued organic growth and improving operational performance will emphasis on reducing costs and enhancing service.
The deliver value for our shareholders.
investment in modernising our distribution networks and replacing equipment has placed our operations in a strong position ahead of next years price review.
The UK Division gained 600,000 new customers, wholesale energy prices recovered from last years historic low and operating profit rose 30%.
Customer numbers passed four million for the first time and we have added to both our conventional and renewable Charles Miller Smith, Chairman power plant portfolio.
25 May 2004 Safety Matters We are deeply saddened to report the death of Alan Ronald, a transmission linesman who died doing his job on 16 December 2003.
ScottishPower has an improving record on safety and it is given top priority by our Board and all our operations.
We are committed to minimising the dangers of our installations and Excluding goodwill amortisation ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 3 Dear Shareholder, This has been another good year for ScottishPower.
Our skills in serving customers, balancing demand and supply, and managing our assets, together with our increased investment programme, have resulted in higher growth, more efficient performance and better returns.
Ian Russell, Chief Executive 4 4 ScottishPower Annual Repor ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 t and Accounts 2003 04 Chief Executives Review 1 Delivering the Strategy 5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2 Investing for Organic Growth 6 Employees 3 Improving Operational Performance 7 Conclusion 4 Health and Safety returns of at least 2% above our weighted average cost of capital.
Delivering the Strategy All new investments, assessed on a risk adjusted returns basis, This has been another good year for ScottishPower.
are expected to be earnings enhancing and support our aim of 1 Our skills in serving customers, balancing demand and retaining our A credit rating for our principal operating supply, and managing our assets, together with our increased subsidiaries.
In the year, we invested in windfarm projects in the investment programme, have resulted in higher growth, more US and UK totalling more than 534 MW: commenced initial efficient performance and better returns.
All of our businesses work on the new 525 MW Currant Creek gas-fired power plant delivered improved performance, principally due to increased in Utah: undertook substantial network investment in the US of revenues with higher volumes and prices, and the returns from 564 MVA: and added to our gas storage capacity.
We currently investing in generation, networks and gas storage.
As a result, forecast investing approximately 1.2 billion in the year to pre-tax profit increased by 84 million to 920 million, and March 2005 in networks, generation and gas storage, all of earnings per share increased by 8% to 36.4 pence.
which will deliver a range of attractive returns, some 50% of The full year dividend of 20.50 pence per share is which is expected to deliver organic growth.
covered 1.78 times by earnings per share in line with our stated policy effective from 1 April 2003.
The dividend for each of the Investing for Organic Growth first three quarters of 2004 05 will be 4.95 pence per share, with the balance of the total dividend to be set in the fourth quarter.
Net investment in assets totalled 901 million in the 2 We remain committed to our stated policy of growing dividends year, with 247 million invested in the final quarter.
Our broadly in line with earnings.
organic growth expenditure totalled 364 million for the year, We remain focused on delivering our established strategy with 58% of that figure invested in our regulated businesses and of improving operational performance and achieving organic 42% in our competitive businesses.
Geographically, 268 million growth by investing in projects with a range of attractive returns.
74% of growth spend was invested in the US and 96 million In improving our operational performance, we aim to 26% in the UK.
increase revenue through regulatory rate cases and customer PacifiCorps net investment in assets totalled 419 growth which, together with driving down costs across the million, with 151 million 36% of this invested for organic group, bring improvements to the bottom line.
Of this, 126 million was invested in new transmission have been awarded $100 million in additional annual revenue and system networks, including new connections and system from US rate cases: grown our UK customer base by 600,000 to reinforcement spend and in our major network expansion project 4.25 million 16% growth : and reduced costs across the group along the Wasatch Front in Utah.
New generation growth by 49 million.
We have also increased network reliability, with investment of 25 million included spend on Currant Creek, the PacifiCorp reducing the average outage time for customers by 525 MW plant, in Utah.
In May 2004, PacifiCorp announced it 16% and Infrastructure Division reducing network faults by had selected Summit Vineyard LLC to construct a 534 MW gas- 8.5%.
fired plant for approximately $330 million.
The proposed new We spent approximately 900 million in the year on net plant, named Lake Side, would be located near Salt Lake City, capital investment, some 40% of which was in projects which Utah, and would provide base load power starting in 2007. will deliver organic growth.
We have exercised strict capital In our Infrastructure Division, net investment in assets discipline and all our capital projects meet rigorous criteria for was 260 million, with 60 million 23% in organic growth value creation.
We have also developed a high quality pipeline of areas such as new customer connections and network projects that offer a range of attractive returns.
We believe upgrading, including ongoing reinforcement projects in current allowed regulatory returns justify investment in our Dumfries & Galloway and Wrexham.
Compared to 2002 03, we regulated assets and, through incentives, we believe that we can have increased investment in the replacement of network assets.
In our competitive businesses we seek The total number of distribution network faults has reduced by Excluding goodwill amortisation ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 5 Chief Executives Review 8.5% in the year and we have achieved reductions in the unit recognition of the investments made by PacifiCorp in support of cost of faults on our 33kV cable network and 11kV overhead customer growth in the state.
Along with awards earlier in the line network.
year of $65 million in Utah, $8.5 million in Oregon, and $3 In our UK Division, net investment in assets was million in California, this took the total of rate case awards in 93 million, with 36 million 39% of this invested in organic the year to approximately $100 million of additional annual growth projects.
This included investment in new wind revenue.
These rate cases included full recovery for all new generation of 26 million, with Cruach Mhor 30 MW system investments and other new costs.
The $27 million windfarm now fully commissioned and Black Law 96 MW Washington general rate case is progressing on schedule with an under construction, following receipt of planning consent in outcome expected at the end of November 2004.
The project to upgrade and increase the capacity seeks to maximise its return on equity ROE within the limits of the Cruachan pumped storage hydro station from 400 MW to permitted by US state regulators.
The outcome of general rate 440 MW is near completion.
Offshore windfarm activity is also cases conducted by the state regulatory commissions sets the progressing with the allocation of a second site from the Crown authorised ROE, with each commission establishing its own Estates Office auction.
In the next financial year, the division ROE for PacifiCorp.
During the year, the authorised ROE aims to continue to invest in renewable generation capabilities specified by PacifiCorps state regulators ranged from 10.5% to with the objective of meeting the stated target of achieving 10% 10.9%.
Regulatory returns for PacifiCorp at September 2003, of electricity supply from renewable sources by 2010.
The the end of the last regulatory reportable period, were Government granted planning permission in May 2004 for the approximately 8%.
construction of a highly flexible 100 million gas store near As a regulated business, PacifiCorp serves some of the Byley, Cheshire.
fastest growing regions in the western US, which provides an PPMs net investment in assets for the year was 129 opportunity for further network investment and generation million, with 117 million 91% invested in organic growth sourcing to ensure reliable service, and extensive expansion projects.
Of this, more than 100 million was invested in new plans are underway.
Regulatory and other final approvals to wind generation, with the construction of Flying Cloud 44 build the 525 MW Currant Creek gas-fired station in Utah, were MW, Moraine 51 MW, Mountain View III 22 MW and given in March and April 2004, and we have already begun the Colorado Green 81 MW.
All of these windfarms qualified for first phase of construction of this $350 million plant.
For the US Production Tax Credits PTCs and accelerated tax proposed Lake Side plant we are seeking regulatory approval by depreciation benefits, and were commercially operational in the December 2004.
Further opportunities include a potential 1,100 third quarter and contributing to profits.
Other growth MW in proposed renewable projects and $212 million currently investments during the year included the purchase of an being invested for growth in infrastructure across our six states, additional 17% ownership interest in the Alberta gas storage hub, including Utah, which has seen strong residential load growth bringing PPMs total ownership to 57%, and the commencement of approximately 4% per annum in recent years.
Network of a further gas storage development of 7 BCF at the Waha site investments, such as the increase of 564 MVA of capacity added in west Texas.
The project is being developed in phases over six this year improved underlying system reliability.
These systemyears, with the first phase operational by 2006. wide investments have assisted in the delivery of a 16% improvement in reliability over the prior year, excluding major events such as the impact of the extremely challenging winter Improving Operational Performance storms that hit PacifiCorps service area.
During the same PacifiCorp period PacifiCorp has improved its level of safety, reducing lost 3 Operating profit, excluding goodwill amortisation, time accidents by 25%.
increased by $65 million to $943 million, including the delivery In the year, PacifiCorp delivered $49 million of operating of cost efficiencies of $49 million and deferred power costs efficiencies, including benefits from generation plant recovered, which were $23 million lower at $91 million.
The first performance, managing power costs, and negotiation of fuel quarter of 2004 05 has started less strongly than our contracts.
Cumulative operating efficiencies now stand at $266 expectations due to a combination of milder weather impacting million and we remain on track to achieve our $300 million on residential demand, lower hydro resource and lower thermal savings target in 2004 05. plant availability.
However, PacifiCorp remains committed to PacifiCorp today has a proven management strategy to achieving its target of $1 billion EBIT earnings before interest balance power demand and supply with a portfolio of and tax, excluding goodwill amortisation in 2004 05. generation and transmission assets, forward physical purchases PacifiCorp is currently pursuing a regulatory programme and financial hedges, delivering a forecast net balanced position in all states with the objective of keeping rates closely aligned to for the summer periods of 2004 and 2005.
PacifiCorp's natural ongoing costs.
In March 2004, the Wyoming Public Service gas supply is also fully hedged through 2006 and the company is Commission granted PacifiCorp approximately $23 million of implementing longer-term supply arrangements to minimise additional annual revenue, reflecting the Commissions natural gas supply risks for the Currant Creek plant.
6 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Infrastructure Division UK Division has laid the foundations for increased The success of Infrastructure Division, our UK wires business, in returns by focusing on reliability and efficiency.
Supply activities growing its regulated revenues and controlling its cost base, are being transformed by the 6 Sigma programme which aims to which reduced by 6 million in the year, helped drive operating improve all customer handling processes and which delivered profit up 26 million to 394 million.
Our Infrastructure revenue and cost benefits of 13 million in the year.
We have Division was rated amongst the top performers in the key area of now extended this programme to our generation activities and asset management in an earlier independent study from Ofgem, expect to see both operational and cost improvements.
an accolade that highlights the advances made as the company Pivotal to the running of our vertically integrated develops investment programmes around a clear understanding operations is the Energy Management hub whose performance of asset risk and network performance.
At the same time, we has again underlined our ability to balance customer numbers sought to minimise customer disruption through all weathers, and the generation capacity required to supply them while largely successfully, as the Department of Trade and Industry delivering competitive prices.
The renegotiation or removal of acknowledged in a post-storm investigation.
restructuring contracts, inherited at privatisation, is now As the UKs third largest electricity distribution business, complete.
Last year, an annual cost burden of approximately 25 we are set to play a key role in rewiring Britain.
The million based on 2002 03 market prices was removed, Government agrees more money must be spent on preparing the following the renegotiation of the Nuclear Energy Agreement UK for an increase in electricity supply from renewables as well with British Energy.
The early termination of the Peterhead as strengthening the existing network to meet the needs of the and Hydro Agreements with Scottish and Southern Energy will 21st century.
We hope to invest at least 1.2 billion in our deliver a future annual saving of approximately 20 million from network in the next five years.
In addition, we envisage some April 2005.
As our customer base grows we continue to explore 100 million will be invested to accommodate Distributed opportunities to add further gas-fired generation to our Generation DG, mainly to link new windfarms to the grid.
We remain supportive of Ofgems objectives in this area and In addition, renewables are now central to the UKs believe that progress has been made towards the development of future power needs and, as the UKs leading windfarm acceptable proposals for DG.
A related scheme for expanding developer, ScottishPower is ideally placed to benefit.
The transmission is underway and preparatory work on stage one, an planning approval for Black Law in Scotlands Central Belt in investment of over 200 million, is well advanced.
Further stages February 2004 was the largest consent given for an onshore still to be approved could see a total investment of 400 million windfarm in the UK and our experience in building windfarms over 10 years, which will be the biggest growth in the UK high gives the division a vital skills advantage in siting, environmental voltage network since the 1960s.
These investments will increase impact assessment and design.
We were pleased to commission our regulated asset base and, consequently, returns.
the 30 MW Cruach Mhor windfarm in March 2004.
Our We remain constructively engaged with Ofgem on the offshore wind activity is also progressing with the allocation of a 2005 Distribution Price Control Review.
Ofgems March 2004 second site from the Crown Estates Office auction.
consultation document set out the issues, with key areas The 100 million, 6 BCF gas storage facility near Byley, outstanding, including cost of capital.
We will continue to press Cheshire will help provide greater security of supply, as gas Ofgem for higher rates of return to reflect correctly the nature of imports to the UK are expected to rise.
Byleys short cycle time our business and look forward to Ofgems initial proposals due will also enable it to respond to the expected increase in overall at the end of June this year.
Our focus on efficiency has also driven improvements in UK Division our fuel and logistics processes.
Coal deliveries, under the new UK Division, our integrated generation and customer supply Clydeport contract started at Hunterston and Rosyth in April business, gained 600,000 customers in the year, bringing the total 2004, are expected to deliver savings of 8 million in the number of customers to 4.25 million, an increase of 16%.
In the financial year 2004 05 and up to 10 million per annum first quarter of 2004 05 we continue to make good progress in thereafter.
Additionally, on completion of successful trialing of attracting more new customers.
We continue to enjoy the benefit co-burning, full biomass operations at Longannet and Cockenzie from using a single domestic billing system and this, along with are planned to commence this year with expectations to deliver other process improvements, has contributed to us gaining a top approximately 5 million of annual benefit through Renewables two ranking in quality of service ratings in minimising complaints Obligation Certificates ROCs.
for direct selling and customer transfers.
The customer gains were The latest proposals for the National Allocation Plan not won lightly and stem from a tough, two-year streamlining of under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme published on 6 May operations to improve customer service, facilitating our strong 2004 remain in line with our expectations and continue to show customer growth and also improving efficiency.
Consequently, the burden of carbon reduction being placed on the power sector.
operating profit, excluding goodwill amortisation, rose by 23 Whilst supporting the overall Government objective of achieving million to 101 million.
a lower carbon economy, ScottishPower continues to argue that ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 7 Chief Executives Review the scheme must encourage sufficient investment in new a year of strong financial performance for ScottishPower with in Corporate Social Responsibility generation to ensure the ongoing security of supply in the UK.
During the year we have continued our commitment to 5 PPM building a strong business which creates benefits for PPM, our competitive US energy company, continues to build customers, employees, shareholders, communities and the on its impressive record.
Operating profit, excluding goodwill environment.
amortisation, rose by $18 million 41% to $63 million, with We were pleased to be ranked 12th out of 140 companies in increased contributions from gas storage, optimisation of assets Business in the Communitys 2004 Corporate Responsibility Index and its steadily growing share of the US wind power market.
and to win the Edison Electric Institutes International Award PPM accounted for almost a third of new wind 2004, under the theme of Progress Through Responsibility.
developments in the US in calendar year 2003, adding control of In recognition of ScottishPowers support for 528 MW 504 MW in the financial year 2003 04 to its communities, I was asked to lead a Commission for the UK portfolio, which now totals around 830 MW of renewable Government to investigate the development of a Youth energy currently under its control.
PPM is now pursuing its Volunteering Strategy.
I look forward to this role and believe immediate goal of developing another 500 MW of wind projects.
there is huge potential for a national volunteering programme Their completion depends partly on the extension of the PTCs, that enables young people to fulfil their potential and help to expected to be introduced this year, which would keep PPM on build strong and cohesive communities throughout the UK.
track for its goal of 2,000 MW by 2010.
In the longer-term, PPM is well placed to take full advantage of the 8,000 MW of Employees potential projects and sites already ear-marked for development.
In line with the groups prudent energy management strategy, At ScottishPower we recognise that our people are our 6 PPM has already sold forward approximately 80% of its wind greatest asset and employee feedback has been power in contracts of between 10 and 25 years, locking in a incorporated into the companys performance management regular annuity value.
system through our employee survey tools.
During the year, an increasing component of PPMs This group-wide employee survey measures how our revenues came from its gas storage and hub services business, employees feel about their working environment.
The results are serving North America from bases in Texas and Canada, which monitored by the Executive Team and are used as a basis for include operating or contracting activities for gas storage and action to remove barriers to productivity and increase employee selling capacity forward.
Our view is that gas prices will remain satisfaction.
volatile, with tight supply and demand, enhancing the value of We remain committed to developing talent at all levels PPMs owned and contracted gas storage facilities which now within the organisation, supporting employee study by providing total 67 BCF.
In addition, as part of PPMs increased origination workplace and home-based learning opportunities and tailored activities, the number of large wholesale gas customers has management development programmes.
Throughout the increased by approximately 50% over the past year and includes company we strive to recognise and celebrate the achievements major refineries and municipalities.
of our people as we continue to build our business for the future.
Health and Safety Conclusion Health and safety continues to be our top priority and Looking ahead, we are well placed to exploit fully the 4 7 during the year we reviewed our health and safety policy good opportunities we see for profitable growth on both and standards.
ScottishPower has a good health and safety sides of the Atlantic.
Increasing demand and the need for more record, but it is my ambition to achieve world-class health and reliable and sustainable energy present attractive opportunities safety performance throughout the company.
for organic growth and higher returns.
We remain confident that Our new policy and standards reflect our determination our strategy will create further value for shareholders.
to achieve our goal of creating a positive and productive environment that is free from injury or illness and causes no harm to our employees, customers or the general public.
We have stepped up employee involvement and training, launched behavioural safety auditing and we have been working with our contractors to ensure they share our commitment to health and safety.
We have also improved the sharing of best Ian Russell, Chief Executive operational practices across our businesses.
25 May 2004 Looking ahead our policy will be to foster a sense of common purpose to create a culture that will drive excellent and sustainable health and safety performance.
Thi 8 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04
