chairmans statement Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman These results demonstrate once again how Sercos focus on customer service and relationships is building a strong business around the world.
Underlying Group turnover and profit have grown by 14% and 16% principally through high levels of organic growth.
The drive for better value for money public services around the globe puts Serco in an excellent position to continue its strong growth, further enhanced by our recently completed acquisition of ITNET in the UK and the planned acquisition of RCI in the US.
Serco Group plc chairmans statement 8 9 2004 was another very good year for Serco, and 2005 has started in excellent fashion too.
Our ability to achieve continued strong growth is rooted in a number of factors that are fundamental to Serco.
These include our broad range of markets and services, our good reputation and the commitment and professionalism of our staff.
We work in partnership with clients and stakeholders to deliver value for money and real service improvements.
As in the past, more than half our sales growth was achieved by expanding the scale and scope of existing contracts.
This organic growth remains the primary focus for our business.
We can only deliver it through high levels of customer satisfaction and a proactive and thoughtful approach to deepening our customer relationships and services.
We continued to strengthen our cash position and maintained our outstanding earnings visibility.
By the end of 2004 we had achieved preferred bidder status on 0.9bn of contracts and had secured 91% of our planned revenues for 2005, 76% for 2006 and 64% for 2007.
Over the year our forward order book rose from 10.3bn to 12.7bn, substantially boosted by our largest-ever contract win the Northern Rail franchise, valued at some 2bn to Serco.
Other wins included a 300m seven-year contract to provide court escort and custody services.
Successful rebids included our air traffic control contract with the US Federal Aviation Administration FAA and multi-activity contracts with the UKs Royal Air Force and Naval Air Command.
In fact, our defence business had its best year ever, with a good combination of organic growth and new business wins.
And we further strengthened our position in the growing justice and national security markets.
To continue building our capabilities in areas where we see strong organic growth opportunities, in December we announced two significant acquisitions that will bring additional skills and capabilities in the UK and US, currently the worlds largest public service outsourcing markets.
ITNET plc is a leading supplier of IT services, business process management and consulting to UK local authorities and private sector companies.
Resource Consultants Inc RCI supplies business process management, IT services, supply chain management, systems engineering, human resource management, and strategic consulting to the US federal government, primarily in defence.
We expect this acquisition to complete during March 2005.
We expect both acquisitions to be earnings enhancing in 2005 and to further increase our ability to develop in current and emerging markets.
Serco Group plc chairmans statement People Ultimately, Sercos continued success stems from the achievements of dedicated, passionate people.
Through the annual Chairmans Recognition Awards we acknowledge those individuals and teams who make exceptional contributions.
Their stories emphasise how day in, day out the people of Serco are bringing service to life.
Leaders of the UKs major companies have recognised our employees efforts by rating Serco as the UKs most admired support services company, and the sixth most admired company in the UK, in the Management Today 2004 annual survey.
This recognition from peers and analysts is a tribute to the effort and commitment of everyone in the company.
We congratulate and thank them all.
Financial performance Sales and profit Turnover grew 5.2% to 1,636.8m.
After adjusting for the effect of disposals and contracts exited, underlying turnover growth was 14.0%.
Pre-tax profit rose 10.3% to 73.9m before intangible amortisation, and 8.6% to 57.4m after intangible amortisation.
The previous years profit figure benefited from exceptional items with a net profit of 3.6m: excluding these, the underlying profit growth before intangible amortisation was 16.4%.
Earnings per share rose 10.6% to 12.20p before intangible amortisation, and 8.1% to 8.37p after intangible amortisation.
Cash performance Our cash performance continues to strengthen.
Free cash generation increased to 55.8m, compared with 47.0m in 2003.
Conversion of Group EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and intangible amortisation into cash was 95%, ahead of the previous years 81%.
This is a significant achievement in a rapidly growing business.
Dividend The recommended final dividend of 1.82p per share gives a total for the year of 2.63p an increase of 12.4% over 2003.
It will be paid on 11 May to shareholders on the register on 11 March 2005.
Turnover rose to 1,636.8m, an underlying 10 11 increase of 14.0%, maintaining our long running track record of growth.
profit m before intangible amortisation 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Restated after the adoption of UITF 34 in 2002 4.3 5.2 7.7 9.4 12.5 15.2 18.3 22.0 26.4 31.4 37.7 45.2 57.0 67.0 73.9 Serco Group plc chairmans statement 12 13 Strategy Organic growth Organic growth is Sercos primary strategic aim and it delivered 82% of our underlying turnover increase in 2004.
The majority 61% came from extending the duration or scope of existing contracts and a further 21% came from new business wins.
We aim to leverage the value of every new contract win.
By working in partnership with clients and stakeholders to deliver value for money and real service improvements, we create opportunities to broaden and deepen our relationships.
In 2004, for example, we were awarded an extended court escort contract valued at 300m over seven years: double the size of the original contract.
We also maintained our 90% success rate in rebids, including our contract to manage the UKs National Physical Laboratory, valued at over 500m, our US$118m air traffic control contract in the US and the 55m contract at RAF Northolt and Uxbridge.
Our strategy is to remain focused on areas with the right scope for growth through service delivery.
In line with this strategy, we disposed of a number of smaller asset management contracts in Australia and New Zealand.
In the UK, as agreed with Network Rail, we ended our rail maintenance contract for the East Midlands zone in January 2004.
Acquisitions In tandem with our strong organic growth, we make acquisitions to gain capabilities or market access as a foundation for future organic development.
In the UK, the business transformation and local government outsourcing markets are set to grow by 50% by 2007 and we have sought to increase our present capabilities.
The ITNET acquisition strengthens our offering to local government and brings expertise in business process management, an important element in the broader outsourcing contracts that we are increasingly pursuing.
ITNETs consulting expertise, through French Thornton, complements our own growing consultancy business, which is helping to stimulate favourable change in our key markets.
We also see opportunities to strengthen our service offering to markets such as health, justice, transport and defence, both in the UK and overseas.
The US is the worlds largest service contracting market and the announced acquisition of RCI deepens our access to federal government, where demand for outsourced services is accelerating.
RCI has strong customer relationships in defence, which accounts for more than 75% of federal spending on services and is an area where we have much to offer.
In the North American market, RCIs federal focus complements our existing customer base, which is largely civil agencies, state and local governments.
And RCIs significant business Serco Group plc chairmans statement process management and IT service capabilities complement our existing change management and service delivery resources.
International strategy Our international strategy remains clear.
As markets develop, we leverage our skills from one geographic market into another.
In turn, increased diversity across borders and markets helps reduce risk.
In 2004 we continued to transfer skills and capabilities around the globe, notably in defence, aerospace, prison services and road traffic management.
Consistent values To deliver the service, relationships and growth we aspire to, it is essential to develop and nurture consistent values and principles.
Our four governing principles to foster an entrepreneurial culture, enable our people to excel, deliver our promises, and build trust and respect are embedded in all our policies and processes.
Operational highlights Bringing service to life Around the world, people are experiencing a quality of service from Serco that makes a genuine difference to their lives.
Our rail businesses had a particularly good year in 2004.
Merseyrail continued to set new performance standards and the Docklands Light Railway carried record numbers of passengers.
In Australia, our iconic train The Ghan also carried record passenger numbers and ran its longest-ever trains on the worlds first North-South transcontinental service.
In England, with our partner NedRailways, we successfully phased-in the combination of two previously separate operations to launch the new Northern Rail franchise, which is already improving punctuality and modernising ticketing systems.
In other UK markets, pupils in Walsall are receiving significantly improved education thanks to the partnership between Sercos Education Walsall and the boroughs council.
An official inspection described the improvements as spectacular.
The young people in our care at Ashfield Young Offenders Institution near Bristol are receiving significantly improved education and support to reduce reoffending, thanks to a dramatic 15-month turnaround programme praised by the Chief Inspector of Prisons.
An MoD customer survey rated Serco among the best of its key suppliers.
In the US, our focus on safety and service to pilots was recognised with a second award from the FAA, for which we now operate 54 air traffic control towers.
Organic growth is our primary strategic 14 15 aim and it delivered 82% of our underlying turnover increase in 2004.
The majority of the increase came from extending the scale and scope of existing contracts.
2004 turnover growth including joint ventures 2003 Turnover 1,556m Disposals 117 m Acquisitions 35m Changes in scale and scope 121m New awards 42m 2004 Turnover 1,637m We have maintained our outstanding visibility of earnings.
At the year end our forward order book stood at 12.7bn, and we had secured 91% of 2005 planned turnover and 76% for 2006. percentage of planned revenue secured as at 31 December 2004 Order book Extensions and rebids Preferred bidder 2005 79.9% 6.2% 5.2% 91.3% 2006 60.1% 11.1% 4.8% 76.0% 2007 50.1% 9.9% 4.3% 64.3% global order book breakdown by sector as at 31 December 2004 Defence 2.6bn Transport 4.6bn Civil government 4.1bn Science 0.8bn Private sector 0.6bn 12.7bn Serco Group plc chairmans statement 16 17 In Asia Pacific, the first of 12 new patrol boats being supplied by our joint venture was launched.
We are also currently installing a traffic information and management system which will benefit commuters on the Shenzhen corridor, linking Hong Kong with mainland China.
Strong start to 2005 While still focused on growing the scope and scale of our existing services, we continue to win a broad range of new work.
In the UK we have signed the 400m Defence Academy Campus Integrator contract, which runs for nearly 24 years, to join the MoDs three existing postgraduate education colleges into an international academic centre of excellence for senior military and civilian personnel.
We already manage one of the three colleges on the Defence Academy campus the Joint Services Command and Staff College.
In the United Arab Emirates UAE we have entered into an agreement to form a joint venture to provide facilities management services to the UAE Universitys new campus in Al Ain for a minimum period of 10 years.
Market development Our vision to be the leading service company in our chosen markets requires us to be a thought leader, proactively helping to shape the way our markets develop.
Serco Government Consulting is bringing our expertise to the leading edge of public policy and service development by contributing strategic and operational expertise across a range of UK government departments.
In the past year it has worked with the BBC, Department for Constitutional Affairs, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Department of Health, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and a number of local authorities.
In addition, the Serco Institute researches trends in competition and contracting and is stimulating debate worldwide on how governments can provide better public services.
Corporate responsibility We are responsible for providing services that are essential to everyday life.
For those working at the heart of society, corporate responsibility has to be second nature.
It underpins the culture and values that help distinguish us in our markets and is an explicit part of the Serco Management System that shapes the way we run our business.
Our Corporate Assurance Group, which oversees our approach to corporate responsibility, reports directly to the Group Board and takes an integrated view of all aspects of our corporate governance, risk management, health and safety, and social responsibility.
Serco Group plc chairmans statement In 2004 our investment in community initiatives totalled 0.8m in cash and in kind, representing 1.4% of pre-tax profit.
Our staff have begun a coordinated effort in 2005 to support the victims of the tsunami that devastated so many lives.
In an effort that has united people across the Company in fundraising and volunteering, by mid-February employees had already raised over 70,000 to match Sercos 100,000 donation to the Disasters Emergency Committee.
We look forward to reporting progress in this area during the year.
Our second corporate responsibility report has now been published.
It explains more about our values and objectives, and details many of our initiatives.
It is available both in printed form and on our website at www.
Corporate governance Our commitment to effective governance embraces the whole organisation through the Serco Management System.
Group Board members have continued to engage with employees, customers and investors to develop a deep and consistent understanding of our operational and strategic performance and to see at first hand how we are perceived by stakeholders.
In 2004, each Group Board meeting was held at a different Serco location to help Board members maintain their understanding of this rapidly expanding business.
In addition, our Senior Independent Director attended meetings with institutional investors and all Board members attended the AGM.
For the third successive year, all Directors participated in a formal Board appraisal process and the results and actions were discussed by the full Board.
Full details of Sercos governance arrangements are described in the corporate governance report within the Annual Review and Accounts.
Board developments In March 2004 Iestyn Williams retired as an Executive Director, and in April 2004 Rhidian Jones retired as a Non-Executive Director.
Both became Directors of the newly-created Serco in 1987 after the buyout of RCAs UK business.
We thank them for their significant contribution, commitment and guidance over the years.
In addition to their other Board responsibilities, in April, DeAnne Julius took over the role of Senior Independent Director and David Richardson became Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In February 2005 Joanne Roberts was appointed as Company Secretary succeeding Julia Cavanagh, who has become Finance Director of our Government Services division.
We thank Julia for her contribution over six years as Company Secretary.
Serco Group plc chairmans statement 18 19 Executive team developments In light of our two acquisitions we have reorganised and expanded our executive team, which reports to the Group Board for Sercos direction, organisation, performance and governance.
Two members of our executive team have taken on additional responsibilities.
Strategic Projects Director, Ian Downie, has become Chief Executive of the ITNET business.
And Chief Development Officer, Steve Cuthill, has relocated to the US to become Chairman of Serco North America and take responsibility for integrating the RCI acquisition once it has been completed.
In addition, we have strengthened the executive team with Grant Rumbles, formerly Chief Executive of Serco Continental Europe & Middle East, as Group Operations Director: Clive Barton, formerly Chief Operating Officer of Serco Solutions, as Group Marketing Director: and Bridget Blow, formerly ITNET Chief Executive, as Group Technology Director.
Outlook Across the world, governments and commercial organisations are increasingly seeking to deliver better services and gain greater value for money.
In the past year we have taken important steps towards our vision: to be the leading service company in our chosen markets.
Our service delivery record and customer relationships help maintain and grow our business base.
The acquisitions of ITNET and RCI strengthen our position in key markets and our major contract wins provide further scope for development.
With our management further strengthened we believe that we have a better platform than ever for delivering continued strong growth.
