2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Good full year results Increased overall profits from non-regulated businesses Severn Trent Water continues to outperform Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items up 7.5% at 440.6 million Goodwill amortisation 29.8 million and exceptional profits of 11.6 million.
Services delivered good profits in 2003 2004.
Severn Trent We have enhanced our dividend policy such Laboratories developed its capabilities in several new fields including that, barring unforeseen circumstances, full-year mould: Severn Trent Services benefited from the management dividends per share would be a minimum of actions taken in 2002 in the Water Purification business.
47.04p up to the end of the current review Reflecting our commitment to environmental leadership, Severn period in March 2005.
Trent was named as the leading utility in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year.
This is the first time that any utility has won this category three times in a row.
Group results Group turnover was 2,015 million, an increase of 8.8% over last year.
The turnover of the non-regulated businesses increased by 12.7% to 1,161 million, representing 54.8% of the Group total.
Business performance Turnover from water and sewerage increased by 4.2% to 957 Severn Trent produced a good performance in 2003 2004. million.
Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover rose in all the core exceptional items was up 7.5% to 441 million.
The water and businesses of water, waste and laboratories.
We have worked hard to sewerage business was up by 3.8% to 338 million.
The Groups balance the expectations and needs of different parties employees, non-regulated businesses in total were up 18.1% to 123 million, customers, investors, regulators and communities.
Sound day-to-day representing some 27% of the Group total.
management is combined with a long-term commitment to sustainability.
Group profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was 411 million 385 million.
Group profit before interest and tax was Much of our management focus over the year has concerned the 422 million 344 million.
preparation of our draft and final AMP4 business plan for Ofwat, setting out our proposed investment plans for 2005-2010.
We are The Board is proposing a final dividend of 29.27 pence 28.56 pence confident in our ability to meet new targets for this period, just as to be paid on 1 October 2004.
This would give a total dividend for we are confident that we will continue to outperform our AMP3 the year of 47.04 pence, an increase of 2.5%.
It is the Boards regulatory contract.
In respect of 2002 2003 Severn Trent Water intention that for the period up to 31 March 2005, barring has the leading position in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment unforeseen circumstances, full year dividends per share would be OPA of water and sewerage companies.
Our charges are also a minimum of 47.04 pence.
among the lowest in the UK and, under current plans, will be the lowest by 2010.
For the period of AMP4 from 1 April 2005, the outcome of the AMP4 price review will be a critical input in the determination of the Whilst developing the future strategy of our regulated business we Groups dividend policy.
Accordingly, the Board intends to consider have pressed ahead with developing Biffa as one of the leading its dividend policy for the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March waste management companies in the UK - the biggest event during 2010 following the finalisation of the AMP4 price review.
the year being the acquisition of the former Hales business.
Based on SSAP24, the Group expects a significant additional pension Severn Trent Water and Biffa are sharing expertise and technology charge in 2004 2005 that is provisionally estimated to be of the in wastewater disposal and energy generation: and Biffa is using order of around 30 million to 35 million net of amounts allocated Severn Trent facilities in its important integrated management to own work capitalised, with broadly around two thirds to three contract for Leicester City Council.
We expect such synergies to quarters of this amount expected to be attributable to Severn Trent create further opportunities in the future.
However, given the preliminary nature of these estimates it is 3 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 quite possible that the actual additional pension charge, as a result of Marisa Cassoni stepped down as a pension trustee, and we are these valuations, could be materially different from these estimates.
grateful for her valuable contribution during a time of change in See Financial Review pensions.
I would also like to thank Martin Flower for his continuing work as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Management and staff and as Senior Independent Director.
Robert Walker will reach retirement in February 2005, having completed nearly six years as Group Chief Executive.
His I am sad to say that I shall be standing down as Chairman as of contribution and legacy are considerable.
31 December 2004 after nearly nine years on the Board.
I expect my successor to be appointed well before then.
We are delighted that Roberts successor will be Colin Matthews who joined the Board as a non-executive director in October 2003.
Naturally, my thanks must also go to the staff of Severn Trent Colin has already had a distinguished career at Transco, British businesses all over the world.
Our continuing ability to meet our Airways and Hays where he has been Chief Executive for the last objectives and serve our stakeholders is due to their hard work, two years.
We are very fortunate to have secured a man of his commitment and levels of expertise.
talents as our leader for the next few years.
Outlook Alan Perelman will be retiring as Group Finance Director as of 31 Although the Group expects significant additional pension charges August 2004 and will be replaced by Mark Wilson currently Director in 2004 2005, we consider that, overall, our core businesses of Finance and Regulation in Severn Trent Water.
I would like to thank Severn Trent Water, Biffa and Laboratories in terms of experience, Alan for his dedicated service and wish him well in his retirement.
market position, financial strength and reputation provide a good platform for the future, with the Group well positioned to capitalise Brian Duckworth has decided to stand down as Managing Director on opportunities.
Clearly, the future will also bring challenges.
Sound of Severn Trent Water and from the Severn Trent Plc Board at the end management and cost control will therefore remain a key element in of August but he will continue as an employee of the group until he our strategy for consolidating our position as the UKs leading leaves in March 2005 thus ensuring his expertise is available to help integrated environmental services business and increasing complete the regulatory process for the AMP4 review.
served Severn Trent for 30 years with distinction and we thank him for his outstanding contributions to the group and the water industry, not just in the Midlands but nationally and internationally as well.
Three new non executive directors, Martin Houston, Colin Matthews and John Smith are already making a positive impact on the Boards work.
We were sorry to lose Eric Anstee following his appointment as Chief Executive of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
We thank David Arculus him for his contribution to the Boards work, not least as outgoing Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee.
John Smith took over chairmanship of the Audit Committee from Eric Anstee: the Environment Committee has been renamed the Corporate Responsibility Committee to give a truer reflection of its work, and from now on it will always be chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
The former chair, Derek Osborn, is still playing a leading role on that committee.
