6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 02 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chairmans review Chairmans review us a firm presence in two of the worlds largest pharmaceutical markets.
In line with this strategy, we are also well advanced in implementing a new organisational structure that allows Shire to operate crossfunctionally through dedicated, global teams.
These teams are accountable for delivering results in each of our main therapeutic areas Central Nervous System CNS, Gastro-Intestinal GI and General Products.
This structure enables people from different geographic and functional areas to work together closely and collaboratively to solve problems and to create new and better products.
More importantly, it provides Shire with the flexibility and nimbleness required for continued growth in an industry marked by continuous change and ever-increasing competition.
During the year, renewed emphasis has also been placed on business development activities M&A.
We have a newly charged global team with a clear mandate to examine all opportunities for The pharmaceutical environment continues partnership that fit our strategic focus.
It is our to be more challenging than in the past.
intention to fill our earlier stage pipeline with inIn what some have called the perfect storm, licensed projects that we will then manage through big pharma companies have faced significant to approval and launch over the next few years.
challenges including technical, regulatory and economic issues.
2004 results Dr James Cavanaugh Shires highly focused growth strategy produced Chairman Rather than inhibiting Shires future, this solid results in 2004.
The loss for the financial environment has actually provided an attractive year decreased to 13.4 million and also platform for Shire to occupy.
Under the leadership included an exceptional goodwill impairment of our Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Emmens, of 81.2 million.
Revenues from continuing we have a strategy that differentiates us from operations were up slightly year on year, with the big pharma: we concentrate our resources on underlying revenue growth negatively impacted specialist physicians who treat serious diseases.
by the generic erosion of PROAMATINE and The ability to develop and register distinctive ADDERALL sales and the weakening of the products and then deploy small-scale sales US dollar against sterling.
As a result, the diluted forces helps us to build relationships with high loss per ordinary share was 2.7p.
prescribers in niche markets and achieve significant market shares.
The business remains extremely cash generative.
Shires cash position remained strong with net Additionally, Shire is focusing on fewer, later funds of 761.9 million, an increase of 30% over stage, low risk projects that have the best prior year 2003: 584.7 million.
This cash will be chances of reaching the market.
We intend used for future expansion.
to maximise our return on research and development R&D investments and optimise Corporate governance our sales network by extending our global Good corporate governance and prudent reach.
Accordingly, we have established leading enterprise-wide risk management have taken strategic functions at two main sites: Basingstoke on critical importance for corporations the world in the UK, location of our head office and Wayne, over.
Shire understands the key risks that it faces Pennsylvania in the US.
These geographies give and has taken appropriate steps to manage them as our business has grown in size and therefore 02 6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 03 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chairmans review complexity.
Our implementation of a rigorous Talented people risk management process has added and will Shires accomplishments over the past few continue to add value to our business.
years speak volumes about its talented team of employees worldwide, who have firmly Our Board is committed to the highest embraced the Companys vision.
They are to standards of corporate governance.
As a FTSE be thanked and congratulated for their many 100 company, we are subject to the UK Listing contributions and ongoing support.
Rules and The Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
We are required by the UK Listing We had 1,833 employees as at 31 December Rules to report annually on our compliance 2004 with strong skills sets spanning with the Combined Code and on our risk pharmaceutical research, sales and marketing, management practices generally.
Where we fail operations and management and administration, to comply with the provisions of the Combined among others.
As many as 300 new people Code, we are required to explain why.
Shires joined Shire this year to work in our newly compliance with the provisions of the Combined established US Corporate Headquarters in Code is described in the corporate governance Philadelphia, in addition to well over a hundred review on pages 14 to 18. employees who relocated from our offices in Kentucky and Maryland.
We believe that our As a NASDAQ company, we are subject to the new operating model, designed to build an rules of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, implemented integrated and global company based on in 2002.
In order for Shire to comply with Section therapeutic areas, makes Shire an attractive new 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, Shire, along with all type of pharmaceutical company in which people Securities Exchange Commission SEC can pursue their careers consequently we regulated companies, must review its material were able to recruit a wide range of very highfinancial reporting processes and then calibre people many from well-established document, review and test all material internal industry players.
Our model will further controls over our US GAAP Form 10-K financial enhance opportunities for our employees within reporting to ensure that these operate effectively.
We are currently developing In 2004, Shire completed a global review of its consistent and competitive policies and systems of internal control over financial programs to position Shire as one of the top reporting so as to enable compliance with global pharmaceutical companies and FTSE 100 Section 404 by the end of 2004.
Shire undertook companies for which to work.
We are continuing this review during a year of considerable internal to ensure that we have the right resources to change as a result of the restructuring exercise.
manage the exciting products and projects that I am particularly pleased therefore that this we have underway or will be bringing on board.
process has run smoothly and that no material weaknesses were identified.
A bright future Shire has considerable strengths: a most Shires Board is comprised of eight members from talented group of employees: a growing both Europe and North America with extensive presence in the worlds key pharmaceutical knowledge and experience in business and the markets: and a leading portfolio of products pharmaceutical industry.
We are continuing to with many more in the pipeline.
Over the next strengthen our Board: during 2004 David Kappler few years, we intend to build on our strengths joined as a non-executive Director and assumed and successes through the disciplined chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Mr Kappler implementation of our growth strategy.
was formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury In addition to growing our current franchises, Schweppes plc.
Wilson Totten, Chief Scientific we will continue to search for and develop Officer, left Shire during 2004 and has resigned new products that deliver significant value for from the Board.
I would like to take this shareholders, physicians, patients and other opportunity to thank him for his many years of stakeholders.
The ultimate goal is to become valuable contributions to Shire, including the an even more global and globally integrated successful development and registration of company with a number of successful global FOSRENOL in both Europe and the US.
More than ever, I am confident that we will achieve this goal.
