GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our core UK ports and transport business As we see plenty of investment Bo Lerenius continued to grow in 2004.
We signed opportunities to grow our existing ports 17 new contracts with major customers network, we do not expect to make any Group Chief Executive during the year, taking the total number acquisitions in the near future.
Getting of significant contract wins since the a return of 15 per cent or more from beginning of 2000 to more than 80. organic growth is a more efficient use of capital than buying and integrating We only build new facilities for customers a competitor.
Investing in our core once they have signed mediumto longbusiness represents a better use of term contracts that will give us a return shareholders money.
of 15 per cent or more on our investment, with between 10 and 11 per cent of this The Department for Transport introduced normally guaranteed by the customer.
security legislation during the year that This low-risk growth strategy has required new security measures at all of enabled us to outgrow the UK-listed our UK ports.
This led to cost increases in ports sector in terms of underlying some areas, which we have passed on to operating profit over the past five years.
Since introducing Looking forward, we plan to invest more Our operating expenses benefited from than 400m in our UK ports over the next the cost-reduction programme of 2003. our low-risk growth 10 years.
The governments decision to However, profit growth was slowed by the strategy, we have refuse our application to develop Dibden departure from Immingham of Cobelfret, Terminal, a deep-sea container port one of ABP Connects biggest customers.
added more than 80 at Southampton, was disappointing.
This is the first time in five years that a new major customer Nonetheless, we will continue to develop major customer has moved its business the Port of Southampton, but clearly away from ABP.
To mitigate the impact of contracts.
not at the rate that we could have this departure, we secured a new achieved had the Dibden Terminal customer, Ferryways NV, from January application been approved.
2005 for part of the roll-on roll-off facility that Cobelfret used, restructured ABP The major growth projects in the near Connect and offered early retirement to future are focused on the Humber employees throughout the UK to reduce Estuary, where our investments could the cost base.
We are building a rollmeasures will deliver an ongoing annual on roll-off facility for DFDS Tor Line to cost saving of at least 4.5m from 2005. enable it to accommodate bigger ships This, coupled with the replacement and have signed agreements with several business that the group has already customers to develop a further terminal secured, will offset the loss of Cobelfrets for coal imports.
Both facilities are business from the beginning of 2005.
If we located at the Port of Immingham and could now add a second roll-on roll-off will become operational in 2006.
At Hull, customer to fill the remaining capacity at final contractual discussions are taking Immingham, ABP Connect would be in a place with customers for the shortsea stronger position than when it had the container terminal that we aim to build.
Cobelfret contract: however, this may take In January, the government informed us some time due to the intensity of that it was minded to approve the competition in the sector.
development and we expect the final decision in the first half of 2005.
We are also evaluating the possibility of another major development at Hull.
22 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC PERFORMANCE 17 NEW CONTRACTS WON IN 2004 We have continued to improve our much during the previous five years.
We reward Given our strong strategic position, I am smaller business in the USA by applying talent with early responsibility, which is confident about the future.
Our business our UK strategy as far as the more why a younger and more dynamic is in excellent shape.
Our 21 UK ports volatile local market will allow.
Our aim is management team has emerged since have a good geographical spread and to fill the spare capacity within our six 2000 to lead the business into the future.
handle around one quarter of all trade in facilities while minimising non-revenueand out of the UK.
We have many highearning capital investment.
We have I am pleased to report that there have quality, long-term contracts, but no made progress in securing longer been fewer injuries to our employees dominant customers and no trade customer contracts and we also now over the course of the year and that none accounts for more than 10 per cent of our have a much greater spread of business has been serious.
Our annual accident UK ports revenue.
With more than 50 per compared to five years ago.
The numbers incident rate improved from 17.7 per cent of our budgeted UK ports business remain small compared to our UK ports thousand employees in 2003 to 14.0 per for 2005 coming from customer and transport business, but are growing thousand employees in 2004. contracts, earnings visibility is very good.
Vehicle volumes are double As our latest repurchase of shares what they were when we acquired the Fatalities are the worst thing that can demonstrates, we continue to generate business in 1998. happen in our business and we naturally more cash than we need to grow our core do everything we can to prevent them.
UK ports and transport business.
We said that we would address the low Our safety systems and risk assessment level of gearing that we had maintained processes are, I believe, second to none Thank you for your continued support.
on the group balance sheet if the and I visit the ports on a regular basis government rejected our application to throughout the year to review our safety develop Dibden Terminal.
In addition to the two fatalities negative decision on Dibden and the sale reported in 2003, we suffered one death of surplus property interests in Cardiff involving a third-party employee on our Bay, we chose to return the spare cash to facilities during 2004: in two cases no shareholders through a 130m share action has been taken against the group BO LERENIUS buyback programme, which was and the remaining incident has led to the GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE launched initially in April 2004.
Once it is Health and Safety Executive commencing 16 FEBRUARY 2005 complete, we will buy back a further proceedings against us under the Health 75m over the following three years, as and Safety at Work Act.
we expect to continue to generate more money than we need to maintain and We are extremely conscious of the develop the business.
This should return environment, as our business activities the groups gearing to its previously stated have an environmental impact.
I believe range of between 50 and 70 per cent.
that we have become more socially responsible in our business practices and By the end of 2004, we had exceeded the provide more transparency on our 200m target that we set in 2000 for the operations and dealings with disposal of non-core property and land.
I was delighted when the We intend to sell a further 50m of nongroup received one of the prestigious core assets over the next few years, Investor Relations magazine awards in subject to planning consents.
There will 2004 for excellence in shareholder be further disposals in the future, but on communications, as these awards reflect a relatively modest scale.
the views of the very demanding analyst and investor communities.
Personnel movements resulted in a number of management changes during the year.
We promote from within as much as possible.
To invigorate our business, which is important for its longterm health, we ensure that managers change positions periodically and have exposure to different elements of the group.
Over 75 per cent of the delegates at our senior management conference in 2004 had changed jobs at least once ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC 23
