02 SkyePharma Annual Report 2004 Chairmans Statement A highly beneficial new agreement with Shareholders will be aware that our efforts GlaxoSmithKline for Paxil CR, significant to license our package of pulmonary products advances for both our marketed products and have taken longer than we had initially hoped.
our pipeline and important progress on the However I am now delighted to report that we long-awaited pulmonary deal are the keynotes have negotiated Heads of Terms with a major of our performance.
global pharmaceutical company to develop and distribute our key pulmonary product Flutiform, The current year brought an unwelcome surprise a formoterol fluticasone combination product with news in March that the US FDA had halted in an HFA-powered metered-dose aerosol inhaler.
distribution of GlaxoSmithKlines Paxil CR, The company combines strong primary care currently our major source of royalty income.
distribution in the key US market with the Our partner is working with the FDA to expedite financial resources to commit to a clinical the return of this product to the market.
Meanwhile development programme designed to optimise I can report that GlaxoSmithKline has now agreed the product profile.
The outline terms include not only to increase the royalty rate due to us milestone payments and reimbursement of and make a $10 million one-off payment but also clinical development costs that in total could to ensure that we will continue to receive royalty amount to $160 million.
In addition SkyePharma income even while the product remains off the will receive double digit royalties, with an market.
We acknowledge our partners willingness escalating royalty rate as sales achieve certain to support us in this way, a tribute to the strength targets.
SkyePharma will execute the clinical of our relationship.
The agreement at this stage is non-binding and subject to contract We have made encouraging progress with our finalisation and Board approvals.
We currently have two products expected to be launched this year and four products We have now completed Phase II trials for that we expect to file for approval, with another four Flutiform, with very encouraging top line results.
products poised to enter Phase III development.
We aim to file this product in 2007.
Given the Our innovative pain control agent DepoDur was high potential value of a late-stage product in approved in the USA and launched by our partner an important therapeutic area, we have been Endo Pharmaceuticals.
We have just heard that determined to maximise the return for ourselves.
DepoDur will be recommended for approval in The terms that we have negotiated for Flutiform the UK subject to some conditions, which will amply justify this policy and we hope that be used as the basis for wider approvals in Europe, shareholders agree that it was worth waiting for.
where the product will be marketed by our partner Zeneus Pharma, appointed in 2004.
Last year Conclusion we also concluded new agreements with First We now have five key products on the market Horizon Pharmaceuticals for Triglide fenofibrate, generating royalty income for us, with two which has just received FDA approval triggering more expected to be launched this year, and a a $15 million milestone payment, and with well-stocked pipeline of products in late-stage Critical Therapeutics for zileuton.
Recent progress on corporate recently granted Mundipharma our European agreements brings us several powerful new marketing partner for DepoCyte the rights partners.
We face the future with confidence.
outside North America and Japan for another pain control product, DepoBupivacaine, in a deal Ian Gowrie-Smith that will bring us up to $80 million in milestone Non-executive Chairman payments and a 35% share of sales.
