htm In todays competitive marketplace, we have now proved that the investment we are making in modernising our stores attracts new customers and delivers substantial and sustainable sales growth.
It is pleasing to announce a fourth year of For the Group as a whole, like for like Strategy profit growth.
In todays competitive sales grew only marginally faster than in Store investment marketplace, we have now proved that the the previous year, at 1.1%.
The Somerfield In larger stores awaiting refits, we find it investment we are making in modernising fascia accounted for all our growth, with difficult to retain existing customers and our stores attracts new customers and like for like sales up 2.0% over the year.
attract new customers from big, effective delivers substantial and sustainable At Kwik Save a weak first half resulted in a competitors.
By the year end we had sales growth.
0.1% reduction over the year despite a refitted approximately 33% of the 1.0% improvement in the second half.
Somerfield estate but only 10% of the The key to success is our programme of Kwik Save estate.
As yet, not enough of store refits and estate realignment in both Capital investment totalled 195 million.
the total estate has benefited from Somerfield and Kwik Save fascias.
We This was slightly ahead of the previous investment to generate a step change in have the necessary resources to continue years 190 million, which included our Group sales.
We need to press on as the renewal of the retail estate.
The new major investment in the supply chain with rapidly as we can towards the tipping financial year has started with encouraging the construction of our North West depot.
point where refitted stores are in the like for like sales growth and stable gross The increase reflected higher investment majority.
We are accelerating the refit profit margins in both Somerfield and in store refits, although our success in programmes enlarging the refit teams Kwik Save.
developing more cost-effective methods and increasing the store investment meant that we spent less than expected.
In line with our strategy, over the Despite this investment and the 11.8 Pre-tax profit before exceptional items rose next three years we plan to have refitted 59% to 41.1 million despite incurring dual million acquisition of the Aberness the bulk of the estate.
convenience store business in Scotland running distribution costs of 7.3 million The investment programme for both associated with the introduction of the new the Group remains conservatively financed fascias continued to produce encouraging with a strong balance sheet and very low North West depot at Lea Green.
In Kwik Save, where the refit Exceptional gains from property disposals gearing at 3%: net debt at the year end programme began later, we saw first year was just 27.3 million.
Judicious totalling 27.3 million were partly offset by uplifts of 20% and second year growth of 9.5 million of exceptional costs relating to management of the property portfolio is 3%.
This second year number represents enabling us to implement our store and depot closures.
Earnings per a small sample of stores.
Somerfield share were up 39% to 11.4 pence or up reinvestment strategy without straining completed its third year of the programme our balance sheet.
40% to 8.8 pence before exceptional items.
and the stores experienced growth of The year-end pension deficit on an FRS 17 21% with second year growth of 3%.
basis improved from 99.5 million in the Overall sales productivity sales per previous year to 75.2 million.
square foot within the invested estate was over 10 for Kwik Save and more Dividend than 14 for Somerfield.
Within the In view of our continuing profit progress, uninvested Kwik Save and Somerfield the directors are pleased to recommend a estates, sales per square foot were 7 and final dividend of 1.6p per share.
makes a total for the year of 2.2p per share, an increase of 33% on the previous Balancing the fascias year.
Since we resumed payments two Where appropriate we continue to years ago, the dividend has increased by reallocate stores between the Kwik Save 120%: but the 10.9 million cost remains and Somerfield fascias, examining the well covered by the years 55.8 million local demographics and store Investment in store formats attributable profit.
characteristics at each location to ensure we provide the fascia best suited to our customers needs.
We are also identifying stores that are unlikely to deliver acceptable returns under either fascia: closing them releases funds to support the investment programme.
2 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:03 PM Page 3 Profit Pre-tax profit before exceptional items rose 59% to 41.1 million.
Kwik Save has not been trading viably in Scotland and we decided to withdraw from north of the border, to focus investment where the brand is strongest in its traditional heartland in the North West and North East of England, the Midlands and Wales.
By the end of 2004 we will have converted 29 of the 51 Scottish Kwik Save stores to Somerfield.
We will close the rest, along with the East Kilbride depot that serves them.
We very much regret the impact that this decision will have on some of our staff and customers, but believe that it will make our Somerfield business in Scotland significantly more robust.
Managing the property portfolio Active management of our property portfolio is enabling us to fund a sizeable investment programme without weakening our balance sheet.
In 2003 we established a Portfolio Strategy Group to manage and restructure both fascias estates as a single portfolio.
This has helped us to manage a programme of property deals to extract value from the portfolio for reinvestment.
Over the year, we closed a total of 47 Kwik Save and Somerfield stores and generated 66.7 million from disposals and restructuring the portfolio.
As well as generating an 11.8 million profit from the sale and leaseback of our North West distribution centre at the start of the year, we are disposing of other surplus depots as part of the supply chain consolidation.
The Portfolio Strategy Group is planning both fascias refit programmes to focus on opportunities for greatest potential uplift.
It is also supporting our strategy of developing the convenience and forecourt convenience store business.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share were up 39% to 11.4 pence or up 40% to 8.8 pence before exceptional items.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 3 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:04 PM Page 4 Dividend The total dividend for the year is 2.2p per share, an increase of 33% on the previous year.
We view the optimum size for Kwik Save 2 stores as 6,000-12,000ft, and we are repositioning Somerfield to smaller stores.
We are downsizing Somerfield stores that 2 are larger than 15,000ft and over time expect to reduce the fascias average size 2 from approximately 8,500ft today to 2 around 6,000ft as we increase the emphasis on convenience stores.
In some of our larger Somerfield and Kwik Save stores where we have surplus space we have introduced third party retailers: Peacocks clothing and Tchibo non-food.
These have been popular with customers and we expect, where appropriate, to extend this approach as we continue to restructure the portfolio.
New business streams As we realign our existing store estate, we will be increasing sales by building our convenience store business.
This is an area where we have a particular advantage: we already have well established expertise in bringing a quality fresh and chilled food offer to the food retailing sector.
This has a huge impact for small stores, but is challenging for operators who lack a supply chain like ours and a six-day fresh delivery service covering the whole of mainland Britain.
In both standalone and forecourt convenience stores, our strategy is to build on our existing portfolio through acquisition, developing new sites, and offering Somerfield franchises to existing owner operators.
All these streams are growing and we have brought them together with our acquisitions under a single management team.
In March 2004 we acquired Aberness Strategy Limited, a Scottish company with 700 employees which owns and operates 36 convenience stores and distributes to a We will be increasing sales by further 80 independent retailers, operating under the Mace brand.
There are good building our convenience store synergies for us in retaining the Mace distribution network as we develop our business, an area where we have convenience store presence in Scotland, giving quality independent retailers the particular advantage.
4 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 01 15 pe 7 12 04 12:04 PM Page 5 Chairmans Statement continued www.
htm At the 2004 Convenience Tracking discipline as we increase the number of The continuing improvement in the Programme awards ceremony, Aberness small stores, where making best use of business reflects the commitment and skill won the Best Retailer award as voted by scarce space and maintaining availability of all our 53,000 people.
for their help and determination, and will continue to invest in honing their skills.
We are currently piloting the Somerfield Cost control Essentials format at two Aberness stores, In particular, we have launched a While we invest in improving and growing in Aberdeen and Kintore, to develop the the business, we endeavour to take costs leadership training programme linked to a brand with the benefit of Aberness new performance management system.
rationalisation has made a major This will involve all managers from Board level to store management over the next contribution, and we have made good In line with our strategy we are expanding progress on cutting central costs.
We 18 months some 300 have already our presence in the small store segment received training.
have also been working with our suppliers and forecourt convenience stores, offering to reduce costs through efficiencies and customers convenience and top quality We conducted a group-wide staff attitude the use of better processes.
We shared its fresh and chilled food.
During the year we developed eight new Somerfield forecourt findings with staff and are now using People them to guide our HR strategies and convenience stores, bringing the total to During the year, Bill Williams, who was 28, and raised sales by improving the policies.
In particular, we are addressing managing director of Somerfield, decided customer offer.
We expect to increase this employees desire for improved to retire from the Group.
He resigned from total significantly over the next year.
communication, personal security and the Board on 11 March 2004.
appreciates his contribution to the In May 2004 we acquired 11 forecourt development of the Somerfield fascia convenience stores in Scotland for Outlook stores and the Group and wishes him 2.6 million from the receiver of Osprey We can expect continuing competitive every success in the future.
We will retain and pressure on all areas of our business.
In Bickerstaffe took over responsibility for develop five prime sites, and sell the the convenience store sector, it remains to the management of the Somerfield remaining six sites as part of a third party be seen whether there will be regulatory Business and remained on the group development deal.
curbs on further acquisitions by the big executive committee.
supermarket players that already have Logistics and IT more than a 25% share of the After the year end, on 29 June 2004, Our supply chain rationalisation is nearing major changes to the Board were agreed.
We have closed five smaller Steve Back will take over as chief Whatever the decision, we confidently depots in the North West, since the executive on 1 September 2004, allowing successful opening of our Lea Green expect continuing improvement in our me to concentrate on my role as business as we progress our strategy of depot in May 2003, and also one in the chairman.
Also with effect from 1 South West.
We had 17 depots at the year refitting stores, enhancing the customer September 2004, David Cheyne will offer and expanding our convenience end, and will have only 14 by October succeed Steve Back as group finance 2004 one fewer than the 15 originally store operations.
Our strategy is delivering director and Katie Bickerstaffe will be envisaged.
We have continued to make increasing returns as we advance towards appointed to the Board as director of improvements throughout the supply half the estate being refitted and our Somerfield stores and retail services.
In the past two years we have strong cash flows and balance sheet a healthy sign for the business that it has halved chill delivery lead times and are enable us to implement it with increasing been able to fill these three key positions working to reduce them further.
Encouragingly, the new financial through internal promotion.
On 1 July out of our single warehouse system will year has started with good like for like 2004, Barry Gibson will join the Board as a be complete by July 2004. sales growth and stable gross profit new non-executive director.
Barry brings margins in both Somerfield and Kwik Save.
In September 2004, we will complete a significant retail experience from his roles two-year programme that establishes a at BAA and Littlewoods and is an ideal common till platform in all Somerfield and replacement for Alan Giles, who will Kwik Save stores.
By Christmas all tills will resign as a non-executive director after the also have full Chip & Pin capability, which annual general meeting on 8 September will reduce fraud.
The Board would like to thank Alan John von Spreckelsen tailored allocation system which helps us for his immense contribution to Executive Chairman fine-tune each stores ranging to suit local Somerfield over the past ten years and market needs.
This is a particularly crucial wishes him all the best for the future.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 5
