Chairmans Statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 The strength of the oil market and the prospect of sustained demand led growth continues to generate a significant number of very important opportunities for the Group.
We are ideally placed to exploit these opportunities and have embarked on a strategic investment plan which will see some $200 million invested in expanding our land rig fleet over 2004 and 2005.
US$200m The effect of the more general downturn in Dividend Invested during development drilling activity in the North Sea The directors are recommending an increase 2004 05 has fully confirmed our strategy of developing in the final dividend to 3.2p 2003: 3.1p per our international business in key areas.
However, ordinary share, which, taken together with the the North Sea remains an important market for interim dividend already paid, would give a total us and I was delighted that our continuing distribution of 4.8p 2003: 4.5p per ordinary commitment and experience in providing safe share, an increase of 6.7%.
If approved, the final and efficient platform drilling operations in this dividend will be paid on 3 June 2005 to eligible challenging environment has been recognised shareholders on the register at 6 May 2005. by our customers by the award of contract wins and extensions valued at in excess of $100 Market Overview million, which we announced last month.
As previously reported activity levels in the North Sea continued to decline in 2004 and as indicated Results in our January trading statement, we expect this Turnover for the year was 367.0 million trend to continue during 2005.
contract wins and extensions lead us to believe that activity levels are stabilising and that there Drilling division operating profits were may be some potential for an upturn in activity 28.5 million 2003: 26.3 million.
The drilling division operating profits excluding In contrast to the North Sea there are significant goodwill amortisation and exceptional items opportunities for growth in all other regions were 32.9 million 2003: 34.8 million.
Pre tax profits were 21.9 million 2003: According to the International Energy Agency, 20.6 million.
Pre tax profits excluding demand for oil in 2004 is estimated to have exceptional items and goodwill amortisation grown by 2.6 million barrels day, and although were 28.3 million 2003: 30.8 million.
it is predicted that this will not be sustained in Adjusted earnings per share excluding 2005, the surplus capacity in the OPEC system has been significantly reduced in recent years.
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 11.7p 2003: 11.8p.
Basic earnings per share were 8.2p 2003: 6.6p.
2 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The upgraded 3000hp rig T-79 was launched in Jebel Ali in April 2004 for the Middle East market.
In line with KCA It is our belief that continued growth in demand DEUTAGs environmental for oil and gas, coupled with the requirement policies the rig has a range to replace reserves, constitutes a major driver for of high specification features including sound proofing increased activity for our drilling business in the and low engine emissions.
The opportunities for a considered investment in rigs and equipment have not been better for a number of years, and the Group will continue to make appropriate investments.
We are confident that the overall market dynamics driving our business will be sustained and that we will take full advantage of the derived opportunities as they arise.
Change to the Board Geoffrey Philipps, who has been a non-executive director since June 1995, has indicated that he will step down from the Board at the AGM in May.
Geoffrey is an independent consultant Rig T-206 in the Libyan desert.
to the shipping and oil industry.
He has been KCA DEUTAG has operated a valued colleague during his time on the Board continuously in Libya for over and I would thank him for his contribution 45 years, and following the to the success of the Group over many years.
acquisition of IADC Ltd is now the largest western-owned drilling contractor in Libya.
Outlook In the first few weeks of the current year we have secured drilling and engineering contracts, both in the North Sea and internationally.
We have retained an impressive portfolio of contracts in the North Sea which will maintain our position as the leading offshore platform drilling contractor in the UKCS.
Internationally, the outlook for sustained growth in all our major market places remains very positive.
I stated in my interim report in September that the outlook for our Group is, in our opinion, one of the best that we have seen for many years.
All current indications lead us to believe that this remains the case.
We are confident that we have positioned the Group to reap fully the benefit of existing favourable market conditions.
In addition our financial strength and strong cashflow give us the necessary resources to exploit the opportunities presenting themselves as a result of the strength of the oil market and demand led growth.
Alasdair J. D. Locke Executive Chairman 11 March 2005 ABBOT GROUP plc 3
