A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 4 chairmans statement I am pleased to report a robust performance in 2004 despite exchange rates again moving against us.
Group turnover increased by 4% to 326 million, which included an adverse exchange movement of 4%, so the underlying organic growth was 8%, spread widely across the globe but with the major increases coming from the Americas, Asia and Australasia.
This good result arose from our continuing to focus the Group's resources on growing our steam specialty and peristaltic pumping businesses in a mixed but mainly positive trading environment.
Fortune, Chairman gives a total for the year of 21.4p, an increase of 6.5%.
The Group operating profit increased by 12% to a The cost of the interim and final dividends is record 51.1 million, the increase benefiting from the 16.1million, which is covered 2.0 times by earnings.
No non-repeat of the factory closure costs in 2003 of 1.5 scrip alternative to the cash dividend is being offered.
The effect of exchange rate movements was to reduce the 2004 profit by 3.75 million, so we Net capital expenditure for the year was 14.1 million achieved a strong underlying like for like profit increase.
We are maintaining our policy of The operating profit margin rose again to 15.7% investment in equipment and systems for sales, compared with 14.6% in 2003. manufacturing and product development to support our aim of long term growth.
Continuing good cash flow eliminated net debt during the year and reduced the net interest charge to 0.3 The Group has a history of good cash generation and, million in 2004 from 1.2 million in 2003.
The Group's as already noted, 2004 was no exception with a strong pre-tax profit rose to 50.8 million, as against 44.6 inflow of 17 million, which arose from both the good million the previous year: an increase of 14%.
profit and tight control of capital employed.
The year Amortisation of goodwill was 0.7 million 2003: 0.7 finished with net cash of 2.9 million, having started million.
the year with net debt of 14.4 million.
The tax charge at 34% was similar to the charge in On 4th October, we announced that we had acquired 2003 and represents the expected normal rate.
80% of Eirdata Environmental Services, based in the Minority interests were 44% ahead of 2003 as a result Republic of Ireland, for an initial consideration of 1.2 of strong results in India in particular and Mexico.
Eirdata provides utility services to the Earnings per share rose by 13% to 43.4p from 38.5p.
pharmaceutical industry and complements our The Board is recommending a final dividend of 15.1p, growing steam system service business.
which, with the interim dividend of 6.3p per share, 2 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2004 10 3 05 02:54 pm Page 5 As previously announced, Chris Ball and I will be and I would like to record my personal thanks and the retiring from the Board on 29th April and 12th May thanks of the whole Board for the hard work and respectively.
Chris has been with Spirax Sarco virtually dedication of all our people who make the Group the all his working life.
He is a natural salesman and high quality business that it is.
motivator and, after starting work in the UK Sales company, has worked in Kenya, Korea, Japan, prospects Australia and Canada before returning to the UK to The 2005 world economic outlook appears positive, take up his Board position in 1992.
He has given although there are few signs of any significant unstintingly of his time and enthusiasm and he has improvements in Continental Europe or the UK.
The been a significant contributor to the Group's success Asian economies remain strong: the Americas have over these many years, and I thank him on behalf of the also started well in 2005 but there must be doubts Board and shareholders for his achievements which about sustainability.
Given the underlying strengths of have benefited the company so much.
the Group's business and its global coverage, and assuming no economic shocks or major adverse We will be pleased to welcome Tony Scrivin as an exchange movements, we expect further growth executive director and Gareth Bullock as a nonin 2005. executive director to the Board on 2nd May.
Tony has worked at Spirax since 1963 and has wide experience in most areas of the business, both sales and manufacturing, including running Spirax Sarco, Inc. in the USA.
Gareth is a director of Standard Chartered Bank and will bring a wealth of experience not only of financial matters generally but also specifically of Asia T. B.
During my time with the Group, with the help of my colleagues, we have built on the foundations laid down by our predecessors a flourishing business with clear strategies for the future.
At the conclusion of the AGM on the 12th May, I will be handing over the Chairmanship of the Board to Mike Townsend.
Mike understands the business well and in his care I am confident the Group will continue to prosper.
Bill Whiteley will replace Mike Townsend as Senior Independent Director and will chair the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Group has complied with the Combined Code throughout 2004, with the exception of the balance on the Board between executive and non-executive directors.
We continue to believe that this Board structure is right for the Group and has contributed to its long record of good results.
This is covered in more detail on pages 22 to 25.
The robust 2004 trading performance was based on our sales and marketing philosophy of providing excellent knowledge, service, products and support to customers wherever they are.
This requires well trained and enthusiastic people right through the organisation, Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 3
