Chairmans Statement in the authoritative JD Power study of electricity customers satisfaction.
Scottish and Southern Energys consistently stated objective is to deliver sustained This excellent performance is delivered real dividend growth through the effective day-in, day-out by our employees often management of core businesses, in response to exceptionally difficult supplemented by well-founded investment.
circumstances, such as the Hogmanay storm The company continued to meet this in the north of Scotland.
Our company is objective in 2004. fortunate indeed to have such professional and committed people throughout its Profit before tax, goodwill and FRS17 operations, and the Board and I would like income grew by 3.8% to 619.9m.
On this to put on the record our great appreciation basis, earnings per share increased by of their outstanding work.
Consequently, the Board is recommending a full-year dividend of 37.7p In October, our Deputy Chairman, Ian The Board is focused on per share, an increase of 7.7% on the Grant, retired from the Board, having given ensuring that the previous year.
The full-year dividend is many years of exceptional service.
He was companys established covered 1.5 times by earnings.
This years succeeded by Sir Robert Smith, who is also businesses are managed dividend increase is once again ahead Chairman of The Weir Group and who of our target of at least 4% annual real joined the Board in June 2003. effectively and that growth to 2005, with sustained real investment opportunities growth thereafter.
Nick Timpson retired as a non-Executive are well-founded.
These Director in June 2003 and Sir Graeme opportunities are now Scottish and Southern Energy continues to Odgers retired in May 2004.
Our thanks greater than at any time have one of the strongest balance sheets in go to them both for their considerable since the privatisation of the global utility sector, and this  to the company over many maintained financial strength gives us the years, particularly in the health and safety the electricity industry opportunity to invest in ways which create and audit areas.
Ren Mdori, Finance and Scottish and Southern value for shareholders.
Director of the BOC Group, and Susan Energy is uniquely placed Rice, Chief Executive, Lloyds TSB to capitalise on them.
In November 2003 we acquired 100% Scotland, joined the Board during the year.
ownership of Medway Power Station in a 241.1m deal, and this acquisition has Joining the Board is Kevin Smith, the Dr Bruce Farmer CBE made a good contribution to earnings in Chief Executive of GKN, who will bring Chairman its first five months of ownership.
This was with him his broad industrial and followed by the purchase of Fife Power operational experience.
These acquisitions have added 550MW to our The Board is focused on ensuring that generation portfolio.
We also acquired the the companys established businesses are assets of Atlantic Electric & Gas in April managed effectively and that investment 2004 for 90.7m, taking our supply opportunities are well-founded.
These customer numbers to over 5.5 million.
opportunities are now greater than at any We have also made significant progress time since the privatisation of the electricity in our programme of investment in the industry and Scottish and Southern Energy generation of electricity from renewable is uniquely placed to capitalise on them.
sources, in electricity networks and in We will of course remain very disciplined gas storage.
With these opportunities go many challenges and responsibilities, Our balance sheet strength enabled us which we will constantly monitor and to buy back and cancel 1,760,000 of address.
the companys shares at an aggregate consideration of 11.2m and an average I have no doubt that our strategy, and the price of 633p per share.
This financial high-quality team that is in place to deliver strength and well-founded investment is it, means the prospects for sustainable complemented by a high standard of growth in our businesses, and consequently operational performance throughout dividends, are excellent.
Scottish and Southern Energys activities.
A key aim is to enhance shareholder value through greater efficiencies and our postmerger annualised cost savings have now reached 175m.
As a customer-facing organisation, the quality of service we deliver is absolutely vital.
The average time customers lost electricity supply was reduced both in the north of Scotland and in central southern England.
In addition, we achieved a 23% reduction in the number of customer complaints.
Scottish and Southern Energy once again performed best of all suppliers Scottish and Southern Energy plc 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
