S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT The results for the fty two weeks ended 30 July 2004 show turnover of Results 410.3 million 2003 437.2 million and underlying profit before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and impairment and taxation of 39.7 million 2003 36.9 million.
profit before taxation was 14.9 million 2003 34.6 million.
Underlying earnings per share were 25.08 pence 2003 23.45 pence.
Basic earnings per share were 2.92 pence 2003 21.82 pence.
This is a creditable result, representing an increase of 7.5 per cent in underlying profit as compared with the previous year, which has been achieved despite the continuation of extremely challenging conditions in most of our markets.
It reects the benets of the actions which we have taken to reduce our cost base over the last several years.
The exceptional charge of 9.9 million excluding goodwill impairment of 13 million mainly represents the costs of the closures at Rochester and Marlton in the USA and of transferring manufacturing operations from Tunbridge Wells to Crayford, together with redundancy costs arising from restructuring as a result of investment or consolidation of operations in other parts of our Group.
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of Dividends 12.15 pence per share, making total dividends of 17.15 pence per share, the same as last year.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 3 December 2004 to shareholders on the register on 5 November 2004.
Underlying demand for books remained robust.
In our other markets, Trading Conditions we grew sales of more specialist, shorter-run product.
However web offset markets in all the geographic areas in which we operate continue to be characterised by over-capacity and uctuating demand.
Pricing for longer-run, non-time-sensitive products was especially competitive.
While there was a modest improvement in levels of corporate finance activity in the USA, this market remained very quiet in Europe and the UK and pricing was extremely competitive in both corporate financial and Annual Reports markets.
In these circumstances it became necessary to take further actions to reduce our cost base.
While sales of books were lower than in the previous year, Books underlying levels of demand remained resilient.
Paperback sales were particularly strong.
We produced a high proportion of best selling titles, which we were able to win because of our ability to provide initial orders on very short lead-times and to deliver quick reprints when required.
We increased the volume of books for which we provide direct delivery to retail chains and other ancillary services.
Our continuing investment in systems and equipment has enabled us to reduce cost as well as enhance service.
As a result, we made further progress in financial terms.
We again grew sales of specialist, personalised direct mail pieces, Direct Response and particularly for the financial and government sectors of the market, as we Commercial continued to concentrate on customers with demanding service UK requirements.
Winning longer-run catalogue and brochure work at prices which generated an economic return proved challenging in the face of continuing over-capacity.
However, as a result of changes in our mix of work, we were able to improve profitability.
3 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT continued Germany Commercial markets remained subdued in Germany.
At Johler Druck we reduced losses through improvements in the work mix and more concentration on parts of the market with a greater requirement for more specialist print.
USA In these markets in the USA demand was weak and pricing pressure continued.
Following the closure of St Ives Inc Case-Hoyt, which was announced in January, we have been able to retain a proportion of its work for production at our other facilities, thereby improving utilisation.
We also produced increased volumes of work requiring additional fullment and logistics, which helped to improve returns in our continuing business.
Financial A slight improvement in activity levels in corporate finance markets in the USA was sustained through the second half of the year.
By contrast, UK and European corporate finance markets were at and extremely competitive in pricing.
The market for company Annual Reports also became more competitive, as a number of customers reduced product specications and non-specialist commercial printers sought to enter the market.
In the USA, as a result of more short-run work and increasing use of digital printing, as well as electronic distribution, there has been no increase in demand for offset printing, despite the underlying increase in activity.
Accordingly at the end of the year we regrettably took the decision to close our facility at Marlton.
Magazines In the UK, magazine paginations were volatile but generally subdued UK with no evidence of a recovery in advertising expenditure.
This, coupled with over-capacity, has led to continuing pricing pressure, especially in the longer-run, less time-sensitive part of the market, with the result that our longer-run equipment was under-utilised.
Shorter-run titles were generally more resilient.
We have taken steps to reduce cost and improve productivity at our longer-run plants.
USA The magazine market in the USA faced similar conditions to those in the UK, with erce price competition prevailing for longer-run titles in particular.
Multimedia Greater concentration on specialist packaging and DVD related products offset reduced demand for standard music CD products.
As already announced, the lack of growth in our markets made it necessary to transfer operations from Tunbridge Wells to our modern facility at Crayford, so as to achieve improved utilisation and to reduce cost.
The move was completed at the year end.
Balance Sheet The business remains strongly cash generative and our financial position is robust.
During the year we strengthened the position of the Companys dened benets pension scheme which was closed to new members in April 2002, by making an additional contribution of 25 million as well as through a reduction in the rate of future accrual for active members.
This action will help to contain future pension costs.
Capital expenditure during the year, directed at reducing our cost of 4 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 production, was 16 million.
We nished the year with net assets of over 222 million and net cash of 26 million.
Since the year end we have acquired the whole of the issued share Acquisition capital of SP Group, a Midlands based company which supplies a full range of point-of-sale material and services to multiple retail chains and major brand companies.
SPs product range and emphasis on service make it an excellent t with those of our existing businesses which serve these customers and markets.
The acquisition will add signicantly to our ability to supply point-of-sale material to a broad range of blue chip customers with requirements extending beyond the supply of print.
The initial consideration of 33 million was satisfied as to 29.5 million in cash and as to the balance through the issue of oating rate loan notes.
Further consideration of up to 3.92 million will become payable if SP achieves operating profit of 4.9 million for the year to 31 March 2005.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all those employees Staff who made a contribution to the results in the challenging conditions which we faced last year.
We are especially grateful to those employees who have made changes in their working arrangements to meet our customers requirements.
The prospects for our book business are good.
While the modest Outlook increase in levels of activity in corporate finance markets in the USA has been sustained, we have yet to see a corresponding pick-up in the UK and Europe, where pricing is exceedingly competitive.
Demand for the shorter-run, time-sensitive products on which we concentrate remains steady.
Markets for longer-run, less time-sensitive work continue to be ercely competitive in the face of over-capacity and accordingly our cost base remains under constant review.
We shall continue to concentrate on supplying the parts of our market where we can add value to our customers businesses and where we are able to generate a satisfactory return to our shareholders: but we will not pursue volume or market share for its own sake.
We will invest where investment can be justied by the prospective returns, but not otherwise.
We believe that our Group is well placed to emerge strengthened from the current turbulent conditions.
