Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a year of strong We welcome the Governments major review of the railways in the UK growth and demonstrated that we continue to lead the way in providing and, as part of the consultation process, we have made constructive innovative public transport services.
We have successfully delivered on the proposals to deliver the integration we believe is vital to the future of the strategy that we outlined to restructure our North American operations, rail network.
which has resulted in a more predictable business and contributed to a A key strategic priority in the months ahead is finalising the negotiation of very significant reduction in Group debt.
the CrossCountry and West Coast franchises, which at present continue to Stagecoach Group now has a core portfolio of bus and rail businesses in operate under annual budgets set by the Strategic Rail Authority SRA.
the UK and overseas, with strong cash generation.
Coupled with our solid We are pleased with the progress that is being made and negotiations financial position, I believe we have excellent potential to deliver good with the SRA are continuing towards concluding a detailed agreement in returns for shareholders.
due course that will put both franchises on a long-term commercial basis through to 2012.
Excluding the impact of disposed businesses, turnover grew We will also be focusing on our bid with Virgin and Deutsche Bahn for by 4.9% from 1,581.4m to 1.659.4m.
Operating profit before goodwill the new Inter-City East Coast franchise, which would be an excellent amortisation and exceptional items was 147.5m 2003: 146.4m.
addition to our rail portfolio.
In addition, we are bringing our UK operating Excluding the impact of the disposals of Citybus, Chongqing Bus, Road experience to the Danish State Railways bid for the new Integrated Kent King and Trainline, the equivalent operating profit grew from 121.0m to rail franchise and we will consider other opportunities in the inter-city and 141.9m.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional London commuter markets.
The reduction in operating profits as a Renewed dynamism at our UK Bus operations has seen Stagecoach lead result of disposals was offset by growth in our continuing businesses and the industry with innovative ideas to attract more people to public reduced finance charges reflecting the proceeds from disposals.
com, the UKs first low cost internet bus service, Last year, we stated our intention to pursue a progressive dividend policy.
encapsulates the entrepreneurial energy that drives the Group forward.
The Board of Directors is proposing a final dividend of 2.0p per share We have reported growth in operating profit and operating margin at our 2003: 1.8p, giving a total dividend for the year of 2.9p 2003: 2.6p.
In New Zealand, our business continues to This is an increase of 11.5% and reflects the Boards firm confidence in generate good operating profits and produce new ideas on the delivery of the future prospects for the Group.
The proposed final dividend of bus services.
2.0p per share will be paid on 6 October 2004 to shareholders on the register at 10 September 2004.
I am delighted that the loyalty of our investors has been rewarded with a year of significant progress across the Group.
Our excellent Consolidated net debt reduced by 492.4m in the year from 560.0m performance is also the result of a committed contribution from our down to 67.6m.
The significant reduction in net debt reflects the employees across the whole Group.
Looking ahead, I believe there are benefits of the strong cash generation from our core businesses, and the good prospects for further growth and increased shareholder value from proceeds from the disposals of Citybus, Road King, Trainline and the our portfolio of businesses.
non-core parts of our North American operations.
As previously announced, the Board proposes to return approximately 250m of capital to shareholders in order to achieve a more efficient capital structure.
The Board believes that by adjusting the mix of equity and debt in the business, the Group can lower its overall cost of capital and generate further shareholder value.
We are therefore proposing, in addition to the final dividend of 2.0p, to issue one redeemable B Share for every ordinary share, which can be converted to cash of 18.0p per B Share.
Further details are provided in the Finance Directors Review on pages 13 to 16.
Robert Speirs All of the Groups core divisions have continued to trade well, particularly our Rail division where we have seen improved performance and further Chairman growth in passenger volumes.
The new three-year franchise at South West Trains has started well and is delivering good operating profits.
References to the operating profit of a particular division in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Operating review refer to operating profit before restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Further details of the divisional split of operating profit can be found in note 2 b to the accounts.
