2004 saw a welcome return to profitable growth margins across the Group.
Many of the markets for SMG.
Like for like pre-tax profits were 9% in which we operate are undergoing significant ahead at 17.5m on revenues, on the same change and we see a number of exciting basis, up 7% to 201.2m.
During the year we development opportunities across the business.
successfully completed the sale of our minority holdings in Scottish Radio Holdings plc and In Television, we have a pre-eminent position in GMTV Limited.
These disposals, coupled with the Scottish commercial market and, with the internal cash generation, allowed us to reduce opening of the new Scottish Television studios net debt by over 100m and we have entered in 2006, following those of Grampian Television 2005 with a much-strengthened balance sheet.
in 2003, we will have some of the most modern In line with the Groups dividend policy, the and efficient television facilities available anywhere Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.5p in Europe.
Added to which, demand for content which, when added to the interim dividend of and production support is increasing rapidly 1p gives a total for the year of 2.5p.
Subject to which is fuelling growth in both our Broadcast approval by shareholders, the final dividend will & Event Solutions business and in SMG be paid on 13 July 2005 to ordinary shareholders TV Productions.
on the register as at 10 June 2005 with an ex-dividend date of 8 June 2005.
SMG TV Productions has established an outstanding reputation for making high quality, SMG is now strongly positioned to deliver future commercially attractive programmes.
Revenues growth and increasing shareholder value.
in 2004 totalled over 15m a figure we expect In addition to benefiting from the current to grow, given the increasing requirement for recovery in national advertising, the Groups regulated broadcasters to commission more powerful brands have considerable development programming from outside London and the potential as the digital environment expands.
ongoing growth of multi-channel television and other video platforms.
Since joining SMG in June of last year, I have been impressed by the depth and quality Currently the fastest growing of all SMGs of management, the strength of our brands businesses, Broadcast & Event Solutions, and their market positions.
Your Board and our production facilities hire and channel the executive management team are totally management arm, also offers significant committed to delivering sustainable growth scope for further development.
We see a number of demand from independent producers and opportunities for self-financed organic growth the growing number of new channel throughout the Group and future prospects providers are driving the market for high are encouraging.
quality facilities and experienced production support.
Given our existing production and Delivering growth and returns broadcasting resources, together with our Our strategy for the medium-term is focused on pool of highly skilled and experienced increasing efficiency and productivity while at the people, we are extremely well placed same time driving sales growth and increasing to meet this demand.
chairmans statement 02 In Radio, the brand strength of Virgin Radio We have clearly established that there are cost offers considerable growth potential in the advantages from managing four advertising new and rapidly growing digital arena.
Already platforms within a single Group and a detailed outperforming both the BBC and all other internal benchmarking exercise has shown that, commercial radio stations in terms of audience in terms of margins and returns, each of our hours for online listeners, Virgin Radio, as one of businesses compares favourably with its only three national commercial radio stations, is direct competitors.
ideally positioned to benefit from the accelerating conversion to digital radio throughout the UK.
Both collectively and individually, the businesses Additionally, there are opportunities to establish within the SMG Group have attractive growth a strong presence on other digital platforms prospects and the ability to deliver increasing such as mobile phones and we have recently shareholder value.
become the first in Europe to broadcast onto 3G phones.
Our People The real key to success in any organisation lies In outdoor advertising, one of the fastest growing in the quality and commitment of its people.
advertising sectors, Primesight already has a In SMG we have a group of highly professional, strong and growing presence in the six sheet extremely committed and, most importantly, market, with over 12,500 sites through the UK, enthusiastic individuals.
On behalf of all my and is rapidly increasing the number of high colleagues on the Board I would like to thank yielding Backlight panels on high profile sites them for all their hard work and support.
across the UKs major cities.
Both markets offer scope for further profitable organic growth, I should also like to acknowledge the major which the Company is well positioned to exploit.
contribution that John Pearson has made to Virgin Radio during his 11 years with the station.
Finally in Cinema advertising, as with Virgin Radio, John stepped down as Chief Executive of Virgin the iconic strength of the Pearl & Dean brand Radio on 31 March 2005 and we all wish him offers exciting potential not only in growing well in the future.
As Johns replacement, I am the screen advertising business in the UK, delighted to welcome Fru Hazlitt who will be the Republic of Ireland and Continental Europe joining the Group in the late summer following but also in extending the brand into other her resignation as Managing Director of Yahoo!s related areas.
operation in the UK and Ireland.
As well as a background in commercial radio, Fru also has While there is still some debate as to the an intimate knowledge of the internet advertising attractiveness of a combined cross media market and will, I am sure, prove to be a valuable offering from a single company, there is no addition to the executive management team.
doubt that bespoke cross media campaigns are becoming increasingly attractive to advertisers as they seek to make an impact in a highly competitive marketplace.
03 The Board Outlook At last years AGM, Don Cruickshank retired With national advertising markets improving as a director and stood down as Chairman.
significantly, strong market positions, a focused On behalf of all the directors, I would like to and realistic growth plan coupled with a acknowledge the dedication and commitment strengthened balance sheet, SMGs prospects Don has shown to the Company during his five for the remainder of 2005 are encouraging.
At this years AGM, both Calum MacLeod and Donald Waters will be Advertising markets have become more retiring as directors.
Between them Calum and predictable, booking patterns longer term and Donald have over 14 years experience on the a sustained advertising recovery looks more Board, having joined in 1997 when Grampian certain.
First quarter trading has been positive Television joined the Group.
We shall all miss across all our businesses, helped by the effects their wise counsel, however I am delighted to of the early Easter.
report that they will both be maintaining a close association with the Company in that Calum First quarter television revenues have increased has agreed to continue as Chairman of by 8% in 2005 and we are currently awaiting Grampian Television and Donald has agreed the outcome of Ofcoms review of our television to remain as Chairman of the Trustees of licence terms, which is expected in June.
While the Companys two defined benefit pension the effect on programming costs of the Public schemes.
Following Calums retirement as Service Broadcasting Review is not yet fully a director, David Dunn, who was appointed known, we anticipate a positive outcome for to the Board in September 2003, will become Scottish and Grampian TV.
the Companys Senior Independent Director.
At Virgin Radio, the trading weakness in the I am also delighted to welcome MT Rainey to final quarter of 2004 proved to be short lived the Board.
MT Mary Teresa, who will be standing and we have seen a return to profitable growth, for election at the AGM, was appointed as a with Q1 radio revenues up by 8%.
director in April 2005 and is already making a valuable and insightful contribution.
Having Primesight continues to perform very strongly, recently stepped down as Chairman of Rainey while Pearl & Dean is benefiting from better Kelly Campbell Roalfe Y&R, the sixth biggest phasing of movies.
As a result, the combined advertising agency in the UK and part of the revenues of these businesses have shown WPP group, MT brings a wealth of experience a first quarter growth of 12%.
of both the advertising industry and of brand management and promotion.
Against this encouraging background, I am confident that SMG has the potential to flourish We are currently in the process of recruiting a in 2005, delivering growth in revenues, improving further two non-executive directors with specific performance and increasing shareholder value.
skills in financial reporting and media matters We look to the future with confidence.
and we are hopeful of making at least one further appointment in the near future.
