Chairmans Overall we delivered a solid Statement performance in the testing operating environment of 2004 and remain well positioned to deliver volume growth.
After the exciting returns from the sale of Movements in foreign currency exchange omeprazole to the USA in 2003, we entered rates again had a detrimental bearing on 2004 with the expectation that profit would results.
Sterling appreciated against be lower than the previous year.
As things almost all of the currencies in which we 3.1% turned out, macro-economic conditions have manufacturing operations, resulting conspired to cause the price of oil to in an adverse impact of nearly 2 million increase in dividend increase, leading to upward pressure upon the translation of overseas results.
per share on the input cost of monomers and a The primary exposure on transactions is to squeeze on margins.
The weakening of the US Dollar, which weakened by a the US Dollar also reduced the profitability further 14%, creating an unfavourable of sales denominated in that and related effect of nearly 8 million.
The resultant impact on profit masked good progress that was made The commitment to increase pension towards the long-term development contributions by 6 million per annum has of the group, with strong volume growth been reflected in the results for a full year Turnover million in polymers and further evolution in for the first time in 2004.
Higher payments the pipeline for pharmaceutical from both the group and employees, active ingredients.
a review of certain benefits and an improvement in stock market performance, Total turnover of 549.4 million was in saw the deficit on the pension fund reduce line with last year, however, at constant during the year.
2002 510.8 exchange rates, underlying growth was 5%.
Profit before taxation has been struck Adjusted earnings per share of 13.9 pence 2003 550.1 at 31.0 million, which must be viewed were achieved.
Long term prospects for 2004 549.4 as a solid achievement given the number the group remain sound, particularly of negative factors in play throughout should raw material price fluctuations the year.
Your Directors therefore propose a final dividend of 7.9 pence per share taking The sharp escalation in the cost of the total for the year to 13.4 pence, an Profit before tax million monomers has been the most difficult increase of 3.1% over the previous year.
excludes amortisation, sale and termination of issue faced by our operations.
In total raw Subject to shareholder approval at the businesses and profit loss on disposal of fixed assets material costs for the Polymer division rose Annual General Meeting, the dividend will by 25 million in the year, requiring selling be paid on 4 July to members on the price increases to be revisited on a regular register at close of business on 3 June.
The fact that an operating profit within 3 million of the prior year was After a high level of capital expenditure in 2002 52.6 delivered in such trying market conditions recent years, capital investment was lower 2003 59.9 is a testament to the quality of our products in 2004 at 16.7 million, being 0.7 times 2004 31.0 and the skills of our management teams.
As anticipated, the high level of working capital reported at the half year has reduced.
However, for the year as a whole there was upward pressure due to higher monomer costs, which increase the unit carrying value, together with a priority on securing raw materials during a period of restricted availability.
The resultant free cash flow was 13.3 million and net debt at the year end was 187.6 million.
04 Yule Catto & Co plc 01 02 In September we issued 75 million of 03 01 Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Loan Notes With its food safety approval and unique to institutional investors in the USA, which colour, ultramarine is ideal for the colour coding of seeds for agricultural use.
November saw the refinancing of a 60 02 million revolving credit facility with five Within Uquifa, the portfolio of generic European banks, expiring in November 2009. products in development is deepening The two initiatives, together with and widening.
100 million of long term loans previously 03 placed, provide long term security for our Nitrile latex is now established as the base borrowing requirements.
for synthetic disposable gloves which saw considerable growth in the medical and In responding to a far from easy operating electronic industries.
environment, the commitment and hard work of our employees around the world Much effort has been directed at the The strategy to increase the number of is our most valuable asset.
We have detailed programme necessary to effect generic active pharmaceutical ingredients experienced many new challenges a smooth transition to International registered continues apace, with another during the year, which were addressed Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, eight drug master files targeted for filing in by customary resource and energy.
On which became effective from 1 January the USA in the current year.
This will further behalf of the Board of Directors, I should 2005.
The restated results for 2004, under improve the platform for the long-term like to recognise the invaluable contribution IFRS, will be audited prior to their release development of the Pharma business.
of our employees and thank them for their on 8 September with the 2005 interim Delays in the approval of new chemical efforts on behalf of Yule Catto.
Following the introduction of IFRS, entities, together with adverse publicity we anticipate greater volatility on reported surrounding certain products already in the Safety, health and environmental issues earnings, in particular relating to the market, is causing pharmaceutical companies are of the highest importance within accounting for goodwill, financial to review their outsourcing requirement, Yule Catto.
In recent years we have seen instruments and foreign exchange.
thereby potentially creating uncertainty for a pleasing trend of improving statistics us in the area of contract manufacturing.
in this area, and to take matters a stage Outlook further we are fully committed to support Volume continues to be strong within Overall we delivered a solid performance in the UK Chemical Industry Association the Polymer business and the global the testing operating environment of 2004 through adoption of its recently published infrastructure is in place to support further and remain well positioned to deliver principles of sustainable development.
Additional selling price increases volume growth.
The investments of recent This will broaden the categories targeted are being implemented, which should years in positioning manufacturing assets for improvement by introducing additional alleviate some of the margin pressure strategically and in strengthening our measures to reduce energy and waste.
We are well placed development facilities are in place.
We will publish our objectives for the next to sustain growth and exploit opportunities However, predicting the time scale within five years in 2005. to return to historic levels of operating which these initiatives translate to results margin, but in the short-term results may will depend on global factors affecting our be constrained by the impact of a tightness suppliers and customers alike.
within the raw material supply chain.
Anthony Richmond-Watson 3 March 2005 05 Annual Report 2004
