more potential Benefiting from scale We estimate that the world market with this communications company Having mostly completed the for market information will grow by that has a subscriber base of around integration in the region by the around 4 per cent in 2005.
end of 2003, we are now benefiting this trend, it is the developing Quality and security from the scale of our operations markets that are spearheading The group has transferred a and are winning more large growth.
Asia Pacic, Latin America, significant amount of its data projects.
There are now more than Central and Eastern Europe: all are processing, software development 20 clients each spending over fast-growing markets in which TNS and IT support to Hyderabad in US$1 million per annum with has a significant presence.
With an emphasis on TNS unprecedented in the Asia We have operations in 15 countries quality and security, this facility is Pacic custom market.
Our custom working well and should become an A focus on winning pan-regional business is the strongest in the increasingly important factor in the business has led to the creation of region.
Asiapanel provides pangroups profitable growth.
an International Research Centre regional data from its consumer and an International Calling Centre, panels in seven countries, including both based in Hong Kong.
The China where we are also extending Fast-growing markets success of these initiatives was our Media Intelligence and TV and No.
1 in Asia Pacific illustrated by considerable growth Radio Audience Measurement custom in pan-regional research in 2004. activities.
Winning large-scale The benefit derived from being part During 2004, we increased the projects of a global group was exemplied by number of Chinese cities and Important local clients the win of the prestigious Tourism provinces in which we monitor TV Australia contract, which involves and radio audiences and also grew IT services in India tracking across Europe and North our national PeopleMeter panel.
In America, as well as Asia Pacic.
March 2005, we heard that, subject to contract, TNS has won the tender Key account success to measure television audiences in We have also seen considerable Hong Kong for five years from 2006. success in key account management in the region.
A recent example is There is a growing demand for new the growth of business with the syndicated services in Asia Pacic.
Fonterra Group, one of the regions For example, CardioMonitor has biggest clients, with global brands been successfully introduced into such as Anchor butter.
We run a six countries in the region and our variety of services for this client Australian syndicated business across several countries.
banking study has been extended into New Zealand.
Our Asia Pacic While the majority of global Telecoms Index was so successful companies operating in the region that it is being rolled out in other work with TNS, we also have regions in 2005 and extended across strong relations with important our newly-formed Technology local clients such as China Mobile.
TNS has preferred supplier status 17 the sixth sense of business
