BUCKINGHAMSHIRE Markets United Kingdom In our selected markets, we offer a range of homes to suit our customers varied lifestyles: London Yorkshire and North East one of the UKs most environmentally ANGUS Taylor Woodrows in-house skills One of the largest of Taylor advanced buildings.
Modular housing PERTH AND KINROSS are invaluable in the UK Capital, Woodrows eleven UK regions, units, manufactured off-site will be where development opportunities with its head ofce in Leeds.
used at Didsbury, also in Manchester.
FIFE increasingly involve browneld land.
Developments in 2004 included Taylor Woodrow has also teamed up STIRLING The regional team has six sites exclusive duplex apartments close with the National Trust to develop EAST being developed in the London to Harrogates famous Stray and Stamford Brook a unique, Livingston.
Glasgow Borough of Bromley alone.
These Baltic Quay, the 241 apartment sustainable development of energysites, at Keston, Bickley, Orpington, development on the River Tyne in efficient homes, in Altrincham, Scotland NORTH Pettswood, Beckenham and Biggin Gateshead.
The region is also Cheshire.
AYRSHIRE SOUTH SCOTTISH BORDERS Hill, will deliver 476 homes over the developing Newcastle Great Park LANARKSHIRE.
just four miles from Newcastle city South East EAST AYRSHIRE SOUTH NORTHUMBERLAND centre.
Plans for the development With its headquarters in Crawley, AYRSHIRE South West include 2,500 energy efficient the South East region covers Kent, Newcastle.. T & W Covers the South West and into homes set in 442 hectares of east and west Sussex and Surrey, Sunderland South Wales, with its head ofce parkland plus a further 80 hectares and has a wide variety of housing, near Bristol and the motorway of commercial development space.
ranging from larger, family homes DURHAM North East Yorkshire network.
Developments range from to riverside studio apartments such CUMBRIA the high-prole 477 apartment South as those at Delta Riverside in Scarborough Thirsk.
Victoria Wharf project in Cardiff, to a This region covers Dorset to southern Maidstone, Kent.
NORTH YORKSHIRE prestigious development of luxury Oxfordshire and is headquartered in includes a number of key worker Harrogate homes at the heart of Cheltenham, Newbury.
Sensitive to the local homes with easy access to the Lancaster... York designed to reect the style of the community, the coloured rendering town centre.
LANCASHIRE E R YORKSHIRE Blackpool Leeds Leeds.
at T aylor Woodrow s Peterseld Blackburn.
WEST YORKSHIRE development in Hampshire ensures Anglia Grimsby.
MAN Eastern that homes reect the local Covering Cambridgeshire, Suffolk.
Taylor Woodrows Eastern region vernacular.
105 of the 293 homes at and Norfolk, homes range from Sheffield.
North West Lincoln stretches from Essex in the east Langley Woods in Slough are apartments on city centre Wa Warr rringt ington on CHESHIRE.
LINCOLNSHIRE Chester DERBYSHIRE through Herts and Beds to Bucks affordable and rented accommodation.
developments in Norwich and Nottingham Boston... Stoke-.
in the west, with headquarters in Cambridge, with a broader range on-trent Derby NORFOLK East Midlands Welwyn Garden City.
Products East Midlands of family housing provided across.
Shrewsbury Lichfield RUTLAND Norwich Leicest Leicester er.. Kings Lynn range from apartments to family With its headquarters in Leicester, the region in and around the larger.. Peterborough LEICESTERSHIRE homes.
In June 2004 work started the East Midlands region stretches market towns such as Bury St. Construction Anglia SHROPSHIRE.
TAMWORTH on a new 2,500 home urban village from Northamptonshire to Edmunds and Newmarket.
The Birmingham Our construction business, based in CAMBRIDGESHIRE Newmar Newmark ke et t West Midlands.
Among around 30 majority of Anglias developments Solihull Watford, focuses on repeat work for SolihullCoventry.. SUFFOLK.
projects in the region, Taylor Woodrow will provide affordable housing.
blue chip clients, healthcare, PFI and WARWICKSHIRE Bedford.
Milton Hereford Scotland is regenerating previously used facilities management, in addition to WORCESTERSHIRE.
Keynes HEREFORDSHIRE Taylor Woodrows regional ofce in buildings at St. Crispins, Northampton, West Midlands direct support of in-house Hertford.
ESSEX OXFORDSHIRE Cheltenham Livingston is strategically placed where 950 homes are being built In Solihull, home of Taylor Eastern developments.
The team secured We Welwyn lwyn.
Chelmsford between Scotlands two largest on an old hospital site, including the Woodrows central ofce as well the Quality in Constructions Gloucester City City Southend-on-Sea Swansea.
Newport cities, and the company develops conversion of a former nurses home as the West Midlands region, the Supreme Award in 2004 for the.
Swindon Wa Wat tf fo or rd d..
Greater homes predominantly in the highly into 29 luxury apartments.
company is building a range of.
London redevelopment of the Royal Albert Chipping Chipping BERKSHIRE London.
Reading Cardiff WILTSHIRE Sodbury Sodbury KENT.
In Glasgow, properties at affordable prices in Hall.
Key business wins included the Newbury Newbury Canterbury Dover... Guildford.
Maidstone South West Basingstoke we are delivering a part of the North West Wharf Lane, targeting first-time securing of the 72 million facilities SURREY HAMPSHIRE South East 500 million major regeneration of The North West region reaches from buyers and young families.
management commission for O2 and.. South WEST SUSSEX EAST SUSSEX SOMERSET Salisbury Barnstaple.
Glasgow Harbour, building 321 north Wales to Lancashire with Elsewhere, the Telford Millennium Hastings selection as preferred bidder for a Southampton Crawley Taunton Crawley.
In Edinburgh, Newington almost 40 active sites in 2004.
Community will comprise up to 800 major PFI project at St. Helens DORSET.
Bournemouth Portsmouth Grange, the refurbishment of a Its regional ofce is in Warrington.
new homes, a new primary school,.
Successful delivery has led Weymouth.. Exeter former college campus, won Together with a range of traditional local shops, recreation, community to securing project work for Crossrail, Torquay Channel 4 4Homes Best New homes, the region is leading the way and health services.
the Brit Oval cricket ground.
Housing Development in 2004. with designs for tomorrow.
Taylor redevelopment, and construction of.
Woodrows Green Building at the West London Academy and the Dartmouth Penzance.
Macintosh Village, Manchester, is Welsh National Assembly Building.
10 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 11 North Lindsey NORTHAMPTONSHIRE BEDFORDSHIRE STAFFORDSHIRE HERTFORDSHIRE NOTTINGHAMSHIRE Markets Living in a changing world International Florida Canada housing types, from first-time The Florida operations are The companys well respected buyers in attached town homes The world we live in is changing fast.
concentrated in the markets of Canadian operations, trading under and condominiums to luxury family Tampa Sarasota, Naples Fort Myers, the Monarch brand, are based and second homes.
In Southern Palm Beach Gardens and Panama in Toronto with a growing satellite California, the company is active Our success comes from understanding City.
The company is highly regarded operation in Ottawa, the nations from San Diego to Los Angeles along for its ability to develop award the coastline and has expanded its capital.
Monarchs products span winning master planned every market segment and include presence in the growing and more what customers want and providing it.
communities offering numerous affordable town homes, large family affordable Inland Empire area.
Home styles range homes and urban hi-rises priced Northern California, T aylor W oodrow is from luxury single family estates increasing its investment and is from Can$110,000 to over fronting golf-courses to attached Can$500,000.
In addition to its focused on high quality urban projects condominiums on lakes and natural merchant homebuilding operations, concentrated in Silicon Valley.
The company has a diverse Monarch has significant experience target market including primary, Spain in community developments, which second-home and retirees, and include varied amenities, such as Taylor Woodrow targets primarily offers homes priced from golf courses.
the holiday homebuyer at its US$200,000 to over US$2,000,000.
developments in mainland Spain and Recently, the company has enjoyed Mallorca, with product ranging from Texas success focusing on the beachfront Taylor Woodrows Texas operations small family homes to luxury golf hi-rise sector.
are based in Houston and Austin.
The company is growing its Arizona Gibraltar homebuilding operations to Taylor Woodrows Arizona operations complement its development Taylor Woodrow operates in the are concentrated in Phoenix, one projects in both markets and is profitable top-end market, with a of the fastest growth markets in targeting the move-up market focus on luxury apartments and North America with over 45,000 penthouses.
Developments include for families and the empty new homes built annually.
The Arizona nester segment in golf course the three-tower Tradewinds business has successfully capitalised communities.
Prices for the complex, housing 83 one to threeon the growing market by blending companys homes range from bedroom apartments, ranging from land development activities with 280,000 to over 1 million.
Building on its roots in the first-time California buyer market, Taylor Woodrow Taylor Woodrow benets from a is now developing a diverse significant premium for its brand presence including the middle in the California market and has market with homes priced from the successfully diversied its product US$150,000s to over US$300,000.
offering across the spectrum of Canada Ontario Spain BARCELONA MADRID Mallorca Minorca USA VALENCIA Ibiza California 1.
Arizona Texas Florida MARBELLA GIBRALTAR Design for life In North America, we carefully review our existing home Our customer research starts before we buy the land, styles when entering a new community, in order to making sure that we understand who the likely buyers are, what they would like to see in their homes, and how balance the benets of maintaining our current designs with the ever evolving aspirations of our customers.
they use their living space.
This helps us to design the layout of our developments, and the use of space within Design Centres have been introduced in most of our the home.
North American markets, providing our homebuyers with professional interior design services to personalise This insight has enabled us to draw up a portfolio of home their homes in a wide range of decorative nishes and designs to meet most customer needs at an affordable design choices.
price, ensuring every square foot of space is used to best advantage whilst maximising availability of daylight and 1.
Victoria Park, Licheld storage room.
We are continually improving the range, 2.
Contemporary living in Aspen, Didsbury based on feedback from our homebuyers and as we nd 3.
Homes in Vasari, Naples, Florida ways to build more efficiently.
12 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 13 Living in a changing world continued Making it home We now have options programmes available in all of our Space has been cleverly used to establish an interactive Once customers have chosen their home, we try to make main homebuilding operations.
Customers have the ease customer experience.
State of the art TV monitors hang it easier to choose the interior designs that will personalise and convenience of one stop shopping for kitchens, from the ceilings to inform purchasers about local areas it for them.
In 2004, the company formed an innovation ooring, bathrooms, conservatories, lighting, garden and internet pods link up to TW Espaa sites for those group to evaluate new products and processes that could design and many other features to enhance their new considering a second home in Spain.
2. make our business more efficient and effective.
As well as improving our service to customers, this of this work becomes available directly to customers also provides a growing revenue stream.
North America through our evolving range of interior design options.
In North America, Taylor Woodrows customer focus is Making it easy projected through its brand marketing programmes under People want to be able to use their homes in different Moving home is never easy, but we try to make it as the legend Inspired By You.
The approach reects the ways.
Some want to use new technologies at home to enjoyable and stress free as we can even providing play direct input of consumer research into the design, make their lives simpler.
Some are conscious of style areas for children to enjoy while their parents choose the construction and presentation of our product.
and fashion and want where they live to reect their own kitchen of their dreams, and giving young ones specially personality and choice of lifestyle.
written books about moving home.
The focus of our homebuilding operations is centred on our passion for quality.
We care as much as our customers Bryant Connect offers UK buyers a number of multi-media UK about the quality of the homes we build.
We believe applications within the home.
On many sites, home Bryant Homes is making it easier for customers to in open and honest communication with our purchasers, owners can choose home cinema, multi room audio and choose by installing purpose built marketing suites in long establish clear expectations, and strive to deliver on advanced security systems.
At our Langley development, term, agship sites.
These provide discreet and attractive our promises.
baby cams have been installed which link directly to home environments to showcase both homes and key TV sets to ensure an ever present, watchful parental eye.
The suites can present product in advance of the build programme for all sites in a region, alerting customers to the coming opportunities and helping generate forward sales.
Innovative marketing suite at Wharf Lane, Solihull 2.
An example of a community in California which offers an impressive list of technological options including plasma home screen theatres, closed circuit remote room monitors and sophisticated home security, kitchen computers and whole house digital music systems 3.
Customers children can enjoy a specially created Toby and Tina book all about 3.
Our North American team reects customer insight through their Inspired By You campaign Opposite: Orchard Grange, Edinburgh 14 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 15 Powerful people Simon Redshaw, Linda Mitchell, one of the vice Production Manager, describes presidents of Monarch the integration of Wilson received the Riley Brethour Connolly into the business.
award, which recognises Its fantastic how quickly the industry professionals who two companies have come have demonstrated together.
It has given me the leadership, creativity and opportunity to manage some of innovation in sales and the biggest sites in the region.
marketing in Torontos Im having a great time!
Simon Redshaw, Production Manager in the West Midlands region receiving the NHBC Pride in the Job award 2.
Paula Scott, Sales Consultant from Wharf Lane, Solihull receiving her award for National Homes Consultant of the Year 3.
Winning graduates at Kings Cross Lucy Penman, winner of the NCE Graduate of the Year award, with Daniel Jenkin, runner up 4.
Penny Hedderman, a sales advisor in Bury St. Edmunds and Justin Iannacone, the divisional controller for Arizona joint winners of the Youre a Brick recognition programme for team members who go above and beyond their roles 5.
Linda Mitchell, Vice President Sales and Marketing, Hi-rise division, Monarch 3.
The UK Training and Development team headed by Alison Hunt In the UK, team members from Taylor Woodrow and Looking to the future, the company is working directly The transformation of Taylor Woodrow Wilson Connolly have come together to create larger and through industry initiatives to attract new talent into scale and more efficient regional operations.
For example, we have embarked on a has been driven by our people.
They have from two separate companies into one focused collaborative drive with the Construction Industry Training organisation has been swift and effective.
Individuals in all Board to train up to 200 apprentices a year in essential delivered good results and growth across areas of activity have taken up roles with broader scope site crafts such as bricklaying and plumbing.
We sponsor and responsibilities, enhancing personal experience at 24 students in UK universities each year and recruit at all our strategic markets whilst managing the same time as delivering commercial benets resulting least 35 graduates.
We take a structured and proactive enormous change in organisation, from a lower xed cost base overall.
Business development programmes are in place providing working patterns and individual We encourage our team members to take an active opportunity for people to assume greater responsibility role in the broader homebuilding industry and in their in our enlarged organisation.
We have also signed up to the Workforce Competence Our team members across the UK, North America and Initiative which aims to qualify the UKs building Spain are also being given further opportunities to share workforce, both operative and management.
The objective in the business success that they generate by taking a is to improve levels of safety awareness and skills in the greater financial stake in the organisation through industry whilst giving individuals the opportunity to grow sharesave and share purchase plans.
and gain externally recognised qualications.
16 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 17
