Chairmans statement The first year since the completion of the Groups financial restructuring has been a year of progress.
A year of progress Our products and services In the last year we have continued to reduce As telecommunications operators look to our overheads, improve our gross margin and establish new revenue streams by adding reduce our debts.
We have invested in new more features delivered through broadband, product development and enhanced our there is a compelling case for them to invest existing product portfolio.
We have completed in next-generation networks.
Marconi is well the sale of further non-core assets.
We ended placed to benefit from this as we continue the financial year a much stronger company to develop and bring to market than twelve months ago.
Marconi Corporation plc, which started its Sales of our multifunctional Access Hub new life with its re-listing on 19 May 2003, have helped us gain a rapidly growing recorded its first operating profit before market share in the European Access market.
1 goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Our continued investment in our SoftSwitch in the last quarter of the financial year.
In the product line, which helps operators evolve their year under review, the Group generated circuit-based networks into Internet Protocol significant levels of operating cash flow before networks, also strengthens our presence in the 2 exceptional items and raised further monies next-generation network space.
Our US based from the sale of further non-core businesses.
broadband business has continued to develop These factors combined with the financial its very high capacity equipment for mission restructuring to ensure that the Groups critical networks.
We have also made further balance sheet continued to strengthen, and progress within our traditional area of strength in we ended the year with 214 million more high capacity optical transmission technology, cash than debt.
where we have enhanced our product line with increased data carrying capabilities.
Our markets are still difficult, but the steep decline the industry experienced in the Marconi also has an important services previous two years has slowed over the last business that, as in previous years, accounted 12 months.
We saw our first quarter-on-quarter for close to 40% of revenues in 2003-04. improvement in sales from Continuing As our customers put increased emphasis Operations in the second quarter of the year on operating cost efficiencies, we are able to under review and continued to see modest offer them services beyond the traditional quarter-on-quarter growth for the remainder installation, commissioning and maintenance.
The world markets for our products During the year we won significant services and services have stabilised as many of the contracts from both telecommunications telecommunications operators have operators and business customers.
As a strengthened their own financial positions.
proportion of our overall business, our services offering is larger and better established than many of our competitors, we will continue to leverage this advantage.
2 Board changes Senior executive remuneration Shareholder communications There have been three changes to the In my statement in last years annual report, During the last year we have continued to composition of your Board since the I referred to the long-term incentive focus on improving the information that is completion of the financial restructuring.
arrangements that had been put in place available to shareholders.
We now publish full In July 2003, we announced that Pavi Binning for senior executives.
I pointed out that financial statements and an operating and was joining us as Chief Financial Officer taking executives were in line to earn significant financial review within 40 days of the end of over from Chris Holden who had held the rewards for above average performance.
Executive management hold position on an interim basis.
Pavi joined the made the case that we would not reward for regular meetings with investors after each Board in October 2003 from Diageo plc where failure, and that the senior executives had set of results and we have attended a number he had worked since 1986. been given higher risk remuneration packages of investor conferences during the year to than before the restructuring.
present our strategy and technology offering.
In August last year we announced that Douglas McWilliams, the founder and The performance of the Company since the A comprehensive investors section on our Chief Executive of the Centre for Economics restructuring has enabled us to meet the first website www.
com gives access to and Business Research cebr, would be four targets under the performance conditions all of our published statements and joining the Board as a non-executive director of the incentive plans.
To achieve these presentations as well as a calendar of following the annual general meeting in targets, the Company had fully repaid, by anticipated future release dates.
Prior to founding cebr 31 March 2004, the US$487 million Junior in 1993, Douglas spent four years as Notes issued as part of the restructuring In conclusion chief economic adviser to the Confederation and achieved a market capitalisation of over The progress Marconi has made in the of British Industry.
last year is a result of the real dedication, commitment and hard work of our employees In January this year, we announced that The incentive plans that were put in place as at all levels of the organisation.
On behalf of Ian Clubb, who had joined the Board at the part of our restructuring were not those that the Board, I would like to express my thanks time of the completion of the restructuring, you would typically expect to see in a more to all of them.
The last three years have been was stepping down for personal reasons.
The plans were put in place difficult for the business, I am proud that We conducted a search for a new nonin consultation with our creditors to incentivise we have risen to the challenges that we executive director to replace Ian and on management against the objectives of our have faced.
6 May 2004 announced that Peter Hickson creditors who were at that time about to was joining the Board.
A former Group become 99.5% shareholders in the Company.
We face the future with the confidence that Finance Director of both Powergen plc and The plans were designed to avoid being a comes from knowing that we have an MAI plc, and currently Chairman of AWG plc, cash drain on the Company and to be paid for excellent set of products, a loyal and satisfied Peter has over thirty years of industrial by shareholders through a dilution effect as customer base, people who are dedicated to experience and will be a great asset to options vested over the life of the plans.
putting our customers at the forefront of our Board.
everything that they do and the financial Looking forward, we will seek to provide strength to enable us to grow our business.
During the last year Kent Atkinson was reward packages that are in line with normal appointed Senior Independent Director in practice for companies of our size and compliance with the Combined Code on international spread, taking account of our Corporate Governance.
The current Management Plan covering approximately fifty senior managers, I am delighted with the way that the new including the executive directors, cannot Board is working.
In the year since the fully mature until August 2006 at the earliest.
completion of the financial restructuring we We will therefore not be proposing a new plan have been able to focus on the operational for senior management until next years annual performance of the Group.
Each of the general meeting.
non-executive directors has devoted time and effort to acquaint themselves with the At the time of our re-listing in May 2003 we John Devaney Groups technology, supply chain and indicated our intention to establish an all Chairman customers.
Our regular monthly Board employee option plan which would take the meetings are structured around a form of an Inland Revenue approved SAYE comprehensive review of all aspects of the plan in the UK, with variations for different business presented by the Chief Executive.
regional market practices and legislation.
Through an Operations Committee of the Such plans would allow employees to save Board we have been able to give greater focus a regular amount each month and benefit to the Groups supply chain strategy and gross from any growth in the future equity value margin improvement programmes.
At the AGM in September shareholders will be asked to approve the establishment of such plans, it is our intention that they will comply with all aspects of current best practice.
More details can be found in the circular to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report.
