Pg 8 Chairmans statement Pg 9 Trinity Mirrors financial performance in 2004 was good In addition to returning capital to shareholders through a share and particularly pleasing against a tough economic and buy-back programme, the Group is committed to increasing competitive environment.
For 2004, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 14.3p per share, making a total of 20.2p per share Group operating profit improved from 209.4 million to for the year, an increase of 1.9p 10.4% over the prior year.
253.1 million in the year just ended, an increase of 20.9%.
Earnings per share also improved by 23.8% over the previous The combination of increased dividends and a share buy-back year.
When excluding the extra week during 2004 those gures programme represents the most significant return of capital show improvements of 16.6% and 19.2% respectively.
to shareholders in the history of the Group.
As a direct result of the continually improving profitability of the I would like to express the Boards appreciation to all the 11,151 core business, the Group has exceeded its financial targets, people who make up Trinity Mirror, each and every one of whom including a further significant reduction in debt.
has played a key role in ensuring the delivery of our objectives and helping to improve the prospects for our Group.
We are the UKs largest newspaper publishing group and we are now, as a group, in good shape both operationally I would also like to use this opportunity to pay special thanks and nancially.
The management team is focused on growth, to two retiring Directors, David Marlow and Penny Hughes.
both organically from within our existing businesses, and by reviewing the opportunities for acquisition.
We have both the David has given immense service to the Board over more than talent and resources to achieve this and in returning capital 12 years and in particular as a spectacular Chairman of our to shareholders, we will not be inhibiting our plans for growth.
His enquiring mind and breadth of experience will be missed by us all.
The Group is in good shape thanks to the clarity of objectives set by the Chief Executive and the committed endeavour of the Likewise Penny Hughes, who is retiring after eight years with management team, which has delivered beyond expectations Mirror Group and the Company, has also given enormous and is now setting itself performance standards that are at the energy and guidance to the Group particularly in her role as very least equal to those of its rivals.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Given the highly cash-generative nature of the Groups I also welcome Gary Hoffman to the Board.
businesses coupled with continued confidence in improving performance, the Board believes it appropriate to commence a substantial return of capital to shareholders in order to maintain an efficient yet prudent capital structure.
It is our intention to return up to 250 million through a share buy-back programme over the next three years.
Sir Victor Blank turnover 5.8% profit 20.9% eps 23.8% On a like-for-like, pre exceptional items basis as dened in footnotes 1 and 2 on page 17, and including the benefit of the additional weeks trading.
