Ultra Electronics at a glance Chairmans Statement Divisional structure 2004 Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 81.9m Information & Power Systems 115.6m Tactical & Sonar Systems 122.1m ULTRA ELECTRONICS SPECIALISES IN THE DESIGN, MANUFACTURE AND SUPPORT OF AT THE HEART OF ULTRAS SUCCESS IS ITS ELECTRONIC AND ELECTROMECHANICAL SYSTEMS, SUB-SYSTEMS AND PRODUCTS INVESTMENT STRATEGY.
THE MANAGEMENT HAS FOR AIRCRAFT, SHIPS, SUBMARINES, ARMOURED VEHICLES, SURVEILLANCE A REAL EXPERTISE IN IDENTIFYING INVESTMENT AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AIRPORTS AND TRANSPORT SYSTEMS.
IT IS OPPORTUNITIES THAT DELIVER GROWTH.
ORGANISED INTO THREE DIVISIONS: AIRCRAFT & VEHICLE SYSTEMS, INFORMATION & POWER SYSTEMS AND TACTICAL & SONAR SYSTEMS.
2004 was a very positive year for Ultra: once continued to be strong in 2004, with a company will benefit significantly from his Aircraft & Vehicle Systems Information & Power Systems Tactical & Sonar Systems again the Group achieved record sales and conversion percentage from operating continued guidance in strategic matters.
profit and the acquisitions made in the last profit of 111%.
Over the last five years, It is also planned that Douglas Caster, few years made an important contribution to the Groups average cash conversion is an Sales 81.9m 115.6m 122.1m currently Chief Operating officer, will succeed this success.
Ultra again made good progress impressive 106%.
The Board has on its major development contracts and won The acquisitions made in 2003 have been been strengthened since the year end by the several others which will materially broaden fully integrated into the Group and the new appointment of a new non-executive director, its technological base.
acquisitions of DNE and Videcom in the year Chris Bailey, who has recently retired as profit 14.7m 14.8m 13.0m Sales at 320m grew 12.4%, with the have met expectations and have also Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc.
2003: 13.9m 2003: 11.0m 2003: 12.7m Information & Power Systems division provided synergies to support other closely Looking ahead to 2005 and thereafter, the showing the strongest growth.
CONTROLS ADVANCED TACTICAL SYSTEMS DNE TECHNOLOGIES Board is confident that, despite a further Landing gear control and proximity sensing systems.
Airframe until 1 January 2005, Advanced Programming Concepts Military network communications equipment for voice, tax and goodwill amortisation at 39.7m The order book stood at 395m at the year impact of the continuing weakness of the fide-icing and crack detection systems.
Civil and military Battlespace IT solutions.
Software based data fusion and data, and video information.
High-speed protocol increased by 15.5% over the previous year aircraft cabin quieting systems using active noise and display systems for applications in military command, control, converters and modems.
Importantly, the Group US dollar, the outlook for the Group remains despite the adverse impact on the translation vibration control technology.
communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and FLIGHTLINE SYSTEMS started 2005 with firm order cover for 60% encouraging.
Current market conditions, reconnaissance C4ISR systems.
of US profits of the weak dollar, which DATEL Sonobuoy telemetry receivers for maritime patrol aircraft of projected sales, a similar level of visibility coupled with Ultras ability to win new High integrity systems including safety critical software.
Specialist military declined 10% against sterling.
Earnings per to previous years.
business and to execute contracts effectively, Internet-based secure collaborative working environments Airport IT system integration.
IT services and solutions for test equipment.
share before goodwill amortisation, at 44.1p, and secure communication networks.
airlines and airports: common use check-in, local departure should enable the Group to continue its MARITIME SYSTEMS control, weight & balance management systems, central Defence markets continue to hold up, increased at a similar rate to profit.
The ELECTRICS Passive sonobuoys and bathythermal buoys.
Towed array long-term record of profit and sales growth.
database UltraDB : flight information UltraFIDS : particularly in Ultras chosen niche areas, Data management and vision control systems for armoured Board will be recommending a final dividend sonars.
management information UltraMIS : passenger bag vehicles.
Specialised control handles, high integrity switches and the recent emphasis on security and Finally, it remains for me to thank Ultra of 9.2p per share, making a total for the year matching UltraTrak : resource management UltraResource : OCEAN SYSTEMS and indicators.
data acquisition and control UltraControl.
An employees for their hard work, commitment Underwater acoustic countermeasures and systems.
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS INC defence systems.
COMMAND & CONTROL SYSTEMS encouraging sign for Ultra is the continuing and support.
I have enjoyed my time with the Displacement and force joysticks, hand grip controls, trackballs, At the heart of Ultras success is its Optical and infra-red surveillance and tracking systems.
SONAR & COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS encoders and simulation equipment.
recovery of the civil aerospace market which Group immensely and it has been an exciting Battlespace IT solutions.
Geographical information Active and passive sonobuoys.
Sonobuoy receivers and investment strategy.
The management has PRECISION AIR SYSTEMS not only drives increased levels of and rewarding ten years.
I am confident the management systems.
acoustic processors for maritime patrol aircraft and a real expertise in identifying investment High Pressure Pure Air Generators HiPPAG for cooling Multifunction command and control console systems.
Torpedo defence systems production but also benefits the important Group will continue to enjoy much success.
thermal imagers and infra-red sensors, and for pneumatic interface electronics.
High integrity electronic control systems.
opportunities that deliver growth, either and countermeasures.
Submarine aftermarket for sales of spares and repairs.
Sidewinder missile overhaul communication systems.
EMS within existing businesses or by acquiring and repair.
Specialised power supplies and demagnetising systems for It is planned that Board changes will take businesses which complement and broaden the electromagnetic silencing of naval vessels.
Transformer TACTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS place at the companys AGM in April: these the Groups portfolio of products and rectifier units.
High capacity, multi-channel line-of-sight radios and were foreshadowed in announcements last capabilities.
Electronic counter-counter measure radio MANUFACTURING & CARD SYSTEMS systems.
High integrity contract electronic manufacturing services.
I have been Chairman since December total of 44m in acquisitions, research and The Magicard range of identity card printers.
UNDERSEA SENSOR SYSTEMS INC 1994 and intend to retire and to hand over development, capital expenditure and new PMES Active and passive sonobuoys.
Advanced autonomous to Dr Julian Blogh he is currently Chief Peter Macfarlane, Chairman business development.
This investment High power solid state power conversion and control sensor systems for coastal surveillance.
Executive and Deputy Chairman, but will equipment.
Naval data processing and distribution systems.
contributed directly to the new contracts Transit system power conversion and control.
Multi-inuence become Chairman as from the AGM, won in the year and underpins the Groups measurement and control systems for the management of relinquishing the Chief Executives role.
long-term positioning for future business.
complex signatures of naval vessels.
Magnetic and electric eld sensors.
I believe shareholders share my and the After the significant investment in 2004, the SML TECHNOLOGIES Boards view that his record as Chief companys net debt still decreased by 7m Radar surveillance, navigation and safety systems for Executive has been outstanding and the Businesses in the UNITED KINGDOM offshore platforms, naval, coastal and border surveillance over the course of the year.
Cash generation Businesses in NORTH AMERICA and protection systems.
before goodwill amortisation operating profit after goodwill amortisation of 5.9m 2003: 4.9m.
Operating cash flow after capital expenditure and Long-Term Incentive Plan share purchase 02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03
