Chairmans statement significant move forward Sir Richard Evans,... by raising around 500 million Chairman through the first stage of the rights issue and by continuing to grow support services businesses strongly.
Performance Corporate governance The group has moved forward A sound corporate governance regime signicantly over the past year, both by is essential to the smooth running of any raising around 500 million through the modern business and the board takes its first stage of its rights issue to help fund responsibilities in this area very seriously.
future investment demands in its regulated We welcome the new Combined Code businesses and by continuing to grow on Corporate Governance which will its support services businesses strongly.
apply next year and we describe later Turnover including share of joint ventures in this report both our compliance with rose 10.2 per cent to 2,115.5 million, the existing code and the steps we have reecting improved performance across taken to comply with the new code.
Total operating Looking forward profit rose 6.3 per cent to 597.1 million.
Our regulated businesses continue to This increase reects improved operating work with Ofwat and Ofgem in setting profits in infrastructure management, the agenda for the next five-year regulatory business process outsourcing and licensed period.
We anticipate a further large capital multi-utility operations and reduced programme in water and wastewater, operating losses in telecommunications.
driven by the need to maintain existing Dividend services and meet higher drinking water In line with our promise to maintain and environmental standards.
dividends in real terms, the board is Our support services businesses again proposing to increase the final dividend, made good progress in the year and we after adjusting for the rights issue, by expect further growth in non-regulated 2.6 per cent.
The final dividend for the income in the year ahead.
year ended 31 March 2004 of 29.88 pence per ordinary share and 14.94 pence In March, we were pleased to welcome per A share will be paid on 27 August the Eurocall team to the group.
Eurocall 2004 to shareholders on the register will complement Your Communications business, broadening its customer base at the close of business on 2 July 2004. and strengthening its position for the future.
People The board was pleased to welcome Overall, the group is well positioned Charlie Cornish as an executive director to meet all of its challenges and I look in January 2004.
Charlie has taken up forward to watching it grow and prosper the post of managing director of Service over the coming year.
Delivery and he brings with him a wealth of experience, gained latterly as chief operating officer with Thames Water UK and Ireland.
It is a testament to the strength of our Service Delivery team that Sir Richard Evans business continued as usual in the gap Chairman leading up to his appointment.
I must again thank the team for exceptional performance and in particular pay tribute to the Service Delivery finance director, Steven Beaumont, for deputising so ably throughout that period.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 1
