Vedanta Resources plc 4 Annual Report 2004 Chairmans Statement Brian Gilbertson The Listing of Vedanta Resources plc on the work has begun on the site and the surrounding London Stock Exchange in December last year facilities.
The project involves some 40 engineering was a watershed for the Group.
Thanks to packages and orders for around half of these have the growing awareness among international already been placed.
Our project managers have investors of the potential of the Indian embraced the challenges of delivering these projects economy, and thanks equally to the strong on time and within budget, and remain confident of growth prospects of the Group, we were successful delivery.
We are considering the possibility able to raise US$825 million, net of expenses.
of introducing a partner into the Orissa project, This was an amount we judged sufficient to join us in developing the substantial regional to complete the capital programmes at our potential to its full capacity in the decades ahead.
existing operations, and to bring our two new mega-projects to full production.
That outcome The third pillar of our strategy is to release the constituted the second largest listing on the value trapped within the Group structure, by London Stock Exchange in 2003 and the first CONSOLIDATING OWNERSHIP.
Here, satisfactory primary listing there of an Indian company, progress has been achieved in the six months since a tribute to the initiative of Anil Agarwal in Listing.
We have made two purchases of Sterlite building the Group.
The first of 4.98% in January 2004 for US$58 million and then 2.4% in April 2004 for At the time of the Listing, we committed ourselves US$21.4 million and we recently announced terms to a four-pillar strategy which, if successfully for a US$440 million rights issue in Sterlite, all of implemented, will give the Group a growth profile which are likely to increase our holding.
Studies are unrivalled in our industry.
Sound progress has been currently under way to establish how further made since then and so far there have been no consolidation might best be achieved.
Another opportunity open to us is our option to The first pillar is to achieve OPTIMUM OPERATING acquire the Governments 49% holding in BALCO.
EFFICIENCY at our existing operations.
Committed A valuer is to be appointed by the Government and capital expenditure, totalling around US$400 million, the Board will then be in a position to report back to will enable us to modernise, fide-bottleneck and expand shareholders.
the output of our plants, with beneficial impact on our unit costs.
Progress this past year was particularly Increased ownership of assets with growing profits evident at our zinc operation, HZL, where costs have is a happy outcome.
As detailed in the Financial come down significantly, particularly helped by control Review which appears on pages 16 to 21, of energy input costs.
The new copper smelter at consolidated Group operating profit for the year Tuticorin is now mechanically complete after some ended 31 March 2004 was US$237 million, up disappointing delays.
The new acid and power plants 107% from US$115 million in the previous year.
are in use, and full start up will occur as soon as the Our EBITDA margin has climbed from 23% to 25%, authorities issue the final permits.
We expect to receive and our Return on Capital Employed has reached these in a few weeks.
As our capital projects are completed effectively tripling our pre-Listing capital The second pillar of our strategy is to COMPLETE base and start contributing to Group cash flows, OUR TWO MEGA-PROJECTS, the 250,000 tpa the financial benefits to our shareholders should be Korba aluminium smelter at a capital cost of US$900 material.
On the basis of this years results and future million, and the 1 million tpa Orissa alumina refinery prospects, and in keeping with the announced capital cost US$800 million.
First metal output progressive dividend policy, the Directors are at Korba is planned for March 2006: successfully recommending a dividend of 5.5 US cents per share, achieved, this will constitute a rapid construction representing a dividend for the four months from programme by international standards.
At Orissa, Listing to the end of the financial year equivalent to production is scheduled to commence by March 16.5 US cents for the full year.
Our studies suggest that the bauxite resources our confidence in the cash flows and stability of the and regional potential could sustain substantially Group, and translates to a yield of 3.16% at current larger outputs in the years ahead.
Good progress is market prices.
being made on both projects.
The civil engineering works at Korba were completed ahead of the The fourth and final pillar of our strategy is to seek monsoon and some 120 of the 288 pots were in ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES place by the end of May 2004.
At Orissa, the designs where we believe we have the necessary skills and plans are well developed and civil engineering to add value.
We remain preferred bidder for Vedanta Resources plc 5 Annual Report 2004 Chairmans Statement continued Konkola Copper Mines, which was indicated as a On 22 May 2004, Mr P Chidambaram resigned from possible investment in our Listing Particulars.
We the Board, following his appointment as Finance are in the final stages of evaluating an acquisition Minister in the new Indian Government.
I would like structure that should bring substantial benefits to to thank him for his contribution and I am sure that he our shareholders.
will play a pivotal role in the continuing development of India.
I am very pleased to welcome as new The currently planned investment programme will be Directors, Mr Naresh Chandra who has had a funded from the IPO proceeds, from the Free Cash distinguished career in Government in India, with Flow and an increase in debt, which is covered by much recent experience in governance matters and our balance sheet.
We expect our gearing to remain Mr Jean-Pierre Rodier the successful former Chairman at prudent levels, rising towards 40% during the and Chief Executive of Pechiney, a leading aluminium investment phase.
producer, who also has wide previous experience in copper and zinc.
In preparation for Listing we Shortly after the year end the general election in appointed Mr Peter Sydney-Smith as Finance Director, India brought a new coalition Government into formerly Finance Director of BPB.
There was much market uncertainty in the immediate aftermath of that unexpected change.
These Directors will strengthen and complement Initial statements by the incoming Government the skills and experience of the Board, and bring on its privatisation policy have not alleviated investor sound judgement to our future deliberations.
concerns and we hope for greater clarity in the The appointment of these Directors gave us the months ahead.
Although Vedantas growth targets opportunity to further strengthen the Board over the next few years will be determined almost Committees and bring our Board structures in line entirely by its already committed projects, in the with the new Combined Code.
This reaffirmed our longer term we would welcome further investment commitment to best practice corporate governance.
opportunities, including privatisations, in an economy that has such potential.
I commend the Vedanta executive team, and our employees throughout the Group, for the sound We should also recognise that the outcome reflects progress achieved since Listing.
Their talents and a well-functioning democratic process in what is the commitment will be the critical ingredients in worlds second most populous nation, and brings delivering on the ambitious targets that are set to power a Government committed to improved for the year ahead.
economic circumstances for the vast numbers that are poor.
Such improvement can only come from Brian Gilbertson growth in the overall economy: and that in turn Chairman will fuel demand for Vedantas commodities aluminium, copper and zinc without which growth 18 June 2004 in a modern economy is not possible.
In the light of our progress since Listing, the trajectory of the Vedanta share price has been most disappointing.
Issued at 3.90, the shares have since traded well below that level.
In my judgement, Vedanta is today a very undervalued share, and At the time of Listing this situation will inevitably correct itself as we methodically deliver the key results of our corporate we committed ourselves strategy over the next two years.
to a four-pillar strategy Our Listing carries with it the commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Responsibility for delivering on this commitment which, if successfully rests in the first instance with the Board of Directors.
The one week delay in reporting our results was implemented, will give therefore most disappointing to the Board, as it was to shareholders.
We have undertaken to review our reporting structures and authorities to prevent Vedanta a growth profile any recurrence.
Vedanta Resources plc 6 Annual Report 2004 Creating a world-class metals and mining group Our goal is to generate strong financial returns and create a world-class metals and mining group.
Our strategy is to: Optimise the performance of the existing assets: Vedantas plans for its Businesses will fide-bottleneck plants, improve efficiency, expand output and drive down unit costs.
Major projects include a new power 1 plant and zinc smelter at Chanderiya, expansion of the Rampura Agucha zinc mine and the expansion of the Tuticorin copper smelter: Finance greenfield growth: Two large greenfield projects, the 250,000 tpa GAMI-based aluminium smelter at the Korba complex and the proposed 1.0 million tpa alumina refinery in Orissa, 2 offer attractive economics and future growth: Consolidate the Group structure: Vedanta will seek to increase its direct ownership in the underlying Businesses: and 3 Leverage established skills: Vedanta will seek further growth opportunities in India, including the Governments privatisation programmes and also outside its traditional Indian base, in operations 4 where its proven transactional, operating and turnaround skills can provide a competitive advantage.
Vedanta Resources plc 7 Annual Report 2004 A growth profile unrivalled in our industry...
