Chairmans Statement Philip Rogerson The Group has delivered a good set of results.
"Northern Financial Results Ireland Electricitys ""NIE"" regulated businesses continued to Group turnover increased by 7% from 781.2m to 834.2m."
meet the challenges of their price controls, maintaining their This was principally due to increased turnover from Viridian focus on cost reductions while absorbing renewed pension Power & Energy which increased revenues from 161.7m charges.
Viridian Power & Energy significantly increased its to 206.0m.
contribution to profits reflecting a first full year of operation from our Huntstown CCGT plant and a strong performance Taken together, NIEs regulated businesses incurred a net from Energia.
Outside the energy sector, Sx3 further under-recovery of 9.5m against the income to which they improved its margins and profitability.
are entitled under their regulatory formulae.
This is a timing issue: tariffs have been set to recover the under-recovery We remain committed to our well-focused strategy: during the year ending 31 March 2005.
As further explained in the Financial Review, we have added back the impact of to maximise the efficiency of our regulated assets, which under-recovery 5.0p per share in arriving at pro-forma remain the mainstay of the business: earnings per share because we believe that NIEs to grow a profitable energy business in competitive performance should be assessed by reference to its markets across Ireland: and regulated entitlement.
to maximise the potential of our unregulated businesses outside the energy sector.
Pro-forma profit before interest and tax pre under-recovery, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased from In line with this strategy, we participated in the competition 106.9m to 112.5m despite renewed pension charges of for new generation capacity conducted in 2003 by the 12.3m.
"Reduced interest and taxation charges resulted in Commission for Energy Regulation ""CER"" in the Republic of pro-forma earnings per share pre under-recovery, Ireland ""RoI""."
While we were unsuccessful, we continue exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and deferred tax to assess the opportunity for a second station on the increasing by 12% to 53.3p 2003 47.6p.
Basic earnings Huntstown site, as well as other investment opportunities in per share, which include a net exceptional credit arising from the energy sector.
"Net debt decreased by 139.4m to 382.7m at 31 March 2004 from In November 2003 we announced the sale of Fleet Solutions 522.1m at 31 March 2003, primarily as a result of proceeds Ireland Limited ""Fleet""."
This followed the disposals of the from the Moyle Interconnector and Fleet disposals.
"Moyle Interconnector in April 2003 and our shareholding in Lislyn Limited ""Lislyn"" in May 2003."
The benefits of the disposals we have effected over the last two years are evident both in our reported profits, with the elimination of under-performing joint ventures and associates, and in the strength of our balance sheet.
Page Two Chairmans Statement Dividends A final dividend of 24.20p per share is recommended which, together with the interim dividend of 9.46p, amounts to a total of 33.66p for the year, a 3.5% increase on 2002 03.
This is in line with our commitment to deliver real dividend growth across the current regulatory period.
Board Dipesh Shah, Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, and Mike Toms, Group Director, Planning and Regulatory Affairs at BAA plc, were appointed nonexecutive directors of the Company with effect from 1 November 2003.
I am very pleased that we have been able to attract people of such high calibre to our Board and I have no doubt that they will make a significant contribution to the Group.
Employees The credit for the Groups performance must go to our employees.
They have worked hard, effectively and with dedication throughout the year.
They have been equal to the demands of constant improvement and the challenges posed by regulation, competition and new markets and have addressed them with commitment and enthusiasm.
Looking Forward We place a premium on the delivery of strong operating performance, which is key to the future of the Group: this is demonstrated again in this years results.
In particular, we are committed to realising further efficiencies and advances in quality in our regulated businesses and are looking to build on the significant progress Viridian Power & Energy has made during the year.
Outside the energy sector, our principal objective remains to improve Sx3s margins and enhance its profitability.
Philip Rogerson 13 May 2004 Page Three Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
