Chairmans statement Peter Hickson Chairman I was Chief Executive as well as Chairman for nine months of the In a challenging marketplace the overall performance of the year until we recruited Jonson Cox as Group Chief Executive in IMB was disappointing.
Acceptable results from Utility Services, January 2004. a development gain on the disposal of the Tay wastewater PFI and profits from other PFI activities in Government Services The group reported a mixed set of results, with a strong set of were offset by a poor underlying performance in the other figures from Anglian Water and a disappointing performance divisions.
Construction Services margins were disappointing.
from the Infrastructure Management Business IMB.
Turnover The harvesting strategy continued in Developments and was in line with last year and operating profits before exceptional Commercial Services, which has been renamed AWG Property.
items and goodwill amortisation rose to 341.6 million 2003: A review of AWG Property is underway and will be completed 325.9 million.
Exceptional charges of 144.2 million, goodwill by the half-year.
Since the year-end, the IMB management has amortisation of 13.5 million and net interest of 263.7 million been strengthened by the appointment of a Chief Operating led to a loss before tax of 79.8 million.
This translated to a loss Officer and divisional Finance Director.
per share of 52.0 pence, compared with a loss per share of 26.4 pence last year.
The major impact on our results, however, was the level of exceptional charges, largely caused by the disposal and closure The effect of having more than half of our customers metered costs of our non-core international businesses.
The size of these was seen in Anglian Water during the hot, dry summer.
Drinking charges underlines the dangers of investing overseas in a large water quality continued to improve, all of our 46 bathing waters number of disparate countries.
In spite of the exceptional costs, passed the mandatory standards and an Ofwat report for 2002 03 most of which were non-cash, the board is convinced the showed Anglian Water has the lowest water leakage rate in decision to exit the international business was the correct one England and Wales.
and that it will be to the benefit of shareholders.
This is the third consecutive year of substantial exceptional costs which over three In April 2004 Anglian Water submitted a significantly years have exceeded 450 million.
The bulk of these costs have revised business plan as part of the ongoing regulatory review.
related to non-core activity and the board is determined that In preparing the plan, the board considered the choices to be shareholders interests will be protected to a greater extent made between investment, service and quality improvements in the future.
and the impact these would have on prices to customers.
Reducing the level of capital expenditure enabled Anglian Water The board is now proposing a final payment to shareholders of to propose the lowest price increase in customers bills of any 33.2 pence, which together with the interim payment of 14.0 water and wastewater company in England and Wales.
We await pence per share, would make a total payment of 47.2 pence.
Ofwats draft determination in August 2004, but meanwhile The payment is in line with AWGs commitment to maintaining we have considerably strengthened our regulatory management annual payments per share in line with inflation until the end by appointing a Director of Regulation in Anglian Water.
of the current regulatory review period in March 2005.
This final payment will be made in the form of redeemable shares, a practice the group has followed since March 2000.
2 AWG Plc It is clear that Anglian Water is centrally important to the group and we intend to increase its operational focus.
The IMB is expected to increase margins, become more profit and cash oriented and build its order book.
Since Jonson Cox joined as Group Chief Executive in January this During the past year, we have also addressed a number year, he has initiated a review of all our businesses.
It is clear that of corporate governance provisions of the Combined Code.
Anglian Water is centrally important to the group and we intend In particular, we have examined carefully the effectiveness to increase its operational focus.
At the same time, by of the board.
As Chairman, I have the responsibility for ensuring concentrating on improving current operations, the IMB is that the board can and will provide positive and effective expected to increase margins, become more profit and cash challenge and support to the Executive team.
With Jonson oriented and build its order book.
In doing so, the aim is for leading the Executive team, its emphasis must be on delivering the IMB to support the groups ability to make payments to returns to shareholders on a consistent basis.
To create a single identity for the IMB we intend to have the basis of an effective partnership which, with a strong re-brand it using the Morrison name.
board and management team, will be fully capable of directing AWGs future.
The process of operational and strategic change has meant there have been a number of board changes during the year.
Executive The immediate objective is to secure the best regulatory Directors Tony Eckford and Euan McEwan left in September and settlement possible and to continue to strengthen the groups April respectively.
Group Finance Director Elliott Mannis will leave management.
We must continue to improve financial and AWG at the end of June 2004 and the search for a successor is operational controls whilst at the same time refocusing the IMB underway.
Non-Executive Director Jim Cronin retired in July and so it can make a positive contribution.
I have every confidence Andrew Carr-Locke joined as a Non-Executive Director in October.
that we shall be able to achieve these objectives, which will prove to be of benefit to both the group and shareholders.
Management changes have already taken place and the process is expected to continue.
It is important that as part of such change, we are able to attract and retain the right people in what is a highly competitive marketplace.
Details of our remuneration policies are set out in the remuneration report on page 29.
This report contains information about a new LongTerm Incentive Plan which we are proposing as a resolution at the Annual General Meeting.
I believe an appropriate incentive scheme is essential in order to motivate our senior management Peter Hickson and I hope shareholders will support the resolution.
2 June 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3
