Chairmans statement page 2 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 The board expects further progress in terms of organic growth, margin improvement and the more efficient use of shareholders assets.
Continued double-digit Current trading People earnings growth For the first seven weeks of the In December I announced that Alan Parker This has been another strong year for new financial year to 22 April 2004, would succeed David Thomas as chief Whitbread.
Continuing businesses have like-for-like sales growth was as follows: executive following the AGM in June.
now achieved double-digit earnings On behalf of my colleagues on the board growth for six reporting periods in Marriott 2.3% I should like to congratulate Alan on his succession.
appointment and to thank David for his Travel Inn 4.9% contribution to Whitbread over some Comparable divisional turnover Pub restaurants 2.4% 20 years.
He leaves the proud legacy increased by 4.8% to 1,866m despite of a very successful business with the disposal of Swallow hotels and a High street restaurants 4.7% excellent growth prospects.
Profit before David Lloyd Leisure 5.8% tax and exceptional items increased by I also wish to thank Bill Shannon 13%, to 240.8 million, as a result of the 5 weeks for his outstanding contribution both organic development of our brands, as managing director of Whitbread a 2.7% improvement in like-for-like sales Like-for-like sales growth for the group Restaurants and as a member of the and rigorous cost controls.
Bill has served Whitbread well margin increased from 14.0% to 14.8%.
for 30 years and is also to step down The timing of the Easter holiday affects following the AGM.
We achieved exceptional growth in year-on-year analysis.
We will provide operating profits from our restaurants, a further trading update at the Annual I am delighted that Angie Risley, group up 14%:Travel Inn, up 11%: and David General Meeting on 15 June 2004. human resources director, joined the Lloyd Leisure, up 12%.
Marriott, however, board on 1 May 2004.
Angie has already Outlook continued to feel the effects of weak made a major contribution to the demand in the four-star hotel sector.
company, and as a member of the The popularity of Whitbreads brands board she now takes on the direction Across the group, return on capital has never been greater.
Projections for of Whitbreads corporate social employed exceeded 10% after the UK economy, consumer confidence responsibility programme.
and our major markets are positive.
The board expects further progress in The skill and dedication of Whitbreads The cash position was again healthy the current financial year, in terms of people in serving our customers is the with a net inflow of 137m helped by trading performance, organic growth real driving force behind this positive 112m of disposal proceeds.
Net debt and the more efficient use of performance.
I should like to thank all decreased to 793m and with gearing shareholders assets.
of them for another excellent year.
of 38% the balance sheet remains strong.
Of this, 96m was expansionary capital The boards confidence in the organic expenditure, invested in new sites, growth prospects for the group is mainly for Travel Inn, Brewers Fayre, reflected in the final dividend payment Brewsters and David Lloyd Leisure.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 22.30p which is an increase of 12%.
It will be paid on 16 July 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business Sir John Banham on 14 May 2004.
