Chairmans statement Overview Operating profit EBITA in the year to 31 December Two years on, and the renaissance of Whatman is well 2004, including Biometra in voluntary liquidation, but underway.
The initial restructuring of the organisation has excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional charges, generated benefits to shareholders: sales have started to was 18.3 million, up 30% 40% at constant exchange grow ahead of the market, margins have improved and rates on 2003 14.1 million.
This improvement has the strengthening of the management has begun.
resulted largely from further benefits of the restructuring programme which started in early 2003.
Nevertheless, there is still much to do: we have had some setbacks with key appointments, Operating profit EBITA of continuing operations, in particular with the CEO and some of the regional excluding S&S, goodwill amortisation and exceptional sales managers charges, was 18.2 million, up 29% on 2003 40% at the organisation, prior to the acquisition of Schleicher constant exchange rates.
Operating EBITA margin & Schuell GmbH S&S, is now broadly the right size of the continuing operations increased to 23% and shape, but the process of building additional skills 2003: 17%, resulting from: has barely begun a solid improvement in LabSciences from 32% 2003 whilst our LabSciences products have been growing to 35% 2004 faster than the market, they have yet to realise their an encouraging improvement in BioScience to near full potential breakeven against last years loss of 24% BioScience news was mixed: a limited improvement from MedTech, which increased organic growth of FTA largely in the forensics 10 points from a loss of 5% in 2003 to a profit of market continued, but the out-licensing 5% in 2004. programme is taking longer than we had hoped however, with increased knowledge of the potential Earnings per share for the year, before goodwill markets for FTA, our expectations for both the amortisation and exceptional charges, were 10.45p, forensics market and the applications for which 39% higher than the 7.52p in 2003. we are negotiating licences are considerably higher multiwells ended the year most encouragingly, The Group has provided in the 2004 Accounts after a slow start for exceptional charges of 15.8 million excluding in MedTech, the OEM sales are by nature lumpy and amortisation of goodwill : we continue to believe in their potential, but we shall 12.4 million for the rationalisation of S&S facilities, be reviewing the future of some of the lower margin, integration of the S&S product range and stock write lower growth product ranges in this segment downs within S&S the margin improvements achieved in the year 2.3 million relating to onerous leases and continuing exceeded expectations and we believe that there is restructuring within the established Whatman operations still a considerable way to go.
The process improvement 1.1 million in respect of Biometra in order to maintain programme has only just begun in all our factories.
a full provision over its net assets.
Overall, the promised improvement in profitability After these exceptional charges and amortisation of resulting from the upgrading of existing operations goodwill, the Groups profit before tax was 1.4 million has been substantially achieved and is starting to 2003: 2.6 million and the loss per share was 0.41p yield improvements in business performance.
The acquisition of S&S towards the end of the year has The Group incurred a tax rate on underlying profits provided a unique opportunity.
The integration has got before goodwill and exceptional items of 25% in 2004 off to a good start and is expected to meet the earnings 2003: 32%.
It is anticipated that the ongoing tax rate accretion targets published at the time of the acquisition.
of the combined Group in the near term will be 25% at current levels of profit, with incremental profits Financial Results taxed at 35%.
Excluding Biometra and S&S, sales were 74 million: at constant exchange rates and excluding disposals Operating cash flow in the year was 13.8 million this represents a 6% increase over 2003.
The total consideration for the a strong performance in the LabSciences segment acquisition of S&S was 58.8 million 40.9 million, where we grew the business by 7.1% to 47.9 million which was financed entirely by debt.
and in which we are outperforming the market.
Total Group sales in 2004 were 82.8 million, including one At 31 December 2004, the Groups net debt was month of S&S sales 2003: 83.8 million.
Interest cover at 31 December 2004 was 43 times, based on the combined 2004 profit of Whatman and S&S before goodwill amortisation and exceptional charges.
Chairmans statement | 5 Chairmans statement continued In the announcement of the acquisition of S&S, the number three in the global LabSciences market, Board indicated that the acquisition would be 17% with a 16% share.
accretive to earnings in 2005, 39% accretive in 2006 and 48% accretive in 2007.
With this expectation for The acquisition will allow the Group to offer a more very substantial improvement in profitability, but prudently comprehensive product line with the same superior planning to repay the debt, the Board has decided to quality our customers have come to expect.
The recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.87p acquisition has also opened new doors for Whatman per share, making a total dividend for the year of 4.61p in markets and geographies in which Whatman has per share, 7.5% higher than in 2003 4.29p.
This will not, historically, been present or strong.
be paid on 27 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at 22 April 2005.
Integration of the Whatman and S&S customer service and sales groups has been successfully completed Business Restructuring during the first quarter of 2005.
Based in Florham Park, The restructuring projects initiated in 2002 are New Jersey North America, Maidstone, UK South all substantially completed: Europe, Dassel, Germany North Europe, Singapore headcount within the pre-acquisition Whatman Asia Pacific and Tokyo Japan, the combined teams business ie prior to the acquisition of S&S is are now positioned to provide existing and new now steady at about 725 down from 1,050 customers with a substantially broader product and at the beginning of 2003 improved service capability.
In North America and reduction of the pre-acquisition Whatman range the UK, the established Whatman presence will benefit of products from 16,000 lines to 4,000 lines was from the increased selling resources and additional completed.
A further 500 lines were identified for products, including: deletion, but implementation of this programme within the microbiology market part of the LabSciences has been combined with the rationalisation of the segment, a range of leading products in food and S&S range see below beverage QA QC applications with industry-wide rationalisation of the principal Whatman pre-acquisition application, including microbiological monitors and manufacturing facilities is complete, on schedule and media for culturing samples within budget, with production now concentrated at in the DNA blotting market part of the BioScience Banbury and Maidstone in the UK and Sanford in segment, S&S blotting membranes, which are the USA, all of which have ISO9001 certification.
considered the premier brand available in the Registration of the Banbury and Sanford sites to market and complement Whatman blotting paper ISO 13485 will be completed during 2005.
Relocation in the diagnostics lateral flow market part of the of the membrane etching plant from Scarborough to MedTech segment, combined S&S and Whatman Sanford was completed in October, also within budget product offerings provide customers with an optimised relocation of the North America headquarters from range of products for lateral flow, making Whatman Clifton to Florham Park, New Jersey and of the Japan the most comprehensive supplier of material for office to an improved location in Tokyo is also complete lateral flow tests standardisation and upgrading of the Groups integrated in Neonatal testing part of the BioScience segment, business software and telecom systems will be S&S dominates the supply of printed cards for sample substantially completed during the first half of 2005 collection using the 903 media.
disposal and letting of surplus properties continues to progress: The geographical strength of S&S in Germany and agreement has been reached for the sale of the Central Europe provides a considerable opportunity Clifton site, with completion of the sale scheduled to offer the combined product range to S&Ss strong for June loyal customer base.
leases of the Newton and Scarborough facilities have been surrendered Integration and rationalisation of the combined product the Ann Arbor facility has been sublet for the full range will be completed by the fourth quarter of 2005. remaining period of the lease.
The pre-acquisition Whatman range had already been reduced from 16,000 products to under 4,000.
A similar Acquisition of Schleicher & Schuell programme to reduce the S&S product range from The acquisition of S&S was completed on 30 November 17,000 items, together with a further reduction of the 2004 for a consideration of 58.8 million 40.9 million, Whatman pre-acquisition range, is well underway and financed entirely by debt.
will result in a combined offering of 7,000 products.
S&Ss leading position in Germany complements Initial stages of the integration of operations are Whatmans established presence in the UK and the progressing well: USA, and the combined Group is now the clear relocation of the S&S LabSciences facility from Florida 6 |Chairmans statement to Sanford will be completed in April 2005, earlier than workforce from 1,170 at the date of acquisition to originally planned and within budget 980 by the end of the year.
relocation of the S&S BioScience manufacturing and R&D activities from New Hampshire to Sanford will A further stage of the integration will combine the be completed by August, and the New Hampshire existing paper conversion operations at Banbury and freehold site has been put up for sale Dassel.
This project will be completed by the end of the absorption of S&S head office functions into the year and will achieve a further reduction in headcount.
Whatman organisation was completed in the first quarter of 2005.
Segmental Review As announced at the beginning of 2004, the Group now Migration of S&S business operating systems to has three reporting segments.
The segment previously the upgraded Whatman platform is on schedule, for named Filtration and Separation is now divided into completion by the end of 2005.
Completion of these LabSciences and MedTech.
The segment previously initial integration projects will reduce the combined named Biotechnology is now called BioScience.
The statutory accounts for 2004 include one month of S&S sales, post-acquisition.
The analysis in the following table shows the unaudited proforma total sales of the Group for the whole of 2004: Whatman Standalone S&S Proforma Combined Group 2004 Underlying 2004 Underlying 2004 Underlying 000 growth % 000 growth % 000 growth % LabSciences 47,890 7.1 20,621 7.5 68,511 7.2 MedTech 15,323 3.7 5,337 9.2 20,660 0.6 BioScience 10,748 16.8 9,031 7.9 19,779 12.5 Ongoing operations 73,961 6.0 34,989 7.9 108,950 6.6 Biometra 6,429 15.7 - - 6,429 15.7 Total 80,390 4.0 34,989 7.9 115,379 5.0 at constant exchange rates LabSciences GD X, providing simple preparation of hard-to-filter LabSciences is the preparation of non-cellular samples samples, achieved 18% sales growth prior to analysis, including environmental applications.
It Purasil, a high purity silica gel for flash chromatography, comprises cellulose and glass filtration media, membranes was successfully launched mid year.
In addition to traditional products, this segment includes syringe filters, capsules and other The unique features of these new products offer our encapsulated products, and microbiological products.
customers user-friendly and cost-reducing solutions in a wide range of applications, from QC testing in Underlying sales at constant exchange rates and an environmentally friendly process which extracts excluding the filter cartridge business which was sold ethanol from corn to preparation of HPLC samples at the end of 2003 were up 7.1% in a market which in organic synthesis.
Within this overall growth, some weakness in European demand was outweighed by About half the Groups sales in the LabSciences sector particularly strong activity in the United States.
are through specialist laboratory distributors.
Recent changes in this distribution channel, while creating some The traditional cellulose and glass fibre macrofiltration short term uncertainty in the market, provide the Group products continued to hold their own, together achieving with an opportunity for improved longer term growth.
a 4% increase in sales at constant exchange rates in a steady market.
MedTech MedTech comprises filtration components supplied on Membrane sales in this segment were up 20% at constant an OEM basis to manufacturers of medical devices and exchange rates, helped by the award of a five year US clinical diagnostics tests.
contract for air pollution monitoring.
Underlying sales were disappointingly down 4% at The Companys latest generation of innovative products constant exchange rates, due to a shortfall in sales continues to provide new opportunities: of relatively low margin drug reconstitution products Mini-UniPrep, used in HPLC sample preparation, resulting from a subcontract supply problem.
This achieved a 53% year on year increase in sales shortfall was expected to be filled by increased sales of membranes for clinical diagnostics.
In the event, Chairmans statement | 7 Chairmans statement continued this did not come through in the second half of 2004 in membrane engineering based at Dassel in Germany.
but we remain confident that this will happen in 2005, R&D expenditure for the combined group will constitute as further applications continue to be found for the around 2% of total revenue.
The Groups FTA technology continues to be strengthened, In addition, Fusion 5, which enables five processes in with three new US patents, for clone archiving, diagnostics lateral flow diagnostic assays to be combined into a and DNA elution, and one European patent having been single process, was successfully launched during the granted in 2004, and a further US patent, for sample year and has already achieved sales to a number of visualisation, granted since the year end.
Formats for global diagnostics manufacturers.
use in fully automated applications have been completed and data collection for CE marking and for US 510k BioScience FDA registration was also completed.
BioScience is the preparation of cellular samples prior to analysis and storage for study of nucleic acids or All three market segments continue to benefit from proteins.
It comprises FTA, multiwell plates, column extensions of the Groups established technologies: based DNA separation, electrophoresis products, in LabSciences, further development of the Miniprotein microarrays, blotting and neo-natal paper.
UniPrep technology includes Mini-UniPrep amber, for light sensitive samples, for example in vitamin Underlying sales were up 17% year on year at constant analysis, and Mini-UniPrep slit septa, for applications exchange rates, with particularly strong second half growth.
requiring the use of very fine needles, for example in HPLC autosamplers Sales of FTA products, the unique technology for collection, EasyClone, launched on the market in December archiving and purification of DNA, were up 39% on the 2004, is a 384 well multiplate incorporating FTA prior year.
The technology is now well established as the technology for high throughput manipulation and worldwide standard in forensics applications.
In addition, archiving of bacterial clones, employed in we are now achieving sales to other sectors, including genomics projects entry into the food and agriculture marketplace and a Fusion 5, described in the Segmental Analysis above, first application for epidemiological studies in the was launched in April 2004. pharmacogenomics sector.
The acquisition of S&S brings to the Group a new protein Negotiations are progressing with potential partners microarray technology, which although still in its infancy who will be licensed to market the FTA technology in has exciting potential for high throughput proteomics applicational areas which are not directly accessible applications, a new market area for Whatman.
Board and Staff The margin on FTA sales continues to improve, resulting The search for a new CEO is now well underway and from both manufacturing efficiency and customers we hope to be in a position to make an announcement evaluation of the effectiveness of the technology.
Pending the appointment of a new CEO, I am personally overseeing the integration and Sales of multiwell products were up 4% at constant restructuring of S&S while also continuing to direct the exchange rates, at last showing some signs of the overall renaissance of the Group.
Additionally, Finance, potential for specialised plates to OEM customers.
Operations and Administration are reporting to me until the new CEO is appointed.
Biometra Sales from Biometra, which was put into voluntary Dr Hinrich Kehler previously Chairman of the Advisory liquidation in mid 2003, fell during the period in line with Board of S&S joined the Board as a non-executive market conditions, but some significant progress was director on 1 January 2005 and brings extensive achieved toward a resolution of the intellectual property business experience in addition to his knowledge disputes.
We continued to provide for the full net asset of the S&S operations.
value of this business pending resolution of these disputes.
Tom McNally, who joined the Board in a non-executive Product Development capacity in 2003 following an outstanding career with An extended R&D facility was commissioned at Sanford Abbott Laboratories, has taken on executive responsibility in the first quarter of 2005 and the S&S R&D team will for the R&D, Business Development and Sales functions, relocate during the second quarter, establishing an pending the appointment of a new CEO.
excellent combined resource for membrane, FTA, microarrays and engineering research and development.
A Scientific Advisory Board has been established Additionally, the S&S acquisition brings further expertise and the Group is very fortunate to have appointed 8 |Chairmans statement Dr Roger Ford, Professor of Innovation and Technology Strategy at the University of Salford, and Dr Geoff Moggridge, Senior Lecturer in Chemical Engineering at the University of Cambridge, to the Advisory Board.
I am very pleased to welcome the S&S employees to Whatman and I am sure they will add considerably to the strength of the Groups human resources.
I would again like to record my thanks to all our staff for their continuing commitment to the business through another year of transformation.
Outlook The achievement of an acceleration of top line growth in Q1 has been hampered by the lack of sales leadership following the departure of our CEO and two regional sales managers in Q4 2004.
This year got off to a slow start which continued through January and February.
The Business Development and Sales reins were picked up by Tom McNally in January, and March saw a pick up in sales and orders.
Overall, Q1 2005 was behind our own expectations, but we believe that Q2 will see us back on track.
In our search for a new CEO we have a good shortlist of candidates from which we hope to make an appointment in the near future.
In addition, the full complement of regional sales managers is now in place and this should allow us to regain sales growth momentum.
Meanwhile, the integration plans and product rationalisation announced at the time of the acquisition of S&S are coming through on schedule and we are on track to deliver the earnings accretion targets announced at that time.
We still have some way to go on the restructuring of the combined group and we shall be commencing a manufacturing improvement programme at the beginning of the summer which we expect to further enhance operating margins.
Overall, we continue to make good progress and I am confident that there is considerable further upside to come.
Bob Thian Chairman 8 April 2005 Chairmans statement | 9 WHATMAN GRADE 1 JUST ONE EXAMPLE OF THE WIDE RANGE OF APPLICATIONS FOR CELLULOSE FILTER PAPER IS THE DETECTION OF ENZYMES PRODUCED BY RIPENING FRUITS.
WHATMAN GRADE 1 IMPREGNATED WITH CHEMICAL BUFFERS INCORPORATED INTO THE PACKAGING CHANGES COLOUR TO INDICATE THAT THE FRUIT IS READY TO EAT.
