William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement We also entered into a new contractual The Board is proposing a final dividend of The Groups focus on profitable relationship for the supply of FOBTs with 11 pence per share which combined with the LeisureLink who will become our prime interim dividend of 5.5 pence per share results organic growth has delivered supplier, providing 80% of the installed base of in a total dividend for the year of 16.5 pence another excellent set of results close to 5,600 terminals.
FOBTs now represent per share, a 32% increase on the total dividend with profit, earnings per share a significant proportion of shop profitability, paid in the comparable period.
and whilst the Department of Culture Media and dividends all showing strong In January 2005 we were pleased to welcome and Sport DCMS continue to describe them as David Edmonds to the Board and I am sure his double digit rates of increase being on probation, we are pleased to note experience of regulated industry and business over the comparable period.
that the recent research conducted by MORI in general will be invaluable.
and Europe Economics showed no causal link between FOBTs and problem gambling.
In I would also like to take this opportunity to addition, the Gambling Bill the Bill makes The overall result was in line with our thank all our employees for their hard specific provision for terminals within the expectations for the period, despite significant work and contribution to another excellent proposed legislative framework.
Accordingly, variability in sporting results throughout set of results.
we believe the potential regulatory risk to this the year.
The Group has achieved a satisfactory start to part of the business has receded.
Our Retail business showed continued growth, the current trading year with Group gross win The Governments proposals for the largely due to the completion of the roll out of in the eight week period ended 22 February modernisation of regulations governing betting fixed odds betting terminals FOBTs, and our 2005 up 4% against the comparative period and gaming are becoming much clearer as the Interactive business continued its strong despite tough comparators.
Bill makes its final passage through both underlying growth.
In contrast, Telephone Houses of Parliament.
Increasingly, the betting ended the year flat against the potential threat of increased competition from comparable period.
Charles Scott US style super casinos is waning, but at the Chairman The Group has a significant investment same time, potential synergies between the programme in information systems and casino and betting sectors are decreasing.
In our Retail In addition, there remains significant business we have contracted with Alphameric uncertainty around the future taxation of for the supply of electronic point of sale bet betting and gaming.
capture and settlement tills and new text Given this strategic picture and the prevailing display systems.
These investments will greatly uncertainties, the Board is not inclined at this improve productivity and customer time to commit significant capital to potential communications.
Both projects are progressing acquisitions outside of its core bookmaking and well and we are confident that the roll out gaming businesses.
Consequently, it follows will be completed successfully by the end that the Board proposes to return capital to of this year.
shareholders whilst still retaining some financial flexibility to acquire additional betting shops.
We will, therefore, be seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to return 453m to shareholders.
In parallel with the process of regulatory consultation with DCMS, both directly and through our trade associations, the Association of British Bookmakers ABB and Association of Remote Gambling Operators ARGO, we have been working to evolve responsible gambling policies and practices.
These are covered in more depth in the section of the report and accounts on corporate responsibility.
In addition to the Corporate Social Responsibility Working Group established in 2004, the Board has formed a Corporate Responsibility Committee to oversee the Groups activities in this area.
