chairmans statement 2004 marked our ninth successive year of record profits I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered record results in David Wilson Homes increased operating profit before goodwill 2004.
We comfortably achieved our long-term target of exceeding amortisation and, in 2003 reorganisation costs, by 14.2% to 5,000 housing units in David Wilson Homes and, at the same time, 248.8m on turnover which rose by 10.8% to 1,128.0m.
improved our housing margin again.
The profitability of Wilson Bowden City Homes grew significantly and, as expected a year ago, David Wilson Homes resultant operating margins rose again, we delivered profit growth in our commercial development business.
Group profit before tax and goodwill amortisation of 2.7m Wilson Bowden Developments which covers commercial 2003: 2.1m was 260.5m an increase of 15.6% and marked and mixed use development, and includes Wilson Bowden our ninth successive year of record profits, an outstanding record of City Homes increased its turnover by almost 5% to 154.3m, achievement.
and its operating profit by 22.2% to 33.0m.
While we have seen buoyant housing market conditions for some Basic earnings per share rose 13.4% to 187.7p compared with years now we have always been aware that we operate in a market 165.5p in 2003. which can be cyclical in nature.
Year end borrowings fell by 7.3% to 204.7m 2003: 220.9m Wilson Bowden cannot change the fundamentals of the market, but despite significantly increased investment in site work in progress we can ensure our business is organised and run in a manner which and infrastructure.
In 2004 we delivered excellent financial results: adjusted the business to protect against the possible risks Excellent Group pre-tax return on capital of 26.3% 2003: 27.1%.
associated with short-term volatility in the market: and laid the groundwork for 2005.
These record results show the benefits of our long-term strategy, which includes the commitment to growth in the business, both Group results for 2004 organically and by strategic infill acquisition, and also to increase Looking firstly at the Groups financial results for 2004, the key our activity in the growing mixed use sector of the market thereby features were as follows: utilising both our housing and commercial development skills.
In April 2003 we acquired the housebuilding arm of Henry Boot PLC Henry Boot Homes and in November 2003, we acquired Ward Group profit before tax and goodwill amortisation rose by 15.6% Homes, which operates mainly in Kent.
Both businesses have been to 260.5m 2003: 225.4m.
successfully integrated into our Group structure, and have delivered results in excess of our expectations.
Group housing completions rose by 10.9% to 5,588 at an average selling price of 206,000 up 1.1%.
Clearly, the headline results do not tell the whole story for the housing market during the year.
Following much public speculation 52% of our houses were built on brown land 2003: 42% and on the sustainability of house prices, coupled with five interest 58% were priced below 200,000 2003: 58%.
rate rises between November 2003 and August 2004, we saw a significantly more cautious attitude on the part of buyers from around the middle of the year.
Sales were slower and more difficult to bring to a conclusion, and the nervousness of buyers was evident both in visitor and reservation numbers.
2 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 We comfortably achieved our longterm target of exceeding 5,000 units in David Wilson Homes David Wilson, Chairman The impact of this is reflected in our lower forward order book going The significant investment we have made in land over the last three into the first half of 2005, which has returned to a level slightly ahead years has provided the flexibility which enables us to reduce land spend of the long-term average.
In addition, the changes in the method of sourcing land particularly on mixed use developments, where partnership Any housing business, which is to operate successfully over the arrangements are common allows a proportion of our land to be longer term, must display the appropriate balance of prudence as sourced in a manner which exposes us to less risk on land values.
compared to the desire for growth.
Adjusting that balance is a key factor in successfully running the business.
During the second half One direct result of this change in approach has been a reduction in of 2004 we took measures to conserve cash, mainly by setting year end borrowings which fell by 7.3% to 204.7m 2003: 220.9m higher hurdle rates for land and reducing or deferring land spend.
despite the carrying cost of running an increased number of sites necessary to deliver the growth in completions.
Gearing fell by 6.2% Dividend to 22.3% at the year end.
The Board remains conscious of the need to balance the provision of an appropriate return to investors by way of dividend with the desire to Planning invest appropriately in the future of our business.
2004 saw the much awaited issue of the Final Report of the Barker Review of Housing Supply, commissioned jointly by the Chancellor We see it as appropriate at this juncture to increase the dividend and the ODPM.
The report was very welcome in that it provided an slightly ahead of earnings growth to continue to reflect the successful excellent analysis of the problems Government, housebuilders, and growth of the business over the last two years.
Accordingly we are customers face, while also sweeping away some of the misconceptions recommending that the final dividend be increased by 11.8% to surrounding the industry.
This will bring the dividend for the full year to 38.0 pence per share 2003: 33.0p, an increase Unfortunately almost a year on we still await the benefits of of 15.2%, and will produce dividend cover of 4.9 times, a slight the bulk of Ms Barkers recommendations even though they were, reduction on last years 5.0 times.
initially at least, welcomed by central Government departments.
We are still hopeful that the changes required to free up land for building Over the last two years, dividends will have increased by a total of of sustainable communities in much greater numbers, and deliver 41.8%, against basic EPS growth of 39.5%.
Viewed over the last nine much needed improvements in planning procedures will be delivered.
years, we have been able to increase the dividend at a compound There is however a perception that the early enthusiasm has waned annual rate of 15.9% per annum, thus providing an excellent longsomewhat in certain circles.
That may not be the reality but there is term measure of the Groups success.
a paucity of firm action to convince the sceptics otherwise.
Land Accordingly and because we believe that the Barker Report was With changes in customer demand in the housing market becoming right in almost all it said we have worked assiduously with more evident as the second half year progressed, one of the key Government to create the conditions for delivering the template changes in the business during the year was our attitude to land described in the report.
We have invested considerable time and buying.
Our 2004 Group net land spend totalled 268.0m compared effort in working to ensure that the issue maintains a high profile.
Because of the length and profile of our We have also reached out to those who despite coming from a land bank we have been able to undertake this reduction without different constituency agree with our wish to see such change.
restricting our ability to benefit from the sales potential we are Accordingly we are founder members of the cross sectoral alliance projecting for the market in 2005 and beyond.
More and Better Homes which includes sector colleagues, Shelter, CBI, Unison, CABE and TCPA among its members.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 3 chairmans statement continued The four bedroom, three-storey Ashurst home at Ward Homes Coopers development in Lamberhurst, Kent.
Situated in a picturesque village dating back to the twelfth century, the properties are built in a traditional Kentish style with timber weatherboarding and external features echoing local architecture.
Whether our views will really find receptive ears remains to be seen Certification Scheme CSCS.
Our construction team and most but we will continue our efforts in this area in the belief that it is of our directors were successfully certified through this initiative.
important to the future of our business and our industry.
Finally, we have also concentrated on improving our communication Corporate social responsibility and relationships with the communities in which we build in an As a company we continue to increase our efforts in this vital area.
attempt to offset the almost automatic resistance which development seems to engender.
During 2004 we reviewed our environmental policy, which was found to remain valid in its current form.
We also instigated a Corporate governance corporate social responsibility programme.
In order to ensure Last year I outlined the progress that we had made towards satisfying effective management of these processes we have a committee our obligations under the revised Code on Corporate Governance, structure embedded in the business and led by a main board director.
which applies to us for the first time this year.
I am pleased to report that, following the changes made to the Board last autumn, we were On the environmental side, we benchmarked our performance in compliant with all the requirements of the Code.
2002 and then set objectives and targets for improvement.
We now re-measure annually to ensure that we can drive improvements in all In achieving this we reviewed the structure and balance of the these areas.
Board and made a number of changes last autumn, including the appointments of Alan Giles and Iain Lough.
During 2004 we contracted with Scottish and Southern Energy to take 100% renewable energy at all of our permanent offices in order During the year implementing the recommendations of the Smith to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions.
We are also working with Guidelines has been a major priority for the Audit Committee.
EDF Energy to connect all our plots to a green electricity tariff.
This could give rise to further CO reductions.
We also undertook the required evaluations of the effectiveness 2 of the Board, its committees and of each individual director.
I am We also entered into a formal waste management strategy with pleased to report that the process was rigorous, far reaching Wastefile during 2004, to manage waste handling and disposal and the conclusion was entirely satisfactory in all respects.
Our full Corporate Governance Statement can be found at page 32.
In construction, we strive to minimise the use of non-renewable resources.
We actively embrace modern methods of construction, The market and our prospects from timber frame technology through to the use of pre-fabricated During the year we have spent much time ensuring that we carefully building components such as roof cassettes and shower pods.
identify the future direction of the business against the background of a We are working hard to make timber frame construction contribute plethora of change from Government and non-governmental agencies.
properly to the construction process so as to mitigate the substantial on-cost it presently brings.
To be truly tested we really need I believe that we are already seeing major changes which will production runs much higher than the planning process is potentially affect the industry greatly as the years pass.
come from the impact and direction of planning policy, the changes in the sourcing of land, and from Governments views on what is Our 2004 CSR programme focused on three key groups of required on the quantum and shape of housing supply.
It would be stakeholders including work on improving the relationship with a foolish business which did not assess these issues and address their our customers and staff.
As a result we have appointed additional future impact.
quality assurance staff and customer liaison directors.
We have also looked to improve the relationship with our employees by For our part, I believe that we have correctly identified the risks introducing a number of new training initiatives and benefits and opportunities which are implied in these changes.
The Groups commitment to Health and Safety is expertise and experience we have developed in the business in terms further demonstrated by our focus on the Construction Skills of housing product, our demonstrable competence in dealing with 4 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 we have appropriately identified the future trends in the housing market in a way which has allowed us to identify where we can add most value brown land, and in the access which our commercial and mixed use 2004 saw the retirement from the Board of Tony Greasley and skills afford us to inner city development provide us with a sound Gerard Neiland, and the resultant arrival of two new Non-Executive base to embrace change.
I believe that we have appropriately Directors, Iain Lough and Alan Giles, whose biographies are identified the future trends in the housing market in a way which has provided later in this report.
allowed us to identify where we can add most value and therefore where we should concentrate our efforts.
And I believe we have I am glad to welcome Iain and Alan, and would also wish to express identified, and are implementing, organisational change in a way my gratitude to Tony and Gerard for all their efforts on behalf of the which will focus and optimise our efforts in the areas where we see Group over many years.
Management, staff and suppliers In the shorter term, we face a more uncertain housing market in I am delighted to pay tribute to all those involved in our undoubted 2005, including the potential impact of a General Election.
Without the efforts of all our management teams forward order book is at traditional levels, a large proportion of those around the country, our staff in the regional offices and on the sites, orders were obtained early in the autumn with far less activity evident and the suppliers and subcontractors who deliver the materials and later in October and November.
On the other hand, we have the the product, none of it would be possible particularly in more benefit of our business mix working in our favour in a more stable uncertain and challenging times.
May I thank all of them and their commercial development market.
families for their effort and commitment throughout the year.
At this early point in the year the prospects for housing demand and pricing in 2005 remain unpredictable but we have not seen house prices falling sharply.
Compared with late 2004, early 2005 has certainly shown an upturn in visitor levels and sales in recent weeks have shown an encouraging increase.
The split between first and second half year profits in 2005 is likely to revert to the general pattern that we have seen in earlier years, such as 2003.
We have the plots available and in build to deliver further significant growth in sales volumes in 2005.
We have taken measures to increase the attractiveness of our sales offering and to make it easier for potential David Wilson buyers to buy from us.
It remains to be seen, however, what strength Chairman the market will achieve in the year ahead.
2nd March 2005 Structure of the business During the year we took steps to develop further the management structure which fits best the future direction of the business.
Last September we reconfigured the Group into three operating divisions David Wilson Homes North, David Wilson Homes South, and Wilson Bowden Developments and appointed two new divisional chief executives to the David Wilson Homes businesses.
That structure has proved its effectiveness, and in January we therefore made further changes in order to improve reporting and efficiency, and to take some complexity out of the management structure.
This has the added benefit of bringing senior management closer to staff working at the sharp end of the business.
As a result of these structural changes Mike Stansfield left the plc Board and the Group and we wish him well for the future.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5
