WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 06 06 Chairmans statement Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans statement We continue to meet customer needs through strong businesses operating in local markets John W Whybrow Chairman WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 07 07 Chairmans statement Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 One year ago, in my first statement to you as Chairman, I said that it was The Board clear that the Wolseley strategy was delivering shareholder value.
Twelve There have been four major changes to your Board during the year.
months on, I am pleased to preface an Annual Report and Accounts that documents the most successful year in the Companys history.
John Allan reluctantly decided that the demands of his Chief Executive role at Exel plc, together with a range of new industry responsibilities, meant that We continue to meet customer needs through strong businesses operating he was no longer able to fulfil his Non Executive duties.
Jacques Descours in local markets across Europe and North America.
The Board is particularly left the Board on 7 October 2004 in anticipation of his expected retirement pleased with the Groups performance in the UK, USA and Ireland.
Across from Wolseley France in 2005.
I would like to thank both John and Jacques these countries, we have worked with considerable success to fully reap for their insight and active contributions that each has brought to the Board the benefits of market conditions.
over the last few years and wish them every success in the future.
Elsewhere in this report you will find details of the Groups core strategy, During the year we were delighted to welcome Nigel Stein and Andrew Duff which remains at the heart of the Wolseley business.
This strategy is a to the Board as Non Executive Directors.
Appointed on 1 December 2003, real and practical policy, which our management is actively implementing and subsequently joining the audit committee, Nigel is Finance Director of with commitment and expertise in every corner of our organisation.
Andrew was appointed on 1 July 2004 and is a member of the remuneration and nominations committees.
Following 14 years at BP plc, Charlie Banks and his fellow Executive Directors lead the management he is Chief Executive of RWE npower.
I look forward to working closely team with vision and energy.
This ranges from implementing a Group-wide with both of them and am confident that they will bring new skills and information technology project that will transform our infrastructure and experiences to the Board.
our potential for improvement, through to exploiting growth opportunities in the marketplace be they organic or by acquisition.
The issue of corporate governance has continued to exercise the minds of the business community and I am pleased to report that Gareth Davis The Group is increasingly recognised by our peers and external has now taken on the role of Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
commentators for our consistently strong financial performance, In common with many other UK companies with US listings, we are finding as well as for our leading role in the marketplace.
that we need to put significant time and effort into complying with the requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We are formalising many internal This year our results have been particularly impressive despite weaknesses processes and are ensuring that they are documented in a form that can in the US dollar and in some of the economies of Continental Europe.
We are on track to comply with the requirements in From an international perspective, we have continued to promote the this financial year.
Wolseley name and I look forward to our brand not only being increasingly recognised as the authority on building materials distribution across all In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their support the countries in which we operate, but also representing the generation over the past year.
From suppliers, customers and investors, we rely of shareholder value.
on your goodwill and commitment as we strive to maintain our record of double-digit growth.
I must reserve special thanks though for our 50,000 Dividend people, each of whom has played their part in making this such a very With our earnings per share before goodwill amortisation rising to successful year for Wolseley.
74.84 pence, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.0 pence, which represents a total dividend for the year of 23.8 pence.
This is an Together, we face the future with confidence and optimism.
Buoyed by increase of 12.3 per cent over the total dividend paid last year.
a strategy that continues to deliver, along with strong management teams in our operating businesses who demonstrate leadership as well as management skill, we will generate further growth and improvement as we go forward.
