Chairmans Statement There being no exceptional items, this represents an increase in profits before tax but after goodwill amortisation of 75.5 per cent to 66.7 million.
The adjusted basic earnings per share rose by 34.6 per cent, from 2.6 pence per share to 3.5 pence per share.
Basic earnings per share increased 83.3 per cent to 3.3 pence per share.
Our financial position further strengthened with net funds ending the year at 52.9 Gerald Corbett million, an improvement of 17.7 million on the previous year.
Chairman The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 1.14 pence per share, an increase This report marks another of 14.0 per cent over the prior year.
This will provide a full year dividend of 1.5 pence per year of solid progress for share, an increase of 13.2 per cent on the the Woolworths Group.
This is in line with our policy of generating progressive dividend growth Profit before tax, exceptionals whilst broadly maintaining the level of and goodwill amortisation dividend cover.
increased by 32.2 per cent Successful retailing requires attention to detail and the co-ordinated execution of to 69.8 million, on turnover a mass of tasks.
There is no single lever to up 3.1per cent to 2.8 billion.
pull, no one action that drives performance.
The executive team, under the leadership of Trevor Bish-Jones, has concentrated primarily on simplifying the business, improving the systems and supply chain, rebuilding core retail competencies and improving the customer proposition.
In Woolworths, all of our product areas saw margin improvement, with the exception of Entertainment products, where we competed particularly aggressively and gained market share.
Further reductions in shrinkage stock losses were achieved accounting for 10 basis points of the margin improvement, head office costs were managed down and in-store disciplines were improved.
The Kingstore till system is now in 320 stores, covering 63 per cent of our retail space.
This has been critical to improved management of queues in store and to keeping a tight control of stock.
All these and other operational measures played a part in the improvement in profitability.
In MVC, our chain of 85 specialist Entertainment shops, performance has been disappointing.
Market dynamics, combined with the reorganisation of the business in the first half of the year, made the last year particularly challenging for MVC.
2Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 We have now completed all our changes and A successful refurbishment programme with a focused management team we expect potentially underpins the Groups growth for the results to improve in the future.
A decision on the speed of further refurbishments will be taken later This has been another year of continued this year once the results from the latest success for our Entertainment Wholesale 50 stores become apparent.
Investment in and Publishing businesses comprising the Mainchain strengthens and reinvigorates Entertainment UK and VCI.
Both are market the core business and also has the potential leaders in their fields, with EUKs warehouse to earn good and quick financial returns.
at Greenford offering cutting edge technology This investment, plus the accelerated rollout and providing cost and service advantage of the Kingstore till system, coupled with compared with its competitors.
This leading further operating improvements, are position in the distribution of Entertainment the basis of our future profit growth.
products helps underpin EUKs customers ability to drive sales.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our colleagues for everything Our out-of-town format, Woolworths big W, they have achieved during the year.
There has presented a considerable challenge.
is a great affection for the brand amongst the Like-for-like sales from the 21 existing workforce which continually impresses me.
Woolworths big W stores grew by 2.1 per cent Our employees are a fantastic asset and give and underlying margins improved by 0.5 per us great confidence for the future.
This was an insufficient improvement to bring the format into profitability.
The big W concept was developed when we were part of Kingfisher and without its supply chain in DIY, electrical goods and health and beauty products, the Board has concluded that we are unlikely to earn a satisfactory return on further rollout of the existing format.
Gerald Corbett Chairman Out-of-town trading however, remains a growth sector of British retailing and as Trevor details in the Operating Review, we plan to downsize the big W trading area, rebrand to Woolworths and provide the opportunity to release shareholder value.
The decision on Woolworths big W has been made easier by the success of the trial refurbishment programme in the Woolworths Mainchain.
Ten Woolworths stores have now been refitted in a way which reinforces Woolworths strategy to be famous for Kids and Celebrations.
They are truly exciting places to shop, building on Woolworths strengths.
Sales and margin uplifts from these refurbishments have been encouraging and we plan to press on with a further 50 stores this year.
3Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Profit before taxation, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased by Operating Review 32.2 per cent to 69.8 million 2003: 52.8 million.
Profit before tax, there being no exceptional items in 2004 increased by 75.5 per cent to 66.7 million.
Retail Underpinning these results has been the rigorous implementation of the Woolworths Recovery Plan, which comprises four key elements: simplifying the business, strengthening the infrastructure, driving margin through product development and developing clearer propositions across all our retail portfolio.
Good progress continues to be made across all these areas and we are now starting to see some of the medium and longer-term benefits.
Simplifying the Business In 2002 3 the Group undertook a number of structural changes to streamline the organisation, with shorter reporting lines and clearer accountabilities.
This process continued through 2003 4, with a further 8 per cent reduction of head office roles, a reorganisation of field management and the closer integration of Trevor Bish-Jones MVC with the Woolworths Entertainment Chief Executive business.
Continuing this process, in early 2004, Woolworths moved to a smaller, more focused executive team During the past year the to improve accountability and facilitate faster decision making.
Group has continued its profit recovery, whilst Strengthening the Infrastructure The transition towards common systems planning and investing across the chain is the key element of for the future.
During the year, investment in Woolworths IT systems totalled 14.7 million.
The combination of solid sales growth, further margin improvement and continued rigorous Investment in buying and replenishment removal of excess costs, resulted in a second systems is nearing completion, with a majority year of strong profit growth.
Initiatives taken of the purchase orders and store deliveries during the year leave the Group well positioned now controlled by the new systems.
This and provide a platform from which to grow contributed to a 1.7 per cent improvement the business.
in single sku stock keeping unit in-store availability over the year.
In the 52 weeks ended 31 January 2004, total Group sales increased by 3.1 per cent The rollout of the Kingstore till system to 2.8 billion.
2003 sales have been restated continues and is now installed in 320 stores, to reflect the introduction of Financial accounting for 63 per cent of Woolworths Reporting Standard 5 FRS 5 Application retail space.
Faster transaction times reduce note G, which has been adopted this year.
store costs and improve customer service Sales have also been impacted by the and the item specific information provided outsourcing of our in-store caf operation by Kingstore supports improvements to from October 2003.
Stripping out these on-shelf availability and shrinkage rates.
changes, the underlying total Group As a result, we have decided to accelerate sales growth was 4.3 per cent.
Within this, the rollout of Kingstore to all remaining underlying Retail sales grew by 0.9 per cent Woolworths stores by Christmas 2004. and sales in the Entertainment Wholesale This will require a capital investment of and Publishing businesses grew by 23.4 per 19 million, advancing 9 million planned cent.
Total Group like-for-like sales increased for 2005 6. by 0.6 per cent, with Woolworths Mainchain increasing by 1.0 per cent, Woolworths big W As previously reported, our supply chain increasing by 2.1 per cent and MVC decreasing review identified the need to optimise our by 7.2 per cent.
As the need arises, further warehousing space will be sourced to enhance the efficiency of movement of goods from our domestic and international suppliers through to our stores.
4Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Up to the end of January 2004 the newly Pic n Mix is shown here in a new fixture refurbished Woolworths stores had an format.
Last year new volumetric cinema average sales uplift of 10 per cent and style tubs were introduced, in two sizes.
increased gross margin by over 100 These have proved extremely popular basis points compared to the Mainchain.
and are themed according to the season The Kingston store is shown here.
or the latest film release.
Specific product areas within the new format stores demonstrate the wide variety of choices available to customers.
5Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating Review continued For customers who wish to update their Many of the desirable products in the homes without the cost of redecorating, Woolworths home collection have Woolworths offers a wide variety of received press coverage across lifestyle accessories perfect for adding colour publications including the Telegraph and texture to a room.
magazine, Ideal Home and Prima.
Recently, the range won the House Beautiful magazine award for Interior collection of the Year.
Our distribution centres have moved to a Progress on product development has 24 hour 7 day a week working pattern and been supported by improvements to our we have also successfully introduced out of in-store shopping experience.
Both of these measures have year Service into Sales was launched, a increased flexibility and fleet utilisation.
programme focusing on improving on-shelf availability, reducing queuing times and Driving Margin Through improving the interaction with customers.
Product Development Over the key Christmas period, an additional Within the Woolworths retail chain, underlying 6,500 colleagues were recruited, 500 more than the previous year, and an extra 700 gross margin grew by 40 basis points, building on the increase of 50 basis points mobile tills were used.
These measures achieved last year.
We grew margin rate produced positive results, which included across all product categories except reducing queuing times by 4.0 per cent.
Entertainment, where we took a deliberately aggressive promotional strategy to enhance Developing Clearer Propositions Group profitability.
Market share was gained Woolworths Mainchain across the majority of the business.
Over the past two years a new strategic positioning for Woolworths has been The Woolworths product and promotional established, aimed at making Woolworths offer has continued to improve throughout famous for Kids and Celebrations.
We continue to develop product and allocate the year, providing our customers with the products they want at excellent value.
space to support this strategy.
Our trial stores have also reflected the Within Toys we grew market share by a further 0.6 per cent, building on the 1.5 per strategy of Kids and Celebrations.
By cent growth reported last year.
Our exclusive the end of autumn 2003, a total of ten 10 10 Chad Valley products continue to be a key trial stores had been refitted.
For the period since refurbishment through to the end of driver of this success, combined with our ability to source hot products.
January 2004 these stores had an average sales uplift of 10 per cent against their control groups and increased gross margin by over Similarly in Clothing, the continued 100 basis points compared to the Mainchain.
development of our exclusive Ladybird brand has helped us build margin and market Two of the stores which have been trading for share.
Improvements to our Clothing supply over a year are showing second year growth.
chain enabled us to react to in-season sales trends, resulting in more effective mark-down These good results validate the Kids and and increased profitability.
The year also saw Celebrations strategy and provide the basis the successful launch of our own brand for future investment.
The refit costs are now at a level which, when combined with STUK boyswear.
the performance uplifts to date, yield an We saw a market share reduction in acceptable return on capital and appropriate payback period.
We therefore plan to Confectionery.
Establishing a differentiated accelerate the refit programme so that offer in a saturated, promotion-driven market has been a major undertaking and we are long term growth is brought forward through encouraged by the early results of some a further 50 store refits during 2004, requiring a capital investment of 25 million.
This includes Due to asset write offs and pre-opening own brand ranges of bar confectionery and innovative Pic n Mix cups where the costs, this will have a drag on earnings of Creating a designer look in your home customer pays a fixed price for a particular 4 5 million in 2004. neednt cost a fortune.
range of trend-setting home accessories The combination of the accelerated investment from Woolworths, with prices starting In Home excluding Health and Beauty, in Kingstore, plus the investment in the store at just 1.99. refurbishment programme will increase capital we have seen further margin growth on the expenditure this year to circa 80 million.
This back of improvements to product and range architecture.
Our ranges increasingly offer will be funded from internal cash generation.
the more fashionable, aspirational product Woolworths big W demanded by our core customer, whilst retaining an edited range of home essentials.
The Woolworths big W concept was developed when Woolworths was part of Kingfisher and the absence of the Kingfisher In Entertainment, a more aggressive supply chain in DIY, electrical goods and promotional stance coupled with an increased space allocation to DVD has helped deliver a health and beauty products has weakened strong performance.
Sales grew strongly and the proposition.
Whilst there remains scope to continue to improve performance, we are market share increased.
unlikely to earn a satisfactory return to justify A second consecutive year of underlying further rollout of the existing format.
gross margin improvement in the Woolworths retail chain gives us confidence that we have the strategies in place to deliver ongoing improvements.
At the same time, we have taken great care to safeguard the Woolworths value perception, which is very important to our core customer base.
7Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating Review continued Woolworths sells millions of CDs every year at stores and online at www.
co. uk Woolworths Group is number one in sales of home entertainment products music, video, games, offering high street retailing through MVC and Woolworths: online shopping through Streets Online: wholesale distribution through EUK and video and music publishing through VCI.
In the constantly developing market of mobile phone technology, Woolworths continues to offer new and exciting products to customers.
A recent addition is the range of innovative pre-pay third generation mobile phones.
8Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Out-of-town trading is an exciting sector of British retailing and provides a good opportunity for the development of the Woolworths brand.
The existing Woolworths big W stores prove that there is a substantial customer base for the Woolworths brand out-of-town.
We already have successful, profitable models of large-scale retailing in the biggest stores in the Woolworths Mainchain and in some of the more successful big W stores.
Our analysis of these stores has demonstrated that a clear opportunity exists for Woolworths to trade out-of-town in stores ranging from 35 50,000 sq ft. We will therefore cease opening stores of 70 80,000 sq ft and look, over the coming year, to downsize our existing Woolworths big W stores.
These stores, which will be branded Woolworths, will focus on products which support our Kids and Celebrations proposition such as baby shop, kids rooms and party shop and will no longer include less profitable ranges such as adult clothing, toiletries and petcare.
This approach will During the year, due to two lease enable us to maintain a presence out-of-town expiries, a new returns distribution facility whilst improving returns, generating cash was opened.
This was achieved to plan and unlocking shareholder value.
and under budget, with no degradation to customer service levels.
The smaller size requirement of these out-of-town Woolworths stores will also EUK continued to build its competency make it easier to secure appropriate sites in digital downloading and together with in the future and to build a critical mass Streets Online has been working to build of stores in the longer term.
a stable and secure platform from which customers can access music online.
MVC The download market is in its formative MVCs performance has been disappointing, stages of development and it is anticipated that during 2004 further digital download recording a decline in like-for-like sales of 7.2 per cent.
During the year the business services will be launched.
underwent a significant amount of change including the closure of its Head Office in VCI VCI had a strong year with sales from Harrow, re-spacing of the stores towards DVDs and games and the relaunch of the continuing operations increasing by 15.8 MVC membership card to the More card.
There were two key drivers boosting the video business.
Firstly, the change in mix from VHS to DVD was again The disruption caused by these changes was greater than anticipated, but we believe favourable and, secondly, the release that this is now firmly behind us.
There is schedule derived from its core contracts included some very strong titles, such as now increased management focus on the Peter Kays Phoenix Nights Series 2, business and although the specialist sector will continue to be pressurised, we are more BoSelecta!
confident about the outlook for MVC in 2004 5.
In the audio division, Demon Music Group Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing also performed well, taking a 22.5 per cent This has been another year of continued share of the budget music market.
success for our Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses, comprising Banana Split Productions a company in Entertainment UK and VCI.
which the Group acquired a controlling interest in July 2002 performed well during the year, increasing its customer base and Entertainment UK EUK Entertainment UK had a strong year, exceeding the targets set at the time of increasing third party sales by an overall acquisition.
The business focuses on the production of pre-recorded videos, 26.8 per cent.
Its total sales, including feature film trailers, television programming intergroup sales, exceeded 1.0 billion for the first time.
A key driver of this was and advertisements.
the strong market growth of DVDs.
However, margin pressure continued and although this was to some extent offset by improvements in distribution efficiency, unit growth coupled with the requirement to invest more in customer in-store service support resulted in operating margins falling back.
9Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
