Chairmans statement The Company In my view the Group is in better shape than at any time since flotation in 1996.
In my statement last year I outlined our mediumterm objectives of returning to historic operating margins and improving financial performance on a sustained basis.
Our results for the year ended 31 March 2004 represent substantial progress in our delivery against those objectives.
Continued focus on cost reduction, margin improvement and cash generation has delivered results ahead of expectations.
Our performance also includes the first year of activity in the London Underground Metronet PPP companies in which we are a shareholder.
Our cash position emphasises the quality of these results, with cash inflow from operations of 94.4m 2003: 26.6m.
In addition, disposals and the reimbursement of Metronet bid costs enabled the In my view, the Group Group to end the year with net cash of 68.4m compared with net debt of 71.9m at 31 March 2003. is in better shape People than at any time since The excellent results we have delivered this year reflect the talent and commitment of Atkins 14,000 people.
They define the capability and potential of the Group and I am sure that our shareholders will flotation.
join me in congratulating them on their achievements in 2004.
In a world where talent is scarce we continue our efforts to remain the employer of choice for graduates and experienced professionals in the markets in which we operate.
We have recently introduced flexible benefits and improvements in incentive schemes and opportunities for staff feedback.
We are committed to continuing this progress in 2005, focusing on maximising career development opportunities and increasing staff retention.
Social responsibility This year sees the publication of our first stand-alone Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report, to be distributed with the Annual Report and Accounts.
CSR will become more significant to our business going forward.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 14 Board of Directors Keith Clarke joined the Board as Chief Executive on 1 October 2003.
He has brought excellent leadership qualities and experience of businesses based on major projects.
His appointment has been welcomed both internally and by our external stakeholders.
Stephen Billingham, Group Finance Director until 22 June 2004, will leave the Board on 24 August 2004 to take up the appointment as Finance Director of British Energy plc.
Stephen is succeeded as Group Finance Director by Robert MacLeod, previously Group Financial Controller.
The Board wishes Stephen well in his challenging new role and thanks him for his outstanding contribution to the financial recovery and stabilisation of the Group since his appointment in October 2002.
The Board also appointed two new Non-Executive Directors in May 2004.
Admiral the Lord Boyce has had a distinguished career in the Royal Navy and the Ministry of Defence.
He brings defence and public sector experience to the Group, as well as considerable international knowledge.
Sir Peter Williams has had a very successful career in industry and the academic world.
He has extensive involvement in the recruitment of graduates into the engineering professions through his chairmanship of the Engineering and Technology Board.
The appointments of Keith Clarke, Lord Boyce, Sir Peter and Robert MacLeod extend considerably the range of experience of the Board and I am delighted to welcome them.
Dividend The Board is recommending payment of a final dividend of 7.0p, making the total dividend for the year 9.0p.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 1 October 2004 to shareholders on the register on 3 September 2004.
Michael Jeffries Chairman 19 July 2004 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 15
