Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Chairmans statement Bill Alexander, Chairman Board changes I took over from Andrew Buxton, who kindly 16 took on the role on an interim basis, after Hilary Cropper retired at the AGM in September 2003.
I would like to thank Andrew and Hilary for their significant contributions to the Company in making it a company that is widely recognised for the innovative and professional way it approaches all aspects of business, employee relations and share ownership.
As many of you know, Hilary led the Company for 18 years and her primary reason for retirement was due to illness.
All of my fellow Directors and I would like to extend our Introduction In my first report to you as your Chairman, very best wishes to her for the future.
We are delighted her I am pleased to be able to say that since taking on the role, contribution to the development of people and her charitable I have been struck by the commitment and dedication of work has been recognised in the Queens birthday honours, the Directors and all of the employees at Xansa.
Since the when she became a Dame.
New Year, I have spent time talking and working with the As part of our restructuring, we have brought together IT management team, meeting investors, clients, and, of Outsourcing ITO and Business Process Outsourcing BPO course, the employees of Xansa.
Even in my early days at to reflect the convergence of these markets.
Allan Wood, Xansa, I have seen a number of significant changes as we who was Managing Director for BPO, decided after 11 years continue to reposition ourselves in this challenging market.
association with Xansa, it was time to seek alternative The need to produce innovative solutions that deliver real challenges and announced in February 2004 that he would and sustainable benefits to our clients remains at the centre be leaving the Company.
The Board and I all wish Allan well of everything that Xansa does.
Along with other companies in the IT sector, Xansa has gone through a challenging time in the last two years.
Corporate governance My role as Xansas Chairman is to The Board has been taking firm action to reposition the lead the Board of Directors and ensure its governance is Company to provide a sound platform for further growth.
carried out in a way that underpins the success of the It has acted decisively to address loss-making operations, business.
We work together to set the direction in which exit markets where we will not be able to achieve scale in the Company is going and to ensure we are achieving the the medium term, to make appropriate investment in new Companys goals.
I am pleased to say that I have joined a client propositions, especially in India, and to structure Board that has made great efforts to ensure that we adopt itself to address the challenges of the market in which we the best practices of corporate governance.
The results of these actions are shown in our full report, you will find a detailed explanation of the various year results, where in a difficult market, we have managed committees, their roles, and how they contribute to the to increase our orderbank in the last six months, whilst effective operation of your Company.
maintaining our core UK market position, despite the early termination of First Banking Systems FBS, our joint business venture with HBOS.
Manoj Pareikh As part of our overall investment programme, we continue What Im building: I work as an offshore project manager on a logistics client.
to invest in building capacity and capability, especially in My team is maintaining, enhancing India.
In July 2003, we formally opened our new site in and integrating a large number Chennai and in June 2004, our new site in Pune.
In the UK, of disparate applications to a new SAP R 3 platform.
This will streamline we have rationalised our properties, and after a long and automate tasks to provide association with Hemel Hempstead, we have established our increased efficiency, delivering corporate headquarters at Thames Valley Park in Reading.
substantial cost benefits to the client.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 The Board has acted decisively to address loss-making operations, exit markets where we will not be able to achieve scale in the medium term, to make appropriate investment in new client propositions, especially in India, and to structure itself to address the challenges of the market in which we operate.
Bill Alexander, Chairman Lynda Cooper What Im building: My Service Management team builds client confidence through industry recognition of Xansas best practices.
Looking to the future, the Board, the senior management We co-authored the British Standard team, and all of the employees have been working extremely for IT Service Management, BS15000 hard to reposition Xansa in the fast-changing world of and various ITIL guideline publications.
This demonstrates the high standards business.
In his report to you, our Chief Executive, Alistair of Xansas managed service capabilities Cox, explains the thinking behind our strategic positioning that help our service teams and our in IT and BPO, and where we believe we will return the clients to implement world-class Company to growth.
In the short time I have been with the Company, I have been impressed by the way the management team, led by Alistair, have been repositioning the Company and the Share ownership The high degree of employee share ownership quality of discussions in our Board meetings.
There are still is one of the aspects of Xansa that has also impressed me.
many challenges ahead but I am confident Xansa will be Xansa continues to have one of the highest levels of the leading UK business in its chosen market sectors.
employee share ownership in the industry.
The Board remains committed to providing opportunities for increasing Financial performance employee share ownership, as this remains an effective way Turnover declined 7.6% to 419.5 million 2003: 453.9 million, for employees to focus on the future success of the Company.
principally due to the exit of overseas operations At the AGM in September 2003, shareholders voted UK continuing business excluding FBS increased revenue by 5.0% overwhelmingly in favour of a new option scheme for to 363.7 million 2003: 346.5 million replacing options which no longer provide an incentive Operating loss reduced from 156.0 million to 27.1 million to our employees.
Our schemes were recognised once again, Loss before tax reduced from 157.0 million to 31.2 million by the Global Equity Organisation GEO, for our outstanding Loss per share reduced from 57.09p to 12.67p achievements in operating international employee share plans.
Pre-tax profit fell 11.9% to 24.4 million 2003: 27.7 million They recognised that while other companies had repriced Operating margin stabilised at 6.2% 2003: 6.3% share options or carried out option exchange programmes in Corporate costs reduced by 29.5% to 6.2 million the past, it was our thorough, careful consideration of this Exceptional costs 21.6 million thorny issue that impressed the judges.
Share plans affect Diluted earnings per share up 9.7% to 4.53p 2003: 4.13p employees, shareholders, and ultimately the growth of the Net borrowings of 7.0 million 2003: funds 3.8 million Company.
Despite the traditional conflict between these Dividend per share has been maintained at 3.24p 2003: 3.24p constituencies, the GEO thought we bridged these divides These figures are quoted before distribution of shares from the trusts, reorganisation costs, goodwill amortisation and impairment and loss on disposal of businesses in a highly successful solution for everyone involved.
The future I have long admired Xansa and its leadership for the innovative way it has engaged with first-class clients in the delivery of complex IT and BPO projects.
It was also one of the first UK companies to embrace the opportunities of engagement in India to tap the resources of the high quality technical skills available in the market and apply them to service delivery for its clients.
