Annual Report 2003 04 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to welcome you as a shareholder in Yell Over the last 38 years and against a back-drop of changing Group plc and to send you our annual report for the economic and regulatory conditions, we have demonstrated financial year ended 31 March 2004.
The report marks the consistent revenue and profit growth, matched by growth in end of an exciting and significant year for our company, our customer base and by continuous improvement in our during which we both extended our operations and listed on processes and customer service.
Our good results in 2004 the London Stock Exchange.
reflect the strength of our operational focus and the excellence of our performance in all areas of our business.
Whilst our Initial Public Offering IPO marked the start of a new chapter for the Yell Group, it did not change our The hard work of John Condron and all the people in the business focus and we have continued to deliver world class Yell Group over the last year means we start the new products and services to our advertisers and users.
They still financial year with record numbers of customers, continuing receive the high quality products and services that we have high usage of our products, a strong financial platform and always provided, and we have continued to focus on a well developed portfolio of products and services.
confident that this gives us the basis for continued growth and a bright, exciting future.
welcome This focus has generated strong performance across our We have a strong Board that is committed to the highest business.
We grew revenues by 6.5% to 1,187m and standards of corporate governance.
At our Annual General adjusted EBITDA by 11.5% to 360m, results which clearly Meeting all of the directors are seeking a further term of demonstrate our success.
Our results exceed the indication we office and I strongly support their re-election.
gave at our IPO and the Board is recommending a final Our first Annual General Meeting since the IPO will be held dividend of 6 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for at 11am on 13 July 2004.
At the back of this report you the year to 9 pence per share.
will find the Notice of AGM and details of the resolutions on From a single Yellow Pages section in the Brighton Phone which I ask you to vote.
I hope to meet as many of you as Book in 1966 we have grown to become a leading possible at the meeting itself.
international directories company, with a range of products, including printed, online and voice-assisted, that put buyers in touch with sellers.
We will continue to develop our products and services to ensure we meet the needs of our users and advertisers and we will continue to seek opportunities for geographical expansion.
Bob Scott, Chairman Yellow Pages 118 24 7 is our UK Yellow Book is our US printed Yellowbook.
com is our online operator-assisted, 24-hour telephonedirectory published in 42 States classified directory service in the US based information service and Washington DC
