4 Chairmans letter Chairmans letter I am pleased to report that BAE Systems In accepting my appointment, I had to consider Through the effective implementation of has made good progress in 2004.
The the ways in which I could add value for this strategy we aim to continue to build on company maintained its focus on performance shareholders.
I believe my job as Chairman BAE Systems position as one of the worlds improvement, addressed inappropriate risk is to ensure that the Board operates effectively premier aerospace and defence companies in the business and made progress in in three key areas: framing the strategy for the and deliver sustained returns to our restructuring its joint venture portfolio in company: monitoring the performance of the shareholders.
At the same time, we have continued executive team as they implement that strategy: I and my fellow directors are committed to to grow our position in the US defence market.
and leading on governance matters by setting ensuring that BAE Systems has a robust Much progress has been made to deliver values and standards that are followed governance framework and has the processes long-term shareholder value.
to provide the assurance to the Board and Since succeeding Sir Richard Evans as With the full involvement of executive and stakeholders that the company is operating Chairman at the beginning of July, I have spent non-executive directors, we used the annual in accordance with these prescribed values considerable time meeting the companys planning process as a framework to challenge and standards.
management and visiting our businesses.
We describe this in It is clear that BAE Systems is a company rich some detail later in this report but, in essence, in technology and with highly capable people.
we will further strengthen the focus on improving corporate performance while building on the strong position now established in the United States.
The companys executive, together with the commitment and hard work of the wider BAE Systems team, has delivered a good operational performance in 2004 establishing a solid base for future growth.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 5 Governance is equally important to our BAE Systems should be proud of its role in The companys executive, together with the relationship with the wider community in which helping to provide the means of establishing commitment and hard work of the wider we operate.
In this report, together with our and maintaining security in a turbulent world.
BAE Systems team, has delivered a good separately published Corporate Responsibility It is always important that the company aspires operational performance in 2004 establishing Report, we provide more information on our to high standards of corporate behaviour and a solid base for future growth.
In addition, the social, environmental and ethical policies.
measures taken to enhance the terms on which There has been much change in this area we do business and mitigate risk going forward I have taken over the chair from Sir Richard for all companies, both in how we report to have underpinned the company's recovery.
Evans under whose stewardship the company stakeholders and in the priority this is given.
has risen to be one of the worlds leading The Board is recommending an increased final Within BAE Systems we will ensure that this is aerospace and defence businesses.
The Board ordinary dividend of 5.8p per share, making a appropriately managed and reported, striving is grateful to Dick for his great contribution, over total of 9.5p for the year.
Subject to shareholder to be one of the leaders in this regard.
many years, to this company and the industry in approval at the 2005 AGM, the dividend will be Accordingly, the Board has agreed recently to which we operate.
paid on 1 June 2005 to holders of ordinary form a Corporate Responsibility Committee that shares registered on 22 April 2005. will be responsible for reviewing and monitoring Lord Hesketh will be retiring from the Board at the processes the company uses to manage this years AGM.
The Board has valued greatly social, environmental and ethical risk to assist the contribution he has made during his 11 the Board in overseeing the development of years as a director of the company.
strategy and policy in this area.
It will be chaired by a non-executive director.
