Lifts and Core CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am very satisfied with the continuing strong performance of the Group and am confident that it will deliver further added value during 2005.
CONTINENTAL EUROPE Our asset portfolio in INTRODUCTION continental Europe has been further I am very pleased to report that the Company strengthened by five new acquisitions in has performed well during 2004.
Our financial France and Luxembourg at favourable yields results are discussed in detail in the Financial and at a cost of 30.8 million.
Review and therefore I will highlight only the principal figures here.
Adjusted net asset EQUITY INVESTMENTS value per share NAV has increased by 15.9 per cent to 516.6 pence Statutory NAV per The performance of our equity investments has share increased by 15.8 per cent to 508.5 shown a significant improvement in the year, pence and profit before taxation increased by principally due to the successful flotations on 6.8 per cent to 18.8 million.
AIM in London of Amino Technologies Plc and Clearspeed Technology Plc, and Note AB on Furthermore significant progress has been the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
Although these made during the year in planning and rethree investments produced an unrealised developing a number of our properties the surplus of 12.4 million at 31 December 2004, benefit of which has not yet been fully London Bridge Tower the gain has not yet been reflected in our reflected in our reported results for 2004, results.
The market value of our equity however this work has laid solid foundations investments held as current assets, is 23.0 Radiator to further strengthen the Groups position.
These investments are carried in our Viewing Gallery books at 10.6 million, at the lower of cost and BUSINESS REVIEW net realisable value.
We believe that there is Apartments potential latent value in the remaining unlisted UK In particular, progress has been made in investments we hold and it is likely that a the UK including a substantial pre-let of nearly number of these will either be listed or sold 18,500 sq m 200,000 sq ft of space at London within the next two years.
Hotel Bridge Tower to the Shangri-La hotel group.
SWEDEN In Sweden a major pre-let took place whereby 24,100 sq m 259,412 sq ft of MARKET BACKGROUND Public offices and retail space at Solna, Stockholm The economies of Europe and the UK in was let to ICA, Scandinavias largest food particular have been underpinned by relatively retailer.
The letting, which was one of the strong fundamental economic indicators and Offices largest in Sweden in recent years comprises established performance which has 14,700 sq m 158,230 sq ft of office space let stimulated demand for commercial property for just under twelve years and 9,400 sq m investments.
The weight of money available 101,182 sq ft of retail space let for fifteen for investment and relatively stable and low years.
ICA is due to take occupation and interest rates have further contributed to commence rental payments on the newly reenhance property values.
Investment in furbished space this Summer.
property has shown the highest returns since.
04 600 October 1994 and the total return in 2004 to CLS Holdings Tot Return Ind investors on the FTSE Real Estate Index, FTSE Real Estate Tot Return Ind FTSE All Share Tot Return Ind reflecting share price increase and 500 distributions, was 45 per cent.
Against this backdrop the total return to CLS 400 investors in the year has been 51 per cent Source : Thomson Data Stream.
300 Since our flotation in May 1994 our net assets have grown from 127.7 million to 426.4 200 million, an increase of 233.9 per cent, a growth rate of 11.6 per cent compound per 100 annum and 11.9 per cent compound per annum over the last five years.
0 Over the period since we were listed, adjusted 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 net asset value per share has increased from 129.0 pence to 516.6 pence, 13.4 per cent Source : Datastream compound per annum.
Our property assets, based in the UK, Sweden and France have increased from 287.0 million to 1,022.4 As a result of our sustained growth, in May 2004 million including joint ventures, an increase we were admitted into the FTSE 350 index.
The closing price of our shares on 31 March This growth has resulted in our shares 2005 was 431.0 pence compared to a price of outperforming the FTSE Real Estate Index by 111 pence on flotation, an increase of 288.3 153 per cent and the FTSE All Share Index by per cent in that period, and a growth of 50.9 210 per cent since flotation as at 31 January per cent in the year to 31 December 2004.
05 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued RISK AVERSE we identify and monitor THE UNDERLYING BUSINESS FOCUS AND business risks and construct risk averse PRINCIPLES BY WHICH WE OPERATE mechanisms in the financing of our assets.
Reasonably substantial interest bearing cash The continually moving commercial reserves are held on our balance sheet in environment requires us to be flexible and order to be able to react quickly to potential vigilant in order to adapt to changing opportunities.
However this is not incompatible with our strategic focus on the fundamental ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES we will continue principles that drive the business forward.
our work on improving the environmental These can be summarised as follows: development of our properties throughout the Group, as already evidenced by the prestigious PRIMARY AIM IS TO PROVIDE OUR TENANTS environmental P mark standard we received WITH HIGH QUALITY PREMISES our aim is to for developing green energy efficient provide our tenants with high quality premises properties through the refurbishment of our that are well managed and offer flexible Solna complex.
facilities in line with their requirements.
We recognise the importance of delivering value The installation of energy efficient plant for money and being responsive to their occurs wherever possible in order to reduce needs.
Wherever practicable we offer the energy consumption in our newly refurbished latest technological facilities to our tenants.
We regard green energy and cost LOCAL MARKETS we only operate in regions reduction as a major challenge and we plan to where we have a clear understanding of local use among other things, solar and geomarkets and have firm relationships with well thermal energy efficient heating and cooling established and reputable professional plants where it is practical to do so.
Operating from locally based offices Additionally, we seek to source the materials also enhances our ability to work closely with used in our development projects from our tenants.
OPEN AND HONEST BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS AND LONG-TERM we ensure that there are clear, open lines of RELATIONSHIPS we look to develop communication with our lenders and equity longterm relationships with all our business investors.
partners including tenants, lending institutions, advisers or suppliers.
We do not trade properties, we are long-term investors PROSPECTS keen to add value by improving our properties We have made significant progress during and their surroundings.
2004 and we look forward to a number of CAREFULLY RESEARCHED BUSINESS challenges in the coming months and years.
DECISIONS commercial decisions, in all our We have several major developments in business locations, are subject to rigorous, progress.
In the UK our objective, together carefully researched and analytical processes with our partners, of completing the and are formally presented to senior development of London Bridge Tower will management before being effected.
require a great deal of skill and careful attention.
We therefore intend to ensure that LOCAL MANAGEMENT we employ well the very best team is assembled to bring this qualified and experienced local management important project to a successful conclusion.
whilst maintaining strong lines of In West London, Great West House will be communication with our main London office.
given a major refurbishment that will INTEGRITY we recognise the immense value rejuvenate the entire profile of the building, of working with people who have solid increasing its appeal and value.
In Sweden we business integrity, sound expertise and who will finish the extensive refurbishment to are people we can trust.
Solna Business Park.. 06 We will develop further our use of leading offer buy-back of one in forty one shares at a designs and materials in our refurbishments.
price of 485 pence per share, resulting in a An example of this is the utilisation of faade total distribution for the year of 19.3 pence per materials at Solna incorporating the share, an increase of 12.9 per cent on the technology of Keronite, a UK based associate previous year.
company, that changes the surface I would like to thank Anna Seeley, who composition of light alloys such as aluminium resigned her Board position last November, or magnesium to produce a diamond hard and for her contribution to the Group and I would corrosion resistant surface.
also like to thank my fellow directors, our We will continue to seek out and acquire staff, advisers, lenders and shareholders for properties where the returns meet our the support they have given to the Company.
investment criteria and we will also assess In conclusion, I am very satisfied with the the individual performance of our existing continuing strong performance of the Group investments and make selective sales where and am confident that it will deliver further appropriate.
We are far from On the letting front, the continuing challenge complacent and will continue to seek to will be to reduce the available vacant space in optimise shareholder returns.
each of our major markets.
At 31 December 2004 the Group had vacant space of 24,192 sq m 260,406 sq ft representing 4.1 per cent of lettable space with a further 37,430 sq m 402,906 sq ft or 6.4 per cent under refurbishment.
Sten Mortstedt Our property activities are complemented by Executive Chairman the relatively small-scale equity investment 31 March 2005 business that is now showing significant potential returns but is also a cash equivalent reserve and, in addition, diversifies a small element of our overall business risk.
The CLS share price has performed well in 2004 yet still remains at a discount to net asset value.
We believe in the continuing benefit of distributing cash by way of tender offer buy-backs, as it enhances the net asset value of the remaining shares in issue and is tax beneficial for many shareholders.
It is the intention of the Board to recommend a tender.
