We have continued to focus on our core comparison to our peers.
Your board is therefore Chairmans tenanted residential business and we have recommending a step up increase in the year Statement increased the market value of this portfolio by end dividend to 19.20p per share, to be paid 14% 14% to 1.3 billion.
Our total gross assets at on 4 March 2005 to shareholders on the register Portfolio market value market value now stand at 1.5 billion.
We have at close of business on 11 February 2005.
The value of our core tenanted residential maintained our leading position as the largest This will produce a full year figure of 23.24p per portfolio has increased by 14% to 1.3bn.
Property expertise: quoted investor in the long-term residential market share, an increase of 42% over last year.
It is our by purchasing 486 regulated and 374 life tenancy intention to continue with a progressive dividend This has been a landmark year for units in the year.
We have invested considerable policy, albeit at a more moderate target growth of Grainger Trust.
We have achieved management time and energy in positioning 10% per annum.
We will also take the opportunity record levels of profits, asset our life tenancy activities and believe that we to restructure the phasing of our dividend 30% are now well placed to take advantage of this payments and it is our intention that the interim and share price growth as well exciting business opportunity.
Our rationalisation dividend to be paid in July of each year will Grainger net asset value as making significant progress in Net asset value per share of 24.00, of the commercial investment portfolio has been comprise approximately one third of the total, up from last years figure of 18.40. our key strategic objectives.
The completed at a significant profit and we now have the balance being paid at the time of the final greater clarity and focus in our development and in March of each year.
year under review has also been trading activities.
important as it represents the first Share structure 12 month period in which our To help lay the foundations for the groups Five years ago our share price was approximately 23% future growth, we completed a highly successful 4.00.
At 30 September 2004 this had grown Bromley joint venture has been refinancing of our debt portfolio with a more to 18.35.
At this level, we consider it appropriate Profit before tax and exceptional interest wholly owned and incorporated flexible funding platform that will enable us to to introduce a share split on a five for one basis, A 23% increase over the previous year.
take full advantage of opportunities as they replacing each 25p ordinary share with five 5p become apparent.
We believe that this will improve liquidity in our shares and will help dampen share Results price volatility.
Appropriate resolutions to approve The strong residential market, as well as a good this, together with others to modernise our performance from Grainger development and Articles of Association, will be proposed at trading division, have been the major drivers of an extraordinary general meeting to be held the years record results.
I am pleased to report immediately after our annual general meeting.
that Grainger has produced profits before tax and exceptional interest of 59.6m for the year Board to 30 September 2004, a 23% increase over Robin Herbert and Nichola Pease will be retiring the previous years 48.5m.
As a result earnings from the board at the annual general meeting.
per share before exceptional interest have Robin has been a board member since February Robert Dickinson Chairman grown 25% to 149.7p.
1994 and has served as chairman of the audit committee and latterly as senior non-executive Net assets director, a role which will be assumed by Robin Share price performance Net assets per share have grown by 25% to Broadhurst.
Nichola leaves the board after four 19992004 27.34 from 21.94.
Fully diluted net asset years service and her position as chairman of the 99 00 01 02 03 04 value, taking into account contingent tax and the remuneration committee will be taken by Robert market value of our long-term debt and hedging, Hiscox.
We thank both Robin and Nichola for the has increased by 34% to 18.62 from 13.91. very significant contribution they have made to the Grainger net asset value, which incorporates an group.
During a period of unprecedented growth estimate of the reversionary surplus within our core and activity, they have been a source of wise portfolio, is 24.00 per share, a 30% increase from counsel and encouragement.
As announced in November 2004 Sean Slade has Dividends resigned as an executive director.
Sean joined the For the last five years we have adopted a group when we owned a significant commercial consistent dividend growth policy of 15% per investment portfolio, however the redefinition of Grainger Trust FTSE Real Estate FTSE 250 Index annum.
Given the groups outstanding record the groups focus into residential activities and the Performance of our share price of profit increases however, this has resulted in consequent disposal of the groups commercial compared to FTSE Real Estate and a low dividend yield and high dividend cover in portfolio has meant that the challenges and FTSE 250 companies.
Grainger Trust plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2004 opportunities for Sean were no longer available.
levels of self occupancy and increasing life We are grateful to Sean for the professional and expectancy are sustaining demand.
This at a time Re-think, read on... efficient way in which the investment portfolio when new house build levels are at their lowest rationalisation was conducted and wish him every for several decades.
Home ownership in the UK Re-think what you know about success for the future.
has long been seen as an investment, as well Grainger Trust plc.
Reassess its as a method of occupation and its attraction markets and its business todays People as an alternative to equities or traditional and tomorrows.
Grainger has a core of committed staff, expert forms of pension provision has become more in buying, selling, managing and developing pronounced over recent years.
As the group activities remain at a comparatively low level and this have expanded we have complemented this helps to support affordability.
core group with several senior appointments to ensure that we are well placed to take The property sector faces a future in which real advantage of future opportunities.
I would like estate investment trusts or REITs may play a to thank our enthusiastic and hard working staff significant role, although the recent pre-budget for the continuing contribution they have made report indicated that any legislation will not be to another successful year.
introduced until July 2006 at the earliest.
Whilst the trading nature of Grainger business does Strategy and outlook not immediately lend itself to a REIT type structure, We are delighted with the performance in the year we will ensure that we are at the forefront of any but accept that our market place may present initiative that will facilitate investment in the private a more difficult trading environment in the shortrented sector.
Indeed since the year end we have seen a slowing in demand for our vacant properties.
We We will continue to focus on our core regulated are still exceeding, on average, September 2004 business which is high margin and cash vacant possession values by circa 3% on recent generative.
We are optimistic about the growth sales, but the time taken to complete these sales potential of the life tenancy sector and are pushing has extended.
However, we believe that our core hard for this to become a significant contributor to business activities are resilient and can produce group profit.
We are excited by opportunities that good levels of shareholder return even when are being presented to us on mainland Europe economic conditions are less favourable.
and are confident that we can successfully transfer our skills and expertise to these emerging It is clear that the property sector and our markets.
Our development and trading activities particular niche in it will face many new challenges are well defined and our vision is to build a series and opportunities over the coming year.
Whilst of coherent, related activities showing our ability our business is robust we are aware that the to operate in all sectors of the residential market, overall perception of our potential success is while producing consistent levels of profitability driven by general and media comments on the and growth.
state of the housing market.
Our view is that the overall trend of house prices is flattening The future and that growth over the next year may well We have in place the three key resources for be limited.
Indeed we believe that the market us to continue as a consistently successful in London and the South East has already long-term business: a superb asset base, a experienced a significant correction.
The housing sound funding platform and an expert and market is primarily affected by expectations of unrivalled team.
We look forward to the future interest rate levels and many commentators are with confidence and enthusiasm.
now indicating that rates may stabilise.
If this happens then we would expect to see forecasts of healthier house price movements.
However, we believe that the case for residential property as a long-term investment remains Robert Dickinson strong.
Increases in the number of households Chairman from a combination of smaller family units, greater 21 December 2004 Annual report and accounts 2004 05 Grainger Trust plc
