08 09 Chairmans statement Sir David Garrard Our results for the year have benefited from an improving Central London office market and having now secured planning consent for our current development projects.
Over the last 12 months the combination of improvements in the Central London You will be aware from regulatory announcements and press articles that we have office market and the success of having now secured planning consent for each received approaches from a number of groups interested in acquiring the issued of our three major development projects has had a positive effect on property share capital of Minerva plc.
We have recently received a number of proposals valuations and consequently on our net assets.
which are currently being considered by your Board together with the Groups In January of this year the Corporation of London resolved to grant financial advisers, and shareholders will be advised of developments in this regard.
planning consent for The Minerva Building, The City of Londons tallest office I would now like to turn to the key events for the year which initially tower.
Some four months later we concluded the final legal documentation in focused on obtaining planning consent for The Minerva Building which as I respect of our Park Place retail development in Croydon which enabled this mentioned earlier, at 1 million sq.
ft. represents The Citys most important single planning consent to finally be granted by Croydon Council.
These two milestones headquarter office development.
Much of the latter part of 2003 involved final together with our planning consent for The Walbrook office development situated preparations and negotiations with relevant third party stakeholders prior to the in the very heart of The City of London complete our complement of current scheduled Planning Committee meeting of the Corporation of London in January development opportunities, all of which now have been given full consent of this year.
The grant of planning consent along with completion of the Section to proceed.
106 Agreement, has coincided with a stabilising City office market which in terms Before I talk in more detail about our overall achievements for the year of timing provides the Group with an exciting development opportunity although, I would like to turn to our financial results for the year ended 30 June 2004. as I have consistently maintained, we will avoid taking unnecessary speculative For the year ended 30 June 2004, net asset value per share has increased development risk.
We are however currently considering the commencement of from 317.2 pence per share to 379.5 pence per share, representing an increase of the limited process of demolition, excavation and the formation of the substructure 19.6 per cent.
Adjusted net asset value per share has increased by 17.6 per cent for the new tower, such process if implemented in early 2005 will be completed in from 318.5 pence per share to 374.7 pence per share.
Profit before tax of around a year, thus losing none of the timing advantage that has been achieved.
1.2 million was made by Minervas core real estate business 2003: 0.9 million.
Simultaneous with our activities in respect of The Minerva Building, we Standard accounting regulations require us to incorporate the effect of our share have maintained our momentum of activity in respect of our Park Place retail of the results of the Scarlett Retail joint venture which, as a consequence, has development in Croydon which, at 1 million sq.
ft. represents one of the most resulted in a pre-tax loss for the year of 22.9 million 2003: 5.2 million.
important retail projects in the UK.
Since the resolution to grant planning consent Your Board is nevertheless pleased to recommend a final dividend of was issued by Croydon Council, we have been working tirelessly to conclude 2.13 pence per share, making a total dividend for the year of 3.20 pence per share, the legal documentation required in respect of the Section 106 Agreement which an increase of 1.6 per cent compared to last year.
Subject to approval at the incorporates the planning arrangements necessary for the implementation of Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 15 December 2004 to the project.
It is only after this Agreement has been entered into that the formal those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 October 2004. planning consent can be issued by the Council.
I am pleased to report that such an Agreement was entered into in the Spring of this year, and as a consequence, the planning consent was finally issued in May 2004.
Perhaps as importantly, Croydon Council has now also passed a resolution to use 10 11 its compulsory purchase powers to acquire those interests necessary for the full Chairmans statement continued implementation of the development.
The compulsory purchase process will culminate in an Inquiry which is expected to be held in the Autumn of 2005, after which, subject to appropriate funding, the development can commence.
As part of our strategy for land acquisition we have, as I indicated in my Interim statement earlier this year, completed the purchase of the existing Allders store in Croydon for the sum of 48.825 million subject to a leaseback to Allders at an initial net rental yield of 7 per cent.
Our original rationale for acquiring a stake in Scarlett Retail was to secure the key land holding that was represented by the existing Allders store which we have now therefore successfully completed.
I will deal later in my statement with our residual investment in the Allders Group which is held through our shareholding in Scarlett Retail.
In addition to these two developments and as The City market begins to improve, we are now focusing our attention on our other major headquarter office development, The Walbrook.
This scheme, which is designed by Foster & Partners, totals around 452,000 sq.
ft. of office and retail accommodation positioned in a prime City location, adjacent to the Mansion House, between Cannon Street and Bank stations.
As I have explained earlier, our overall development philosophy is to limit exposure to unnecessary speculative development risk particularly at the expense of the depletion in current investment income as is the case with this project.
We will therefore be pursuing a delicate balance between current income generated from existing buildings in a prime location and the opportunity to enhance that income and create further surpluses through future development.
In recent years I have tended to focus on the development opportunities that The measures which they have implemented in order to effect the necessary exist within the Group.
However as the Central London market continues to change required to position Allders for growth, have reached deeper and taken improve and particularly in relation to investment properties, the likes of which longer than expected.
This process has been dramatic and widespread, involving we hold within our portfolio, I should like to highlight our investment portfolio of a complete overhaul of the merchandise offer, its margin structure and overall mainstream income producing buildings.
This portfolio includes: 90 High Holborn, pricing policy.
The consequence of this has been a year in which the Groups share the newly completed headquarter office development of law firm, Olswang, of Scarlett Retails loss after tax totalled 21.7 million 2003: 4.3 million.
ft. of net accommodation at a total rent rising to a hopeful therefore that Allders will begin to reap the rewards of changes and minimum of 8.5 million per annum: The Criterion development comprising the initiatives effected by Terry Green and Phil Cox during what has been a challenging entire south side of Piccadilly Circus totalling 259,000 sq.
ft. including as its tenants, transitional period.
McKinsey & Co and Lillywhites: Sampson House adjacent to the Tate Modern I would now like to return to our main focus: Minerva and its extensive comprising 386,000 sq.
ft. which is leased to a subsidiary of IBM: Ludgate House property holdings.
located on Blackfriars Bridge which totals 174,000 sq.
ft. and is leased to United We have it seems arrived at a watershed in the Groups history, and the Business Media.
Along with extensive holdings in Greater London and the West events as they unfold over the coming weeks and months will be defining not End of London including 90-95 Wimpole Street, 27-37 Wigmore Street and our only for its shareholders but also its management team.
As I have said on many new office development on the corner of Wigmore Street and Welbeck Street, occasions, markets are subject to change at the most unlikely times and for the each property being leased to, or guaranteed by, undoubted covenants including most unpredictable reasons, but so often when one least expects them.
We have Government, Banque Paribas and Cornhill Insurance, Minervas investment amassed an impressive London based property portfolio with substantial future portfolio is quite clearly of the highest quality, secured against income from high development opportunities.
Any decisions regarding the future of our Group calibre tenants in areas which are beginning to experience rental growth.
will inevitably therefore have to strike a balance between future risk and current I referred earlier to our investment in Scarlett Retail which is a joint venture certainty.
Accordingly, your Board will reach its decisions drawing on its between ourselves, Lehman Brothers and retail specialists Terry Green and Phil Cox.
experiences in the property industry amassed over many years.
Albeit that we are a real estate group that acquired, through our investment in In closing, and as is my usual way, but perhaps more so this year than Scarlett Retail, Allders for the reason I mention above, it is our expectation that the any other, I would like to thank all of our staff for their exceptional enthusiasm retail group in which we have made a relatively small investment, benefits from the and work ethic, without which none of the achievements over the past 12 months strategy that Terry Green, as Chief Executive, and Phil Cox, its Commercial Director, would have been possible.
Both men have long track records of success in this arena with Terry Green having most recently been involved in the turnaround of Bhs prior to Sir David Garrard which he was Chief Executive of Debenhams.
Phil Cox has had an extensive career Chairman in retail most notably as Group Finance Director at Asda.
