Pillar Property PLC Chairmans statement Annual report and accounts 2004 02 In 2002 we outlined Pillars new strategy, and we are pleased to of 19.9% per annum.
However, there is still performance report that this has now been largely implemented.
We have sold to come the current rental income of 95.1 million per annum virtually all of our remaining non-core assets: our new European fund, is expected to increase to 120.5 million when reviewed to current Pillar Retail Europark Fund PREF, has been launched: we have levels, ignoring any future growth.
reduced our holding in Hercules Unit Trust HUT, yet still maintain We have continued to reduce our holding in HUT.
HUT has continued to show high 31 March 2004, our share was 35.2%, worth 404 million, performance with a total return of 24.6%.
As a result of asset sales, compared with 41.7% at 31 March 2003, valued at 406 million.
we are proposing to make a further return of capital to shareholders.
We do not envisage making any further significant sales of units in HUT in the near future, although we will continue to make small Profits Profits before tax for the year to 31 March 2004 were sales to satisfy demand.
During the year to 31 March, units with 20.9 million compared with 15.9 million for the previous year, a total value of 186 million were traded, all at a premium to net an increase of 31%.
asset value apart from two larger transactions.
HUT now has Dividend We are recommending payment of a final dividend of more than 80 unitholders.
6.1p per share making a total for the year of 8.5p, an increase of As a result of these disposals, we have been able to reduce 6.25% over last years total of 8.0p.
The dividend will be paid on our borrowings considerably.
Taking into account sale proceeds 30 July 2004 to shareholders registered on 16 July 2004. receivable after the year end, on a pro forma basis our gearing would be down to 5% compared with 71% at 31 March 2003.
Net assets valuation Net assets per share were 603p compared It has always been our policy that we should return capital to with 520p last year, an increase of 16%.
Most of this increase has shareholders when it is no longer needed in the business.
come from the continuing strong performance of HUT.
As we are now concentrating on the three funds to which we Investment Strategy We have largely achieved our programme act as property advisers and having discontinued activities outside of sales of non-core assets.
Both leisure investments at Fulham retail parks and City offices, we are able to make a further return Broadway, London and at Omni, Edinburgh have recently been of capital.
Subject to shareholder consent we are proposing in sold, realising 171 million and, earlier in the year, PillarCaisse, August to return 1 per share to shareholders.
A separate circular a partnership in which Pillar had a 50% interest, sold its remaining containing full details of this process will be sent to shareholders shopping centre at Banbury, realising 51.7 million for Pillar.
with the report and accounts.
We have sold a number of retail parks in course of Following this return, Pillar will have a capital base of some development.
Our half share in Glasgow Fort, together with the 546 million with major holdings in three funds and a continuing share held by our partners Capital & Regional plc, has been sold strong management and performance fee income.
to HUT for 194.7 million, and we have also conditionally sold our Retail parks Over the last 12 months the retail warehouse parks park at Farnborough, it being too small for HUT.
Our development market has been the strongest performing sector within the programme now consists of a 312,000 sq ft Open A1 retail park UK property market.
in Manchester the Manchester Fort, a 166,000 sq ft retail park A major increase in investor demand and continuing in Orpington, together with a forward funded commitment for an constraints on new development has led to significant yield Open A1 retail park of 212,000 sq ft in east Manchester where compression as investors have focused on the sectors we will complete the purchase in June this year.
characteristics of quality covenants, long leases, restricted supply I am pleased to report that HUTs performance during and good occupier demand, within an environment of low interest the past year has been exceptional.
This has particularly been apparent over the first three 31 December 2003, HUT was the top performing specialist months of this year and all the indications are that the sector will property trust in the UK.
For the year to 31 March 2004 it enjoy another strong performance over the course of 2004. produced a total return of 24.6% against 17% for the sector.
On the occupational side there is still a healthy demand from Over the past three years, the return has been an average retailers particularly for the larger Open A1 retail parks as the Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2004 03 We are now concentrating solely on the core businesses of retail parks through HUT and PREF and City of London offices through CLOUT.
We believe there is still much to achieve.
Raymond Mould, Chairman migration of retailers from the high street continues, and more adaptations, will provide a profitable new dimension to Pillars and more operators look to formulate an out-of-town strategy.
portfolio and will result in an increasing source of revenue.
As a result, we have continued to focus the portfolio towards REITs There has been much talk about the prospect for a structure the Open A1 retail and shopping parks and these parks now similar to the Real Estate Investment Trust overseas being enabled account for over 72% of the HUT portfolio.
in the United Kingdom and, indeed, the Treasury has announced Notwithstanding the tough planning environment, the its intention to bring forward appropriate legislation in April 2005. out-of-town market is continuing to take an increasing proportion We believe that this would be a positive move for investors of total retail sales and this is forecast to continue, particularly seeking improved income returns and low price volatility in the light of the high streets relatively high occupancy costs compared with equities.
We feel that the introduction of REITs in and service charges, inefficient and outdated accommodation, the UK, to be known as Property Income Funds PIFs, would be a traffic congestion and car park charges.
positive opportunity for the UK market and we will be watching We will continue to work closely with retailers to provide this very carefully.
We intend to take an active part both in the them with the most suitable type of retail accommodation in current consultation process and in the future, as the opportunity what is becoming an ever increasingly sophisticated product.
We will continue to invest in those parks which we believe have the potential to become the best-in-class and thus provide Board appointment I am delighted to advise you of the following sustainable rental and capital growth over the medium term.
On 1 July, Martin McGann will be appointed to the board as Finance Director.
City offices For the past two years, investment in the City of Humphrey Price, who has been Finance Director since Pillar was London has been difficult, as the City has faced the worst office formed, will remain on the board as an executive director so we market for some considerable time.
Fortunately, Pillar entered this will retain his extensive financial experience and leadership in our downturn having materially reduced its City exposure in 2002, new European fund.
having sold its Cannon Bridge and Cheapside properties.
It has also been fortunate that over 90% of the City of London portfolio Outlook We are now concentrating solely on the core businesses investments held in the City of London Office Unit Trust CLOUT of retail parks through HUT and PREF and City of London offices have been income producing during this period.
We believe that there is still much to achieve in to be strong believers in the core investment quality of the City these markets and we are looking at a number of major new and have not, therefore, reduced our stake in CLOUT.
We are opportunities for HUT, which will provide further growth to its convinced that the City is now set for improvement and we very portfolio.
HUT has the highest quality portfolio of its kind in the UK much hope that during the new financial year it will start to make property market and we expect considerable growth to come from its proper contribution to our returns.
our endeavours over the next few years.
In addition, the increasing returns from the embryonic European retail park portfolio and the Retail parks Europe The new European fund, PREF, based in improving City office market should result in continuing improved Luxembourg, began trading at the end of March with seven initial returns to shareholders, this being on a reduced capital base after investors and three parks.
A further three parks, in Belgium, Spain the proposed return of capital.
and Italy are under review and we hope that these acquisitions will We remain confident as to the future prospects for the group be contracted during the next six months.
Two are being forward as a whole.
funded and will not be income producing until 2006.
These acquisitions will result in an initial portfolio of b400 million with other opportunities under review.
We anticipate that the initial target of a b600 million portfolio will be secured within the next two years.
We remain confident that the expansion in selected HR Mould, Chairman Eurozone countries of the retail park concept, with local 27 May 2004
