04 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement As a result of this years strong performance, the board is recommending an increase of 9%, or 0.75p, giving a total dividend for the year of 8.75p.
I am pleased to report that Quintain has Peninsula: our investment in Wembley: yet again had a successful year in which Neathouse Place, London: Emersons considerable progress was made.
These Green, near Bristol: and the shopping achievements have continued since the centres.
Details of all these projects and year-end, with the full completion of the a full review of our operations follow commercial contracts relating to the in the Chief Executives Review.
Greenwich Peninsula and a resolution to grant consent decision from the London Profit before tax rose 14.8% from 14m to 16m and earnings increased Borough of Brent for our Wembley planning application.
The rise in earnings was primarily due to a number Nigel Ellis We have achieved this year a total return of sales in the core investment portfolio, Chairman of 19% or 16% net of inflation.
This is well a surrender premium of 2.2m at our ahead of our internal target of 10% total property in Gracechurch Street and an return net of inflation, a target which we effective tax rate of 0% arising mainly have exceeded every year since flotation through unwinding deferred tax provisions in 1996. for capital allowances previously made on properties acquired within Chesterfield.
We have also significantly outperformed the property market as measured by the However, as predicted, underlying profits Investment Property Databank IPD, the have fallen marginally, with the growth industry benchmark.
Our total ungeared in income being more than offset by return was 16.3% compared with IPDs a predicted increase of 50% in March Universe of 12.6%.
This rise was us in the top decile.
due to a combination of factors, including the incorporation of a full year of the In the year to 31 March 2004, the net Wembley costs and the impact of the asset value per share rose by 16%, from recruitment of a substantial number of 348p to 405p, and by 17% to 399p from senior staff to deliver the next phase of 342p on a diluted basis.
This has enabled us to generate the main driver of this uplift was the significant value, as demonstrated by surplus on property revaluation.
The most the speed with which we applied for significant contributions arose from our planning and obtained a resolution for Meridian Delta Project on the Greenwich 5.3m sq ft of development at Wembley.
05 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Chairmans Statement The Companys earnings will inevitably Corporate Governance Once again, I must stress how much vary over time, particularly in light of the We have made progress on Governance we benefit from our enthusiastic and major special projects, where most of issues during the period under review hard working staff, including my fellow the early value comes through in the and we continue to strive to achieve directors, all of whom have enabled form of capital value uplifts.
A detailed review is us to have another good year.
contained in the Corporate Governance Our progress has been reflected in the Outlook section on pages 24 to 27.
The Company made considerable ability to refinance the Company on a corporate basis.
Following the year-end, People progress in the year to 31 March 2004 As mentioned in the half year results, across all its areas of operation.
This has we have repaid most of our existing facilities, having taken out a 400m loan Pam Alexander who joined us as a continued since the year-end, with the non-executive director in July had to achievement of full planning consent for fully underwritten by Barclays, Bank of Scotland, HSBC and Lloyds TSB.
leave in November because of conflicts the Greenwich Peninsula, the resolution of interest which arose on her subsequent to grant consent at Wembley and the Further details on all of these are to be found in the Financial Directors Review.
appointment as Chief Executive of the profitable sales of Neathouse Place South East England Development Agency.
Share Price During the year the share price has Joan MacNaughton joined us as nonWith the backing and enthusiasm of continued to perform well.
At 427p at executive director in January of this year.
our management teams, our financial close of business on 18 June 2004, the We believe there is clear benefit to having strength and the exciting prospects for shares have outperformed the FTSE All a non-executive director with public the Companys three operating divisions, Share Index by 48% and the FTSE Real sector experience on the board and the board is confident of future growth Estate Index by 16% since 1 April 2003.
Joans experience as a career civil servant and success.
and as the Director General of Energy Dividend within the DTI leaves her ideally placed As a result of this years strong to provide wise counsel.
performance, the board is recommending an increase of 9%, or 0.75p, giving a total During the year, we have also made dividend for the year of 8.75p.
It is a number of senior appointments, intended that the final dividend will particularly within the Companys Special Nigel Ellis be paid on 10 September 2004 to Projects and Structured Finance divisions.
Chairman shareholders on the register as at Their skills and experience complement 18 June 2004 13 August 2004.
It remains the and strengthen the existing teams and Company's intention to maintain ensure we are well positioned for the a progressive dividend and this will next stage of growth.
continue subject to cash requirements.
