St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Chairmans statement Results Profits before tax increased by 15% to 40.3m 2003: 35m, earnings per share grew by 24% to 25.0p 2003: 20.1p and net assets per share increased by 20% to 221.4p 2003: 184.9p restated.
The results reflected a 5.5% growth in net rental income, a 35% growth in property profits and a 26m 5.5% revaluation uplift on the investment property portfolio.
Our key performance measurement of total pre-tax return on average shareholders funds was 27.1% 2003 : 24.1%.
Anthony Glossop Chairman Dividends Your board is recommending a final dividend of 5.1p 2003 : 4.4p per ordinary share, making a total distribution for the year of 7.6p 2003 : 6.6p, an increase of 15%.
This final dividend will be paid on 29th April 2005 to shareholders on the register on 8th April 2005.
Strategy We remain committed to the strategy which has underpinned your companys continued prosperity.
Through a network of regional offices in the year we announced the establishment I am pleased to report on of further offices in the South West and Yorkshire we carry out a programme of regeneration in our areas of speciality.
These are: a twelfth successive year of town centre regeneration: partnering industry in its restructuring: record results: a year in which brownfield land renewal: and heritage restoration.
Much of the programme is carried out with partners from both the public and we increased significantly private sectors.
the scale of our development The key to this strategy is the continuing acquisition of activities and one in which we well-located future opportunities to top-up the hopper.
We then acquired more than 1,600 acres need each year to marshal those opportunities through planning or further site assembly, to enable a regular and growing stream of land across the UK for future of deliverable projects.
redevelopment, together Our financial objective is to double the size of the company every with further town centre five years: an objective we have met for more than a decade.
Trading Your company has had a good year in all aspects of its strategy.
Major new acquisitions included 600 acres of Coruss Llanwern steelworks, the remainder of MG Rovers Longbridge site, a 478 acre former MoD storage site at Long Marston, Warwickshire, a former power station site of 100 acres at Meaford, near Stone in Staffordshire, the remaining half of the Kirkby shopping centre from our former joint venture partners, and the Malls shopping centre at Basingstoke.
In addition, we entered into a number of development relationships with government bodies and local authorities.
Real progress was made in marshalling the next tranche of schemes coming out of the hopper, as is demonstrated in the operating and financial review.
A notable feature of these schemes is the step change in scale that is becoming evident.
Mixed use town centre regeneration schemes such as Edmonton, Wembley and Farnborough produce completed values in the order of 100m or more.
This gives us the experience and credibility to approach even larger schemes, such as the Elephant & Castle, with greater confidence.
The operating and financial review also demonstrates the large number of schemes that were brought forward to contribute to profit in the year or are ready to contribute in the coming year.
Llanwern: 05 600 acres of non-operational land acquired from Corus St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Chairmans statement continued Also as previously reported, we sold our investment in the Pubmaster operation to Punch Taverns realising a profit of 4.9m.
Governance Corporate governance is an area of increasing focus amongst commentators and regulators.
There is a view, held by some, of an increasing risk that entrepreneurism and hence financial performance, will be damaged by an overly prescriptive tick-box culture.
As a company that has always sought to manage its affairs to the highest standards of integrity and business competence, your board takes proper cognisance of corporate governance initiatives.
Any departures, however minor, will be for good reasons in the spirit of the regulations and will be fully and openly explained.
It is our view that most regulatory initiatives can, indeed, be used as opportunities to create actual benefit for the company, rather than being mere matters of compliance.
For example, the work initiated on risk assessment, health and safety and environmental performance have all improved the focus and performance of the business.
Directors and employees Following the Annual General Meeting in April 2004, I succeeded Sir Stanley Clarke as chairman and Bill Oliver, who had already been responsible for the day-to-day operations of the company for the previous year as managing director, became chief executive.
Sir Stanley remained on the board as a non-executive director and our life president.
Sadly in September Sir Stanley Clarke died after a long and courageous struggle against cancer.
Not only did we lose an inspirational and charismatic leader, we also lost a good friend.
Fortunately, Sir Stanley had always been adamant that business should never depend on one individual and had worked consistently in his later years to make sure that St. Modwen would not suffer on his departure.
The greatest tribute to him is that the business has continued as normal, which is demonstrated by these strong results.
These could not have been achieved without the exceptional team of people employed at all levels and my personal appreciation goes to my board colleagues, all employees and to you, our Elephant and Castle: shareholders, for their continued support.
Shopping centre acquired in 2002, now at the heart of Southwark Borough Councils 1.5bn regeneration masterplan.
Following Sir Stanleys death, his son Simon Clarke who is deputy chairman of Northern Racing PLC, joined the board as a non-executive director, to represent the continuing substantial interests of the Clarke Leavesley families.
Paul Rigg, former chief executive of West Sussex County Council, was also appointed as a non-executive director to fill the vacancy left by the retirement of Sir David Trippier at the last Annual General Meeting.
Prospects The company has, yet again, had a good start to the year with transactions already exchanged or completed that will give rise to property profits in excess of 13m.
We are expecting that 2005 may, in some respects, be a more challenging year for the property industry than recent years have been.
Nonetheless, I am looking forward with confidence to another year of progress for your company.
