This has been a satisfactory year for the Group which saw EBITDA increase by 0.7m, the completion of several 08 09 important capital projects and the future potential of our UK airports acknowledged in the Governments White Paper on Aviation.
While operating profit and profit before tax declined by 5.1m and 5.0m respectively this is almost entirely due to the increased incidence of exceptional items in the year, notably the 5.9m write down of goodwill in our Airport Services business which was charged to profits in the first half of the year.
I am pleased with this years achievements as I believe they signal the beginning of a turnaround in the fortunes of the aviation industry in general and TBI in particular.
That said, the ongoing threat of geo-political risk or the impact which a serious rise in oil prices could have on the industry cannot be underestimated.
Indeed, at the beginning of this financial year, the industry and TBI felt the Chairmans statement impact from the Iraq war and the SARS virus.
But, for TBI, I believe that the change in our customer base following G Stanley Thomas OBE the events of the 11th September 2001 and the associated structural changes in the industry is now complete and, consequently, year on year comparisons have a greater validity.
The increase in EBITDA includes two components worthy of particular comment: firstly, the improved performances of our North American businesses.
At I am pleased with this years Orlando Sanford, EBITDA improved by 125% and Airport Services saw an 87% improvement on the prior year.
achievements as I believe Secondly, the EBITDA loss of 1.7m incurred at Stockholm Skavsta which was largely attributable to the cost of a they signal the beginning of significant amount of operational transition for that business which saw passenger numbers increase more a turnaround in the fortunes than three-fold on an annualised basis.
of the aviation industry in The Board is recommending maintaining the dividend.
This represents a final dividend of 1.60p to be paid on general and TBI in particular 1 October 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 September 2004, bringing the total dividend for the year to 2.30p per share.
December 2003 saw the publication of the Governments White Paper on the Future of Aviation in the United Kingdom up to 2030.
In that paper, the Government provided the strategic direction for all three of our UK airports to expand.
London Luton was effectively given the go-ahead to increase passenger numbers to 31 million and Belfast to eight or nine million from the current year numbers of seven million and four million respectively.
In the context of Cardiff, the White Paper was drawn up in conjunction with the Welsh Assembly Government and affirmed Cardiff as the principal airport in Wales, effectively ending speculation regarding new airport developments at Newport or Severnside which was particularly pleasing.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 At Orlando Sanford, the British are returning and UK traffic increased by 21% during the year, but perhaps even more significantly Sanford is making its mark with the American domestic passenger.
Almost 600,000 US passengers used the airport last year, an increase of 67%.
Overall we have seen a cautious improvement, but one certainly moving in the right direction and with the right platforms in place to take the business forward.
In addition Our UK Airports are all well placed to take advantage of to the infrastructure I have mentioned, those springboards, the Governments direction and future strategy for aviation.
of course, also include the Groups people.
We have great teams in each of the business entities and they have again At London Luton, new services have been introduced performed very well this year.
Thanks to them, the TBI to Berlin, Dortmund, Budapest and Katovice.
To executive team led by Keith Brooks, and also my fellow accommodate and facilitate this passenger growth we non-executive directors, including Tim Simon who retired invested some 7m during the year at this location to build during the year.
We are making good progress in finding a new taxiway and three new aircraft stands capable of a replacement.
The executive jet market also continues to flourish and in recent months has The improvements made this year have encouraged me demonstrated growth considerably in excess of 20%.
and that view is supported by activity levels in the first two months of the new financial year where passenger Passenger numbers at Belfast International exceeded four numbers are more than 11% higher than for the million for the first time through substantial increases of corresponding two months in 2003.
The growth is approximately 20% in both the holiday charter and low apparent, without exception, at all our airports and cost operations.
I am also particularly pleased to record includes all types of service: low cost by 10%, charter by that Belfast International has made significant inroads into 13% and full service by 12%.
Whilst passenger numbers the continental European market with scheduled flights to are holding up well and we are involved in a number of Prague, Paris, Nice, Alicante and Malaga.
This means that significant route development initiatives, we continue to for the first time passengers from Northern Ireland will be see pressure on yields.
able to take direct flights to continental Europe.
Such a facility is long overdue and I am optimistic that there is more to come.
Again we have invested, and will be investing in future, to accommodate this growth.
During the year impressive new catering facilities were completed and a major refurbishment of the duty free shop, incorporating a 5,000 sq.
ft. extension to the terminal, is G Stanley Thomas planned for December 2004.
Chairman 10 June 2004 Cardiff also saw growth in activity with passenger numbers increasing to almost two million.
This growth was all achieved from low cost services, but significantly the Operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
We use EBITDA as a measure of our financial performance rather than operating profit, as we level of charter business was also maintained.
Capital believe it to be the measure most relevant to readers of our financial statements.
The improvements included extensions to the departure lounge consolidated profit and loss account is set out on page 32. and the security check area, as well as the construction of a new business lounge.
An important development to the growth of the airport will be the opening of a railway station near to the airport in May 2005.
When remarking on capital projects, it would be remiss not to make special mention of Stockholm Skavsta.
A major extension to the terminal was substantially completed in the year and the airport can now comfortably handle the 1.1m passengers that currently use it, and has the capacity to accommodate three times that number.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004
