The Davis Service Group Plc 02 Report and accounts 2004 Chairmans statement It was a good year for the group.
Trading A detailed review of the trading Sale of Elliott On 22nd December 2004 we We produced a strong trading performance of our business units is set announced that we were in discussions with performance particularly in Continental out in the Chief Executives review on pages a number of parties which had expressed Europe and continued the process of 10 and 11.
I have not been in the habit of interest in acquiring Elliott.
To date these refocusing the group by completing the making additional comments on trading but discussions have not resulted in an agreement sale of HSS Hire Service Group, full I am sure you will forgive me for directing to sell the business.
details of which are set out in the you once again towards the excellent result Employees In the UK our employees Finance Directors review on page 12. at Berendsen where margins at 14.5% have had to maintain service and product compared with 8.7% in 2001, the last year Results and dividend Turnover at standards in a trying trading environment, before our purchase of the business.
797.7 million compared with 995.4 million and on the Continent they have over the in 2003, the reduction being substantially Development Last year we took steps to last few years had to cope with a significant attributable to the sale of HSS Hire Service focus the group more firmly on to its textile level of disruption caused by reorganisation.
Group which was completed in January 2004. related activities by announcing the proposed On your behalf, and on behalf of the board, Pre-tax profit before goodwill, sale of HSS Hire Service Group, completed in I thank them for their outstanding efforts.
amortisation and exceptional items, reached January 2004.
We continued this process by Pensions Although equity markets have 92.5 million in 2004 compared with announcing in December 2004 that we were improved over the past 12 months you 86.4 million in 2003.
In this instance the in discussions to sell our Elliott business.
will see from note 8 that under FRS17 loss of the HSS earnings was more than Our policy at Berendsen has been to the actuarial value of our liabilities has also compensated by the strong trading focus on margin enhancement by way of increased and as a consequence our funds performance of Berendsen and a reduced cost control and operating efficiency gain.
had a post-tax deficit at 31st December 2004 interest charge.
Adjusted earnings per share In such an environment acquisition has not of 42 million compared to 23.4 million grew 6% from 30.01 pence to 31.69 pence.
However, with the business last year.
We have, therefore, increased our The board is recommending a final now looking forward to a more settled contribution levels to take account of the dividend of 11.25 pence which, together period, we have become more active on the required funding levels.
with the interim dividend of 5.25 pence paid acquisition front acquiring units in Denmark, in October 2004, gives a total of 16.5 pence, Norway, Poland and Germany and, as part an increase of 6% on last year.
The total of our strategy for improving returns within 2004 dividend is covered just under two Berendsen, during the year we have also times by adjusted earnings per share.
disposed of small activities in Holland, Norway, Germany and Sweden.
Within the Sunlight business we have continued to invest heavily with the prime focus of improving operating efficiency.
During the year both hotel and healthcare plants were significant beneficiaries of this policy.
In addition we have committed to a two-year IT investment programme to provide integrated systems to support operations, customer relationships, and business development.
The Davis Service Group Plc 03 Report and accounts 2004 Board and management The process John Ivey became Managing Director of Over the last two and a half years the of change to which I referred in my Sunlight in 1973 and, following the merger Berendsen business has been substantially statement last year is now substantially with Godfrey Davis in 1987, he became restructured and the very significant complete.
Philip Rogerson, who joined us as Chief Executive of what is now The Davis benefits of so doing are clear for all to see.
a non-executive director in June 2004, has Service Group.
The progress of the company This exercise was carried out by the existing already become a highly valued colleague, since then and its acknowledged success over Berendsen management team under the and I feel sure that the same will be true of that period constitute a more eloquent direction of Peter Wason the former Per Utnegaard who was appointed to the tribute to Johns expertise, skills and talents Managing Director of The Sunlight Service board earlier this year.
than could any words of mine.
Peter Wasons unequalled experience Last year our Chief Executive, John Ivey, straight-talking honesty and integrity in all his of the textile rental industry enabled the task about whom I have a little more to say later, dealings he would object to the classification to be carried out in an extremely short time announced his intention to retire.
This he management style may not appear on any scale and in a manner which has placed the now intends to do on 30th April 2005. balance sheet, but its value is evident in the business in a strong position from which to With the assistance of outside search quality and culture of the operating teams develop.
Our thanks are due to him for consultants, the Nomination Committee which he has developed.
It has been both doing such a superb job.
From 1st January considered a large number of candidates for a pleasure and a privilege for me to have 2005 the Berendsen business has been the position.
Our Finance Director, Roger Dye, worked with him, and for myself, our managed by Christer Strm Managing was one of those candidates, and I am colleagues and on your behalf I thank him Director, Peter Havus Operations Director delighted to tell you that he has been most warmly for his massive contribution and Henrik Sthl Finance Director, all of selected.
Roger has been a major force in the to the success of the company.
We all wish whom are existing Berendsen directors progress of the company in the years since him well in his retirement.
and have played a significant part in the he was appointed, and I am absolutely With the succession of the Chief change programme.
confident that he will go from strength Executive confirmed and the Finance Director Outlook Our view is that we will see very to strength in his new role.
The search for in train and with the non-executive little change in the UK trading climate over a new Finance Director has been started.
membership of the board at the right level the coming year, whereas on the Continent my renewal responsibilities are now we look to see some improvement in the complete.
Accordingly, I also intend to retire economies in which we operate.
The group from the board on 30th April 2005.
I am is well placed to meet the challenges ahead happy to announce that I will be succeeded and expects to deliver further growth in the by Christopher Kemball, currently our Deputy coming year.
Chairman, following his re-election at the annual general meeting.
Christopher has N W Benson OBE gained a substantial knowledge of our Chairman business over the years, and I wish him and the company all success in the future.
Left John Ivey left and Neil Benson right look back over the successful development of the Davis business.
The Davis Service Group Plc 04 Report and accounts 2004 Textile maintenance: UK & Eire This business provides workwear rental, linen hire and washroom services.
Within the UK, Sunlight occupies a leading market position providing service on a national basis from 50 laundries.
The business also has a presence in Ireland with four laundries.
of operating staff 2,330 Sunlight is the leading supplier of reusable theatre textiles to UK healthcare providers, including the National Health Service.
Operating profit 000 2000 37,093 2001 37,481 2002 40,870 2003 38,369 2004 38,267 Before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals The Davis Service Group Plc 05 Report and accounts 2004 Workwear No.
of operating staff 2,160 Work clothing is not restricted to the manufacturing sector: increasingly, workers in service industries such as catering and transport now have their workwear professionally processed.
Sunlight is leading the way in three secure markets.
3 They provide a profitable and reliable revenue stream, which underpins the business.
of operating staff 2,820 Sunlight serves a wide range of hotel and leisure brands, including major groups, local operators and many other smaller outlets.
The Davis Service Group Plc 06 Report and accounts 2004 Sweden Employees No.
of plants 1,600 20 Our rental business delivered profit growth despite revenues held back by the planned reorganisations.
In our sales business, we had a slow start to 2004, but finished the year stronger.
of plants 1,200 16 The reorganisation of the hotel and healthcare sectors is now complete.
Following a recent acquisition of a mixed business we will now integrate it into our existing operations.
of plants 640 9 A competitive market place held back turnover growth.
However, customer retention and strong productivity improvements drove growth in operating profits.
of plants 2,900 13 In a difficult market, turnover fell slightly due to pricing pressures.
However operating improvements led to an overall improvement in operating profit.
Davis has 7,400 employees across nine European countries.
9 Berendsen is exceeding expectations, and has appointed a new management team to identify new opportunities and maximise future profitable growth.
The Davis Service Group Plc 07 Report and accounts 2004 Norway Textile maintenance: Employees No.
of plants Continental Europe 350 7 Turnover growth was restricted by the sale of a plant together with policy decisions on certain types of work.
However cost savings, efficiency gains and success within sales provided growth in operating profits.
of plants 220 0 Our business in Estonia performed well in the year.
It supplied 1.2 million garments to customers through Berendsen companies.
The Berendsen business offers a full range of textile maintenance services from 69 laundries in Scandinavia, Germany, the Netherlands and Poland.
There is also one Modeluxe laundry in France.
of plants 170 2 A strong performance from our garment and facility lines delivered sales and operating profit growth.
During the year we made three small turnover acquisitions and may add capacity in 2005.
of plants 160 1 160 1 Whilst our business in Paris delivered Customer retention has contributed to the turnover growth, we generated a small acceptable revenue performance achieved operating loss.
The linen market in Paris during the year, despite the pricing pressures has much the same pricing pressures as from the German market.
Operating profit 000 2002 24,980 2003 48,321 2004 56,159 Before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals 8 months The Davis Service Group Plc 08 Report and accounts 2004 Building systems: Elliott Group Elliott designs and manufactures modular buildings which are supplied to customers on a hire 31, or direct sales basis.
It is a leader in the UK market.
Education Elliott is a leading manufacturer of modular buildings: it supplies services to over 200 schools throughout the UK.
Operating profit 000 Loohire Elliott Loohire is one of the largest 2000 11,408 suppliers of portable toilets and fencing panels in the UK.
It has a fleet of over 2001 16,020 8,000 portable toilet units and 54,000 2002 17,606 fencing panels.
2003 18,063 2004 17,804 Before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals The Davis Service Group Plc 09 Report and accounts 2004 Elliott is the major force in building systems with 000 more than 31,000 units available for rental.
Through good customer mix and finding profitable markets we have once again shown our dependability in a challenging environment.
Industry and commerce Elliotthire is the largest supplier of portable accommodation and storage units for short term hire in the UK.
It has a fleet in excess of 31,000 units.
