Chairmans Statement Berkeley operates a totally different business model to the majority of other housebuilders, concentrating on highly complex large-scale inner-city urban regeneration schemes on brownfield land.
The success of our strategy is evident in our financial performance.
Berkeley is no longer a traditional During the year the Board of Berkeley business.
We plan to return 600 million in housebuilder it is an urban regenerator.
has carried out a full strategic review, in the current year.
These proposals are subject conjunction with the Companys advisors, to shareholder approval and further details are Berkeley concentrates on large-scale to assess the best route for delivering expected to be published in August in time for urban regeneration projects, bringing new shareholder value.
This has taken place in shareholders to consider and approve these life and vitality to neglected areas of our the context of the Boards views about the proposals at the Annual General Meeting on towns and cities.
This process is complex, outlook for achieving sustainable growth in 27 August 2004. needing immense vision, determination the markets in which it operates where and patience all of which requires there appears to be a natural size for a The Board believes this is a unique way of a special cocktail of professional residential urban regenerator and takes enhancing shareholder value while retaining management and entrepreneurial flair.
into account the normalisation of the housing sufficient working capital to fully realise The success of our strategy is evident market following a decade of boom and a the value within our current and future in our financial performance.
number of other external factors.
Berkeleys focus accords with the public The Board developed a number of strategic These proposals will be discussed with policy agenda on housing, which aims options, which included continuing to grow shareholders over the next two months and for more mixed-use development on the business which required further it is expected that a resolution will be tabled brownfield sites.
investment and new management teams in August with the first return of cash to disposing of the business, or selling off or shareholders later this year.
For many years now, Berkeley has had a clear demerging individual divisions.
All were and consistent strategy of balancing earnings rejected as not being in the best interest of The Board believes it is appropriate in the per share growth, cash generation and a wellshareholders.
After careful consideration the light of the proposed restructuring to review bought land bank to give security of future Board has decided to leave behind Berkeleys the Remuneration Policy so that it aligns profits.
In the half-year statement, I described traditional housebuilding heritage and focus managements incentives with achievement our increasing focus on protecting asset value primarily on larger scale complex regeneration.
of the return of capital and maximising the and generating cash flow as opposed to This route will return substantial capital to value of the continuing business.
This will concentrating primarily on the profit and loss shareholders while enabling Berkeley to also be subject to a consultation process account.
This reflected our anticipation of a continue to buy land selectively when with shareholders.
more normal housing market and also attractive opportunities arise in the urban recognised the fundamental changes regeneration market.
Critically, it is a path Financial Results taking place within Berkeley.
that will retain staff to ensure the sustainability During the 12 months ended 30 April 2004, and future of the business with our main Berkeley continued its strategy of organic Strategic Review challenge now being to realise the value growth and we are delighted to announce Berkeley operates a totally different business contained within our strong land bank.
pre-tax profits of 230.2 million, an increase model to the majority of other housebuilders of 4.1% for the same period last year.
as we have chosen to concentrate mainly on The working capital requirement of this Earnings per share rose by 12.7% from highly complex large-scale inner-city urban more focused business enables Berkeley 116.0p to 130.7p.
Three factors contributed regeneration schemes on brownfield land.
to propose to return 12.00 per share to to this growth: increased pre-tax profits Here, our unique mix of skills creates shareholders in cash over the next six years 4.1%, share buy-backs 7.5% and a enhanced returns for our shareholders and to 2010, a total of over 1.4 billion, while reduction in the effective tax rate 1.1%.
delivers benefits for all our stakeholders.
maximising the value of the continuing 4 www.
