CHAIRMANS STATEMENT REVIEW OF 2004 PERFORMANCE Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT achieved a net asset value total return of 28.7% for the year to 31 December 2004, which compares with a total return of 20.7% from the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies, your Companys investment benchmark.
Larger companies, as represented by the FTSE All-Share Index, registered a total return of 12.8%.
ASCoT has therefore out-performed both its benchmark and larger companies for the year.
Small companies out-performed large companies during 2004 despite a steady headwind from rising short term interest rates.
Corporate performance, not least in relation to cash generation, has been good.
The result is relatively strong balance sheets, which should diminish the impact of rising interest rates compared with past cycles.
There is also evidence that dividends from small companies have grown more quickly than those from large companies during 2004.
Building on the theme of dividend growth, your Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 7.25p, which produces total dividends for the year of 11.00p representing an increase of 8.9% on the total for the previous year.
The compound annual dividend growth enjoyed by ASCoTs Shareholders over the last ten years has been 9.1% and, in your Boards opinion, has been an important driver of ASCoTs overall returns.
Your Board is pleased that this rate of increase has outstripped both ination and dividend growth from smaller companies as a whole.
Dividend yield and dividend growth are a fundamental rather than residual consideration in your Managers investment process and therefore the dividends paid to ASCoTs Shareholders are a key reection of its success.
It is also worth highlighting that ASCoTs revenue reserves are equivalent to more than one years dividend payments.
Subject to Shareholders approval, the final dividend of 7.25p per share will be paid on 4 March 2005 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 February 2005.
ASCoT operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan and the relevant documentation is available from Aberforth Partners website, or on request, for those Shareholders not already participating in this Plan.
SHARE BUY BACK AUTHORITY AND TREASURY SHARES At the Annual General Meeting in February 2004, the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of ASCoTs Ordinary Shares was renewed.
Your Board will be seeking a renewal of this authority at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 February 2005.
Your Board has established, and keeps under careful review, the circumstances under which such authority may be utilised.
Should these arise, ASCoT will seek to purchase Ordinary Shares.
Any Ordinary Shares bought back by ASCoT would be cancelled.
Your Board does not currently consider it appropriate to seek Shareholders authority to hold such Shares in treasury.
We will, however, keep that policy under review and revert to Shareholders if and when deemed appropriate.
CONTINUATION VOTE Shareholders will be aware that an ordinary resolution is proposed at every third Annual General Meeting to the effect that ASCoT continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
Such a resolution will again be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 23 February 2005.
The tables on page 18 of this report set out in detail the performance of ASCoT and its benchmark index over all relevant periods.
In particular, in the three years since the last continuation vote, ASCoTs net asset value has provided a compound annual total return of 16.8% compared with 9.8% from the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies and 1.8% from the FTSE All-Share Index.
In addition to performance, your Board places great importance on the consistency of investment approach and continuity of investment personnel.
In Aberforth Partners, your Board believes ASCoT enjoys these management features alongside contractual terms and a total expense ratio that are amongst the best of the peer group.
8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT After considering these factors, your Board recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of ASCoTs continuation.
ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING In January 2004, the Shareholder Voting Working Group recommended that at least all FTSE 350 Index constituents introduce electronic voting capabilities.
In line with this recommendation, your Board is pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities, in connection with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further details are set out on page 21.
BOARD COMPOSITION In July, your Board was joined by Professor Paul Marsh, Professor of Finance and Associate Dean, Finance Programmes at London Business School, and Dr Walter Nimmo, Vice Chairman of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. as non-executive independent Directors.
From different backgrounds, each brings a wealth of investment and business experience, not least of smaller companies, and your Board has already benefited from their contribution.
I have served Shareholders as Chairman for the fourteen years since ASCoTs inception and, as previously intimated, will be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is intended that David Shaw will then assume the role of Chairman.
From initial net assets of 14.5 million in December 1990, through three further fund raisings totalling 179.7 million and the payment of 77.0 million in dividends, ASCoT had grown to 544.6 million at the year-end.
Over that period the net asset value compound annual total return was 16.8% compared with 11.2% from its investment benchmark.
I doubt that any of us involved with ASCoTs launch would have predicted the outcome to date.
My tenure has been both instructive and stimulating.
Working with a highly focussed and dedicated team of managers has provided insight into the tools of analysis critical to performance that is consistently above average.
Stimulation is an outcome of being involved not only with high calibre managers but with directors who have put shareholder value as their key priority.
Their support has ensured that ASCoT has been at the forefront in the implementation of all corporate governance initiatives.
I am totally confident that under David Shaws chairmanship continued out-performance will remain your Boards priority.
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK The UK corporate sector appears to be in a robust position with strong cash ows being supportive of future dividend growth.
This is consistent with the UKs recovery over the last two years as the global economy avoided the deationary spiral feared by many commentators.
Small companies have benefited from this environment and it would therefore be unwise for investors to extrapolate the significant returns enjoyed over the last two years.
Your Board is, however, convinced that your Managers will continue to take advantage of the opportunities presented by ASCoTs smaller company investment universe.
