BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that BG Group has our long-term success that we create delivered another strong set of results.
value for shareholders and for our host A further year of very good operational countries, and that we conduct our performance has been complemented business in accordance with the highest by market conditions that have generally ethical standards.
CHANGES IN THE 2004 REPORT In 2004, total operating profit increased by You may notice changes in the structure 22% and earnings, excluding exceptional and content of this years Annual Report items, were up by 23% to 842m.
Our aim is to make progress raised the dividend by 10% to 3.81 pence per towards meeting future UK statutory share, consistent with our aim of long-term requirements on the content of the dividend growth.
Operating and Financial Review section of the report and to explain the transition BG Group enters 2005 with a number of to the International Financial Reporting projects underpinning its further growth Standards.
The result of these changes which are discussed in the Chief will not only be a more comprehensive Executives statement.
We are confident report, but also one which will, I hope, give that we can continue to achieve strong you a better understanding of our current We are continuing growth for many years ahead.
In fact position, the environment we operate in plans and developments are already in to build on strong and of our strategy for the future.
place to achieve this during the rest of foundations as a this decade and work is now focusing BOARD SUCCESSION increasingly on growth beyond that time.
Three long-serving directors are standing world leader in down from the Board at the AGM Keith Global demand for energy was notably natural gas.
Mackrell, Elwyn Eilledge and Dame Stella strong in 2004 and we saw exceptionally 2 Rimington.
Keith Mackrell joined the Board high oil prices, even allowing for the Sir Robert Wilson of British Gas in 1994 and was appointed weakness of the US Dollar in which prices Chairman Deputy Chairman in 2000.
Whilst prices may and Dame Stella Rimington joined the retreat over the next year or two, there is Board of BG plc upon demerger in February a widespread expectation that they will 1997.
They have been part of the major stabilise at levels well above those seen transition and great success of recent years.
We shall miss their wisdom and advice.
Against this background, natural gas is We welcome Baroness Hogg, who joined expected to increase its share of the energy our Board in January 2005. market, reflecting its growing status as the fuel of choice.
At a global level, the supply Finally, I would like to pay a tribute to of gas appears to be plentiful, although our employees.
Growth, at the pace and often not in the same geographic location of the complexity that the Group has as demand.
This, of course, is how our experienced, makes many demands on opportunities arise.
It requires energy, ability and knowledge and experience of all parts of dedication.
The Group has been very well the gas chain and is well placed to identify served by their collective enthusiasm and business opportunities which enable commitment and I thank them for it.
it to create value for shareholders by developing resources and serving customers.
The rapid development of the Groups LNG business and its emergence as a major player in Atlantic Basin markets has been a good illustration of putting Sir Robert Wilson these skills into practice.
Chairman Energy resources are very often in parts of the world which have challenging political or business environments.
In one sense, of course, there is nothing we can do about that, but it does reinforce the rationale for our insistence on strong corporate governance and risk management procedures, together with firm adherence to our business principles.
It is essential to See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 148.
