Chairmans Statement Alliance & Leicester continues to deliver shareholder value.
In 2004 we achieved all our strategic targets in a challenging environment.
John Windeler Chairman I am pleased to be able to report that approachable customer service, and Alliance & Leicester plc again had a rewarding customers who buy more from successful year, achieving our strategic us has enabled us to achieve franchise targets in a challenging environment.
growth in our Core 4 retail products.
We have achieved increased market Financial Results shares in current account openings, Pre-tax operating profit was up 6% to new personal loans and net mortgage 556m in 2004.
Pre-tax profit was 608m, lending, and growth in personal including the 52m pre-tax profit on the customer deposit balances.
sale of our merchant acquisition business, up 16% on 2003.
Basic underlying earnings Our Wholesale Banking strategy, of per share, which excludes the profits from focusing on the four key areas of cash, 12% the sale of our merchant acquisition business, lending, business banking and treasury, Increase in Underlying were up 12% to 88.2p.
The Board has has also seen increasing success.
There Basic Earnings Per Share proposed a final dividend of 32.6p, making were increases in both the value of cash a total dividend of 48.3p, a 10% increase sales and new business accounts opened, on the equivalent gure for 2003. as well as strong growth in commercial lending balances.
Alliance & Leicester is delivering sustainable long term shareholder value.
Since July Group Board Directors 68.0 79.0 88.2 2000, when we launched our strategy, We were delighted to appoint Margaret Alliance & Leicester shareholders have Salmon to our Group Board as a nonreceived a total shareholder return of over executive director in July 2004.
Margaret 120%, compared to minus 15% in the is a Fellow of the Institute of Personnel FTSE 100 index and plus 44% for the Development, and brings extensive banking sector as a whole.
experience of human resources and retail expertise to the Board.
Strategy Our strategy continues to deliver Peter Stone resigned from the Board as shareholder value.
a non-executive director in September 2004 for personal reasons, having made The market is evolving in a way that gives a valuable contribution to the Group us competitive advantage.
As the needs in the period he spent with us.
and preferences of both personal and commercial customers change, so we On 31 December 2004, Frances Cairncross 02 03 04 are changing with them.
Our strategy stepped down from the Board as a nonUnderlying Basic Earnings of building a direct bank with a high executive director, after a total of twelve Per Share pence street presence and our proven skills in years service.
I would like to thank Frances direct channels enable us to evolve in for her invaluable contribution to the a way that accommodates the changing Group, and we wish her every success needs of customers.
in her new appointment as Rector of Exeter College, Oxford University.
Our brand values of offering better value products, developing straightforward Details of all directors can be found on processes, providing friendly and pages 22 and 23 of this Report & Accounts.
2 Alliance & Leicester Statements Management and Staff The Future The continued success of the Group reects Alliance & Leicester is well placed to the excellent leadership of Richard Pym and remain successful in 2005 and to continue the executive directors.
Their constructive, to deliver good returns for our shareholders open team working and mutual support in the future.
are key strengths of this business and have We remain committed to responsible enabled us to build a strong and capable lending in each of our markets, and to senior management team.
The Group the principle of treating customers fairly.
Board is confident that this team will take We will continue to improve our cost us forward in a very competitive market.
efficiency, enabling us to offer our Alliance & Leicesters staff are among the customers better value products than 10% best in the industry.
Their dedication and our competitors, whilst also delivering Increase in Dividend Per Share ability is a key to our success, and I thank valuable franchise growth and a strong them for their professionalism and return on equity for our shareholders.
commitment to serving our customers We will deliver these objectives whilst throughout 2004. maintaining above average asset quality.
Corporate Governance Our credit rating upgrade to Aa3 by Alliance & Leicester recognises and fully Moodys in November 2004 demonstrated 39.943.9 48.3 supports the value of good corporate both our financial strength and the quality governance, not only in the areas of of our earnings.
This was a powerful accountability and risk management, independent endorsement of our progress, but also as a positive contribution to as we are the smallest UK bank to have business prosperity.
The Board believes such a high rating.
We have worked that good corporate governance involves hard to gain our reputation of being applying the principles and provisions a low risk bank and we believe that by of The Combined Code on Corporate maintaining this position we will be well Governance in a sensible and pragmatic placed to continue to perform strongly fashion, and remains satisfied that it should there be more difficult market complies with all those provisions which conditions in the future.
Corporate Social Responsibility John Windeler 02 03 04 We believe that we have an important Chairman role to play in our local communities, Dividend Per by being a responsible employer and Share pence through charitable giving and staff volunteering.
We strive on a day to day basis to make a valuable contribution to our local communities through donations, gifts in kind and staff volunteering.
We update our Corporate Social Responsibility report annually.
