4 Chairmans Statement Although we have seen the recovery of equities over the year, after the tribulations of a three year bear market, complacency must be avoided and focus maintained on our long term objective.
For the first time in three years, I am able to report a year end towards full investment of all our cash balances, maintaining increase in net assets, together with earnings at a record level our focus on quality.
It is encouraging that companies have of 75.4 pence per ordinary stock unit.
We are recommending a come to recognise more widely that the ability and willingness final dividend of 35.5 pence, making a total dividend for the to pay a growing dividend is an important component of return year of 70.5 pence, an increase of 1 pence over that paid last to stockholders.
Acceptance of this fundamental tenet is year and marking 37 years of consecutive increases.
Although particularly evident in the US, where increases have improved we have seen the recovery of equities over the year, after the from a low base, but also nearer home where the risk of tribulations of a three year bear market, complacency must be companies cutting dividends appears to have declined.
avoided and focus maintained on our long term objective.
The global economic recovery has been led by the US.
This has We have moved through a year of sharp contrast.
In the first already had a positive impact on many other regions of the half, when confidence regarding the economy remained low, world through increased export activity.
In the US itself, the further concerns over terrorism and the prospect of war in Iraq pick up in economic activity has boosted profits and raised raised risk aversion to such a level that there were doubts in business confidence sufficiently to produce an increase in some quarters over the validity of equities as an asset class.
There are also some encouraging signs of the second half of our year, the conclusion of the Iraq war and potential employment growth which, along with the return of the emergence of encouraging economic news removed much of pricing power, will be a critical factor in determining the the uncertainty, investor confidence increased and equities sustainability of this recovery.
came back into favour, supported by the wide implementation In Asia, particularly China, increased export activity and of monetary and fiscal measures across the world.
infrastructure investment has already boosted employment and As fears of deflation gave way to progressively stronger income levels.
All this has helped to stimulate consumer evidence of economic recovery, the best stock performance for spending in this region.
There are fewer signs of improvement much of the year generally came from the stocks of companies in domestic activity in Europe and Japan.
Any further which had been most threatened by the long downturn.
Latterly weakening of the US Dollar, and appreciation of both the Euro however, the merits of companies with sound finances and and Yen, could hit export sectors in these regions.
This would sustainable prospects were returning to investors favour, at the increase the pressure on policy makers to adopt more expense of companies more compromised in financial and stimulative measures and thereby maintain the momentum of operating terms.
During the year under review, we moved the global economy through the rest of this year and into 2005.
5 We remain convinced that managing our own affairs helps us to consumer, who is faced with ever increasing demands on add value.
The executive directors and staff, including the income and no clear blueprint for how savings should be made, investment managers, are employees and our retail operation, nor the UK employer who is now faced with the moral hazard of Alliance Trust Savings ATS is conducted in house by its own the proposed Pension Protection Fund.
The chain of command is short, sharp and effective.
The investment trust, despite the harm done to the name by The quality of customer service through ATS has been recognised the split capital scandal, should still be a preferred option for this year in reader-nominated awards from Investors Chronicle saving.
The industry is small compared to that of insurance and and What Investment: and from the Guardian Money Observer, unit trusts and continuing to position the Group correctly to in whose Consumer Finance awards we scored best overall on all sustain value for stockholders will require careful attention.
criteria of friendliness, quality, flexibility, competitiveness, In this process it is vitally important, for the long term benefit efficiency and performance in the category of stocks and shares of our stockholders, that we are able to attract and retain high ISA investment provider.
ATSs own research shows that the quality staff.
During 2003, we continued to strengthen majority of new customers take out a savings plan with ATS capabilities in the key areas of investment and retail savings.
after personal recommendation from a relative or friend.
Investment in training and competence is essential.
Since staff For ATS, the year was also one of contrast.
There was pessimism retention levels are high, your Company reaps the benefits of in the first six months, when activity was subdued, but this was these costs, not other organisations.
We introduced the replaced by cautious optimism as investors began to look Chartered Financial Analyst programme for our investment forward to recovery in the markets and once again evidenced analysts in 2001 and have consistently achieved a pass rate increased confidence through their contributions to savings well in excess of the worldwide average.
The ATS staff produce plans.
Net inflows recovered strongly in the second half, with excellent results in the Securities Institute examinations.
the value of customer assets invested through the ATS plans I should like to thank all staff for their efforts and for their finishing at 1,193m, an all time high.
Nearly 17% of the continuing commitment to serving stockholders.
Companys ordinary stock is now held through savings plans It is against this background, and the challenges posed by this provided through ATS.
environment, that I introduce Alan Harden to you as our new The challenge we face in the retail market is to sustain and Chief Executive, following Gavin Suggetts retirement after more grow what has been achieved in ATS.
This has to be achieved in than 30 years service with the Company.
Gavin was the the face of increased competition, consolidation in the market, architect of ATS and made an outstanding contribution to the and the costs of responding to legislative and regulatory continuing progress and development of the Group.
We wish change stemming from Brussels as well as Westminster.
him a long and happy retirement.
It is imperative that, as a society, we save.
The shock waves Alan has a huge amount of international experience, both in being sent through the financial services industry in the UK, investment management and retail savings businesses and the particularly in the insurance industry, affect us all.
The board wholeheartedly recommends approval of his appointment transparency of the type of plans provided by ATS should be a as a director to the stockholders at the Annual General Meeting model for the simplification of pensions.
At the same meeting, I shall be retiring after disappointment that, at the time of reporting, no final nearly 13 years on the board.
I have served for 8 years as decisions have been made by the Government on the detail of Chairman and am proud to have been associated with the what is proposed, save that the principle of a lifetime cap on Alliance Trust.
My sadness at departing is tempered by the fact pension saving, which we regard as iniquitous, appears to be that Lesley Knox is succeeding me as Chairman and by the set in stone.
This continued uncertainty and dogmatism knowledge that your Company is in good hands.
benefits no one in the industry, least of all the UK Bruce W M Johnston
