AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEAR FELLOW INVESTOR 2004 was a year of contrasts.
Continued to be among the ten most costly natural excellent trading conditions and in the first six catastrophes ever recorded in the United States.
months a lower than normal level of claims Our achievement of a return on equity of 22.3%, activity.
In the second half there was an almost the third year in succession in excess of 20%, unprecedented amount of windstorm activity with after these events, is a demonstration of the each of the hurricanes hitting Florida estimated present strength of the business.
Our profit before tax for the year was 121.6 to become the global reference point for quality systems are enabling our underwriters to better million, modestly up on 2003 120.3 in its markets and is currently putting in place price risk as well as producing higher quality million, and an excellent result after the a number of strategies to achieve this goal.
and more timely management information.
After tax, this This places Amlin in a strong position to yielded earnings per share of 22.1p 2003: manage well in a tougher market environment.
All areas of the Group performed well.
In the meantime, rates remain at a healthy The combined ratio was an excellent 82%, With the increased momentum for change level and we believe the outlook for 2005 investment returns were strong and expenses in insurance markets, as Lloyds, the FSA and and 2006 is good.
others seek to enforce higher standards of efficiency, service and transparency, there is BOARD huge scope for strong and well organised DIVIDEND businesses, such as Amlin, to extend their The past 12 months has seen the size of the The Board proposes a final dividend of leadership position.
Board reduced to ten, including five non- 5.0 pence per share making total dividends executive directors and myself.
The Board has for 2004 of 8.0 pence per share 2003: Even though we are past the peak of this been working well, and we are presently in 2.5 pence which represent 36% of 2004 insurance pricing cycle, conditions remain the process of recruiting an additional nonearnings.
This exceeds our commitment made favourable and there is every prospect of 2005 executive director to address the Higgs last year to distribute at least 30% of our being another good underwriting year.
At this requirement for there to be at least parity earnings, and for 2005 and 2006 we aim, stage in the cycle, however, we are not seeking between independent non-executives and in the absence of unusual circumstances, to grow our top line, focusing on retention of others excluding the chairman on the Board.
to distribute dividends equivalent to at least margin and return on equity.
the higher of 8.0 pence, adjusted for inflation, Nigel Buchanan joined the Board in March and 30% of earnings.
There are signs of increased discipline in the 2004 and brings with him experience of the Lloyds market, although sadly this is not financial services sector and an excellent The Board will keep under review the universal.
However, Amlin had a good January understanding of regulation.
Companys ongoing capital requirements, renewal season and renewal terms have to date taking account of medium term needs, our remained relatively robust.
I reiterate our thanks to those who retired underwriting strategy of managing exposures in 2004, John Kennedy, John Sanders, over the insurance cycle and our cross cycle Much of the 2005 underwriting result will be and John Stace for their contributions going target return on equity of 15%.
We expect to earned from business written in 2004 and, at back to the formation of the Company in 1993. consider further possibilities for returning 1 January 2005, we carried forward a record capital to shareholders over and above the unearned premium reserve of 501 million, THE AMLIN TEAM anticipated dividends referred to above.
up 17% over the reserve brought forward at 1 January 2004.
Similarly, a significant Well done again to our management team, so proportion of business written in 2005 will ably led by Charles Philipps, and all employees STRATEGY be earned in 2006. at Amlin for turning in yet another excellent The successful growth of the business into an set of results.
Very good progress continues to excellent market for the last three years has Our asset base has grown dramatically over the be made in building a solid business with resulted in a far stronger market position and past four years.
We are establishing a track great potential and this is not achieved without reputation for Amlin and has also delivered a record for managing these assets astutely to real effort and commitment for which we owe shareholder return ahead of most of our peers.
complement our underwriting returns and, with our thanks.
continued success in this area, we expect a In October 2004 the Board reviewed and greater return from this source.
endorsed managements plans for the next ROGER TAYLOR phase of the insurance cycle and for ensuring Amlin has made tremendous progress CHAIRMAN that Amlin continues to build upon its strengths developing its underwriting skills.
New risk and long term potential.
As discussed in the management techniques and information Operating and Financial Review, Amlin intends
