Aviva plc 2004 Chairmans statement Group strategy Pehr G Gyllenhammar To grow our To build a To take a focused To build top-five To withdraw from Chairman long-term savings world-class fund approach to positions in key lines of business business management general insurance, markets.
or markets which aggressively and business.
with disciplined do not offer the profitably.
underwriting and potential for efficient claims market-leading handling.
Aviva has had a good year, with robust performance.
We compare ourselves with the best in class in all that we do.
Patient and persistent actions to improve efficiency Our consistent efforts have made us market leaders in many aspects and productivity have created higher earnings of of our business.
Our aim is to continue to outperform.
The insurance sector has not offered easy opportunities to show positive results, particularly as the underlying assets equities and xed income have had a bumpy ride, although there have been some improvements in 2004.
Growth has been modest in the UK, but we have consolidated our market share.
Our life portfolio is yielding better returns and the general insurance business continues to deliver excellent and consistent results.
We are registering higher growth in continental Europe and can see the promising development of our business model and of our profits.
Our operations in France, Spain, the Netherlands and Italy are all doing well.
In Poland and other markets in Eastern Europe we are prominent or gaining market share.
Our general insurance businesses in Ireland and Canada are making good progress with high profitability.
We have sold our small general insurance portfolio in South East Asia for a good price, and are concentrating our efforts on growing our life businesses in the expanding markets of China and India.
Our exposure to the catastrophic effects of the tsunami in Asia was limited.
We were obviously shocked and saddened by the suddenness and severity of this disaster and we feel deep sympathy for the victims and their families.
Thankfully, none of our growing number of staff in this region lost their lives.
02 Aviva plc 2004 Aviva relative to FTSE Eurotop 300 Life and FTSE Eurotop 300, for 2004 130 120 110 100 90 80 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Aviva FTSE Eurotop 300 Life FTSE Eurotop 300 The successful growth of our important front and back ofce activities in The European Financial Services Round Table, which I founded and India and Sri Lanka has contributed to lower total costs, higher efficiency which I chair, continues to push for an open and transparent European and gradually improved service levels for our customers.
It must be market for financial services.
Progress is slow, but we are heard and admitted that we have not provided the required service in every we are moving forward.
We have just welcomed three new members case, but we are making intense efforts to get there and have seen from Switzerland.
Our Asian administrative capacity has helped On corporate social responsibility, we are participating both in the us to contain and reduce problems.
United Nations Global Compact programme and in European activities.
We have managed our capital situation with care.
Our sound profits We wish to be the best, and we are pleased to be recognised as one and cash ow have allowed us to increase our dividend in line with our of the prime movers in this eld.
We have gone to the market twice for subordinated debt and As regards accounting standards, new demands are put upon us.
most recently in November 2004 we issued a direct capital instrument.
We are well prepared for the adoption of the new international We managed to get the timing right for good terms and high demand.
financial reporting standards IFRS and are also meeting the capital Consequently we are in a very good capital position.
and solvency requirements that have been introduced.
After several years of difficult market conditions we can see the fruits Aviva has a new finance director, Andrew Moss, and three new of our systematic efforts to increase efficiency and financial strength.
non-executive board directors, Richard Goeltz, Russell Walls, and most Your company is therefore gradually entering a phase of more recently, Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE.
Each of these individuals brings aggressive growth, whether organically or through acquisitions.
wide experience from the financial services industry and from working The board has recommended a final dividend of 16.00 pence net per internationally.
share which brings the total for the year to 25.36 pence.
We have lived Market conditions have not been easy.
Our staff are resilient, up to our commitment to increase dividends by around 5% a year on hard working, and show high morale in spite of tough conditions.
the condition that we have sufficient dividend cover.
I think they have done an excellent job.
Our shares did quite well last year, after a difficult period of depressed We continue to strive for greater efficiency and excellence in our equity markets.
We outperformed our peers in the insurance sector, profession, and on that basis we aim to improve shareholder value.
both in the UK and in Europe at large.
We measure our performance against our competitors with an ambition to continue to outperform.
It is important to have good governance, and the board is completely supportive of this ambition.
I believe we are one of the best in class in terms of compliance.
