Chairmans Statement In my last report as Chairman, I am pleased to announce an strengthening led our managers to purchase companies that increase in asset value over the year.
The net asset value per would benefit from these factors.
However, in the summer share rose 7.4% over the year to 31 October 2004.
This result, economic growth was not as strong as expected and consumer while returning slightly less than the FTSE All-Share Index rise expenditure softened resulting in defensive shares being the of 8.1%, was a good performance given dull overseas returns.
We believe that stronger economic growth will The net asset value performance was ahead of the 5.6% come through in due course but it will take longer than we first returned by our composite index: this index reflects global anticipated.
markets and is more representative of where our assets are The UK and European portfolios are the largest in size and, in invested see page 5.
The strengthening of sterling, linked to a both, our managers did better than the stock market indices weak US dollar, depressed returns from the major equity albeit by a smaller margin than they have achieved in the markets in the US and Japan.
Despite the strength of sterling the earnings per share have Elsewhere, the Pacific ex Japan portfolio performed very exceeded our expectation and enable us to pay a larger than well.
A profitable exit from the Chinese investments and a forecast final dividend.
This years total dividend will rise by concentration on asset rich property and oil stocks were the 6.0% and we anticipate being able to further increase the major factors behind the result.
The Emerging Markets dividend by a minimum of 4.4% in 2005. portfolio lacked exposure to Eastern Europe, which boosted the benchmark performance.
We believe that heightened Assets political and terrorist risk in many emerging markets makes Economic growth was better than expected and stock markets them unattractive and we will continue to be wary of rushing continued their recovery of the previous year.
Investment in to chase appreciating share prices.
returns in the major western markets were broadly similar in local currency terms, evidence that the major influencing We maintained some gearing in rising equity markets.
During the factors were global in nature.
The oil price and US interest year Japanese yen loans were repaid and partially replaced by US rates dominated the main stock markets, with only Japan dollar borrowings, which have been to the advantage of affected by purely domestic issues.
Commodity prices and the shareholders as the US dollar has been weak.
At the end of the oil price rose strongly over the year and higher oil prices could year the gearing invested in equities represented 8% of assets.
potentially have a very big economic impact, although opinions Earnings and Dividends differ strongly amongst commentators as to whether the rise in This years rise in earnings per share of 13.1% to 8.05p should oil prices will cause inflationary or deflationary pressures in the be taken in the context of last years small rise of 1.4%.
Either way, the surge in prices created Bankers expenses including management fees are little uncertainty about the outlook for both consumers and capital changed from last year but dividend growth this year has been spending.
The share prices of companies such as airlines and better than expected and has exceeded our own forecast electricity generators that might struggle to pass on these made earlier in the year.
This years rise is attributable to a price increases suffered accordingly.
number of factors, not just the better dividend growth The long expected increase in US interest rates finally experienced from the overseas holdings, particularly in Asia.
The US election may have delayed the addition, costs have been well contained as evidenced by the decision to raise rates and subsequently there may be further total expense ratio falling to 0.68% from 0.78% over the year.
increases in the New Year.
We maintained a low weighting in As earnings are better, we are proposing to increase the final US equities throughout the year as we considered that both dividend to a greater extent than indicated in our forecast.
We the stock market and the US dollar were over-valued.
Our view are proposing a final dividend of 1.98p per share, making a of the currency proved to be correct but share valuations total of 7.47p, an increase of 6.0% for the year and remained high.
Corporate earnings and dividend growth were comfortably ahead of the current rate of inflation.
strong, with even major technology companies such as Microsoft finally recognising that dividends are an important We are proud of our record of increasing dividends to element of shareholder return.
shareholders every year since 1967 and we wish to maintain our position amongst global investment trusts of delivering A well-timed purchase of Japanese equities in February raised consistent dividend growth.
Looking forward, we expect our exposure to the region from 7% of assets to 9% by the dividend growth to be strong especially from our overseas year end.
However, after a number of good years our managers holdings.
However, the benefit will be partly offset by a rise in underperformed the local stock market this year.
The view that management expenses, which is essentially a function of the economic growth and domestic consumption were 3 Chairmans Statement continued increase in the value of the assets under management.
For the Outlook current year we are therefore forecasting a minimum rise in the Interest rates appear to have peaked in the UK, long bond total dividend per share of 4.4% to 7.80p.
A quarterly dividend yields remain low and corporate earnings look set for another of 1.94p will be paid at the end of May, August and November year of growth.
These should be good indicators for further with a minimum final of 1.98p payable in February 2006. gains in share prices but there remains a concern about the financial strength of the consumer and the outlook for The Board, Buy Backs and Annual General Meeting spending.
With so many areas of the market affected by As mentioned in my Chairmans Statement last year, I will be consumer spending from the banking sector to retailers and retiring from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
house builders, it will be important that confidence about jobs I have very much enjoyed my long association with Bankers and and the direction of interest rates is maintained.
our Manager, Henderson Global Investors.
I would particularly Equity valuations continue to look attractive, but an absence of like to mention Michael Moule as my relationship with him goes catalysts may limit market progress.
Some weakness in both back even earlier to the days of Touche Remnant.
Michael, who the UK and global economies looks set to restrain both retired from Henderson Global Investors in 2003, has decided earnings and investor enthusiasm, but these are to a great not to seek re-election at the AGM in February 2006.
I would extent already reflected in current market expectations.
Rebuilt like to thank everybody concerned for making my role as balance sheets and lower debt are leading to a strong market Chairman a relatively easy one.
Richard Brewster succeeds me for cash takeovers, corporate share buy backs and increasing as Chairman, Francis Sumner will be the senior independent dividends.
Cash balances will be rising for investors and should director and James Morley has recently taken over from Richard slowly find their way into equities, given their relative attraction as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I have great confidence in to bonds in most markets.
Richard as Chairman and our team at Henderson Global Global economic growth remains healthy but currently the Investors led by Alex Crooke, who succeeded Michael as our positive factors are not there to drive the main stock markets manager, from 2002. significantly higher.
We are not however, pessimistic about the The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly.
Details of outlook and, in fact, we consider that 2005 will be another the directors seeking re-election at the AGM in accordance favourable year to be invested in equities.
I do believe Bankers with the Companys Articles, the Combined Code and the AITC is in a strong position going forward with a broadly diversified Code of Corporate Governance appear on page 18.
Our portfolio, strong balance sheet and revenue reserve and I corporate governance policy is set out in detail on pages expect our managers to make many profitable investments for 23 to 27. us.
Bankers has an impressive record and I see no reason why At this years AGM we will be seeking further authority to buy good results cannot be achieved in the future.
back shares for cancellation, up to 14.99% of the issued share capital.
In our financial year ended 31 October 2004, 2,638,841 ordinary shares were bought back and since then a further 215,000 have been repurchased.
We will continue to use these powers selectively.
The AGM will be held at the Drapers Hall on 18 February 2005 at 12 noon.
A map showing the location appears on page 46.
Our manager, Alex Crooke, will make a presentation.
We once again look forward to welcoming as many of you as Andrew Barker, Chairman are able to attend.
