Chairmans statement As the figures show, 2004 was a very successful year for Barclays.
2004 was also a year in which we managed successfully the transition to a new leadership team.
John Varley took the reins as Group Chief Executive with effect from 1st September and I succeeded Sir Peter Middleton as Chairman.
On behalf of shareholders, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Sir Peter Barclays owes him an enormous debt of gratitude.
The Group would not be where it is today financially strong, with a distinct portfolio of businesses, a great brand, motivated people and millions of loyal customers and clients around the world were it not for his leadership.
Looking forward, the Board is delighted that Barclays has such a strong management team in John Varley and his colleagues to take the Group forward.
We have been particularly pleased with the way in which they have quickly adapted to their new roles.
A very successful year for Corporate Governance Barclays.
Record pre-tax Corporate governance continues to be a subject of intense interest to shareholders, regulators, companies and the press.
Our goal is to profits, first in our peer group ensure that Barclays is an exemplar in the area of corporate governance.
2004 was the first year in which Barclays had to comply of international banks for with the provisions of the new Combined Code and you will read in the Corporate Governance Report elsewhere in this Annual Report that total shareholder return, and our compliance is of a high standard.
In recent months, we have taken a number of steps to enhance further a seamless transition to a new our corporate governance practices.
We have expanded the remit of the Remuneration Committee to cover strategic human resource management team.
We have also expanded the remit of the Nominations Committee to cover a broad range of corporate governance issues in Matthew W Barrett, Chairman addition to matters relating to the composition of the Board.
We have conducted a thorough, formal review of performance and effectiveness of the Board, Board Committees, and individual directors.
The review concluded that the Board is discharging its responsibilities in a highly effective manner.
Dividend per share Board Changes Sir Brian Jenkins retired as Deputy Chairman on 1st September.
He 25 24.00 20.50 joined the Board in 2000 on completion of the acquisition of Woolwich 20 18.35 Plc, where he had been Chairman.
His experience and sound advice at 15 Board and Board Committee meetings will be greatly missed.
He was 10 succeeded as Deputy Chairman by Sir Nigel Rudd.
5 0 Chris Lendrum retired as Vice-Chairman and a Director of the Bank at pence 2002 2003 2004 the end of 2004.
Chris served the Group with great distinction for over Over 11,500 Barclays staff volunteered their time and skills for Make A Difference Day in 2004 7,158 in the 4 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 35 years.
We were delighted to see that his services to banking were Regulatory Change recognised through the award of a CBE in the New Years Honours List.
There was no abatement in the volume and frequency of regulatory change in 2004.
The banking industry is facing Basel II, Sarbanes Dr Jrgen Zech, who joined the Board in 2002, will be retiring at this Oxley, International Financial Reporting Standards, the recent years Annual General Meeting AGM and is not seeking re-election.
introduction of statutory regulation of mortgages and general On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Dr Zech for his hard work insurance, and a number of EU Directives generated by the Financial as a Director and wish him well for the future.
All these initiatives cause considerable resource stretch for even the largest financial services institutions.
I am sad to report that Dame Hilary Cropper, who had been a non-executive Director of the Bank since 1998, died on Boxing Day, We welcome the fact that our lead regulator in the UK, the Financial aged 63.
Hilary had enjoyed an extremely successful career, becoming Services Authority, is also concerned at the level of regulatory change Chief Executive and subsequently Chairman of Xansa Group, the IT and is seeking to minimise further initiatives.
We believe that it is vital services company.
She was a valued colleague who had served that all new regulation is subjected to rigorous cost benefit analysis Barclays with distinction on the Board Remuneration, Audit and before its introduction into the national legislative framework.
She will be greatly missed.
Economic Outlook During the year, we appointed two new non-executive Directors.
2004 was a year of strong growth across the world with the global Sir Andrew Likierman joined the Board in September and Leigh economy expanding by around 5%.
The UK too did well, growing at Clifford in October.
Sir Andrew had been Managing Director, Financial more than 3%, the fastest rate since 2000 with unemployment and Management, Reporting and Audit and Head of the Government inflation remaining low and stable.
Accountancy Service at HM Treasury.
He is Professor of Management Practice at the London Business School and a non-executive Director The coming year may see growth slower than the rate achieved in of the Bank of England.
Sir Andrew brings considerable accounting 2004.
Internationally, growth in the American and Chinese economies and financial expertise to the Board and Board Audit Committee.
may moderate, while in the UK, interest rate rises during 2004 may Leigh Clifford is Chief Executive of Rio Tinto and brings a wealth of have an impact on household spending.
global operational management and business experience to the Board.
Summary Sir Richard Broadbent was appointed Senior Independent Director 2004 was a year in which the Group continued to make very good with effect from 1st September 2004. progress.
We have a strong management team in place and benefit from a committed and highly professional workforce, a distinctive Corporate Responsibility portfolio of businesses and a strong capital base.
We look forward We believe that attention to corporate responsibility is essential to to the future with confidence.
creating and sustaining value creation for shareholders.
During 2004, we made significant progress in pursuit of the objective that Barclays should be a leading company in this field.
Corporate responsibility is about business behaviours and earning the trust and loyalty of our Matthew W Barrett stakeholders.
It was encouraging that in 2004 Barclays won the Chairman National Business Award for Corporate Social Responsibility and was ranked in the top decile of 100 companies by Business in the Community in this area.
We continued to build on our well-established Equality & Diversity, Environmental and Community programmes and on our pioneering work in the field of financial inclusion.
During the year, we continued to work closely with our trade union partner, Amicus UNIFI, developing a ground-breaking agreement on the issue of offshore outsourcing.
UK, 4,083 in Africa and 274 in Spain 5 Group Chief Executives statement Barclays had a record year in 2004, demonstrating the strength and flexibility of its strategy.
A combination of good returns from prior investment and the continued strong pace of investment during 2004 means that we are in good shape to deliver profitable growth in the future.
Profit before tax increased by 20%.
We maintained our strong capital position, with a tier 1 capital ratio of 7.6%.
The task of every generation of leadership is to take performance to the next level and that is what we are determined to do.
I want the new era of leadership, building on the profound transformation of the last years, to be characterised by growth.
Looking back at it, growth was what 2004 was all about.
Barclays had a record year Our financial performance is built on a clear and simple understanding in 2004, with profit before of what Barclays exists to do: we move, lend, invest and protect money, for customers and clients of all kinds.
By doing this we achieve our tax up 20% and dividends overall business purpose: this is to help our customers and clients achieve their goals.
We hope thereby to create value for them and earn increased by 17%.
The task of their loyalty.
If we do this well we will deliver consistently good returns to shareholders.
every generation of leadership Our business model is that of a universal bank comprising businesses is to take performance to the that create additional value for shareholders beyond the sum of the parts by virtue of the synergies inherent in the business mix.
next level and that is what we We have a global perspective in developing our business.
We are seeking to produce a blend of earnings drawn from our businesses in are determined to do.
I want the UK and from high growth global product businesses and selected retail and commercial banking businesses outside the UK.
the new era of leadership, You can see our approach at work in how we performed during 2004. building on the profound We saw earnings surge in businesses with strong overseas exposure such as Barclays Capital and Barclays Global Investors, and in the transformation of the last years, Private Clients and International businesses.
to be characterised by growth.
You can also see it in our strategic decisions during the year.
We acquired Juniper Financial Corporation to create a US arm for John Varley, Group Chief Executive our international credit card strategy: and we are in negotiations to acquire a controlling stake in Absa, one of the leading banks in the Republic of South Africa.
Customers doing more business with us 6 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Increase in profit % before tax 20 Our efforts in 2004 were directed at advancing our four strategic harbour of dependability in a very turbulent sea.
You can see this in priorities.
These are: building the best bank in the UK: growing our the net new asset flow, which amounted to $118bn during the year.
global product businesses credit cards, investment banking, Financial performance has partly been driven by successful innovation: institutional money management and wealth management : extending we have continued to see very substantial demand for exchange traded our presence in selected retail and commercial banking markets funds which we call iShares which are the fastest growing new fund outside the UK Spain and Africa are good examples of this : and complex in US history.
We now have around $130bn assets in iShares creating operational excellence.
At the heart of all four priorities is our as part of total assets under management of $1.36 trillion.
commitment to strengthen franchise health, by which we mean our Profit growth at Barclaycard, which is run by Gary Hoffman, was more relationships with customers and clients, the engagement of our muted this year, partly because the interest rate environment was colleagues, and our contribution to the communities in which we live tougher and partly because we continued to invest heavily in growing and work.
our customer base in the UK and in developing Barclaycard We formed UK Banking, which is run by Roger Davis, a year ago by International.
The UK regulatory and consumer environment continues combining Business Banking with most of what was then Personal to be challenging.
The international business performed well in core Financial Services.
In UK Banking we saw the strong profit growth markets Spain and Germany and the Juniper acquisition in the US, generated by UK Business Banking somewhat diluted by broadly flat although small, is strategically significant.
earnings in the UK Retail Banking business.
Although it is clear that we Private Clients our wealth management business staged a strong must lift our performance in UK Retail Banking, the headline profit recovery in 2004.
The acquisition of Gerrard completed at the end of figure here masks better underlying performance year on year.
We 2003 has given a boost to the business, as has Charles Schwab have been investing heavily in front-line people, in infrastructure, and Europe, which we acquired at the beginning of 2003.
From 1st January in branch-based technology.
We are looking for these investments to 2005, Bob Diamond took on responsibility for our Private Client bear fruit during 2005.
The best fruit, of course, will be rising businesses.
I look to Private Clients to be one of our growth engines customer satisfaction among retail customers driving further growth for the future.
International Retail and Commercial Banking, which is run by David All our global product businesses delivered good results.
Partly this is Roberts, delivered good growth during the year.
The strong the consequence of very strong organic performance I am referring performance was broadly based, but was driven primarily by progress here in particular to Barclays Capital and Barclays Global Investors in our businesses in the Iberian peninsula, Africa, the Middle East and where the results were sparkling.
In Private Clients, the sharp lift in our joint venture in the Caribbean.
The Spanish business is doing well: profits was attributable to acquisitions made in 2003 as well as to we are pleased with our acquisition of Banco Zaragozano and the good organic performance.
merging of our two businesses in Spain is stimulating strong new It gives me considerable satisfaction to be able to report another business flows.
For example, lending is up 13% and Openplan record year at Barclays Capital, which is run by Bob Diamond.
Investors look for consistency and sustainability: the compound annual In September, we announced that we were in negotiations to purchase growth rate in economic profit at Barclays Capital over the last three a majority stake in Absa.
We have completed due diligence.
The record achievement of 2004 was in an Regulatory Authorities are considering our applications and we are environment where corporate issuance volumes in the US and Europe working with them.
This transaction would increase our earnings were down, where interest rates were rising, and where volatility, on generated outside the UK and provide a strong position in a rapidly which investment banks generally thrive, was quite low.
growing and well run emerging market.
At Barclays Global Investors, chaired by Bob Diamond, profit before The fourth component of our Group Strategy is operational excellence.
tax has more than quadrupled in the last three years: this speaks of We regard strong franchise health with customers, employees and satisfied clients.
Our investment track record in Barclays Global communities as a proxy for future growth.
So we attach great Investors, across all asset classes and durations, singles us out as a importance to this strategic priority.
Colleagues: significant improvement in employee opinion survey results 7 Group Chief Executives statement In 2004, we received widespread recognition for our policies in a range of areas, including financial inclusion, community involvement, staff pensions, outsourcing, partnership with our trade union partner, Amicus, and disability.
This recognition is important because it demonstrates that we take seriously the issues that concern our customers, our employees, and society at large and that we are taking positive action.
The outlook for 2005 is good as a result of balance sheet growth and investments made in 2004.
We are targeting double digit income growth and will continue to invest in the organic development of the business.
We intend that cost growth should be broadly in line with income growth and we will manage costs carefully through the year in the light of income performance.
Asset quality is strong, and the risk dials are stable.
But we must acknowledge that 2004 was a very benign year for provisions where we benefited from a charge lower than it would be reasonable to expect in 2005.
Overall, we take nothing for granted, but 2005 should be a year in which we can move forward confidently.
We are in business to help our customers achieve their goals.
Our ability to earn our customers loyalty, to win more of their business, and our success in recruiting new customers, depends entirely on the quality of our people.
We have great people in Barclays and my thanks go to all of them, throughout the world, who have coped well with continuing change and with the demands placed upon them.
That Barclays delivered the best year in its long history in 2004 is, more than anything else, a tribute to them.
John Varley Group Chief Executive Widespread recognition for community involvement 8 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Group Finance Directors review Profit before tax at 4,603m was up 20%.
Return on average shareholders funds was 19% and the total dividend payout rose 17%.
Economic profit was up 32%, well ahead of our goal and a reflection of tight capital management as well as good business performance.
Our capital position remained healthy, with a tier 1 ratio of 7.6%.
This increase was broadly based and was a key driver of the Groups strong performance.
We continued to invest heavily and this was reflected in the costs which were 15% higher.
Provisions fell by 19%, reflecting a sharp fall in nonperforming and potential problem loans as well as good asset quality.
2 Business Performance There was good growth in profit before tax across all our business divisions with momentum in the core UK businesses and in our global product businesses.
Our increasingly diverse and distinctive business mix is well positioned for future growth.
Barclays performed very UK Banking grew profit before tax by 9%, driven primarily by a very strong performance in UK Business Banking, where profit before tax strongly in 2004 delivering was up 19%, and broadly flat profit before tax performance in UK Retail Banking.
At a seminar for investors in October 2004, UK Banking record profit before tax, up committed to a goal of reducing its cost:income ratio by 2% per annum for each of the three years 2005, 2006 and 2007.
There was UK Business Banking performed strongly with good income growth, good momentum across all up 8%, tight cost management and very good risk management accentuated by one large recovery.
the business divisions and In UK Retail Banking the focus in 2004 was on restructuring the business which included investing heavily in additional customer facing broadly based income growth.
staff, upgrading branch management and investing in technology.
There were encouraging signs of progress in 2004 with good balance The results confirm that our growth in current accounts, premier and small business but a weaker contribution from mortgages where the impact of a decline in the strategy is delivering.
back book, rising base rates and a fall in early redemption income impacted its contribution.
Costs increased 3% with almost half of the Naguib Kheraj, Group Finance Director increase attributable to the new regulatory environment, particularly in the mortgage and general insurance businesses.
Provisions fell 44%, reflecting the overall quality of the loan portfolio but also a release of provisions in the mortgage business.
1 Economic profit EP is defined as profit after tax and minority interests plus certain gains and losses reported within the statement of total recognised gains and losses where they arise from the Groups business activities and are in respect of transactions with third parties, less a charge for the cost of average shareholders funds which includes purchased goodwill.
2 The analysis of results by business includes goodwill amortisation.
This differs from that included in the results announcement dated 10th February 2005, where the analysis of results by business excludes goodwill amortisation.
Dividend per share increased 17% Earnings per share increased 21% 9 Group Finance Directors review Profit before tax in Private Clients and International was up 60%.
Profit before tax The improved performance in this division reflected the benefits of prior year investments both organic and by acquisition helped by 5,000 4,603 stronger markets.
This included a significantly improved performance 3,845 from the closed life assurance activities.
4,000 3,205 3,000 Profit before tax in Private Clients, for the ongoing business, increased 42% benefiting from strong income growth and good cost control.
2,000 The integrations of Charles Schwab Europe and the Gerrard business 1,000 progressed well.
In International, profit before tax increased by 14%.
0 This represented good progress across all geographies: Africa: Spain: m 2002 2003 2004 Portugal: France: Italy: and the Caribbean.
The merging of Banco Zaragozano with Barclays Spain to create one Spanish business is well ahead of schedule and there has been a very good response amongst the Banco Zaragozano network to Barclays products.
Barclaycard delivered profit before tax growth of 5% in a year where Post tax return on average volume growth more than compensated for the impact of successive shareholders funds interest rate rises and intense competition.
There was a high level of investment in both the UK business and 25 internationally, managed within cost growth of 6%.
Performance was 19.2 20 17.0 strong in our multi-branded business such as Monument and FirstPlus.
14.7 15 Barclaycard International delivered a profit of 8m 2003: 4m despite 10 absorbing significant ongoing investment.
The acquisition of Juniper 5 was an important strategic move into the US credit card market.
0 Barclays Capital had another record year, with profit before tax up % 2002 2003 2004 25%.
Income grew by 24%, reflecting the return on investment in prior years.
Client activity was up sharply, leading to good volume growth in both primary and secondary markets.
A significant level of investment for future revenue growth was funded by the business and reflected in costs which grew 37%.
Approximately 50% of the cost base is variable Earnings per share and despite the significant growth in staff numbers, income per head remained broadly flat.
60 51.2 50 Barclays Global Investors BGI had another excellent year with profit 42.3 40 before tax up 85%.
Profits have more than quadrupled during the last 33.7 30 three years.
Income grew 33% and assets under management were 20 709bn 2003: 598bn.
BGI continued to diversify its product range 10 and in particular made significant advances in exchange traded funds iShares where it is the market leader.
0 pence 2002 2003 2004 Capital Strength Our capital position and strong credit rating are sources of competitive advantage.
At the end of 2004, our risk asset ratio was 11.5%, and our tier 1 capital ratio was 7.6%.
This strong capital Return on average shareholders funds 19% 10 10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 position enhances our ability to pay dividends and invest confidently in Capital ratios business growth.
When we look at the balance sheet, we focus capital management on five areas: maintaining our double A credit rating: 15 generating sufficient capital to support weighted risk asset growth in the business: financing corporate activity, delivering dividend growth: 12.8 12.8 12 11.5 and using share buy backs to manage any excess capital.
In 2004 we bought back almost 700m of stock.
9 8.2 7.9 7.6 Goals 6 Risk asset 2004 marked the start of our new four-year goal period that will ratio operate for 2004 to 2007 inclusive.
Continuing to make public our 3 stretching goals has had a positive impact across Barclays.
Tier 1 0 Ratio Our primary goal is to achieve top quartile Total Shareholder Return % 2002 2003 2004 1 TSR on a sustained basis, relative to our peer group.
TSR is the sum of share price appreciation and dividends treated as if reinvested in Barclays shares.
We believe that relative TSR is the most effective and relevant way of measuring Barclays value creation.
It aligns the Dividend per share interests of employees with those of shareholders.
At the end of 2004, Barclays was top relative to its peer group of international financial 25 24.00 20.50 services comparators with a TSR for the year of 23.1%.
This was 20 18.35 almost double the average for UK banks and for the FTSE 100 15 market Index.
10 5 We are also targeting a compound annual growth of economic profit 0 of between 10% to 13% for the four-year goal period.
We believe that achieving this level of growth in economic profit should enable us to pence 2002 2003 2004 deliver our primary goal of top quartile total shareholder return.
In 2004, economic profit increased by 32% positioning us well ahead of the goal.
Outlook Barclays performed strongly in 2004 and there is good momentum from the strong balance sheet growth and expansion in assets under management.
We have also been investing heavily and feel confident about our ability to convert such investment into future profit growth.
We therefore plan for 2005 to be another year of progress.
Naguib Kheraj Group Finance Director 1 TSR above is calculated on a gross dividend reinvestment basis.
2 Peer group for 2004: ABN Amro, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, HBOS, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland and UBS.
Total shareholder return for the year 23% 11
