2 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Chairmans statement property markets, to refocus and simplify our retail branch-based business and to reduce costs in the core business by 40 million.
Dividend The Board is pleased to propose a final dividend of 11.4 pence per share for payment on 6 May 2005 to shareholders on the register as at 29 March 2005.
If approved, the full year dividend for 2004 will be 17.1 pence per share, an increase of 4% 2003: 16.5 pence.
Lending Our total managed lending balances increased 12% to 28.9 billion 2003: 25.9 billion and total new lending was a healthy 9.2 billion 2003: 9.9 billion including acquired assets.
The Group has a clear strategy and an Growth was primarily driven by the residential appropriate structure.
After an eventful year in lending business where we have continued to build upon our strong position in several 2004, 2005 offers great opportunity to build specialist segments of the market.
Lending income and profit both showed Rod Kent Chairman satisfactory growth, although Group net interest margin continued to decline mainly driven by narrower liability spreads as the Groups funding 2004 was an eventful year in the development one-off exceptional costs will be rapidly offset base was deliberately diversified and strengthened.
of the Bradford & Bingley Group.
A new Group by the substantial cost savings and better Chief Executive was appointed in March and, quality earnings in the future.
Our arrears have continued to be very low following a strategic review, five non-core by historical standards.
Our arrears businesses were sold and a programme to cut Steven Crawshaw was appointed Group Chief performance compares well to overall costs by 40 million was initiated.
Performance Executive in March, following the departure of industry statistics for the book as a whole of the continuing core businesses was the previous Group Chief Executive.
Stevens five and in our buy-to-let portfolio.
Profit before tax and exceptional years with the Group, including his two years as items increased 6% to 280.2 million and Managing Director of Lending and Savings, Balance Sheet and Capital earnings per share before exceptional items preceded by his eight years of experience in the We have increased our access to funding increased 8% to 31.0 pence per share.
mortgage industry, make him very well equipped from the secured markets successfully launching to lead the Company.
In May the Board a2 billion covered bond and establishing a There has been a cost attached to this announced the outcome of its strategic review master trust securitisation programme in 2004. reorganisation amounting to 174.9 million concluding with the aim to simplify and change These new funding platforms significantly reducing the profits before taxation after these the future direction of the Group.
enhance our ability to source funding from new costs to 105.3 million.
Much of this and highly liquid financial markets.
represents goodwill being written off, The main conclusions of this were to dispose consequently the impact on our regulatory of our non-core businesses, to continue the capital is comparatively small.
The Board is emphasis of our lending on the specialist confident that the short-term pain of these segments of the residential and other 3 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 We will continue to balance our funding The increasingly complex regulatory landscape is The professionalism of our people has shone needs from traditional wholesale sources, the an inescapable part of life as a financial services through during the year and is evidenced by secured funding markets and by growing our organisation.
Despite simplification of the the smooth running of the core businesses, savings balances in 2005. business, regulatory requirements will continue the swift conclusion of the sale processes and to put pressure on costs and absorb good progress in meeting cost targets.
The Group remains well capitalised and capital management time.
ratios are within target ranges.
Outlook We were fined 650,000 by the FSA because The Group is starting 2005 stronger and fitter Retail branch business of non-compliant selling practices regarding the after the hard work carried out in 2004.
We In our Retail branches we have started to sale of investment bonds by our Independent have a clear strategy and an appropriate simplify and enhance our customer Financial Advisers.
We have redoubled our structure.
We are expecting the mortgage and proposition.
We are looking to improve sales efforts to ensure that we are fully compliant in housing markets to moderate from the procedures, product ranges, back office future with all requirements.
The simplification exceptionally strong conditions seen in 2003 processes and profitability.
of our business should help in this regard.
Fundamentals in the secured lending market are strong and we expect to Our new partnership with Legal & General is We are continuing to prepare for the show continued growth in Lending.
Our an important step in the development of this forthcoming consequences of adopting branch-based Retail business offers good business.
The combination of their experience International Financial Reporting Standards.
growth potential from a relatively low base and comprehensive product range, alongside We will communicate with the market as and we will continue to improve our that within our branches, gives our customers appropriate during 2005 to discuss the customer proposition.
2005 offers great better provision of investment and protection changes to the financial accounts but, at the opportunities to build value for the future.
products and improves overall profitability for moment, do not believe the overall impact the Group.
on earnings or capital will be material.
Rod Kent Chairman Our branch-based mortgage broking business is Board now operating under the new Financial Services In March, Christopher Rodrigues resigned as Authority FSA regulations.
We have revamped Group Chief Executive to become CEO of Visa the size and number of the various panels of International.
I would like to express my thanks lenders and given complete transparency of feeto Christopher for his eight years of service charging to our customers.
The trading name of during which time the Group became a plc.
Following the decision to sell the non-core We have re-energised our retail Savings businesses, Ian Darby resigned from the business, raising the profile of our product Board in August.
After continuing in his role range.
In October we launched a new internet as Commercial Director, he will be leaving based deposit account which has been very the Group in August 2005.
We thank him for successful.
Overall, Savings balances grew by his contribution to the Group.
The Board 1.1 billion over the year, the first significant now consists of myself as Chairman, five progression since the flotation in 2000.
Non-Executive directors and three Executive directors.
Regulation In regulatory terms, 2004 was a particularly People significant year with the FSA taking The sale of five businesses, accounting for roughly responsibility for mortgage regulation from half of the Groups workforce, and the onset of the 31 October, a challenge the Group passed cost cutting measures have meant a difficult time through smoothly.
for employees in many parts of the business.
