British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Chairmans Statement The past year has been another excellent one for your Company with strong performance in both absolute and relative terms.
The Companys net asset value per share increased by 24.5% on a total return basis compared to a rise in the MSCI World total return Index of 8.9%, while the FTSE All-Share Index rose 15.7% and the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index our benchmark rose 12.2%.
Over 3 years the net asset value total return per share has grown by 48.2% compared to a fall in the MSCI World Index of 1.4%.
Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Over 5 years the Companys performance remains 1st out of 28 Global Growth Trusts.
Chairman A second year of rising markets has borne out our belief two years ago that markets were cheap and oversold.
The Trusts NAV total return has risen 57.3% during the last two financial years beating the MSCI World Index, which rose by 29.4% over the same period.
The differences between the valuations of growth and value stocks and The Trusts between small cap and large cap have narrowed dramatically over the two years.
NAV total Bargains are harder to find in a world in which valuations have converged.
Our Manager has become more cautious on the direction of equity markets in general.
return has Nevertheless, we remain confident in their ability to uncover attractive opportunities risen 57.3% in our specialist area of expertise.
We have made an encouraging start to the new financial year and we shall continue to seek out value from our portfolio, current and during the last prospective.
two financial The income account was very healthy largely due to higher dividends from our years investments as we re-balanced our portfolio during the year.
On the back of this the Board is pleased to recommend an increase in the final dividend from 1.15p to 1.30p per share making a total dividend for the year of 1.70p, an increase of almost 10%.
Last year I informed Shareholders that our Manager, Asset Value Investors AVI, had become employee owned.
I am glad to say that the transition of the support functions including fund administration, accounting and secretarial services has gone smoothly.
The Board was also heavily involved in implementing a new and updated management agreement with AVI, details of which are included later in this report.
Cazenove Total Return NAV 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 In his second year in sole charge of the Companys investments, John Pennink has delivered another outstanding performance and investor confidence is indicated by the fact that the discount on which our shares trade has narrowed to just 1.8%.
During the year our marketing efforts have been targeted at increasing our retail investor base and I am pleased to report that retail investors have increased by 21% since the start of the year.
I am sure that our new investors have been influenced by the performance of our management team and I would like to welcome all new investors to British Empire.
We would love to continue this years performance level going forward but it is worthwhile reminding investors that our investment philosophy is to seek out long-term value and there will be periods when it will not be possible to deliver such outstanding returns.
However, we do believe that our investment philosophy is proven and will continue to deliver long-term value to Shareholders.
Modified FSA Listing Rules require each Investment Trust to make a statement in the Annual Report affirming that the continuing appointment of the investment manager is in the best interests of the Shareholders.
Shareholders will find our official statement in its proper form later in the report but I would just like to say here that in view of the outstanding performance outlined above, both in performance terms and in the day to day operations of the Trust, the Board had no difficulty in confirming the re-appointment of our Manager.
The Board is also aware of the possible effects of the new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS on the results of your Company.
Preliminary figures suggest that reductions in asset value from moving to bid rather than mid market prices on our investments will not be material to the overall value of your Company with possible offsets arising from asset revaluations at some of our investee companies as they also move to the new reporting regime.
As I indicated here last year, John Walton had offered to resign as a Director because of his concerns about potential conflicts of interest arising from the management buyout of AVI and his longevity on the Board.
We decided then to ask John to remain as a Director, subject to annual re-election by Shareholders, not least because experience of more than one investment cycle can be valuable to the Board of an investment trust.
We have again discussed with John whether he wishes to seek re-election this year but 5 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Chairmans Statement continued have reluctantly come to the conclusion that we shall not be proposing this at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Johns wisdom and passion for investing will be missed by all the Board but John, in his role as Chairman of AVI, will remain available to the Board as we deem fit and, in particular, he will join us for our annual strategy session when we review the long-term direction of the Trust.
It was Johns vision that started British Empire on its path of searching for undervalued assets all those years ago.
The philosophy is now well proven and robust and Shareholders have benefited tremendously from his insights and hard work.
The Board is sure that Shareholders would like to join us in thanking him for his remarkable 20 year contribution to the Company.
I should like to welcome John May who joined the Board on 15 December 2003 and has already made a very positive contribution to our deliberations.
I would also like to thank my fellow Directors for their support and particularly for meeting the extra demands on their time during this transitional year.
As in previous years, the Directors would like to invite Shareholders to a buffet lunch following the AGM.
If you would like to attend, please reply on the enclosed card.
Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman 17 November 2004 6
