Caledonia Investments plc 02 Annual report 2004 Chairmans statement Results The first year for Caledonia as an authorised investment trust has been highly successful with significant outperformance recorded against its chosen benchmark.
Total shareholder returns of 77% and 138% over five and ten years have outdistanced the FTSE All-Share Total Return index by 90% and 44% respectively.
This performance has been achieved by following our long established strategy of taking significant stakes in businesses of which we have a good understanding, with particular emphasis on identifying high calibre management.
We also take the longer term view.
We are particularly pleased that this continued outperformance is being recognised in our share price, which over the financial year has increased by 58% from 642.5 pence to 1017 pence.
This not only reflects the improved underlying net asset value but, just as encouragingly, a narrowing of the share price discount from 30% to 20%.
Whilst it is always wise to acknowledge that we cannot Peter Buckley control our own share price, we have made determined efforts to Chairman explain ourselves more widely to the retail investing community, which we believe has contributed to increased investor interest and the marked reduction in the discount.
Our good results have enabled us to recommend an increased final dividend of 18.6 pence per share, resulting in an increase in our annual dividend from 26 pence to 27 pence.
This is in line with our stated aim of progressive dividend increases, which has been unbroken for the past 37 years, and we are well positioned for this with distributable reserves of 451m, which is unusually high for an investment trust.
Settlement proposals In my interim statement I explained the proposals, put to us in June of last year, which would have resulted in the liquidation of the assets of Caledonia and destroyed a company that has produced outstanding long term performance for its shareholders.
These proposals were nevertheless carefully considered by your board with advice from N M Rothschild & Sons and Cazenove & Co. With the benefit of this advice, the board unanimously concluded that the proposals were not in the best interests of shareholders.
These proposals had been formulated by a minority group of shareholders in The Cayzer Trust Company, a 38% shareholder in Caledonia and wholly owned by members of the Cayzer family and related trusts.
The support of a majority in Cayzer Trust was needed for the proposals to succeed, but in the event they were overwhelmingly rejected and formally withdrawn on 17 October 2003.
Caledonia Investments plc 03 Annual report 2004 Your board, as represented by all of its independent directors, Board was quite clear that it was not in the interests of the shareholders We were pleased to welcome John May, who joined the board as of Caledonia, nor its business, for this highly public dispute, an executive director on 1 September last year.
His experience which had lasted for several years, to continue and urged the over 25 years of advising, managing and investing in both listed board of Cayzer Trust to continue to seek a solution.
This and unlisted companies is well fitted to Caledonias business subsequently led to Caledonias announcement, on 15 March this model and he has already made a significant contribution.
This year, of a proposed return of funds by way of an elective special appointment partly anticipated the retirement of Sir David Kinloch, dividend, on up to two-ninths of all shareholdings, of an amount who reached the age of 62 in January this year, but who remains based on an 18% discount to the companys net asset value a non-executive director until the conclusion of this years AGM.
This net asset value per share will be after making David, who joined British & Commonwealth shortly before the provision for the proposed final dividend, which will be paid to separation from Caledonia, was a founder executive director all shareholders on all their shares, whether or not they elect to of Caledonia when it took on its new life in 1988, and became receive the special dividend.
All shares on which the special deputy chief executive in 1994.
His shrewd judgement and overall dividend is elected will be cancelled for nil consideration through contribution during this time has been of great value to shareholders a Court approved reduction of capital.
If this proposal is approved, and I would like to thank him most warmly on your behalf.
this net asset value will be struck shortly before the elective dividend is due to be paid in early July and will result in an I would like to advise shareholders that, since the publication of enhanced net asset value per share for continuing shareholders the revised Combined Code by the Financial Reporting Council of between 1.6% and 4.7%, depending on the level of take up of after the lengthy debate on the Higgs Report, your board has the elective special dividend.
Cayzer Trust will elect to receive its introduced a Governance Committee, comprising three dividend in full, which will enable it, in conjunction with existing independent non-executive directors.
This will ensure that any resources, to pay out its dissident minority group of shareholders potential conflict of interest will be identified, and then addressed under the terms of an agreed settlement.
only by those directors who are free of any such conflict.
We continue to review the balance and composition of the board in A circular setting out full particulars of the elective special dividend the light of the revised Combined Code.
proposals has been sent to shareholders.
The circular also sets out proposals for Caledonia to renew its authority to make Staff market purchases of its own shares and for approval of a waiver The liquidation proposals already referred to proved an unwelcome of the mandatory offer provisions in the City Code that might distraction for management, incurring considerable cost, and otherwise apply to the Cayzer concert party as a consequence diverting the proper focus of creating shareholder value.
These would provide Caledonia with may imagine, the settlement proposals have been equally time additional flexibility in the management of its capital base and consuming, but in a much better cause.
Adjusting to our new are more fully explained under the heading of Extraordinary status as an investment trust, with the increased level of reporting general meeting in the directors report on page 31.
Your board which we have introduced, has also added to the work load very much hopes that these proposals will be successfully and Caledonia is more complicated than the majority of concluded and allow management to concentrate fully on the conventional investment trusts.
As ever, our management team development of the business.
has risen admirably to the challenges and I would like to record the fullest thanks of the board on behalf of all the shareholders Economic and political background for their unstinting efforts.
We are fortunate to have a high calibre It has been my custom to make brief mention of the economic management team, which is well suited to lead the business and political background in which we must exercise our forward.
investment and commercial decisions and, in my view, if the present Government were a listed business, most analysts would Outlook post a sell rating.
Public expenditure has soared with few visible The difficult political and economic background referred to benefits, taxation has risen steeply, but disguised as cleverly as above, combined with instability in the Middle East, make the the spin merchants know how, and both business and the citizen climate for investment judgements, as ever, most challenging.
are becoming increasingly entangled in webs of legislation, However, we continue to identify an encouraging number of which seem to encourage both blame and dependency cultures.
opportunities, which we have found over the years do not always What surprises many is that our economy still seems in such conform with world economic trends.
Such opportunities can, good shape, but when the honeymoon of tax rises to fuel the ever if carefully chosen, still deliver value against the trend and we increasing, but non-productive, government expenditure is over, shall endeavour to succeed in this regard.
as surely must come, we have to earn our place in an increasingly competitive world economy and not just within the slower economies of Europe.
It is of considerable concern that the political leaders within Europe continue to enlarge the European Community, with the recent accession of ten new member states with less advanced Peter Buckley economies, when it is painfully obvious that the formula for Chairman a combined Europe is at breaking point so far as many members of its electorate are concerned.
Reality and affordability need to come more to the forefront, but it does seem that democracy may temper the political pipe dreams and, so far as Britain is concerned, the re-emergence of a credible opposition political party, with a more balanced view on the European Union, is encouraging.
