4 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Barrie Cottingham Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report another year of Islands, will again be offered the The European Credit Directive continues excellent results for the group which opportunity to have their dividends to pass slowly through the European have been achieved in challenging reinvested in the companys shares parliamentary process and changes market conditions.
Profit before tax and through participation in our Dividend arising from the Directive are not goodwill amortisation of 141.2 million Reinvestment Plan.
expected to be effective before 2008. represents an increase of 15.1% compared to the 122.7 million reported As we enter the third year of our five year As had been anticipated, the Office of in 2003.
On the same basis, earnings plan, these results demonstrate the Fair Trading OFT referred the UK per share increased by 14.5% to 30.20p good progress which the group Home Credit sector to the Competition compared to 26.37p in 2003. continues to make towards achieving Commission in December 2004.
Cattles the challenging targets we have set for provided full co-operation to the OFT After charging goodwill amortisation of ourselves.
Importantly, profitable growth and is continuing to do so with the 3.2 million, profit before tax increased has continued to be achieved without Competition Commission investigation, by 15.5% to 138.1 million compared to compromising our underwriting criteria which is expected to take at least 119.5 million last year, with basic and credit quality.
Loans for earnings per share increasing by 15.2% which the group offers a home to 29.23p.
collection service have been Regulation significantly reduced over the last few The Board is recommending an A Bill proposing legislation to replace the years and now account for around 11% increased final dividend of 9.45p per existing Consumer Credit Act was 2003: 15% of our consumer divisions share payable on 10 May 2005, announced in the Queen's Speech in total receivables.
compared to 8.15p paid last year.
This, November 2004 and is currently together with the interim dividend of progressing through Parliament.
With effect from October 2004 and 4.55p per share, gives a total dividend Secondary legislation on advertising January 2005, respectively, the groups for the year of 14.00p, representing an was introduced on 31 October 2004 involvement in the sale and distribution increase of 15.7% over the previous and changes to form and content of of mortgages through Dial4aloan and year.
agreement and pre-contractual insurance products through other information will become effective from subsidiaries, became regulated by the As an alternative to receiving the cash 31 May 2005.
Primary legislative Financial Services Authority FSA.
Both dividend, shareholders in the United changes are unlikely to take effect applications for registration and Kingdom, excluding the Channel before 2006. approval by the FSA were successfully Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 5 submitted and obtained ahead of the International Financial Reporting significant.
Considerable senior prescribed dates, thereby ensuring Standards management time and the commitment the uninterrupted operation of our of substantial resources at all levels of The group is required to adopt activities.
the business have been required to be International Financial Reporting devoted to these projects.
On behalf of Standards IFRS, with effect from As part of this process, a the Board, I wish to express my thanks 1 January 2005.
These new reporting comprehensive review of all our relevant to all our employees for their dedication standards represent a major change operating policies and procedures was and the professional manner in which from UK Generally Accepted Accounting undertaken during 2004 and our training they have responded to these changes.
Principles UK GAAP, previously programmes enhanced, where adopted by the group.
To ensure that we continue initial indication, we have estimated the Future to maintain our high standards of changes to profits and net assets and customer care and compliance, all We are pleased with the groups these are set out in the Chief Executives relevant customer facing employees of performance during 2004 and, against a Review.
the consumer division were required to continuing competitive market, we look complete additional training and forward to making further progress in In accordance with the best practice accreditation prior to the new regulatory 2005. guidelines issued by The Hundred environment coming into force.
Group of Finance Directors, we shall hold presentations during the second As a responsible lender, Cattles fully quarter of 2005.
This will enable us to supports the positive actions being provide a thorough analysis of the taken to strengthen existing legislation changes resulting from IFRS, clearly and and regulation.
We continue to separately from the announcement of Barrie Cottingham contribute to the consultation process.
our 2004 results under UK GAAP.
Chairman 18 March 2005 The Board also supports the highest The regulatory, compliance and level of Corporate Governance and will corporate governance developments continue to comply or explain, in line discussed above, together with the with best practice, taking into account additional demands from the the practical considerations and needs introduction of IFRS, have been of the company.
