Chairmans Statement Performance Expenses Having produced a very good return in the first half of the The investment management fee and other non interest period under review, UK equities made more modest progress expenses were around 0.61% of the Companys average during the second six months against a background of assets for the year.
This includes a fee for outperformance increases in interest rates and a rising oil price.
City of paid to our investment manager, Henderson Global Investors.
Londons net asset value total return for the twelve months This fee rate is very competitive compared with most other was 17.8% which was ahead of the FTSE All-Share Index by equity savings vehicles.
Excluding the performance fee, total 0.9%.
The outperformance was a result of good stock expenses amounted to 0.49% of shareholders funds.
selection and a positive contribution from gearing.
Savings In common with other investment trusts, City of Londons share City of London sets out to be an attractive and straight forward price discount to net asset value widened during the course of long-term savings vehicle for private investors.
Whilst this led to a more disappointing share price investing directly, shares can be purchased through the City of total return it is still in positive territory at 3.2%.
The current London Alliance Trust Pension, the Henderson Investment lower than usual demand for investment trusts provides Trust Share Plan and the Henderson ISA.
investors with the opportunity to purchase shares on a lower Outlook valuation and on historically high dividend yields.
The UK financial markets have gone some way to adjusting Share Buy Backs and Gearing from exceptionally low interest rates to a more normal level.
We seek permission from shareholders at each Annual The effect on the UK consumer will be more gradual and General Meeting to buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys remains a key consideration for domestically generated shares.
The directors only use this authority when it results in corporate profits.
The high oil price provides a further an increase in the net asset value per ordinary share and is in challenge.
the interest of shareholders as a whole.
We also take into Structural selling pressure from UK life assurance companies account the source of funds to finance a buy back and the and pension funds switching out of equities remain a concern effect on revenue and gearing.
Although no shares were but can also throw up opportunities in the UKs open system repurchased during the year ended 30 June 2004, we have of corporate ownership, with undervalued companies being bought in since that date 1.4 million shares taking advantage taken over.
As a result the net asset value has been The valuation of UK equities seems attractive with the dividend enhanced for the remaining shareholders.
This year gearing yield of the FTSE All-Share Index rising from 3.1% to 3.2% made a positive contribution to our performance compared to a since I last wrote to shareholders six months ago.
We are negative contribution in the previous year.
encouraged by this summers interim dividend increases from Dividends UK companies.
Large companies, in which the Trust is Dividends remain at the heart of our investment approach principally invested, continue to offer a significantly better because we believe that, in general, growing dividends are a dividend yield than medium sized and smaller companies.
key feature of investment success in the UK.
We are proud Annual General Meeting that City of London has increased its dividend every year since Shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting which 1966.
The statement of the Companys objective has been will take place on Friday 22 October at 4 Broadgate, London modified this year so as to clarify our commitment to growing EC2M 2DA.
The meeting will start at 3.00 pm and will include income as well as capital for our shareholders.
a presentation from the portfolio manager.
Tea and light A fourth interim dividend of 2.12p was paid on 31 August refreshments will be provided.
2004, making a net dividend for the year of 8.33p.
This is an increase of 3.2% over the previous year.
For the year to 30 June 2005, the Board is forecasting a minimum increase of 1.8% in the Companys total net dividend to 8.48p, payable S M fide Zoete at the new quarterly rate of 2.12p.
