Chairmans Review For the first time since I assumed the chair at DIGIT, I am pleased to be able to report on a year of substantial progress.
In the year to 31 January 2004, we achieved an NAV total return of 34.0%, which was rather better than the notional total return of 31.6% produced by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Our outperformance was attributable to our gearing, but your board regards the total return of 31.8% generated by our equity portfolio as satisfactory given the Max Ward change in market leadership described in detail in the Managers Review on page 5 that took place during the year.
Dividend Discount We are paying a second interim dividend of 5.0p per The discount to net asset value is an important share in lieu of a final to give a total dividend for the indicator of your companys standing in the market.
year of 7.25p, a rise of some 3.6% on last years It can be measured in two ways: with debentures 7.0p.
For comparison, the rise in the RPI over the valued at par and with debentures deducted at their period was 2.6% and that in RPIX, which excludes market value.
Each basis has its merits for particular the impact of changes in mortgage interest rates, was purposes and we monitor both closely.
Our earnings per share rose by 2.7% from basis, the discount widened over our year: from 7.08p to 7.27p.
Thus our dividend continues to be 12.4% to 15.2% on the par basis and from 2.3% to covered by our earnings and we also have a 8.8% on the market basis.
The widening of the substantial revenue reserve to draw upon should the discount is to be regretted, but it is a problem we need arise.
However, the strength of our revenue shared with many other investment trusts and it position owes much to our policy of charging to does provide us with opportunities to add value by capital some 70% of our management fee and our buying in our own shares.
We did this in a modest interest costs.
The board reviews this policy way towards the end of the year and will be regularly and is satisfied that it remains appropriate.
prepared to do it on a larger scale should suitable opportunities arise.
In future, we should like to take Gearing advantage of the flexibility provided by the recent During the year under review our net gearing legislation on treasury shares when buying back valuing debentures at par fell from 19.3% to shares further information about treasury shares 16.4%.
We continue to believe that a judicious level can be found in the Directors Report at the bottom of gearing will enhance long term returns to of page 18.
Resolution 7 at the AGM seeks your shareholders, but the experience of the last two approval for the disapplication of pre-emption rights years has made us more ready to vary the level as in the event of the re-issue of treasury shares.
Currently, the rise in undertake not to re-issue treasury shares at a valuations that has resulted from the recovery in the discount to the net asset value calculated by market has taken the edge off our appetite for deducting debentures at market value.
PAGE PAGE 3 3 Dunedin Income Gr Dunedin Income Growth Investment T owth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 rust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans Review Marketing Outlook Minimizing our discount however calculated is A year ago, the market was confronted with a broad the primary objective of our marketing efforts, array of problems: forced selling by financial which are directed at stimulating demand for DIGIT institutions: a fragile global economy: the threat of shares through the managers Investment Trust war in Iraq: and a clutch of the financial scandals Initiative.
The companys website, that are the unhappy legacy of a protracted global www.
com, highlights all aspects of the bull market.
A year on, financial misconduct still companys performance and strategy.
It also features prominently in the headlines, but in other contains detailed information on investing in the respects matters have improved, and this has been shares of DIGIT in a low cost manner, either reflected in a much more confident mood in through regular savings or a lump sum.
The main threat we see now lies in the need these products can be found on page 41. for more restrictive economic policies after a prolonged period of fiscal and monetary ease.
We Our manager has a regular programme of visits to shall monitor this carefully, but for the moment at financial advisors, investors and potential investors, least we consider equities to represent sound long and we continue to support the Association of term value.
Investment Trust Companies and their active campaigning to attract more retail investors to the industry.
We are often told that greater disclosure would enhance the appeal of DIGIT.
With this in mind, we have published a full list of our investments this year and given a more comprehensive account of our Max Ward activities in this years Managers Review than has Chairman been our custom.
There is always a risk with such changes that one takes them too far: your feedback 9 March 2004 on this would be welcome.
Management We informed you in the interim report that Edinburgh Fund Managers EFM was the subject of an agreed takeover by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and that satisfactory assurances had been received as to the continuity of our management arrangements.
The takeover duly went through and EFM is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen.
As you can see from our literature and our website, Aberdeen has retained the EFM brand.
Although it is too early to form a considered judgement of our new circumstances, we are satisfied with what we have seen so far and, based on the performance of the trusts portfolio both in the year under review and over longer periods, we are firmly of the view that EFM should be retained as DIGITs manager.
PAGE 4 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
