Chairmans statement This is my first report to you since taking over as chairman from John McGrath in September, and Im happy to be able to open my account on a positive note.
Against the background of a business undergoing major change, we ended the year with another quarter of strong sales growth, our seventh in succession.
And in almost every area of our business, especially in our stores, the changes initiated by the new executive team have started to make a visible difference.
Above all, though, my optimism is founded on a powerful sense of the huge potential still to be tapped within Boots.
We have a fantastic business: we operate in exciting growth markets: and, from top to bottom, we have great people.
Having met many of them on my travels during the year, I believe their energy, enthusiasm and expertise are the key differentiating factors that, together with continuing investment, will give us the Sir Nigel Rudd edge going forward.
00 567 00 25.2 00 5,195 01 579 01 26.3 01 5,221 02 624 02 27.4 02 5,330 03 542 03 28.6 03 5,322 04 550 04 29.8 04 5,326 Total operating profit Dividends Turnover before exceptional items m pence including share of joint ventures m Restated for FRS5 application note G revenue recognition 02 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Results and shareholder returns Comings and goings Our results for 2003 04 suggest that our customers are continuing to respond positively to I feel fortunate to have begun my tenure as chairman at the same time as Richard Baker our efforts aimed at providing them with better value and improved convenience.
Boots joined us as chief executive.
I knew that Richard brought with him great energy and The Chemists BTC traded strongly throughout the year, recording increased sales in every formidable retailing skills: but, all the same, I have been delighted by the impact he quarter: and, for the second successive year, our performance over Christmas was has already made on our business, at this very early stage in his career with Boots.
At the same time, Id like to pay a warm tribute to my predecessor, John McGrath.
By refocusing on healthcare, the traditional cornerstone of our business, weve been able His chairmanship coincided with a difficult period in the history of Boots and he played a to take advantage of a rapidly expanding market, with sales growth of 6.0% representing very important part in laying the foundations for change, on which we are now building.
our best performance in this category for many years.
He also worked incredibly hard, leading from the front by taking on the additional duties of chief executive, between the departure of Steve Russell in May and Richards arrival Boots Healthcare International performed very well, too, increasing comparable sales in September.
by 7.8%, an impressive level of growth that was achieved entirely organically.
Andy Smith resigned in October 2003.
As group human resources director, Andy was a Group sales for the year were 5,326.4m, up 4.7% on a continuing basis, while operating driving force for change in Boots, trusted and respected throughout the organisation.
The proposed final dividend of 21p per share makes a total for the year of 29.8p, up 4.2% on last year.
I would also like to welcome Guy Dawson and Tim Parker who joined us as non-executive directors during the year.
Both bring with them enormous experience and a proven record We have continued to tighten our balance sheet through our ongoing share buyback of business achievement, Guy as a leading investment banker, Tim currently chief executive programme.
During the last year, we carried out 259.9m of share repurchases and we of Kwik-Fit at the most senior executive level.
intend to continue our programme of returning surplus capital during the coming year.
Corporate social responsibility Moving the business forward As you know, Boots is one of Britains most trusted brands.
One important reason is that In broad terms, our strategy could hardly be simpler: we are committed to doing whatever we have always believed that successful businesses have obligations not just to their is necessary to make Boots a more modern, competitive and efficient business.
At ground shareholders, but to their employees, customers, their communities and the wider world.
level, that means making sure that our stores provide precisely what our customers are entitled to expect: an attractive and welcoming environment: a great choice of products, Its fair to say, though, that we have been slower than some of our competitors to take the available when they want them: good value: and expert service of the highest quality.
credit for our achievements as good corporate citizens.
So I am especially pleased to report that, over the last year, our updated corporate social responsibility programme has begun Simple to state, harder to deliver.
But that is the responsibility with which the board to win widespread recognition.
Youll find a full account on pages 16 to 19. has charged Richard Baker and his executive team.
Its important to stress, however, that while our expectations are very high, were not demanding instant results and our goals Building for sustained growth are long term.
As I began by saying, Im convinced that our business has enormous potential.
We have the people: we have the products and brands that customers want: and, gradually, our In Howard Dodds financial review on pages 22 to 25, you will find a detailed account of investment is creating the systems and structure needed to achieve sustained growth in our strategy for analysing and managing investment.
But, very briefly, our approach to risk modern retailing.
and return is now a highly pragmatic one.
Rather than setting off in pursuit of big prizes in the far distance, we are channelling our investment into core areas of our business, where As youve heard, it will take time.
In the current year, our programme of investment in BTC we can be confident of adding real value and achieving worthwhile returns.
will naturally have a major impact on profits.
But from 2005 06 onwards, we believe that a new and highly successful chapter in the long history of Boots will begin.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 03
