Chairmans Statement The twelve month period to 31 March 2004 has been a much more satisfactory period for the Company.
During the year the net asset value increased by 30.0% out performing the FTSE All-Share Index by 3.4 percentage points.
The performance was achieved through stock sector selection and the Company's borrowings.
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of 8.95p per share which if approved will give a total distribution for the year of 13.15p per share.
At the share price current on 31 March 2004 this is equivalent to a yield of 40% above the FTSE All-Share Index.
Scott Dobbie I am pleased to report a much more satisfactory year payment will total 13.15p per share.
At the share price in which both net asset value and share price rose by current on 31 March 2004, this is equivalent to a yield more than the 26.6% growth in the benchmark FTSE of 4.4% - about 40% above the 3.1% yield of the FTSE All-Share Index.
All-Share Index on the same date.
Company Performance The total dividend is not fully covered by this years net income.
The deficit of approximately 2.16m is Capital less than originally anticipated because two of our I reported at the interim stage sharp growth in the UK large investments declared dividends, totalling about equity market.
This growth continued at a slower pace 1.1m, with an ex-dividend date rather earlier than in in the following three months, after which the trend, previous years, hence falling into this years income.
although still positive, became very much weaker.
For This benefit is a one-off.
The shortfall of 2.16m will the year to 31 March 2004 the FTSE All-Share Index be met by a transfer from the revenue reserve.
This rose capital only by 26.6%.
reserve, which after this transfer will exceed 34m, Against this background, the Company performed will provide the means to sustain dividends in the well.
Net asset value NAV increased by 30.0%, short term.
outperforming the benchmark index by 3.4 Share Price percentage points.
The total return on the net assets of The share price rose by 30.1% over the year to 31 the Company, being the combination of capital March 2004 3.5 percentage points more than the performance and income, exceeded that of the benchmark index and in line with the increase in the equivalent benchmark by some 4.0 percentage points.
The Managers Review which follows shows that both stock sector selection and the Companys borrowings Historically, the Company, in common with the contributed to a satisfactory result.
investment trust sector as a whole, has calculated the NAV after deducting its borrowings at par value i. e. Income the price at which these borrowings will be redeemed Over the last few years dividends paid to shareholders at maturity.
On this basis, the share price at 31 March have exceeded the Companys net income, and I 2004 stood at a discount of 17.0% to NAV.
As interest explained in October that the Board would not rates have fallen over the past few years, the market recommend any further increase in dividend value of debentures has risen, often substantially, and payments until the Companys dividend cover had industry commentators have seen benefit in increased.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that additionally calculating the NAV after deducting the the final dividend should remain at 8.95p per share: market values of debentures.
On this second basis, this will be paid on 22 July to shareholders on the NAV at 31 March 2004 is 335.72p per share, an register at close of business on 4 June 2004.
The exincrease of 33.6% for the year.
The share price dividend date will be 2 June 2004.
If the final discount to NAV on this basis is 10.5%.
dividend is approved by shareholders, the years Page 3 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans Statement Both measures of the NAV provide useful information i. e. the degree to which funds allocated for equity to shareholders and potential investors.
From 30 June investment are, in anticipation of market falls, 2004 the statistics published by the Association of allocated temporarily to cash.
Investment Trust Companies AITC will move to The Company is emphatically not an index-tracker show net asset values on the second basis, hence and in setting policy on portfolio risk, the Board seeks apparent valuations and the discount of share price to to give the Manager sufficient scope to use its research NAV will fall.
This will not reflect any change in the and other skills to out-perform the benchmark.
Both Companys underlying investments, or indeed in the Board and Manager believe that the current risk limits cost of redeeming the outstanding debentures at which have for most of the year under review been maturity.
The Companys published NAV will in future at the low end of the prescribed range - are sufficient however be dependent not only as it is now on the to provide this scope.
More sustained evidence of changing value of its assets, but also on fluctuations in portfolio outperformance or changed market the market prices of its two debentures.
conditions may well lead to some increase, over time, Over the last few months share price discounts to in the Boards appetite for portfolio risk, and hence for NAVs have generally widened across the whole the scale and volatility of return.
investment trust sector, reflecting weakening of At the year end shareholders funds were 883.6m investor demand.
The Board places great importance and borrowings 200m, a potential gearing ratio of on Fidelitys role in building demand for shares thus 22.6%.
The Managers investment style is one of stock helping to reduce the share price discount to NAV.
To selection rather than market timing and we would not this end, Fidelity continues to promote the benefits of normally expect funds available for equity investment investment in the Company, both directly to potential to be substantially liquid.
However, while 100% investors and through independent advisors.
This utilisation of the Companys gearing would be highly promotional activity apart, the Board will, when beneficial in a rising market the impact in a falling appropriate, buy back shares for cancellation, thus market would be severe.
To provide clarity to both reducing any over-supply and enhancing the NAV for investors and to the Manager about the Companys remaining shareholders.
A special resolution to renew appetite for risk in the context of gearing, the Board the Boards authority in this regard, which was not has decided that in the present market conditions it utilised during the year under review, will be proposed would not be appropriate to invest these borrowings at the Annual General Meeting.
outside the range of 80-120 million in the equity Shareholders may be aware that, since December, market.
This position will be reviewed regularly, but in companies, including investment trusts, have been the absence of unforeseen circumstances, is likely to able to repurchase shares to hold in treasury, for remain unchanged for the next year of so.
possible reissue, rather than for cancellation.
At this The Boards gearing decision means that, at least in the stage, it is not clear if this facility will be of benefit to short-term, the Company will not fully utilise its the Company.
The Board will, however, monitor the borrowings in the equity market and prompts the use of treasury shares by the investment trust sector question of whether one of the debenture stocks and seek any necessary shareholder approval if these should be repaid, and if not, whether the uninvested new powers appear relevant to the Company.
amount can be invested to yield more than cash.
Investment and Risk Policies Again, at the time of the Interim Report, I stated that The Board sees the Companys key purpose to be to the Board believed that given our interest rate and provide an effective vehicle for the investment of equity market expectations, it was not an appropriate long-term savings in the UK equity market.
The risk time to redeem either debenture stock.
We reviewed and other policy parameters set by the Board, within this question again towards the end of the year under which the Manager makes investment decisions, relate review and reached the same conclusion.
We will principally to portfolio risk, the use of borrowings re-examine this matter regularly.
gearing and the extent of decisions on liquidity Page 4 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans Statement At the date of this statement, we are currently holding circa 80m in cash or near cash, at rates well below the cost of the debentures.
We may, in time, decide to invest some of this cash in the equity market, but the potential clearly exists meantime for some enhancement of income by investing in higher coupon instruments but only in a point in the cycle when we believe the risk to capital from firming bond yields does not offset the benefit of income gain.
This too is a matter of on-going review.
The Board In the Interim Report, I announced the appointment of Nicola Ralston and Will Samuel to the Board: both have already made a substantial contribution and they stand for election at the Annual General Meeting with the strong endorsement of their colleagues.
Roy Summers has decided to retire from the Board and accordingly will not stand for re-election.
Roy, who had a distinguished career in the brewing industry, has played a significant role in the affairs of the Company since he became a Director in 1994.
We have benefited greatly from Roys counsel and his wide industry experience.
I would like to thank him for all he has done for the Company, for his personal support to my predecessor and me, and on behalf of the Board to wish him well for the future.
Prospects The markets in the year to March 2004 made good recovery from the oversold position seen at the start of the year.
This positive economic background is counter-balanced by clear signals that trends in interest rates, both here and in North America, are likely to be upwards.
The tension between these two forces is likely to lead to some short-term uncertainty, but the Board remains cautiously optimistic in its outlook for UK equities and for our portfolio.
We believe that The Edinburgh Investment Trust provides investors with an attractive vehicle for long-term investment in the UK equity market.
Scott Dobbie Chairman 25 May 2004 Page 5 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
