04-05 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Egg remains an ambitious business with exciting growth prospects Chairmans statement 2004 has been a difficult year for Egg.
There has been uncertainty created by the potential sale of the business as well as the decision to withdraw from the French market.
In addition, we have been operating in an increasingly competitive and challenging marketplace.
Egg remains an ambitious business with exciting growth prospects and we are now rmly focused on the development of our core UK business.
Your Board and I are confident and positive about the future for Egg.
In January of this year Prudential began a process by which interested parties could make an offer for its shareholding in Egg.
This potential sale by our majority shareholder proved to be a distraction to the business for much of the first half of 2004.
In addition, the increase in competition in the UK and the rising base rate environment impacted our credit card and loan business.
However, against this background, the core UK business continues to perform well: you will see in the financial review we have reported an operating profit in our core UK business of some 74 million compared to 73 million in 2003.
We look forward to approaching 2005 with a renewed focus on our UK business.
Our aim is to continue to maximise what is now a very attractive and successful unsecured lending business, whilst developing and broadening our product range to further meet the needs of our customers.
Egg took the necessary steps to withdraw from the French market in 2004.
Tribute must be paid to our people in France who have been patient and loyal to Egg throughout the process.
We have now sold both the unsecured lending business and the savings and online brokerage business to Banque Accord and ING respectively.
In addition, we have sold our investments business to Fidelity and we have, in conjunction with Prudential, put Funds Direct, our investment wrap platform business, up for sale.
2004 has seen increasing interest among the media, politicians and consumer groups about the rising level of household debt in the UK.
Egg has been working with other lenders and industry bodies, to improve the way the industry operates.
In addition to our own responsible lending policy, lending only to those who can afford to repay, Egg has adopted a best practice of actively encouraging customers to move long-term debts from credit cards to more cost effective loans.
m 74 Egg UK operating profit 2004 06-07 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Chairmans statement Egg People have continued to work hard and remained dedicated to the business through a challenging year: on behalf of the Board I thank them sincerely for their commitment.
It is also appropriate for me to thank the Board for their contribution to the success of the business.
I am also pleased to announce that Ronnie Baird has accepted his nomination to senior independent director.
Ronnie was appointed a director of Egg in October 2003 and has held a range of prominent senior appointments throughout his career, including heading up the finance functions of International Banking and UK Retail Banking at Lloyds Bank.
Although there were no departures during the year, early in 2005 we announced the intended retirement of Executive Vice Chairman, Mike Harris.
Mike has been largely responsible for developing the vision of Egg.
On behalf of the Egg Board and all Egg People, I would like to thank him warmly for his great contribution over the past six years.
We wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
Our community programme has now completed its first year.
The programme 250,000 benets the local communities in which Egg operates by offering both money Cash and the equivalent amount in time and time from Egg People to help cultivate talent.
Over this period Egg has contribution given to our local community donated 250,000 in cash and the equivalent amount in time contribution from its people.
In total we have managed to help 5,382 people from the local community and some 200 people have given 900 hours of their time.
I am pleased to announce that we have made another 250,000 in cash available for 2005.
5,382 Egg remains intent on improving customers relationships with their money.
People have been helped in our local community By helping people to make more informed choices about their money we aim to help customers lead a better life, provide fullling careers for our people and good returns for our shareholders.
Roberto Mendoza Egg a great place to work Our people are central to the success of Egg.
Thats why in 2004 we put so much effort We like it here into creating the right working environment for all of our people.
The amount of people saying that Egg is a great place to work has 12 2004: 71% almost doubled since 2003.
03 2003: 37% 08-09 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Egg attracts me 11 2000: 30% 06 2000: 20% 01 1999: 15% Brand consideration In just over six years we have 11 2004: 70% created a brand from which almost three quarters of UK consumers would consider buying a financial product not bad from a standing start.
