uk Chairman Chief Executive s statement s operational review Sir Nigel Mobbs Malcolm Harris Group results The Group has achieved record profits The Group achieved a further year of during the 2004 financial year, with record profits and improvement to the the seventh consecutive year of profit asset base.
Profit before tax growth since the Groups flotation increased to 145.2 million, an 18.0% in 1997.
During this seven year period increase over the previous year.
profits have grown by a compound Return upon average capital employed 21% per annum.
The Group has been successful during 2004 in The consented land bank closed at further strengthening its land bank and has 11,528 plots 2003: 10,878 plots and increased return on average capital employed strategic land ended the year with to 25.7%.
22,831 potential plots 2003: 22,152 Results potential plots after transferring Profit on ordinary activities before tax for the year 2,155 plots from strategic land to ended 31 December 2004 increased by 18.0% to consented land during the year.
145.2 million, compared with 123.0 million in 2003.
The Groups operating margin remained This result was achieved from total turnover of 559.5 million, 17.0% greater than the previous year.
Gearing remained low due to good The operating margin remained broadly similar at cash management including an 26.7% compared with 27.0% in 2003 as did return increase in the value of deferred on average capital employed at 25.7% compared to 25.5% reported for the prior year.
Basic earnings per payment land creditors.
share improved by 17.3% to 87.0 pence per ordinary Trading environment share compared to 74.2 pence per ordinary share The first six months of the year witnessed a strong in 2003. forward demand stimulated by a combination of increased employment, average earnings improvements and 2004 low interest rates.
The second half year was operating margin adversely affected by increased interest rates and negative comments relating to the housing market made by both the media and the Bank of England.
Although base interest rates were still low by planning historical standards, the movement from 3.75% in 26.7 February 2004 to 4.75% in August 2004 was percent sufficient to cool both consumer spending and house price increases.
profiting from our strategic landholdings Page 12 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Bovis Homes Gr Bovis Homes Gr oup PLC oup PLC Page 3 Page 13 2004 Preston dividend per share circa Some examples of the Groups 400 Land for development is our vital resource.
strategic sites around the country new homes 20.0 Nottingham The role of our land team is to acquire pence Wellingborough circa circa suitable sites across the country that we 850 Dividend A circular containing details of the scrip dividend new homes 3,000 The Board proposes a final dividend for the year alternative and the scrip dividend mandate scheme, can continue to develop profitably over new homes ended 31 December 2004 of 13.6 pence to be paid on together with the relevant form of election, will be 20 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at the sent to shareholders at the same time as the notice the next 15 years close of business on 29 March 2005.
This dividend of meeting for the Annual General Meeting.
Alastair Thomas, Group Commercial and Strategic Land Director when added to the interim dividend of 6.4 pence paid Market conditions on 26 November 2004 totals 20.0 pence for the year The housing market, after a period of sustained and is covered 4.4 times by the basic earnings per Profiting from forward planning Brockworth Airfield buoyancy, experienced a mixed year in 2004. share of 87.0 pence.
The total dividend per share for Bovis Homes is continually investing in suitable land where we can Brockworth Airfield is located on the M5 corridor on the outskirts of Walsall By contrast to 2003, the first half of the year was the year represents an increase of 22% over the total create attractive sustainable communities.
Our land teams source Gloucester and gained residential planning consent in January 2005. very strong.
House sales price growth reached circa dividend for 2003 of 16.4 pence.
the most appropriate sites and plan ahead to create a cost-effective This site is expected to deliver approximately 1,300 plots of unsustainable levels combined with a significant land bank that can be developed over the following years.
increase in the volume of housing transactions.
The Board intends conditional on any necessary 450 Consequently, press speculation and powerful approvals required at future annual general new homes Dedicated forward planning ensures that Bovis Homes has an This site was formerly used as an airfield where some early testing Southampton commentary from external bodies including the meetings, to increase the full year dividend over adequate supply of land available for future development.
of jet aircraft had taken place.
A major consideration in acquiring a circa Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee each of the next four years by 5.0 pence per annum.
new site is to ensure that any contaminated land is dealt with Strategic land investment has been a consistent policy of the Group created a general concern that the housing market This commitment, which is subject to a stable appropriately.
Successful conversion of strategic land options has 600 could witness a downturn.
The second half of 2004 business environment, will double the full year new homes delivered consented land at a discount to market value.
In recent At Brockworth it was possible to bio-remediate the small areas for the housing market saw the consumer reflecting dividend over the four year period to 40.0 pence per years, there has been an increased focus on brown land contaminated by aircraft fuel.
It proved to be an excellent this concern with slower house sales price growth share from its 2004 base of 20.0 pence per share.
The Group has been procuring controlling interests in environmental and economic solution as the soil did not have to be and a slowing of the increase in property The Group is able to make such a commitment in circa large sites with existing commercial and industrial planning consent moved off site.
Having shown a year to date increase terms of dividend growth due to the strong pull Filton, Bristol with a view to promotion through the planning process to gain of 38% to June 2004, property transactions closed through of strategic land which will deliver strong Many natural amenities within the site have been retained, circa 1,300 residential consent.
This type of strategic investment involves 2004 31% above 2003.
The Monetary Policy future profits and cash flows for the Group.
including a stand of ancient oaks and an attractive stream that will new homes significantly increased rewards whilst accepting an element of Committee increased base interest rates four times be landscaped to provide a waterside walk.
In addition, wild birds are 2,200 The Board is proposing to introduce, subject to the financial risk through payments to secure the land.
Any purchase of between 5 February 2004 and 5 August 2004, being encouraged to breed in the area through the provision of new homes approval of the Companys shareholders at the 2005 land with an existing use is assessed against a valuation of the increasing the rate from 3.75% to 4.75%.
Whilst the nesting boxes for barn owls and falcons.
Annual General Meeting, a scrip dividend existing use and any excess paid over the valuation is amortised over absolute level of base interest rates was not such as alternative, pursuant to which the shareholders may a sensible planning period to limit the exposure of the excess.
to significantly undermine housing affordability, the Positive environmental activity will take place on the site where elect to receive the whole or part of their dividend upward direction of these rates during the six 1,300 residential units will be constructed, creating a major new Strategic investments of this type will deliver a discount to market in new ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead month period between February and August settlement complete with new school and local shopping outlets.
value on gaining planning consent.
Having gained planning, the of cash, for the final dividend for the year ended 31 weakened consumer confidence.
Consumers Group continues to employ its core financial controls.
December 2004 and a scrip dividend mandate deferred making significant purchase decisions in scheme for all future dividends to the extent that anticipation of potential further interest rate rises.
At the end of 2004, the Group controlled 22,831 plots of strategic the Board decides, at its discretion, to offer a scrip 2004 to 2006 2004 strategic land The Monetary Policy Committee was effective with land, of which 10,928 plots were in strategic growth locations areas dividend alternative in respect of such dividends.
conversion its interest rate policy and market commentary.
designated for development within draft or adopted plans by local, county or unitary authorities.
During 2004, the Group delivered 2,155 plots from the strategic land bank into the consented land bank at a discount to market value of 23%.
9000, 2155 strategic plots expected Between 2004 and 2006 we have set ourselves the target of gaining to gain planning consent plots at 23% discount planning consent for 9,000 strategic land plots on a variety of sites that we contol.
Brockworth Airfield, Gloucester Page 4 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Base interest rates have remained unchanged since improve the houses which the Group offers to its August 2004 which assisted in stabilising consumer customers with reduced maintenance and better use confidence by the end of 2004.
Also, average of internal space.
The Group operates customer care earnings continue to rise ahead of inflation which teams which are a core part of the regional should provide further confidence.
management structure providing pre handover inspections and post occupation customer At the end of the third quarter of 2004, affordability care services.
trend indicators reported that the ratio of first year mortgage interest payments as a percentage of In a housing market where further sales price average net earnings for a two income couple increases may be more difficult to achieve, the was 24%.
Whilst this rate was higher than the 19% Groups strategy to grow the size of its business reported at the same point in 2003, it demonstrates through increased coverage of England and Wales is strong ongoing housing affordability when considered the best way forward.
Subject to market compared to the same indicator published in 1990 conditions, the Group intends to launch further at 38%, the highest the indicator has recorded in regions, particularly in locations where the Group the last twenty years, coinciding with the end of the has large strategic landholdings which, in the short housing boom of the late 1980s.
term, are anticipated to deliver a large number of land plots with residential consent.
These new Strategy regions will use the long land supply of these large The Group continues to employ a consistent strategy strategically sourced landholdings to provide an in pursuit of its core objectives.
This strategy involves anchor site to base the region around.
focusing on delivering the maximum value achievable from each home constructed and legally To this end, the Group has decided to launch two completed.
A growing coverage of England and new regions effective from 1 July 2005.
The first of Wales through the expanding regional structure these will be based at Bristol.
Its anchor site will be contributed to growth in the volume of legal Filton where the Group has control of approximately completions.
Together, volume and pricing 2,200 plots of land allocated in the local plan for contributed to the increase in profits whilst residential development.
The second of these new generally retaining the Groups operating margins at regions will be based at Wellingborough where the the industry leading levels previously achieved.
Group has a significant strategic landholding of approximately 3,000 plots of land, again allocated The Group aims to deliver a quality product to the for residential development.
housing market which is driven by customer needs, employing modern construction techniques which involve using materials pre-finished under factory conditions along with ongoing focus on build 2004 quality on the sites.
New products are designed to earnings per share 87.0 pence Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 5 2004 Return on Capital Employed 25.7 percent Page 6 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk The Board Prospects Following the resignation of Stephen Brazier from The Monetary Policy Committee raised base interest the Board and the Company on 31 July 2004, the rates by 100 basis points between February and Board now comprises four non-executive directors, August 2004.
These rises have taken effect and including me as Chairman, and two executive quelled unsustainable house price increases that directors.
were present in the marketplace.
During 2005 it is considered likely that house price increases will be The Combined Code more subdued.
Affordability remains good and the The Group continues to be committed to good fundamentals of the housing market remain strong corporate governance and complies with the with demand in the areas in which the Group provisions of the 2003 Combined Code.
The Group continues to increase the number of lower priced high value Employees small homes offered following the launch of its new Bovis Homes is a people business and I would like to product range during 2004. thank all our employees for their contribution during the year.
It is essential that the right The Group is well on course to deliver its predicted individuals are recruited, trained and motivated.
9,000 plots of consented land through the strategic The objective is to ensure that the Group employs land bank between 2004 and 2006 with 2,155 plots the highest calibre of employees, who add value to converted in 2004 and the conversion of the business and are sensitive to the demands and Brockworth Airfield, near Gloucester, for an requirements of the Groups customers, whilst estimated 1,300 plots in January 2005. having the entrepreneurial drive and flair to move the operation forward without compromising sound The Group started 2005 with a strong land bank and corporate governance.
a product range designed to appeal to the segment of the market where housing transactions are Pensions motivated by need rather than speculative appetite.
The Group has demonstrated its commitment to the The launch of new regions will assist in driving the Bovis Homes defined benefits pension scheme by Group to increased activity levels.
The Group is well agreeing to make special contributions totalling placed to operate successfully in a more challenging approximately 11 million through the period from market and, subject to the current economic July 2004 to April 2007.
These special contributions environment continuing, the Board anticipates that will remedy the past service pension deficit of 2005 will be another successful year.
10.23 million identified at the latest triennial actuarial review completed effective from 1 July Nigel Mobbs 2004.
Future service employer contributions have Chairman Dividend been increased from 20% to 22% of basic salary commitment whilst employee contributions have been increased from 5% to 6%.
5.0 pence increase over each of the next four years Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 7 Walsall Redevelopment of derelict hospital site circa 450 new homes
