Report & Accounts 2004 Chairmans Statement During 2004, the Group has continued to develop strongly and has grown significantly its revenues and operating profitability.
Additionally, the Group realised significant further value from the partial sale of its stake in IP2IPO Group Plc.
Overall, I am pleased to report overall operating income up 61% to 65.5m from 40.8m in the prior year and a profit before tax up 168% to 48.0m from 17.9m in 2003.
Total Shareholder Return TSR defined as the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years including dividend re-investment rose 54% during 2004, 33% ahead of the FTSE Mid-cap Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The Groups investment banking business, Evolution Securities Limited formerly Evolution Beeson Gregory Limited Evolution Securities or ESL has contributed strongly to the Groups ongoing progress.
The financial performance of this business has been the key driver of the Groups overall operational profitability.
Progress is also reflected by the rebranding that we undertook in September, recognising that the business had, in the two years since acquisition, developed a strong, well recognised and respected brand identity with its corporate clients and institutional customers.
This has been created by the development of a very strong corporate culture and work ethos.
We have continued to gain market share in the sectors in which we specialise and were named AIM Broker of the Year 2004 by Growth Company Investor in a period when the development of the AIM market was acknowledged by market commentators to have been one of the outstanding contributors to the success of the London equity markets.
Christows Limited Christows, the Groups private client stockbroking and fund management business, had a third consecutive profitable year with operating profit up 626% from the previous year.
It continues to increase its funds under management, reaching 640m as at 31 December 2004 2003: 477m, an increase of 34%.
This growth has been driven by the further development of its core discretionary portfolio management services where it has been successful in winning new clients and attracting new account executives.
The Groups specialist Chinese investment banking business, Evolution Securities China Limited Evolution Securities China or ESCL, has also made good progress during this its first full year of operation.
We believe that there is a real opportunity to become Londons leading China specialist broker, introducing institutional investors to the rapidly growing sector of listed Chinese businesses in the future.
the evolution group plc 4 Report & Accounts 2004 Board development Share purchases by the trust In 2004, I have been delighted to welcome two very The Group has used the approval granted at the AGM in experienced Non-executive directors to the Board.
2004 to carry out purchases in the year.
We have purchased The appointment of Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL as 2,559,000 shares through the Groups share incentive senior independent Non-executive director and Nicholas trust in respect of meeting share incentive awards made Irens as Chairman of the Audit Committee have contributed to staff and we will be continuing this process in 2005 significantly to the Boards effectiveness in managing a alongside the share buyback programme.
growing business against the background of significant external change in the area of corporate governance.
The Groups employees I am confident that the Board is now stronger than ever I would like to reiterate that the results of our operating before in meeting these challenges and would expect to businesses are determined largely by the efforts and develop the Board further in the future to ensure that it commitment of our staff, who are one of the principal assets continues to achieve these goals.
I would like to thank everyone for their efforts last year, which contributed to a very successful 2004 for Dividend the Evolution Group.
These individuals interests are aligned The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of well with shareholders through the significant performance 0.58p per share 2003: 0.25p.
This follows the inaugural related elements of reward and various share incentive interim dividend payment of 0.17p announced in September programmes that the Group has put in place to motivate and paid in November, giving an overall dividend for the and retain its key employees and I am confident of their year of 0.75p per share.
This trebling of the overall dividend ability and desire to repeat the successes of 2004 this year.
for the year is an acknowledgement of our growth in confidence of the Groups operating business and is Outlook exactly in line with our stated progressive dividend policy.
As the first quarter of 2005 comes towards a conclusion, I am pleased to announce that our businesses are all Share buyback continuing to progress well and your Board is confident At the time of our pre-close statement in January we of further success in 2005. highlighted that the Board was actively considering the As announced on 11 March 2005, the Group disposed most effective way to reward shareholders in light of the of its remaining investment in IP2IPO for gross proceeds, balance sheet strength.
At the year end, the Groups cash before expenses of 52.8m.
This represents significant balance had risen to 115m 2003: 54m and we recognise value for shareholders and increases the cash available that this, together with the proceeds from our recent to the Group for its future development.
disposal of our remaining investment in IP2IPO, represent a significant proportion of the Groups market capitalisation.
As a result of our detailed analysis, in conjunction with our Richard Griffiths Chairman legal and financial advisors, the Board is pleased to announce 23 March 2005 that we will be performing a significant on-market share buyback programme during the remainder of 2005.
We believe that this is the most efficient way of providing shareholders with the option of capital return which will result in long term EPS enhancement for remaining shareholders.
To facilitate this process we shall of course be seeking shareholder approval through the extension of the existing permission to purchase shares provided at last years AGM.
