Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder BP has delivered another excellent set of Against this background, our confidence in the future results for the year.
Sustained high oil and gas prices, coupled of the business enables us to make a step change in the with advances in operational performance, have resulted in fourth-quarter dividend, which I am pleased to confirm a strong cash flow, accelerating our returns to shareholders as 8.50 cents per share.
This makes the annual payment in the near term through significant share repurchases.
29.45 cents per share or 16.099 pence per share, an increase Returning cash in excess of our investment requirements to in dollar terms over last year of 13% and an increase of 4% our shareholders both through buybacks and our continued in sterling terms.
pursuit of a progressive dividend policy is fundamental to 2004 saw heightened regulatory attention on our industry, our strategy.
not least in the area of the reporting of hydrocarbon reserves.
Exchange-rate issues especially the relative weakness Reserves reporting is an important measure of our of the dollar in the past year have been felt by those who performance as it demonstrates the extent to which we are receive their dividends in sterling.
Over the longer term, replacing the hydrocarbons we are producing a particular fluctuating exchange rates generally benefit shareholders strength of BP in recent years.
As a UK company, our reserves on each side of the Atlantic at different times.
For instance, are estimated in accordance with UK accounting practice.
in the five-year period from 1996 to 2001, the sterling dividend These reserves are stated each year in our Annual Report.
The rationale for declaring our dividend in US For US regulatory purposes we report reserves estimates dollars remains sound, since our principal businesses all trade in accordance with the rules of the Securities and Exchange in that currency.
While headline increases in sterling and dollar Commission.
During the course of the year, the board and dividends show a differential, the key element to note is that its audit committee have exercised considerable scrutiny both are growing.
In this years Annual Report, we have included, 2004 has seen a rapid acceleration of our buyback programme, for the first time, US SEC-based estimates in addition to our with $7.5 billion worth of shares bought back and cancelled UK reserves bookings.
While this has been welcomed by larger Our business is global and complex, and we are fortunate and institutional investors, the benefit for all shareholders to have a first-rate executive team to address these challenges.
committed to long-term investment in BP will be felt through During the year, the executive management team, so ably the ultimate capital appreciation of their shares.
The board led by John Browne, has sustained its formidable track record.
keeps its strategy in this area under review to ensure the They have our full confidence and support.
I would like to thank balance between dividend and buybacks remains appropriate John and his team for their exemplary efforts on your behalf for our owners as a whole.
Our thanks are also due to all 102,900 BP employees 4 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 around the world for their unremitting effort and the value they chair the groups technology advisory committee in the have created for our shareholders.
Within a company with such a strong executive management Chuck Knight also joined the board in 1987.
His perspective team, it is important that the role of the board is understood.
As on corporate practices in the United States and experience a board, we are conscious that we oversee the activities of the as a senior chief executive operating within the US market business in the interests of all our owners.
The recent debate have proved invaluable, not least as BP has evolved in that on corporate governance has focused on the mechanisms of marketplace over the past two decades.
I will miss his unique board process and reporting ensuring appropriate checks contributions to the boards discussions.
and balances are in place.
Against this background, too many I would like to thank both Robin and Chuck on your behalf company directors have complained that they want to move for all their years of distinguished service.
away from corporate governance and get back to running The endorsement of the strength of our executive team our businesses.
by the invitation extended to Dick Olver to take on the Correctly, I think, our board recognizes that the primary chairmanship of BAE Systems plc was, of course, tinged business of the board is corporate governance.
Governing with sadness at having to bid farewell to a first-rate colleague, BP is not a matter to be driven solely by compliance concerns, who had served the company so well over the past 31 years.
but by the business purpose of the company you entrust us We wish Dick well for the future and thank him for his years to govern on your behalf.
Our role as a board therefore focuses of dedicated service to BP.
on ensuring your interests are promoted and that our business Three new appointments have been made to the board maximizes long-term value for you, our owners.
Iain Conn has been appointed an executive Ensuring that our business remains nimble and competitive, director.
Iain has had a substantial career within BP and is able to leverage the manifold talents of our managers, is key responsible for strategic resources.
Sir Tom McKillop, chief to the pursuit of that goal.
To discharge the trust you place in executive of AstraZeneca PLC, joined the board in July 2004 us as a board, we test the strategic direction of the companys and Douglas Flint, chief financial officer of HSBC Holdings plc, business.
We also monitor the operations of the business in joined in January 2005.
Each brings his own particular skills pursuit of that strategy to ensure both that BPs activities live and experience to complement those of his fellow directors out the values we set and also, critically, that shareholder value in the coming years.
lies at the heart of all we do.
The world in which BP operates is ever more complex 2004 saw a continuation of our very significant capital and challenging.
The coming year will see the continued investment programme that is key to the long-term future development of our business strategy.
I believe your board is of our business.
As a board, we continue to scrutinize the well resourced to address shareholders interests during this strategic direction of the company, especially as our activities period.
I look forward to reporting on their successful advance take us to more challenging geographic locations, to ensure in the years ahead.
We have an exciting future together.
that it continues to provide the prospect of the best long-term Thank you for all your continued support and interest in returns for our shareholders.
In the course of the year, significant work has been undertaken by the chairmans committee and the nomination committee, both of which I chair, as issues of executive and non-executive succession planning and performance come into ever-greater focus.
Likewise the remuneration committee, led by Sir Robin Nicholson and his designated successor Dr DeAnne Julius, has been heavily engaged in the development Peter Sutherland of new incentive plans for our executive directors.
Chairman The board performance report on pages 110-115 expands 7 February 2005 upon the way in which the board and its committees discharge their mandate of governance.
Last year, I commented on board succession and development planning for the coming years.
At the forthcoming AGM, two of our senior non-executive directors, Sir Robin Nicholson and Charles Chuck Knight, will step down.
Robin has served on the BP board since 1987 and has been an excellent chairman of our remuneration committee.
He has had a substantial impact on the board and the company over the past 17 years and been a major contributor to all our board debates: we shall miss his wisdom and insight.
On a personal note, I shall miss his sage counsel and technical insight, but am delighted that he has agreed to continue to 5
