Chairmans Statement The Companys level of net gearing is now 11.4% and the Board will ensure that in normal circumstances net gearing is below 20%.
Dividend Your Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of 1.75 pence per share for the year ending 31 December 2004 2003: nil an interim dividend of 1.50 pence per share was paid.
The dividend will be payable on Robert Walther 23 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at close of Chairman business on 18 March 2005 ex-dividend date 16 March 2005.
Your Board believes very strongly that total return I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of income and capital is the key performance indicator.
Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended As mentioned in my previous statements, we will not 31 December 2004. therefore restrict the Investment Manager even if this leads Performance Continental European equities enjoyed to lower dividends in future.
another year of positive returns during 2004.
The first Directorate Mr Simon Duckworth retires by rotation and, half of the year was somewhat mixed, but during the latter part being eligible, has offered himself for re-election.
of the year, equities rallied to close the year higher.
During the Mr Duckworth is a valuable Board member, with a proven review period, the net asset value NAV per share of the track record in private and public service.
Mr Simon Fraser Company returned 25.9%, strongly outperforming the continues to serve as a Director of the Company and I believe benchmark FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which that there is value in having a senior member of the returned 13.2%.
The strong relative outperformance was Companys Manager who assumes the responsibility of being primarily due to successful stock selection by the Investment a Director of the Company.
As mentioned in last years annual Manager, but also due to the portfolios gearing, which had report, Mr Fraser is now subject to annual re-election under a positive impact on the total return of the NAV.
The shares the Listing Rules due to his employment relationship with ended the year trading at a discount of 5.8% to the underlying the Manager.
All of the other Directors are totally independent net asset value per share.
A detailed review of the performance and this provides an appropriate balance.
of the portfolio is provided in the Investment Managers Report.
All figures are in sterling and are on a total return Due to my tenure on the Board exceeding nine years I am basis.
Please note that past performance is not a guide to future now subject to annual re-election going forward and I offer returns.
The value of investments can go down as well as up, myself for such re-election.
My fellow Directors have met and may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations.
in my absence for the purpose of considering my eligibility Gearing As stated previously the Board is responsible for for re-election.
They considered that my experience, my the level of gearing in the Company and reviews it on a regular independence of mind and the manner in which I have filled basis.
The level of gearing fell slightly during the year as a the role of Chairman over the last 3 years has been beneficial result of the increase in net assets.
It is estimated that gearing to the Company.
They confirmed that they wish me to continue enhanced the net asset value by almost 3%.
We believe that as Chairman and they are recommending that I be re-elected gearing will continue to benefit shareholders in the long term.
as a Director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
5 Chairmans Statement The Board has considered the proposal for the re-election of Outlook The macro-economic outlook for Europe remains each of the above-named Directors and recommends to mixed.
As a region, the European economy continues to shareholders that they vote in favour of the proposals.
grow at a slow pace and inflationary pressures are muted.
There does not appear to be much risk of a rise in interest Continuation Vote In accordance with the Articles of rates, at least in the near term.
However, there is an Association of the Company, an ordinary resolution that expectation of continued reforms initiated by governments the Company continue as an investment trust for a further and at the corporate level.
In addition, Europe looks two years will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General attractive relative to other developed world regions.
In view of the Companys outstanding performance region has the potential for stronger consumer spending: it record an increase of 774.2% since launch compared to has a higher savings rate, a trade and current account surplus an increase in the benchmark index of 257.9%, and over two and equity valuations appear cheap compared to the US.
years, an increase of 74.0% compared to an increase in The enlargement of the European Union EU reached the benchmark index of 46.1% your Board recommends several milestones in 2004 with 10 new member countries that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
There will admitted in May: and 3 further countries including Turkey be a further continuation vote at the Annual General Meeting engaged in active discussions.
The EU enlargement in 2007. represents an important opportunity with the inclusion in Directors remuneration In recent years there has been a the EU political union of many countries with large considerable increase in the workload and in the risks of being populations and dynamic economic development.
The Board has taken note of this fact We continue to believe that stock selection based on and of the recent review of Directors fees undertaken by the in-depth company analysis will be the key factor in achieving AITC.
As a result fees have been increased with effect from good performance over the coming year.
1 January 2005 to 22,000 previously 18,500 per annum for the Chairman, 18,000 previously 15,000 per annum for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and 16,000 previously 13,500 per annum for Directors.
Whilst total fees payable are within the overall limit set by the Companys Articles of Association, a resolution will be proposed at Robert Walther the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to increase this limit 28 February 2005 to 150,000.
This will provide scope for further increases in future years.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due to take place on 19 May 2005 at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 42 to 44 and I look forward to meeting you then.
