Chairmans Statement Hamish Leslie Melville CHAIRMAN This represents an increase of approximately 4.2% Performance and reflects the Companys policy of long-term In my first statement as Chairman, I am pleased to dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
If report a period of outperformance for the necessary, the Board will utilise the Companys Company.
In a year when confidence returned to revenue reserves to maintain the progressive stockmarkets following the end of the war in Iraq, dividend payments.
the Companys total return with net income reinvested was 67.5%.
This compares with a Board of Directors return of 57.4% on the same basis from the Lawrence Banks will retire as a Director at this Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share years Annual General Meeting.
Lawrence has been excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment a Director since 1982 and, on behalf of the Board, I trusts.
The total return to shareholders was would like to thank him for his wise counsel and 57.5%, a reflection of the increase during the wish him well for the future.
period under review of the share price discount to net asset value from 6.0% to 11.9%.
On 1st December 2003, Dr Sandy Nairn was appointed as a Director of the Company.
Sandy is a The major factors for this outperformance were the founder, Investment Partner and Chief Executive of effects of the Companys cash gearing and the Edinburgh Partners, and was previously Chief Investment Managers stock selection.
Investment Officer of Scottish Widows Investment The Investment Managers, in their Report on pages Partnership.
Sandy is a valuable addition to the 3 to 7, set out in more detail a review of the Companys Board and I would therefore urge underlying portfolio and an outlook for the future.
shareholders to vote in favour of his re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Earnings and Dividends Earnings per ordinary share increased by 1.6% for Change of Company Name the year, from 17.79p to 18.08p.
The Companys name has been The Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc since 1982.
As In keeping with the practice adopted in recent shareholders will be aware, Robert Fleming & Co. years to spread the total annual dividend more was acquired by Chase Manhattan Bank in 2000, evenly over the year, the first three interim which subsequently merged with JPMorgan.
Since dividends were each increased to 4.25p per August 2000 our Manager has been J. P. Morgan ordinary share.
Fleming Asset Management UK Limited.
The Directors have declared a fourth quarterly All of the other investment trusts managed by dividend of 6.00p which, together with the three JPMorgan Fleming have changed their name to dividends already paid, gives a total dividend for reflect this new situation, and the Board believes the year of 18.75p per ordinary share.
Fleming Mercantile 1 Chairmans Statement continued that it is now appropriate for the Company to do Outlook so.
A recommendation to this effect is set out in The Board shares the Investment Managers the Notice of Meeting on pages 25 and 26. cautious optimism for a year of continued economic recovery in the UK.
Our universe of small and mid Share Repurchases cap companies is closely linked to the fortunes of At last years Annual General Meeting shareholders the economy, and the Board is confident that the gave the Directors authority to repurchase the Investment Managers focus on stock selection Companys shares for cancellation.
Although no within a diversified portfolio of such companies will such repurchases have taken place during the last continue to serve the Company well.
year, the Directors continue to believe that a strategy to reduce discount volatility of the Companys shares is important.
Therefore the Hamish Leslie Melville Board is proposing that the authority be renewed Chairman 27th April 2004 at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
