Chairmans Statement The structure of the Friends Provident Group is The strong ethical centred around two core businesses Life and Pensions, and Asset Management and the strategy principles that underpin we set out at the time of our demutualisation and public listing in 2001 clearly articulated our intention our business continue to grow them both and, at the same time, to bring them more into balance with each other in terms of to provide a clear point their respective contributions to the Group.
As part of this strategy we established an objective of of differentiation for becoming a top five player in the Asset Management business in the UK by 2007. us today.
The continuing weakness in stockmarkets worldwide from 2001 to 2003 coupled with the aftermath of David Newbigging, Chairman 9 11 tested the Groups resilience and resolve in the three years or so following our public listing.
However, tough times bring opportunities to build businesses and we made two acquisitions in 2002, with further initiatives through 2003 and 2004.
We have previously reported the development of ISIS Asset Management plc through the acquisition of the Royal & SunAlliance asset management business.
This was followed in October 2004 by the merger of the enlarged ISIS with F&C well known for managing the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust amongst others creating a publicly listed Asset Management business with 125 billion of funds under management at 31st December 2004 and in which we own a controlling interest of 51%.
F&C Asset Management plc is now ranked in the top five in the UK in terms of funds under management, some two years ahead of our original objective.
At the same time our Life & Pensions business has developed with strong growth in new business over the past two years and two significant acquisitions in the international arena that have created a broader base and brought better balance within this core business.
In 2002 we acquired the Royal & SunAlliance international business based in the Isle of Man.
In 2004 the proposed acquisition of another international business Lombard International Assurance S. A. based in Luxembourg was announced.
This became effective in early 2005.
We have great hopes for the expanded international business which we anticipate will contribute about 2 Friends Provident 35% of total life and pensions new business in 2005.
Financial results This enlarged part of our Group will also make Our 2004 operating profit before amortisation of Friends Provident one of the leading companies goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax, was in international cross-border business, and Lombard 344 million on an achieved profits basis, and will continue to trade under its well-established 317 million on a modied statutory solvency and respected name from its Luxembourg base.
On the industry standard Annual Premium Equivalent basis, new life and pensions business The acquisitions described above have dramatically increased from the record level set last year to a new changed the prole of the Friends Provident Group.
record of 434 million, and its contribution to profits The accelerated development of the Asset before tax increased to 83 million, with underlying Management business means that both our margins continuing to improve.
core businesses have real scale and stature, and Our balance sheet has been strengthened further we have created the better balanced Group, in by raising 380 million of tier one capital described terms of diversied earnings streams, which we below and our free asset ratio has risen from 8.4% identied as one of our key objectives following in 2002 to 12.2% at the end of 2004.
Our geographical reach has also margin is now covered over six times.
been extended and by expanding the international cross-border business we have created a stronger Dividends platform for future growth.
The Chief Executive Subject to shareholders approval, the Board has explains these acquisitions and their prospects recommended a final dividend of 5.0 pence per share more fully in his Review.
which, if approved, would bring the total dividend for The following table gives some key financial 2004 to 7.55 pence per share.
This would be covered indicators of the progress of Friends Provident 1.5 times and would represent a 2.0% increase over since our public listing in 2001. the 2003 total dividend of 7.4 pence per share.
We have been able to increase the dividend each year since our listing in 2001 and it remains our intention Friends Providents progress since 2001 to continue annual increases going forward.
2001 2004 Increase Group funding Both the merger with F&C and the acquisition of Life and pensions new business APE 343m 434m 27% Lombard were funded primarily through the issue of new Friends Provident shares.
On both occasions, Life and pensions contribution the underlying share price remained stable, indicating from new business 54m 83m 54% that both acquisitions were received positively in the Life and pensions contribution market.
Additionally, Friends Provident successfully from new business Pro forma raised 380 million of tier one capital in December embedded value 1.5% 3.0% 100% 2004.
The securitisation vehicle we used for this Asset management funds transaction is more common to the banking industry under management 34bn 125bn 268% but has proved a cost-effective method for monetising some of the capital we had tied up in Asset management operating margin 28.7% 36.1% 26% our business.
The interest payable was set at an attractive rate, equivalent to approximately 5.5% p. a.
This positive outcome was a combination of good As was made clear in the Notice of our Annual timing and the associated bonds representing an General Meeting last year, I will retire as Chairman attractive investment opportunity.
and a Director at the close of our AGM on 26th May this year.
I will be succeeded as Chairman by Adrian Regulatory environment Montague who joined our Board in October 2004 Industry complacency, coupled with well-publicised and has since served on the Audit, Remuneration corporate misdemeanours in this country and the and Investment Committees, giving him an excellent United States, have led to considerable regulatory grounding in our business.
Your Board unanimously change over the last three years.
We have been recommends his election as a Director at the broadly supportive, but there is a danger that the AGM.
As you can see from page 23 of our pendulum may have swung too far toward overReport & Accounts, Adrian is well qualied for prescription which could inhibit the spirit of enterprise the Chairmanship having been a partner of which is so essential to any strong and developing Linklaters & Paines, and global head of project company or industry.
It is essential that we do not finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson before simply become box tickers in terms of Corporate becoming Chairman or Director of several public Governance.
Boards must have the authority and and private companies.
responsibility for their strategy and its execution.
The Annual Premium Equivalent APE measure adds together new regular premium business and one tenth of single premium business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3 Chairmans Statement continued Our industry now needs a period of stability and the Provident with a competitive edge that we still retain focus needs to switch from those who provide today through the imaginative development over the financial products and services to those who are in years of that base system.
In later years, in his role urgent need of them.
It has been widely reported as Appointed Actuary, Graham was deeply involved that the gap between what people are saving for in our demutualisation to ensure that policyholders their retirement and what people need to save is far were treated fairly and that the Companys structure in excess of the 27 billion so often quoted over the was appropriate for a otation on the Stock past two years or so, and is probably much nearer to Exchange.
This was a complex undertaking and the 57 billion referred to in the late-2004 report by Grahams diligence in this, as with everything he Adair Turner who had been commissioned by the handles, was invaluable.
Government to undertake a study into pensions.
At the close of the Annual General Meeting, Brian Boards and Management have a crucial role to play Sweetland will also retire.
Brian has dedicated the in restoring consumer confidence and in helping to greater part of his working life to Friends Provident, increase financial awareness generally.
But our having joined us in 1974, becoming the Company efforts should aim to be in collaboration with the Secretary in 1983 and an executive director in 1995.
Government, which needs to do more to encourage As with Graham, a few words will inevitably and incentivise people to save for their future.
Strong understate the huge impact Brian has made on leadership is required in both the Public and Private Friends Provident over his 30 years of loyal service.
In particular, we have Brian to thank for the development of our extensive and comprehensive Corporate responsibility governance, compliance and risk management The strong ethical principles that underpin our regimes: pre-requisites for operating effectively business can be traced back to our Quaker origins in the financial services industry today.
in 1832 and continue to provide a clear point of Both of these executive directors have made differentiation for us today.
In 2004 we celebrated immense contributions to the development of the the 20th anniversary of our ground-breaking, ethically Friends Provident Group and they leave with our invested Stewardship Unit Trust, the first of its kind.
I am delighted that Graham will The Stewardship range is still the market leader in remain a member of the Boards With profits terms of retail ethical funds under management.
Committee, which looks after the interests of the In July 2004, the Friends Provident Foundation was with profit policyholders, and that Brian will continue endowed with 20 million worth of Friends Provident to be a Trustee of the Friends Provident Foundation shares, unclaimed since our demutualisation.
This and a member of the Committee of Reference, should generate an income of some 0.8 million per which determines the investment selection criteria annum, which will represent the major part of our for the Groups range of Stewardship and other future annual charitable giving and will enable the ethical investment products and services.
Foundation to begin its financial support of initiatives I have already mentioned Adrian Montague, my that aim to address some of the social needs facing successor, who at the age of 57 represents a the UK today.
generational change on the Friends Provident Board Through the significant investments we hold in at a time when we are well placed to meet and a wide range of quoted companies, we continue succeed in the exciting challenges of the future.
to use our voting power to bring about positive and constructive change in the wider business Closing remarks community.
Our voting record is published on our In closing my valedictory remarks, there is a website, www.
If you cannot temptation to reect on the past when challenges attend and vote in person at our Annual General and prospects are of course in the future.
I have Meeting on 26th May 2005, may I encourage you served on this Board and that of the Life Ofce since to vote, either by post or online, on the resolutions 1993, and have been Chairman since 1998.
So, for being put forward at that meeting.
more than a decade, I have observed the evolution of Corporate Governance Best Practice and the The Board associated opinions on the independence of At the end of 2004, Graham Aslet retired after Directors and Chairmen.
My own view is that 35 years with Friends Provident, the last 17 as independence is a state of mind, not a function of an executive director and Appointed Actuary.
While skills can be taught and impossible to condense such a long and varied career bought, leadership cannot.
I certainly have no regrets into just a few words but I must acknowledge at having served on all the main Committees of this Grahams contribution to the brilliant design of our Board before becoming Chairman of the Life Ofce computer system in the mid to late 70s.
This was and then of the plc.
That experience, particularly a remarkable innovation at the time, providing Friends chairing the Audit Committee, was invaluable in 4 Friends Provident understanding the Group and monitoring financial The Company has controls, particularly through the complexities of the demutualisation and public listing process in 2001. achieved its eminent The fact that Friends Provident today is an independent, publicly listed company and a respected position due to the constituent of the FTSE 100 some would say against the odds in 2001 shows how far it has commitment, loyalty come from its roots as a mutual life ofce founded by Quakers in 1832 in Ackworth School in Yorkshire.
and determination The Company has achieved its eminent position due to the commitment, loyalty and determination of of many generations many generations who have worked for Friends Provident and I sincerely thank them.
who have worked for I must also thank my Board colleagues executive and non-executive for their support and friendship.
I believe our current directors are a first class team as were their predecessors who demonstrated a high level of resolve and commitment in 2001 when Friends Provident went through probably the greatest change in its long history.
I would particularly like to thank Keith Satchell, who has been Chief Executive throughout my Chairmanship.
Much is written about the relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, but one thing for certain is that a good and enduring relationship does not just happen.
It has to be made to happen.
Keith is an excellent Chief Executive: intelligent, straight, professional in his understanding of the business, and commanding the respect of his executive team.
He communicates well and his quick wit and sense of humour have made my job much easier than it might otherwise have been.
I have enjoyed working with him and indeed all our directors past and present who are deeply committed to Friends Provident.
I have been proud to serve as Chairman of this company and wish it, our customers and shareholders every good fortune in the future.
David Newbigging Chairman 17 March 2005 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5
