HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 7:56 am Page 2 Chairmans Statement Confidence in our own prospects 2 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 7:56 am Page 3 The 2003 Annual Report argued that it would Finally in our International businesses there alongside Mark Tucker as the Groups new be wrong to pursue our previous pace of is a buzz of activity as our teams in both Finance Director.
Mike Ellis had served at the growth in all our businesses, at all times.
This Australia and Ireland strive to take growth Halifax as Treasurer, before joining the Board in proved to be a sensible cautionary approach away from incumbent providers.
As an Executive Director of first Halifax to an environment characterised by a transition international aspirations at the start of 2005 and then HBOS, Mike contributed hugely to from lower interest rates to something are every bit as strong as we hoped they the success of this business and will be sorely approaching stability.
Last year we therefore would be.
missed by the Board and colleagues alike.
We focused on profitability and security ahead welcome Mark Tucker to his new role and the In 2003, we produced our compliance report of targeting further aggressive increases experience he brings of the broader financial one year earlier than required and have again in market share.
services marketplace having spent 17 years produced in this report a full review of the with Prudential, latterly as Chief Executive of Profits were up 22% to 4,592m with underlying Groups performance against the requirements Prudential Corporation Asia Ltd. earnings per share reaching a new high of of the new Combined Code on Corporate 84.3p.
The Board has therefore decided to Governance.
We have complied with the Finally this litany of praise and recognition would recommend a final dividend of 22.15p bringing Code except in one instance where it was not be complete without a huge thank you to the total dividend per share to 32.95p.
not practical for us to do so.
the 70,000 plus HBOS colleagues who turn fine words into action and hopes into results.
These results continue a strong track record We have made progress in 2004 in the practical of performance during our first three years, delivery of a Corporate Responsibility Standard Last summer, as widely reported, we gave which has seen underlying earnings per share that guides how we do business.
Our policy careful consideration to acquiring Abbey increase by over 76%, the cost:income ratio embraces the responsibilities and standards National.
On the face of it the chance to fall from 49.2% to 37.9% and our return on you should expect as shareholders, customers, acquire a major competitor was a unique equity increase from 15.1% to 19.7%.
Regular benchmarking opportunity to exploit very considerable performance emphasises the scale of the reports are scheduled to show how we are synergies and create value for our opportunity created by bringing Halifax and doing against our own demanding criteria.
That we judged otherwise Bank of Scotland together.
is testament to our confidence in our own The regulatory agenda is as demanding prospects.
That confidence was also For the year as a whole, the HBOS share as ever.
Regulation represents Societys instrumental in your Boards decisions on price increased by 17% to finish the year permission to HBOS to exist and the minimum future dividend growth and share buybacks.
at 8.48 the second best performing major standards by which we are judged.
We seek Both will play their part in ensuring that we UK bank over the year although the best to work ever more effectively with the succeed in making growth work harder for performing such bank over the past four Government and our regulator.
We are pleased with this performance we welcome the FSAs more focused agenda but strongly believe that our performance and and its commitment to risk based regulation.
Finally on a personal note I am delighted prospects warrant a premium rating, firstly We are only too conscious that a number to have been asked by my Board colleagues amongst UK banks and then amongst the of initiatives emanating from Brussels may to stay on as your Chairman for a further wider peer group in Europe.
In this Annual run counter to our own, the Governments three years from July.
It is a huge honour Report you will find the evidence and the clear and the FSAs objectives.
In the midst of such for me to be a part of the team at HBOS intent to make this a reality for shareholders.
change it is important that together we strike and I look forward greatly to the next stage a common agenda to best protect the of our success together.
In our Retail business, restraint has served interests of our industry and our customers.
us well with a tight control on costs an added impetus to earnings as growth has The provision for endowment compensation Dennis Stevenson moderated.
As a result profit growth has again taken in this years results relates to activity Chairman been strong despite some disappointments many years ago.
Even so it serves to highlight in Retails credit performance where we plan an important lesson for us.
We must always to do better this year.
strive to discharge our responsibilities to customers in ways that will stand Corporate customers have been active during the test of time.
the year but we have opted to enhance returns by turning away additional activity that In 2004, Philip Yea left to take up the would otherwise dissipate margins.
It is clear Chief Executive job at 3i.
We were that our long-term relationship driven strategy enormously fortunate to have Philips best serves our shareholders interests.
input as a Non-executive Director since the merger and before that at Halifax.
In 2004, we successfully completed the At the forthcoming AGM John Maclean process of establishing our own underwriting retires having served nine years on the HBOS capability for household insurance and general and Bank of Scotland Boards.
John has been insurance is now firmly established as a core a tireless contributor across many parts of HBOS activity producing good growth and the business and I would like to offer my returns.
As the stock market picked up during personal thanks and those of the Board to the year so too did sales in our Investment him for the quality of his input to the Boards businesses.
The prospect of further and committees on which he has served.
improvements in sales from an HBOS business which has turned itself into a market leader just Mike Ellis also announced his retirement as it switches from being a net user to a net in 2004 as Finance Director but typically provider of capital is particularly exciting.
stayed on to welcome and work for a period Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 3
