Chairmans Statement Portfolio by country Introduction It gives me great pleasure to report another strong performance by ICG.
ICG has had another record year for new lending helped by the buoyant mezzanine Finland market in Continental Europe which has 15.2m resulted in the loan book increasing by 24%.
Sweden During the year we successfully raised 82m 30.6m of new equity from our shareholders to help Denmark 32.8m finance the continuing growth of our loan Ireland book.
Our pre-tax profits have also shown 34.8m good growth, reaching record levels on the back of a substantial increase in core income.
Netherlands UK 53.6m Last year saw a significant advance in the scale 273.2m Belgium of our fund management activities.
The closing 8.0m of our new mezzanine fund, with a total Germany France 155.3m expected size, including leverage, of well over 398.2m 1bn, will lead to substantially increased profitability from this part of our business.
Switzerland In addition, our other sub-investment grade 43.1m fund management activities are now reaching a scale where they are starting to contribute meaningfully to ICGs future profitability.
Spain There is more confidence in the financial 24.9m markets than there was a year ago which is helpful to many aspects of our business but is also leading to a more competitive environment for mezzanine lending in Europe.
Demand for mezzanine, however, remains good and we are seeing a decent flow of new lending opportunities.
South Korea 8.4m Results Pre-tax profits for the year ended 31 January 2004 rose by 21% to 64.6m.
The increase was driven by core income which grew by 36% to 62.2m, primarily as a result of the 44% increase in net interest income.
Singapore 7.4m Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 24.0p net per share to be paid on 28 May 2004, which, with the interim dividend of 10.5p net per share, brings the total for the year to 34.5p net per share, an increase of 11% over last years dividend.
The total cost of the dividend has increased by 26% to 23.0m, partly as a result of the final dividend being paid on the new shares issued last October.
2 Intermediate Capital Group The dividend will be paid to shareholders of them.
Looking at our portfolio as a whole It will contribute significantly to ICGs on the register on 7 May 2004. we continue to be satisfied with its performance.
future profitability, increase our underwriting ability and further strengthen our position While it is ICGs policy to deliver continuing Funding as one of the largest mezzanine investors dividend growth, subject to satisfactory core As a result of the strong growth in the size in Europe.
income growth, ICG is also conscious of the of our portfolio and the consequent increase need to build up retained earnings to support Our specialist sub-investment grade fund in our gearing ratio to 3.6:1 at 31 July 2003, the continuing growth of the business.
management business, investing primarily in we decided, in September, to seek further high yield bonds and loans, has also continued capital from our shareholders.
The placing of The years dividend is covered 1.9 times by its growth, raising a fifth fund which invests new shares, 97% of which were taken up by post tax earnings.
This brings our shareholders, raised 82m of new equity.
our non-mezzanine funds under management This materially reduced our gearing, enabling The Loan Portfolio to over 1.7bn.
This business is starting to us to continue to grow our loan book in the We had an excellent year for new lending have real critical mass from which we can future by taking on further borrowings, while which resulted in our loan book growing by expect good increasing profitability as we remaining conservatively geared.
During the year we raise further funds.
arranged or provided a total of 652m of We reported at the half-year that we had new lending, of which 354m was invested A strong bond market, together with active successfully raised over 200m of new debt on ICGs balance sheet, 202m taken by portfolio management, has helped our facilities from the securitisation market.
fund management clients with the balance CDOs to be in compliance with all their We are pleased that we were able to raise of 96m being syndicated to third parties.
covenants and to pay distributions to their such medium term debt facilities from a equity investors.
Our three loan funds also new source on attractive terms.
We believe As we have anticipated, Continental Europe continue to perform well.
Our good that this is a type of funding we can use has continued to be a very significant investment management performance is further in the future.
market for our new lending and now helping us to raise more funds.
represents 70% of our total portfolio.
At 31 January 2004 we had in place total We had our most active year ever in We intend to put more marketing resource borrowing facilities of over 1.0bn, compared Germany with four new investments.
into our specialist fund management with outstanding borrowings at that time France continued to be busy with six new business this year so as to further expand of 792m, leaving us with 225m of unutilised investments as was the UK with four new the size of our operations and funds under facilities.
As a result of the equity issue our investments.
In addition, we made two management in an area which we believe gearing level has now reduced to 2.5 times.
new investments in the Netherlands and has considerable growth potential.
To this We continue to raise new medium term debt one in each of Denmark, Finland, end an experienced marketing team will be facilities to help fund further growth in the Singapore and Spain.
loan book and to replace maturing facilities.
The level of repayments was quite low early ICG and the European Fund Management in the year but increased in the second half, Mezzanine Market Last year saw a considerable advance in resulting in their totalling 161m for the The European buyout market had a good the scale and potential profitability of our year in respect of 12 investments.
The year with high activity levels, particularly in fund management business.
appreciation of the euro against sterling, Continental Europe, which had a record year.
offset by the weakness of the US dollar, We are delighted to be able to announce Once again we saw financial buyers with had the effect of increasing the sterling the final closing of our new mezzanine fund access to large amounts of cash well placed value of the loan portfolio by 15m.
with equity commitments of over 650m.
to acquire many of the companies being put It is our intention to gear up this fund by up for sale.
Demand for mezzanine in this The economic conditions in which the majority not less than 1:1 and we have already had strong buyout market was good.
of our portfolio companies had to operate discussions with a number of banks who during the past year continued to be difficult.
The high yield bond new issue market was have expressed interest in providing such However, most of the companies in our inactive for most of last year as far as the gearing.
We therefore expect the fund to portfolio have reacted well to these difficult buyout market was concerned, which resulted have cash resources of up to 1.5bn, which trading conditions and have performed in more mezzanine opportunities in large is over three times the size of our previous satisfactorily.
We are now seeing a recovery mezzanine fund.
This fund will take a 40% deterioration in the performance of some of in the high yield market and although share of each of ICGs relevant European our portfolio companies and we have decided mezzanine will also still be used in larger mezzanine investment opportunities.
to make significant provisions against three Intermediate Capital Group 3 Chairmans Statement continued deals, as it can often prove to be a more The Asia Pacific Mezzanine Market Outlook appropriate form of finance than bonds, The Hong Kong office was constrained in We expect the European buyout market to we can expect high yield bonds to finance the first half of the year by the impact of continue to be strong in the year ahead, with some of the larger buyouts.
In the second half of the year, good demand for mezzanine, particularly on market, where ICG continues to make most however, activity levels have started to the Continent.
While competition in the of its investments, remains unaffected by increase and we successfully completed mezzanine market has increased over the last the high yield bond market.
While the volume of year, ICG remains well placed, because of its mezzanine opportunities in the region has size, leading market position and its unique The greatest competition to ICG continued not been quite as high as we originally pan-European spread, to see a good flow of to come from banks and investment banks expected we believe in the medium term mezzanine opportunities.
Increased liquidity seeking to arrange and provide a total debt potential for mezzanine in the region.
in the debt markets may affect the package of senior debt and mezzanine for the structuring of some new mezzanine loans, buyout.
However, many such banks remain Offices, Management and Staff which will cause ICG to be particularly keen to involve ICG, particularly where large In recent months we have opened new selective in its choice of investments.
amounts of mezzanine are required.
With offices in Stockholm and Madrid.
The confidence returning to the debt markets, The pipeline of new potential deals is good, purpose of these offices is to get closer and as liquidity increases, the number of and, in our new financial year, we have to to our key providers of business in these non-dedicated mezzanine investors to whom date made four new loans on our balance countries and further differentiate ourselves the banks syndicate is increasing.
However, we are also from our competition.
We are expecting to seeing some evidence of banks arranging seeing an increase in the level of repayments.
open an office in Frankfurt during the poorly structured and priced mezzanine current year for similar reasons.
We continue On the back of last years growth in the loan which they are able to syndicate and which to gradually increase our staff resources in book we can expect further growth in net ICG and the more experienced mezzanine the areas in which we see growth potential, interest income, but not at the rate seen investors reject.
Increased fee income, resulting Competition from independent funds has also from the significant recent increase in funds We are particularly proud of the quality of increased with a few new funds being raised.
under management, should also help to our professional staff and consider them to provide growth in core income.
be one of the great strengths of our business.
The pricing of mezzanine has for the most I would like to take this opportunity to part remained satisfactory with no erosion A number of our portfolio companies are thank all our staff on your behalf.
However we have seen currently actively seeking an exit and we increased use of warrantless mezzanine think therefore that there is a good The Board with minimal repayment penalties, which prospect of achieving some attractive Since last years statement Andrew we usually find unattractive.
capital gains in the current year.
While Jackson and Jean-Loup fide Gersigny, two of some companies in our portfolio continue In this more competitive market ICG still the founders of ICG, have retired from the to find trading conditions difficult we are sees virtually all the mezzanine opportunities Board.
Without them ICG would not exist pleased that overall our portfolio, which of relevant size in the European market.
and they made an enormous contribution is well diversified, is performing well.
Our ability to provide as big an amount of to the success of ICG over the last fifteen mezzanine for an individual transaction as years.
We wish them well in their We continue to believe that our business anybody gives us a strong position in the retirement.
Last year we appointed to the areas of European mezzanine finance and large transactions.
In the middle market Board three new Executive Directors - sub-investment grade fund management our reputation, experience, pan-European Christophe Evain, Francois fide Mitry and offer attractive growth opportunities and reach and multi-national team of Andrew Phillips - all of whom have many we therefore continue to look forward to professionals continues to give us a distinct years experience in the mezzanine market.
Our overall market Andrew Phillips has also been responsible position therefore remains strong.
for developing our sub-investment grade debt fund management business.
John Manser Chairman 19 April 2004 4 Intermediate Capital Group
