Chairmans statement - Hugh Herman Results Empowerment and transformation I am pleased to report an improved performance in the In the past few years, Investec participated, along with other group's operations in the past year.
A steady improvement in financial institutions in South Africa, in negotiating and economic conditions across the globe resulted in a relatively drafting the guidelines for the Financial Sector Charter.
This good year for financial markets.
As stability returned to document, which provides a framework to enable broadequity markets, investor sentiment became increasingly based black economic empowerment BEE through greater positive and activity levels picked up, along with stock inclusion and empowerment of all segments of South market valuations.
African society, was finalised and published in October 2003.
The more favourable economic and financial environment During the year, we demonstrated an established supported the performance of Investec's businesses.
This, commitment to empowerment and transformation, when together with tight cost control and disciplined capital Investec Limited concluded a pioneering empowerment management, enabled the group to grow basic earnings per shareholding transaction, the first of its kind in the sector.
share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items by Subsequently, we were recognised for our transformation 7.9% - to 103.7 pence from 96.1 pence.
Total dividends per and BEE initiatives in South Africa and awarded the Most share for the year amounted to 58.0 pence, compared to Progressive Established Company of the Year BusinessMap 54.0 pence in 2003.
We remain committed to transformation and will continue Overall performance to play a meaningful role in BEE and growing South Africa's economy.
This role is given added impetus through the The better market environment was conducive to the pledge of our employees to an internal employment equity group's Investment Banking and Private Client Stockbroking process and the ongoing support of our businesses for black and Portfolio Management activities.
Performance was owned and managed companies.
further enhanced by consistently strong results from the Private Banking division.
In the UK, the Treasury and Specialised Finance division achieved a remarkable Sustainability turnaround, fostered by the restructuring of the trading activities undertaken in the previous financial year.
Investec's current efforts towards integrating sustainability at all levels of the business have added value in demonstrating Overall performance was partially offset by a weaker result the link between socially responsible management and good from the South African Treasury and Specialised Finance business practice.
The group believes that it is in the longactivities, which recovered somewhat in the second half of term interests of the business, employees, shareholders and the financial year.
Last year's exceptional result from the broader stakeholders that a tangible commitment to South African life assurance activities, which benefited from sustainability is embraced and embedded into all its substantial operational earnings as a result of restructuring activities.
and rationalisation, wasn't repeated this year.
005 Annual Report 2004 The group has played an active role in supporting corporate essential to the effective management of the company.
I social investment activities focusing on projects that are would like to acknowledge the invaluable contribution made entrepreneurial and sustainable and empower people by all the directors in the past year and extend my sincerest through education and skills training.
Our efforts to build a appreciation to the Chief Executive and Managing Director strong culture also encourage a desire to give back to the for their vital contribution and resolute loyalty to the group.
communities in which we live and do business.
Over the years, our employees have developed a strong spirit to give We were deeply saddened by the sudden death of John back to communities, not just in monetary terms, but also Abell, the lead non-executive director on the Board of through volunteering their time and skills to charitable Directors of Investec plc and Investec Limited, on projects.
John was a member of the board since 1993 and made a significant contribution.
His wise counsel will be During the year, Investec was selected for inclusion in the greatly missed.
Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index, the first sustainable index for smaller European companies.
Investec was also In February 2004, we announced that Fani Titi, Chief included in the recently launched JSE Socially Responsible Executive of the Tiso Group, was appointed a non-executive Investment Index, the first index of its kind in an emerging director on the boards of Investec Limited and Investec plc.
We performed well and were commended for the Fani is a distinguished business leader and thoughtful quality of our triple bottom-line reporting as well as for our corporate director and we welcome the contribution he is move to using an internationally recognised reporting already making to the board.
The year's accomplishments would not have been possible While our South African operations are more advanced in without the focused dedication and teamwork of all our the integration of sustainability, we are confident that our employees.
Their invaluable contribution and generous spirit non-South African operations will continue to develop their are the essence of Investec and it is through their own approaches to sustainability integration during the next endeavours and expertise that we were able to produce a financial year.
creditable performance for the year.
Finally, to our shareholders and clients, thank you for the Integrity trust and confidence you place in Investec.
In the past few years, the corporate environment has been marked by intense regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the Outlook financial services industry where there is increased pressure to improve the structure and practices of financial markets.
As we enter the 2005 financial year, growing corporate The board is committed to high standards of corporate earnings and consumer confidence continue to support governance and business ethics in all its activities, which will healthy equity markets worldwide.
While we cannot, of remain the cornerstone of our business.
course, forecast with certainty how global events will shape the markets in which we operate, we can confirm that our During the year under review, Investec Limited was assigned employees and management will remain focused and an extremely sound corporate governance rating by CA committed to serving our stakeholders.
Ratings in an independent governance rating, based on the principles of King II and on international practices.
Factors As a group, we look forward to the year ahead, and its supporting the rating include the receptiveness of directors challenges and opportunities with confidence.
It is our strong and senior management to open and vigorous debate, the sense of internal drive and dedication, steadfast morale and clear organisational alignment of goals and the extensive determination to secure an even firmer positioning in the consultative management approach.
regions in which we operate that form the basis of the optimism with which we view the future.
As we strive to strengthen further our own policies and procedures, a primary priority remains our commitment to integrity in everything we do.
Acknowledgements Hugh Herman In these modern times, where there is increasing corporate Chairman governance and regulatory pressure, a strong board is
