Executive Chairmans Statement Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance saw revenue grow by 10% to 383.7 million.
Trading profit was 87.3 million, compared to a restated 94.4 million for 2003, which gave a trading margin of 23% compared to 27% in the prior year.
Profit before tax for the Risk & Insurance business segment was 90.0 million compared to a restated 104.2 million for 2003.
The contribution to Group profits from our French Ken Carter associate SIACI declined by 10% to 4.5 million as a result of the full year effect of interest payable For the year ended 31st December, 2004, by SIACI following the restructure effected in 2003.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc recorded a profit The underlying business continues to perform well.
before tax and exceptional items of 92.1 million, compared to a restated 106.7 million for 2003, in The results for 2004 reflect only a minor contribution line with the trading statement made by the Company from the acquisition of majority holdings in insurance on 26th November, 2004.
Profit before tax was 81.3 and reinsurance broking companies in Mexico, million compared to a restated 107.8 million in 2003.
Colombia and Peru, because these were not completed until 1st December.
Turnover increased by 9% to 468.1 million 2003: 429.0 million, or 12% at constant rates of exchange, while the Group trading profit, defined Employee Benefits as turnover less expenses and excluding exceptional Employee Benefits revenue grew by 9% to 82.9 items and goodwill amortisation, was 84.4 million, million.
Profit before tax for the Employee Benefits compared to a restated 92.7 million for 2003. business segment was 11.7 million compared to This reflected the difficult trading environment in the 9.7 million in 2003, an increase of 20%.
The insurance market softened at Trading profit was 12.2 million, an increase of a faster rate than anticipated earlier in the year and 21% on 2003, giving a trading margin of 15% this, coupled with the full year impact of lower compared to 13% in the prior year.
reinsurance revenues and the continued weakness of In the UK and Ireland, the business has continued to the US dollar, had a significant impact on both make progress, both in strong revenue growth of 16% revenues and profitability.
The impact of these factors and further improvement of the trading margin to was felt principally within Risk Solutions and, to a 15%.
The Employee Benefits business in the USA much lesser extent, in Asia.
achieved underlying revenue growth of 5%, while However, we saw strong performances in JLT's retail the trading margin has again increased, to 15%, businesses in the UK and Australia, and in its UK reflecting continued cost control in the business.
Employee Benefits business, while the US specialty retail business is making solid progress.
restatement of comparatives see note 1 on pages 54 and 55 2 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Executive Chairmans Statement As the situation evolves, we will review our policy Insurance market overview in relation to PSAs or any other market service A year ago it appeared that insurance markets had remuneration.
We will nonetheless ensure that we entered a period of relative price stability.
In the first follow a remuneration model that is transparent, half of 2004, we had seen rate softening in certain follows best industry practice and, above all, areas but we remained of the view that the soft continues to be in the best interests of our clients market would be less pronounced than in the past, and shareholders.
with lower expectations for investment returns requiring better pure underwriting results.
Financial Services Authority FSA During the second half of the year, the market During 2004, considerable time and effort was spent continued to soften in many of the key areas in in meeting the new standards of the FSA, which took which we trade.
Whilst there were specific areas over regulatory responsibility for UK insurance brokers where rates held up, the overall trend remained in from 14th January, 2005, succeeding the General the direction of a phase of rate reductions, albeit Insurance Standards Council.
In December 2004, less marked in the reinsurance sector.
This has FSA approval was gained for all the Groups regulated occurred notwithstanding that 2004 is expected to UK broking companies.
be one of the most expensive for claims in recent history, due to an increased number of natural and JLT has always set out to operate to the highest man-made catastrophes.
standards on behalf of its clients and within its insurer markets.
Regulation can only enhance industry standards.
JLT supports the FSA in its work and is Industry reaction to Spitzer actively engaged in a number of initiatives that it has actions in the United States and instigated to improve the efficiency of the industry.
broker remuneration The legal proceedings brought by New York Attorney Dividends General, Eliot Spitzer, against Marsh & McLennan in Subject to shareholder approval, an unchanged October last year, has initiated a wide ranging debate final dividend of 12p per share for the year to on insurance brokers' remuneration.
31st December, 2004 will be paid on 29th April, 2005 At the time of this report no charges or subpoenas to shareholders on the register at 29th March, 2005. had been issued against JLT.
Contingent commissions This brings the total dividend for the year to 20.5p per or, alternatively, Placement or Management Services share, unchanged over the prior year.
Agreements PSAs, have never been a significant part of the JLT model less than 2.5% of revenue in 2004.
JLT issued a press statement in October 2004 reiterating its long standing policy of transparency in its dealing with clients, welcoming the moves to greater transparency in the industry and advising clients that it would not be entering into PSAs in 2005.
Since the legal proceedings against Marsh began there has been much discussion amongst both regulators and insurance markets worldwide and various remuneration models are being reviewed.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3 Executive Chairmans Statement The counsel and business knowledge of Claude, Group Board Tony and Richard have served us very well over the In our trading statement of 26th November, 2004, years: we shall miss all of them and thank them for we announced that Steve McGill, Chief Executive, their support.
Richard's role as the senior independent had offered his resignation and this had been non-executive director will be taken over by Geoffrey accepted by the Board.
Steve worked hard for the Howe, a board member since 2002.
Group for 15 years and we wish him success in his future endeavours.
Effective from that date, I was Geoffrey Howe was appointed Joint Deputy Chairman appointed Executive Chairman for a period of up to alongside Rodney Leach on 26th November, 2004. two years, during which time the Group will appoint John Lloyd will also be retiring as a director at the a new Chief Executive.
Annual General Meeting, in order to concentrate on Effective from 1st January, 2005, the Board appointed developing Lloyd & Partners Limited, where he will Dominic Burke, Chief Executive of our UK Retail continue as Chairman & Chief Executive.
The Board is Insurance Broking and Employee Benefits businesses, indebted to him for his considerable contribution over and Mike Hammond, Chief Executive of JLT Risk many years both as a director and as a past Chairman Solutions, as directors of the Group.
Dominic Burke of the Board.
was also appointed to the new position of Chief With effect from 1st March, 2005, Dominic Collins Operating Officer.
Dominic and Mike were already assumes responsibility to the Board for Agnew Higgins members of the Group Executive Committee, the Pickering & Company Limited and Lloyd & Partners senior executive team responsible for the day-to-day Limited.
He will continue as Chairman of JLT Risk management of the Group.
They and the other Solutions.
members of the GEC will continue to report to me.
Claude Chouraqui, Tony Hobson and Richard Sermon Group strategy will retire as non-executive directors at the The Group's goal is to be a leading insurance and forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
We are currently reinsurance broker and risk advisor and to be a looking to recruit two new independent non-executive leading service provider and consultant in Employee directors and Tonys role as Chairman of the Audit & Benefits.
We have a three-pronged strategy for Compliance Committee will be filled by one of them.
achieving this goal, based on: employing the best Claude joined the board of JIB Group plc in 1991 industry professionals, focusing on those areas when JIB took a minority shareholding in SIACI, a where we are or can become a market leader, and very successful French broker of which Claude was endeavouring to deliver superior service to our Chairman and Chief Executive and in which JLT still clients at all times.
Claude has been an invaluable member of the board since the merger with During 2004, we have increased our investment in JIB in 1997.
Tony joined the board in January 2002, the business with the recruitment of teams and since when he has chaired our Audit & Compliance individuals in addition to selective acquisitions, Committee and successfully led us through a period of in order to develop the overall strategy of the Group.
considerable change and development in the general We have adopted a number of new initiatives within area of governance and compliance.
He is stepping JLT Risk Solutions to position the business for future down from the board because of additional growth.
We also remain committed to building a more responsibilities that he will shortly assume as significant position for our reinsurance business during Chairman of Northern Foods plc.
Richard joined the 2005, recognising we are underweight in this sector.
board of Lloyd Thompson in 1996 and so ends a nineyear period with the Group during which time he has made a considerable contribution in many areas.
4 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Executive Chairmans Statement We believe that the action taken against Marsh & In spite of these tough prevailing conditions, McLennan by the New York Attorney General last JLT remains a strong company and we are making October, and the settlement agreed between them progress in line with our strategy.
In JLT Risk in January 2005, will transform the way the insurance Solutions, steps have been taken to improve broking industry operates.
JLT intends to benefit performance and this process continues, although from these changes, in particular by the further the benefits of this will not be apparent until 2006. development of our specialist retail operations in JLT has maintained its profile in the international the United States.
With our expansion in Latin America, which will contribute a full year's profit for Prospects the first time in 2005, JLT is now represented in most From JLTs creation in 1997 to 2003, the Group significant economies around the world.
Our clients had an unbroken record of year-on-year growth in recognise the skills and expertise we bring to them profitability, earnings and dividend.
A year ago we and they are the platform on which we have built a foresaw the challenges ahead, namely the weak dollar, strong position in our chosen markets.
They are also the softening of insurance markets and a period of becoming more active in ensuring that they achieve consolidation for JLT Risk Solutions.
However the the best arrangements and with the benefit of greater impact on our profits was greater than we anticipated.
The continued weakness of the US dollar is likely to We see many opportunities in the years ahead to have an increased impact on our 2005 results.
develop JLT further, particularly in the USA.
We are If the dollar remains at today's levels, there would equally committed to rebuilding our reinsurance be a further 15 million impact on pre-tax profits.
business and to the further expansion of our Employee Maintaining our previously stated policy on PSAs in Benefits business.
2005 could potentially further reduce profits by up to 2005 will again be a challenging year but the 8 million compared to 2004, although the industry foundations of the Group are strong and will enable us models on broker remuneration are still evolving and to take advantage of underlying growth opportunities the ultimate effect has yet to be assessed.
Our greatest asset is the people who make up Globally, insurance markets remain in a state of flux our team - all 5,200 of them - and I thank them all for and we expect market conditions to remain soft their valuable contribution over the past year.
Ken Carter, Executive Chairman 14th March, 2005 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5
