Chairmans Statement Andrew Murison CHAIRMAN I am delighted to report in my first year as monetary regime, the strong rise in the Euro Chairman that our Company has had a satisfactory remain a significant stimulus to reform, and hence year, with its share price rising by 49.0% over the relative economic improvement, compared with twelve months to 31st March 2004.
The net asset less encumbered markets.
Global competition for value total return to shareholders was 40.8% both capital and customers is another healthy compared with 36.5% from the market as a whole stimulus.
The steadily improving return on capital as measured by our benchmark, the FTSE World employed of companies in Europe, compared with Europe ex-UK Index.
Thus the manager those in the UK and USA, is most encouraging.
outperformed the benchmark by 4.3 percentage However, there are never grounds for complacency.
Stephen Macklow-Smith explains the We shareholders can buy a passive index fund if we components of the out-performance and how it merely wish to ride the markets coat tails.
Your was achieved in his report on page 6.
Board must seek to ensure that the Company, as an We shareholders have continued to benefit actively managed fund, continues to outperform.
significantly over the last twelve months from the Rather as formula one racing cars are taken apart European focus of our Company.
European stock after every race to ensure future peak performance, markets in aggregate have significantly outyour Board deconstructs the Company at Board performed the UK and USA markets over the last meetings to ensure that the key issues effecting ten years in sterling terms.
Your Board perceives performance are kept under constant review.
There continuing opportunities in Europe that are are six issues that attract the closest scrutiny.
unavailable elsewhere for precisely the reasons First, we must be clear on what the Company is that many investors are wary of European markets.
You will have noted that the Bull markets, it is said, climb a wall of worry.
It Companys objective is capital growth from augurs well for future performance that potential Continental European investments by outbuyers remain on the sidelines.
performance of the benchmark over the long term The scope for growth originates from the which your Board defines as for rolling periods of  reforms gathering three years and longer.
Your Board believes that momentum throughout the enlarged European focus on performance over shorter periods can be Union as it confronts the challenges which dismay inimical to long term performance, as evidenced by many investors at large.
These challenges - the fact that less than 30% of managers with oneregulatory bureaucracy, labour immobility, year performance targets cumulatively outperform unemployment, budget deficits, an inflexible the market for more than three years in a row.
JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 1 Chairmans Statement continued Your Board is also aware that shareholders seek reward ride hand in hand, sustainable outcapital gains rather than mere out-performance of performance becomes a chimera if, by excessive the market, irrespective of whether the share price control of risk, rewards are suppressed goes down.
We are currently debating whether to commensurately.
The trick is to achieve greater incorporate an absolute share price gain into our rewards than the risk controls would appear to objective, given that as a specialist portfolio our justify to get more performance bang for the riskCompany will always be heavily invested, and thus reduction buck.
exposed to downward market movements that are Our Company achieves this by taking many small out of its control.
It is not legitimate for a specialist but careful calculations rather than a few big ones, equity portfolio to go deeply into cash and there and recording more right answers than wrong are legal constraints on an investment trust from ones.
Its objective is to outperform a widely doing so.
On the other hand, your Board is well diversified market and therefore, as a risk control aware that shareholders have a growing choice measure, its portfolio is widely diversified also.
But between, on the one hand, index funds that it diversifies its capital in a number of individually promise merely market performance from full small yet, in aggregate, highly significant ways market exposure at all times and, on the other from the markets distribution in order to produce hand, from hedge funds that exist to deliver steady out-performance in a sustainable way.
absolute gains irrespective of market movements, Your Boards most important role, then, is to up or down.
This is healthy competition for us.
ensure that the investment process continues to Your Boards aim is therefore to position the produce more reward for every unit of controlled Company as a specialist European investment and acceptable risk.
The managers continuing company delivering sustainable out-performance ability to find the best of value and the best of and a rising share price over rolling three year and growth is evident from this years annual results.
longer periods by taking carefully controlled risks The out-performance reflects the extent to which through an investment method that is clearly he has achieved excess reward per unit of risk communicated to its shareholders.
the criterion for dubbing performance Secondly, your Board must be very sensitive to the satisfactory.
risk and performance levers available to it and the But much more important than its annual investment manager in seeking to achieve performance is the fact that the Company has outsustainable out-performance.
Given that risk and performed its benchmark for all rolling threeand 2 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Chairmans Statement continued five-year periods since 1997 and 1995 respectively, be deployed currently limited to 20% of gross as the table below shows: assets at most the investment manager is responsible for tactical deployment of the funds in March March March March March 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 line with his judgement of suitable investment %%%% % opportunities.
3 year NAV value 1 added annualised 2.1 1.7 3.9 0.5 1.8 With hindsight that wonderful thing, it would 5 year NAV value have been best to defer the borrowing arranged in 1 added annualised 1.5 1.1 1.1 1.5 3.4 1999 - as the market approached its peak - until 1 NAV out-performance relative to benchmark.
However, that borrowing Source: Datastream total return JPMFAM.
would have had a significantly greater drag on Over the three and five year periods ending this performance during the bear market had not the financial year i. e. since 2001 and 1999, investment manager kept it predominantly in cash.
respectively - our Companys net asset value has Deploying it as markets recovered has given a outperformed the market each year by an average significant boost to performance this year.
This long-term outFourthly, your Board keeps a careful eye on the performance in net asset value did not produce level of the discount to net asset value of the share out-performance of the share price over all periods price, seeking to avoid unjustifiably high discounts because the discount fluctuated, but it is gratifying by buying shares in the market.
However, discount to note that the annualised gain in the share price volatility is a more material factor for short-term over 5 years returned to positive territory in 2004, investors than for those with the longterm view, the average annual gain being 0.9%.
to whom growth in net asset value is more The level of gearing is the third factor that your significant.
Therefore the fact that buy-backs at Board keeps under close scrutiny.
Since your wide discounts raise the net asset value for the Board believes that equities continue to be a remaining shareholders is the more important better investment than cash or fixed-income consideration for your Board than the level or securities in the long run, we remain convinced volatility of the discount itself.
that being a net investor of borrowed capital is in In your Boards view asset performance should be your long-term interest.
While the Board remains the most influential long-term determinant of the responsible for this long-term gearing strategy, and discount: it is therefore disappointed that the determines the overall amount of debt available to JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 3 Chairmans Statement continued discount, approximately 18% at the time of writing, amongst the lowest levels in the industry and, is rather larger than the average of its peer group, particularly this year, to ensure that its procedures despite the Companys better than average are aligned with emerging regulations and best performance.
Your Board is aware that the practice.
Lowering costs in the face of increasing difference between the market value and the par regulations are not always compatible activities, value of the Companys debt is also a material but you can rest assured that your Board factor affecting the discount, and has this issue undertakes these tasks with one overriding aim in under review.
view to increase total returns to shareholders.
The fact that in your Boards view the discount is In this regard I close by saying that it remains the unjustifiably large is one reason why we regard Boards policy to pay out as a single dividend the communications with shareholders, and with the major part of the net earnings for each year.
The market generally, as a fifth important aspect of its dividend that we recommend this year, having role.
Your Board is keen that all the aspects of the risen to a ten-year high of 4.90p in 2003, has fallen Companys activities should be clearly back to 0.70p in 2004 largely because of a fall in communicated to investors and shareholders, and dividends from our underlying investments.
The should be well understood by them.
We seek to interest cost of the Companys gearing also has a meet regularly with investors with this aim in view.
significant impact on net earnings so I am glad that At present we feel that the market still views our this was dwarfed by the 21m contribution that the Company as a quasi-market tracker, whereas its gearing made to asset growth over the year, divergent performance is significantly better than equivalent to an additional 38p of net asset value an index fund and better than its risk profile per share.
Your Board feels that greater awareness I look forward with confidence to the Company of the Companys aims and methods will be an producing growing total returns to its shareholders important factor in helping to reduce the discount, from European investments in future.
and will result in better returns to shareholders.
Lastly, your Board expends considerable efforts on Andrew Murison its own processes in order to maintain costs at Chairman 22nd June 2004 4 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European... a specialist European investment company delivering sustainable out-performance and a rising share price over rolling three year and longer periods by taking carefully controlled risks through an investment method that is clearly communicated to its shareholders.
