Chairmans Statement David Ritchie CHAIRMAN Review Japan are likely to reach levels last seen 20 years After an encouraging start, our year finished on a ago, profit margins will reach record highs, and somewhat disappointing note.
Early optimism on debt levels continue to be paid down.
Historic growth gave way to concerns on oil prices and cross-shareholdings are being unwound, there is interest rates, and doubts over Chinas economy.
more evidence of merger and acquisition activity As a result, our share price ended the year broadly and growth is being seen in dividends and share unchanged on a year earlier.
For the year to 30th September, the net asset value The issue of change in corporate Japan has been a per share fell by 3.8%, which compares with a rise recurrent theme in past statements and I am of 1.7% in our benchmark index, each of these conscious that it has not always prevented stock being affected by the fall in the yen against market disappointment.
This year has proved no sterling.
Our share price rose fractionally as the exception.
In the short run it seems inevitable that discount narrowed from 14.5% to 10.9%.
investors worldwide will remain anxious about high oil and commodity prices, cooling growth in The lacklustre market performance and the the USA and China, and the prospects for the underperformance of our own portfolio have been dollar.
Until these are resolved it may be that the frustrating, as there has been increasing evidence Japanese and other world stock markets will make of positive change.
The problems of the banking little headway.
Within Japan, our managers are sector, which have hung as a dead weight over more optimistic than the consensus on the Japan for the last decade, are slowly being immediate economic prospects and the prospects resolved and bank lending is rising.
Within for corporate profits growth.
As a result they companies, there is continually increasing believe that Japanese share valuations, for so long evidence of what some are calling a new paradigm much more demanding than those in other world in Japanese corporate management behaviour.
In markets, are now attractive compared with those place of the old preoccupation with asset growth elsewhere, and not just in relative terms.
and turnover, which was to the principal benefit of cross-shareholder and other business partners, The Board there is now greater focus on profit and return on It was announced last year that Patrick Gifford and equity and the interests of shareholders as a I would be retiring.
The Board commissioned an whole.
This year, returns on equity in corporate external search for new directors, specifying that at JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 1 Chairmans Statement continued least one should have had a high level investment Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares management background, and one should have At last years AGM, shareholders granted the had specific fund management experience in Directors authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of Japan.
Andrew Fleming was appointed to the Board the Companys shares for cancellation.
He spent six years in Japan running Company did not repurchase any shares for the Tokyo office of Gartmore Investment cancellation during the year.
However, the Management and was Global Chief Investment Directors believe the circumstances could again Officer for ABN AMRO Investment Management arise when the mechanism would be of benefit to until earlier this year.
Keith Percy was appointed a shareholders.
It is therefore proposed that the director on 4th November.
He is Chairman and authority be renewed for a further period.
Chief Executive of Societe Generale Asset Annual General Meeting Management.
Each submits himself for election at The Annual General Meeting of the Company will the AGM and the Board warmly endorses both be held at 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on appointments.
17th December 2004 at 2.00 p. m. As has been the Patrick Gifford retired as a Director of the Company case in previous years, the proceedings will on 28th July.
As a former Chairman and a Director include a presentation by the Investment since it became a specialist Japanese investment Managers.
After the meeting, shareholders will be trust in 1982, his contribution has been immense.
I able to meet the Board and representatives of will be retiring at the conclusion of this years AGM.
It has been my privilege to be a Director of the Please submit in writing any detailed questions Company for over 20 years and Chairman for the which you wish to raise at the AGM to the past 6 years.
The Board has appointed Jeremy Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Paulson-Ellis to succeed me as Chairman, and I am Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are confident that I shall be leaving the Company in unable to attend the AGM in person are good hands.
encouraged to use their proxy votes.
David Ritchie Chairman 10th November 2004 2 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese
