CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Rob Margetts Chairman 2004 was another year of milestones, records and awards cost management and a second year of rising equity markets, for your company.
We set tough objectives for the year, enabled its Modied Statutory Solvency MSS operating profit yet our performance in many areas has exceeded those to grow by 25% to 69m.
Our UK new business growth, in particular, In December, we announced that our profits and our embedded was well ahead of the market and shareholders can be value will in future be affected by changes to life fund taxation pleased with this success.
However, we can, I believe, which the Chancellor is intending to enact.
The changes and their do still better and I am confident that we will.
impact on Legal & General are described in more detail in the Finance Directors Review on page 21.
Your Board is concerned Results Overview at the lack of support which the savings industry receives from Government.
Regrettably, its actions contrast with its stated desire New business records were achieved in almost all areas in 2004. to see an increase in the level of long term saving.
Our Investment Management subsidiary won 15.5bn of new business, an outstanding achievement, and now has 162bn of Dividend and Share Price Performance assets under management.
In our core insurance activity, worldwide The Board is pleased to propose an increase in the final dividend new business Annual Premium Equivalent APE grew by 14% of 3.6% to 3.45p per share.
The increase in the full year dividend to exceed 1bn for the first time in our history.
Reaching this of 3.3% is ahead of ination for the year to January, so that once milestone is all the more impressive since it was only in 1999 again the real value of your dividend has been increased.
The Board that we passed the 500m APE mark.
This doubling of worldwide reached its dividend decision having had regard both to models volumes in so short a period is matched by the growth in market of the prospective transfers from the UK Long Term Fund and share we have achieved in UK retail business.
Our 2004 market other income streams, in the light of anticipated investment share was 9.5%, up from 5.1% in 1999. returns, and to the capital anticipated to be required to support This record of growth is impressive and is added to by our new business growth.
profit performance, which grew on both our reporting bases, In 2004, our Total Shareholder Return TSR exceeded 10% for despite the additional reserving we established in July for our the second year running.
Legal & Generals 16% return compared annuity book.
Central to this achievement is our business model, favourably with the 11% return achieved by the FTSE 100.
Further which has been designed for profitable growth.
We have achieved TSR information is available below ten years and on page 38 our growth organically, not through acquisitions with their inherent five years.
Looking forward, we believe that improving market conditions, the benets we expect to derive from depolarisation Communicating with our Shareholders and our strengthened position within our market will enable us Shareholders will notice our Report this year is longer than usual.
to deliver further profitable growth.
Our strategy of good value This is largely due to additional disclosure on our life and pensions products, a single brand, broad distribution and a clear customer business, which has been required by the UK Accounting Standards focus has been the driver of our continued success.
One of the ASB requirements is to disclose what is remains in force and will, I believe, enable us to continue known as a Realistic valuation for our with-profits business.
valuation is based on rules for calculating assets and liabilities which Of the many contributors to profit, the performance of our have been set by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
We commend Investment Management subsidiary deserves special mention.
the FSA for developing the Realistic basis of reporting, which we Another year of new business success and further expansion believe is a more appropriate way to assess with-profits liabilities.
beyond its index tracking base has, when combined with tight Further changes to financial reporting are in the pipeline.
Next year, we will be required to prepare our financial information Fig 1.
Ten Year Total Shareholder Return % using International Financial Reporting Standards.
As a result, the financial and risk management disclosures provided in the 313.2 Report will increase significantly.
We also intend to adopt the 181.4 new European Embedded Value methodology for preparing our 115.9 supplementary accounts.
This methodology was developed by some of Europes leading life insurers, including Legal & General, Legal & General to improve the consistency and comparability of supplementary FTSE Life Assurance Sector FTSE 100 reporting across Europe.
For comparison purposes, we will restate 2 Legal & General Annual Report 2004 This positive market environment will, we believe, enable Legal & General to continue its record of steady and profitable growth Director of ITV Plc, has also joined your Audit Committee.
He is the 2004 Final Results to reect the new accounting standards and already proving to be an important contributor to our deliberations.
These important issues for shareholders are covered Shareholders will be aware that the retirement of your Group in more detail in the Finance Directors Review.
Chief Executive, David Prosser, from the Board is now just a year away.
The process of appointing his successor is receiving the Financial Services and Markets Tribunal Boards closest attention and its timescale will be such as to allow Shareholders will have read of the recent decision of the Financial a proper handover of responsibilities.
Your Board was unanimous in deciding to refer an earlier FSA Decision Notice to the Tribunal Awards because we felt that this was the only way of obtaining an I have referred with pride before to Legal & Generals record of independent adjudication.
We had serious concerns about the winning awards.
This year, we have received awards from our peers: way in which the FSAs Enforcement Division and its Regulatory Decisions Committee RDC considered our case and we were from those who distribute our products, not just in the UK but also pleased that the Tribunal, referring to errors in the Decision Notice in The Netherlands: from our customers and from the trade union, and in the way it was reached, stated that Legal & General were Amicus.
Although your Board is well aware that the real prize we justied in feeling aggrieved by these aspects of the RDCs decision.
strive for is the creation of long term value for you, our shareholders, The Tribunals decision cleared Legal & General of the charge of these awards, listed on the back inside cover, provide welcome widespread mis-selling but said that the procedural rule breaches recognition for our employees.
The Board congratulates and thanks will have caused or contributed to mis-sales.
The Tribunal found the Groups management and staff on another year of impressive that the FSA had proved eight cases of mis-sales and stated that achievement, especially given the unprecedented rate of change except to this limited extent the mis-selling case fails.
The Tribunal with which they have had to cope.
has stated its provisional view that there should be a reduction in the penalty imposed by the FSA.
Outlook It is important to Legal & General, as a major UK financial services 2004 saw a second year of recovery in UK equity prices, with the company, that the processes operated by the FSA are both clear FTSE 100 rising 7.5% over the year.
The economy remains buoyant and fair to consumers and providers alike and we are pleased that, and we therefore expect our market to grow again in 2005.
We also following the Tribunals judgement, the FSA has initiated a review believe the second report of the Pensions Commission expected to reconsider these processes.
in the Autumn should stimulate a much-needed revival in pension saving.
John Monckton This positive market environment will, we believe, enable One important contributor to the recent success of Legal & General Legal & General to continue its record of steady and profitable Investment Management has been the performance of our Bonds growth.
Our capabilities: our products: our range of distribution team, managed since 1996 by John Monckton.
Colleagues and partners: our financial strength and our people, are all, we believe, clients were all appalled by the news and circumstances of his amongst the best in our peer group.
John was a true gentleman, admired Our goal is to grow our business further and, by managing our and respected by all.
His loss is deeply felt by Legal & General.
margins and business mix appropriately, also to grow profitably.
To his family, whose loss is immeasurably greater, we send our Thereby, we seek to reward you, our shareholders, with attractive sincere condolences.
returns for the risks you take.
Your Board is confident that Legal & General will achieve that goal in the years ahead Board Changes in the same way as it has done in the year just past.
There have been two changes to your Board during the past year.
Tim Parker, who joined the Board in 2002, was appointed last summer to be Chief Executive of the Automobile Association.
To avoid the conict of interest inevitable in this role, Tim stepped down from the Board in July.
We are grateful to Tim for his valuable contribution to our discussions and wish him every success in his new role.
Rob Margetts The Board was very pleased to welcome Henry Staunton to our Chairman number in May 2004.
Henry, a chartered accountant and the Finance Legal & General Annual Report 2004 3
