chairmans statement We recorded impressive increases in placed by the Companys brokers with production, operating cash ow and profits, institutional investors in response to and established the Groups presence in Egypt, market demand.
where we have now been awarded three licences.
Since the year-end, we have moved In January 2005, a further 22 million existing into India via the purchase of a 26% interest in shares 16% of the Company were placed in Hindustan Oil Exploration Company.
As a result the free oat has have a portfolio of E&P assets focused in increased to 63% of Burrens share capital four geographic areas with complementary thus improving the market liquidity of the shares.
characteristics and each with material upside potential.
Burrens safety performance in Nebit Dag, where it acts as Operator, has been excellent, Driven by successful drilling programmes with no serious accidents reported during the in Turkmenistan and Congo, average daily period.
Further enhancements have been made group production net to Burren rose by 74% to the HSE management system to ensure the Brian Lavers CBE to 14,200 bopd 2003: 8,140 bopd, making health and safety of our employees and others.
Chairman the average annual growth rate over the last Burren continues to progress its activities in an three years 75% p. a. a very creditable environmentally and socially responsible way.
performance in an industry context.
This I am pleased to report that in production increase, combined with There have been two additions to the Board substantially higher oil prices, enabled since the beginning of the period: Mr. Pierre its first full year on the London Burren to more than double net profit to Lasry and Mr. Keith Henry were appointed Stock Exchange your Company 38.8 million 2003: 15.8 million and Non-Executive Directors in January 2004 and to generate net cash ow before nancing March 2005, respectively.
Both new Directors had a highly successful year.
of 3.8 million despite a near doubling of have immense knowledge and experience 2004 was a year of great capital expenditure compared with 2003. of our business and are most welcome 2004 was the third year in a row of more to the Board.
The Audit, Nominations and achievement for Burren both than doubled profits, achieved despite the Remuneration Committees met regularly nancially and in terms of effects of the steady decline in the US dollar during the year.
Burren is progressing towards the Companys strategic against sterling over this period.
full compliance with the recommendations of the Revised Combined Code on best practice development and creation As a result of the dramatic expansion of the in corporate governance.
Initiatives undertaken of shareholder value.
MBoundi eld in Congo during the year, Group during the year included a comprehensive entitlement P P reserves increased by 22% to analysis of risk and the management thereof, 146 million barrels at 31 December 2004.
This carried out during 2004. increase of 26 million barrels, representing more than five times last years production, is after In conclusion, I would like on behalf of the a downwards adjustment of 14 million barrels shareholders and the Board to express my arising from the impact on our share of future gratitude to the executives, managers and production, under the terms of the PSCs, of all employees, especially those in the eld, an increase in the assumed long term Brent oil for their dedication and hard work in achieving price from US$19 bbl to US$25 bbl.
But for this such successful results.
adjustment the increase would have been 34%.
On a working interest basis P P reserves increased by 37% to 246 million barrels.
Burrens share price has risen strongly over the period as a result of which the Company was included in the FTSE 250 index with effect from Brian Lavers CBE 21 June 2004.
In mid-July 2004, 24.5 million Chairman shares held by pre-Flotation shareholders, 4 April 2005 representing 18% of the Company, were 02 BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
