Chairmans Statement The London Stock Exchange is operating in a rapidly changing business environment.
Always, during such periods of change, significant opportunities arise and your company is well-placed to benefit from them.
The Exchange has produced a set we are committed to offering a range EUROPE of satisfactory results in a year during of products and services that they want, The EUs Financial Services Action Plan which many of our customers have at prices that are competitive and is designed to remove barriers to an been operating in highly variable market on platforms that are reliable, flexible efficient single market in financial services conditions.
The Board has recommended and scalable.
This year key directives a final dividend of 3.4 pence per share, were passed that will provide choice in an increase of 13 per cent on the the execution venues for trading in crossSPECIAL DIVIDEND AND SHARE previous years final dividend.
Together border securities, enable companies CONSOLIDATION with the interim dividend of 1.4 pence to be admitted to trading where they Good cash flows in recent years, per share, the total dividend for the year choose and provide investors with equal coupled with the anticipated receipt rises 12 per cent to 4.8 pence per share.
access to company information wherever of proceeds from the disposal of the they are in Europe.
We have worked Tower, have resulted in surplus cash The Board extends its thanks to hard to influence the outcome of these being available for return to shareholders.
Martin Wheatley, who has departed as directives to ensure that they do not The Board therefore proposes to return Deputy CEO, for his very considerable enshrine national protectionism and approximately 162 million by way of a contribution after 19 years at the Exchange.
properly reflect Londons open and special dividend of 55 pence per share In addition, thank you to all the staff of competitive market model.
payable to shareholders on the register the Company for their hard work over on 23 July 2004.
The return will be the year to deliver this performance.
It remains to be seen whether the agreed accompanied by a consolidation of measures have removed sufficient current shares in issue on the basis of regulatory barriers to conducting business STRATEGY six new shares for every seven existing across borders.
Despite this, we believe These results leave the London Stock shares.
The special dividend and that there will be significant opportunities Exchange in a good position to pursue share consolidation is conditional on for all areas of our business in the new our growth strategy.
Changes to market shareholder approval at the AGM, single European market.
structures and customer requirements 14 July 2004.
The Board believes are creating openings of which we can that the Exchanges cash generation take advantage.
As the barriers to capability, together with significant competition are removed from global undrawn loan facilities, will maintain capital markets, specifically in Europe, its financial flexibility to continue to investors and market participants want pursue opportunities for growth.
to be able to benefit from choice.
To enable us to capitalise on the choices that our customers make in future, 04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CLEARING AND SETTLEMENT We moved to our new offices at However, a truly competitive cross-border 10 Paternoster Square opposite trading landscape is dependent on access St Pauls Cathedral in May 2004. on fair terms to the rest of the infrastructure.
The building is modern and outwardAs we argued successfully when LCH looking and our business will greatly and Clearnet merged last year, it is vital benefit from a working environment that that any consolidation of the clearing and allows better interaction between our settlement infrastructure serves the staff and with our customers.
In July we interests of customers.
Closed access will be welcoming Her Majesty The Queen to clearing and settlement is a barrier and HRH The Duke of Edinburgh to open to effective competition for exchange our new building.
We are pleased that the European Commission has accepted OUR ROLE our arguments in its review of the cost The London Stock Exchange stands and accessibility of EU post-trade at the heart of the most international services published in April.
We will Chris Gibson-Smith capital market in the world and our Chairman continue to press for European-wide markets are central to the future economic measures leading to effective open wellbeing of society.
Your Board and the access to the post-trade infrastructure.
executive team recognise that we have an important role to highlight the COMMUNITY AND LOCALITY appropriate regulatory and economic This year marks a new focus for our agenda that will maintain and enhance community programme and an important Londons success.
We will continue to change in our physical location.
Our campaign for fairer and more open markets partnership with educational charity, in Europe and for an appropriate domestic The Trident Trust, has now come to regulatory regime that encourages an end and we have begun a two-year investors to have confidence in the relationship with Brainwave, supporting equity markets.
children with brain injury or impairment.
Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman As the barriers to competition are removed from global capital markets, specifically in Europe, investors and market participants want to be able to benefit from choice.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 05
