Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 3 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement It is my pleasure to report that the Man Group has enjoyed another very positive year.
Both the Asset Management and Brokerage divisions have delivered strong growth in profitability through a combination of continued vigorous organic development of their businesses and by building on the successful integration of two key businesses, acquired in the previous year, RMF and GNI.
Funds under management at year-end During the year we continued to build out our were $38.5 billion, up from $26.1 billion investment management capability through at March 2003, reflecting strong product in-house research and development, new performance and record asset raising results.
manager incubation, acquisitions and Net management fee income was up 50% capacity rental agreements.
As part of and, in combination with a strong year for these efforts, during the year we acquired brokerage, resulted in diluted underlying 25% of BlueCrest, an alternative asset earnings per share, a measure which excludes manager focused on fixed income and performance related income, Sugar Australia, currencies with currently just under $4 billion goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, under management.
Performance fees added 32.9 pence per share.
Diluted Higher asset levels drove net management earnings per share on total operations was fee income up 50% to 271.1 million.
Harvey McGrath 103.1 pence, up 36% on the prior year and Significantly, we have seen no meaningful Chairman, Man Group plc leading to a healthy 32.2% post-tax return downward pressure on private investor on equity.
margins, and have enjoyed an improving trend in institutional margins in RMF overall, These results have clearly met or exceeded as we write new business at better levels than our key financial targets, being the delivery of those enjoyed by the business at acquisition.
significant growth in underlying earnings and Net management fee income for the year the maintenance of a high return on equity.
represented 1.4% of average funds under Accordingly, and given our strong financial management, up from 1.3% last year.
condition, the Board proposes a final dividend The positive product performance noted of 18.6 pence per share, for a total dividend for above drove net performance fee income the year of 30.0 pence, an increase of 29%.
to 139.1 million, up 21% from last year, resulting in a total profit before tax and In Asset Management, sales for the year were goodwill amortisation of 410 million, up $11.5 billion, up from $6.7 billion in the prior 39% from the previous year.
This was a significant accomplishment, not least because the year saw a strong Looking forward, our view of this business equity market recovery, which had in some remains the same.
We expect to see continued quarters been expected to reduce the strong growth in assets allocated to alternative attractiveness of absolute return strategies investment strategies that provide attractive to investors.
Hedge fund returns did lag diversification opportunities for investors.
We those from the equity market but nevertheless, intend that Man Investments consolidates and produced solid results.
Our products saw enhances its position as a leading global AHL benchmark funds return 18.3% in provider of these products and services.
the year to 31 March 2004, RMF 12.3%, Glenwood 5.4% and Man Global Strategies Man Financial, our brokerage business, has 9.1%, broadly in line with expectations both had a very strong year, with pre-tax profits in terms of volatility and returns.
These before goodwill amortisation and exceptional results, further validating a solid long-term items up 47% to 70.8 million.
This result track record, and in combination with our reflects both the benefits of the successful attractive product structures and institutional integration of GNI, acquired in November 2002, standing, enabled Man Investments to again and continued strong organic development maintain a higher growth rate than the of the business.
Man Financial is one of the industry overall.
Of the record $11.5 billion worlds largest futures and options brokers raised during the year, $7.8 billion was from providing execution, clearing, intermediary private investors and the balance from and matched principal services to both institutions.
Reflecting both increased RMF institutional and private clients in Europe, the institutional asset raising and continued strong US and Asia.
We have successfully increased private investor sales, Europe contributed our share of a market that has itself seen 64% of global sales with Asia Pacific, the consistent volume growth over recent years, Americas and the Middle East contributing in large part by successfully responding to 20%, 10%, and 6% respectively.
the transition from floor to screen trading and the convergence of cash and derivative markets.
All product lines performed well during the year with an outstanding result in particular from our interest rate products Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 4 Chairmans Statement business which enjoyed active markets, This year has clearly been a successful one growth in the client base, producer recruitment for the Group, and I offer my congratulations and the introduction of a new integrated and thanks to Stanley Fink, Peter Clarke, cash bond business.
Our foreign exchange Kevin Davis, Chris Chambers who joined and private client businesses also had a the Board on 20 August 2003 and all our record year.
In addition we enjoyed strong staff whose efforts have contributed to this performances from energy, metals and fund success.
My thanks too are due to our services.
The institutional equities business non-executive directors Glen Moreno, has also benefited from the GNI acquisition Stephen Nesbitt, Alison Carnwath and given its leading position in equity derivatives.
They were joined during the year by Jon Aisbitt and Jonathan Nicholls Looking forward we expect Man Financials appointed 20 August 2003 and 24 March markets to continue to expand and believe 2004 respectively.
Their collective diligence, that our business model, focused on growing counsel and challenge are an integral part of market share, diversifying revenue streams, the success of the Group.
controlling overheads and exploiting scale advantages will support a continued growth In conclusion I am pleased to say that the in profitability from this business.
current year has started well.
Appetite for our fund products remains strong.
We recently As indicated in last years Annual Report in the reported that the global offering of the Man discussion on the conversion to International RMF Multi-Style product had closed in Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the April having raised $819 million in investor Group has decided to change its presentation subscriptions and setting a new record for a currency from sterling to US dollars with effect single global product launch.
Funds under from 1 April 2004 the Groups IFRS transition management have been affected by some date.
This means that the first report negative investment performance, particularly published in US dollars will be the September in AHL during April, which has recently partly 2004 Interim Report.
As the majority of the reversed in May.
Funds under management Groups revenue streams, assets and liabilities are currently estimated to be $38.5 billion, are denominated in US dollars, it is consistent with a good level of forward sales activity in to present the Groups accounts in the same the pipeline.
The Brokerage business has currency.
The Group Board considers it also enjoyed a good start to the year, with appropriate to redenominate the share capital continued record levels of market volumes.
of Man Group plc to bring it into line with its functional currency and the functional currency of the the main operating subsidiaries.
Shareholder approval for this redenomination into US dollars will be sought at the AGM.
Dividends will still be paid in sterling and the London Stock Exchange will Harvey McGrath continue to quote and settle Man Group plcs Chairman share price in sterling.
We are very confident of the outlook for the coming year.
Appetite for our fund products remains strong, as evidenced by our latest record fund launch.
In Brokerage, our increasing market share, diversity of revenue streams and exploitation of scale continues to support growth in profitability.
Man Gr Man Group plc oup plc Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 6 6 Section Title Section Title Our core objective is to deliver significant growth in underlying earnings.
Man has grown significantly both profits and funds under management in the year.
