The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement Results Dividends After two years of decline in stock markets, the financial year The Board has declared dividends totalling 17.60p for the ended 31 January 2004 produced a welcome recovery.
The financial year, which compares with a total of 17.20p for Trusts net asset value per share increased by 30.7% to 350.1p 2002 3, and represents an increase of 2.3%.
The total cost of and, including dividends paid, the total underlying return per the payments for 2003 4 was 18.0m, absorbing just under share was 37.2% compared with the total return of 27.7% 0.3m from the Trusts Revenue Reserve.
This now stands at recorded by the FTSE 100 Index.
The Trust has recorded 22 years of consecutive dividend increases.
The Trusts total assets increased in value by 23.7% before allowing for the impact of gearing and costs.
In comparison the In the past it has been the Boards practice to recommend a FTSE 100 Index rose by 23.1% and the FTSE Higher Yield final dividend at the Annual General Meeting.
In a rising market, the Trusts borrowings shareholders will be aware that the tax credit on dividends had a positive influence on returns to shareholders.
accruing to Personal Equity Plans PEPs and Individual Savings Accounts ISAs was terminated with effect from 5 April, 2004.
During the year the share price rose by 27.4% from 256p to The Board was advised that, for a useful proportion of the 326p.
Trusts investors, there would be a modest tax advantage through bringing forward the fourth quarterly payment for 2003 4 to before this date.
The final payment for 2003 4 was Market Background therefore made on 2 April 2004 in the form of a fourth interim After falling rapidly in the early weeks of 2003 4, markets dividend.
We plan to revert to the normal schedule of dividend recovered sharply in anticipation of a swift resolution to the payments for 2004 5. military campaign in Iraq.
Despite the difficulties in Iraq following these events, markets responded to the clear improvement in economic growth prospects, especially in the Gearing US.
UK shares participated in this rally, although they rose by Many shareholders will be aware that discussions are under less than shares in overseas markets.
With economic activity way which may lead to a change in the valuation of all accelerating and companies starting to reap the benefits of cost Investment Trusts borrowings for the purposes of calculating savings, corporate profits increased by an estimated 15% in net asset values.
One proposal is that in future borrowings 2003.
Analysts forecasts were upgraded as the year progressed should be valued on the basis of prevailing fixed interest market and the UK equity market finished the year just below its best yields rather than the final or par value ultimately repayable.
level for the twelve months.
The Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC is examining the benefits of changing to a new method for the purposes of calculating monthly asset values and it is possible Earnings Per Share that many audited Investment Trust accounts will change for In 2003 2004 net earnings per share rose by 0.5% to 17.34p.
accounting periods beginning on and after 1 January 2005.
By The 2002 3 financial year included special dividend receipts way of illustration the impact of this change for your Trust as at equivalent to 0.59p per share and, if this element is ignored, the 31 January 2004 would have been to reduce the net asset value underlying growth in earnings per share was 4.0%, per share by 6% to 329.1p, leading to the shares being quoted notwithstanding dividend cuts by a number of leading at a 0.9% discount to the adjusted net asset value.
and Managers are contributing to the debate and will communicate further with shareholders as appropriate.
The Several major multinational companies in the Trusts portfolio change, if implemented will have no implications for the Trusts now pay their dividends in US dollars.
As a result of this, over investment objective or for its dividend policy.
20% of the Trusts revenue is received in this currency.
Recent dollar weakness reduced the level of the Trusts revenue when expressed in Sterling by about 0.2p per share in 2003 2004.
If present exchange rates are maintained, the weakness of the dollar is likely to have a rather greater negative impact in the current year.
3 The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement International Financial Reporting Standards The application of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS will become more widespread in the European Union in the coming years.
It is too early to tell how IFRS will affect the accounts of investment trusts, but if the Trust were to adopt IFRS it could have a significant impact on the presentation of the Trusts financial statements.
The Board is keeping this matter under close review.
Repurchases of Shares During the year the Trust did not add to the number of shares repurchased and cancelled.
Thus the total number of shares repurchased remains at 225,000.
As in previous years the Board is proposing to renew this authority at the forthcoming AGM on 11 May 2004.
Since December last year it has been possible for companies, including investment trusts, to hold shares repurchased in the market in Treasury, rather than cancel them.
At this stage your Board has decided not to seek approval from shareholders to hold shares in Treasury, but we propose to monitor how the use of this facility by the investment trust sector develops over the coming months.
Prospects In my Statement this time last year, I noted that UK equities were attractive by reference to a number of historic benchmarks.
Given the scale of the recovery in share values since then, a large proportion of this valuation gap has now been corrected.
On the other hand, many economic forecasters expect the current trend in earnings growth to be maintained over the rest of 2004 and beyond.
This continued earnings growth should have positive implications for UK company dividends, not least because of the recent improvement in company balance sheets.
This in turn should have a beneficial impact on the UK market at large and help sustain the widespread investor interest in the higher yielding companies in which the Trust is invested.
