Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that by the end of the year under review Having served on the Board virtually since the Company was the Net Asset Value of your Company had recovered from the established in December 1993, Andrew Buxton will be retiring 16% decline reported at the interim stage to record a slight gain after the forthcoming AGM having reached the age of 70.
Over the year the undiluted NAV grew by 2.7% to are enormously grateful to him for the wisdom and guidance he 242.85p, our fourth consecutive year of growth and roughly in has provided to the Company over this time.
Gordon Sage will line with the benchmark.
The share price ended the year succeed him as the Senior Independent Director and Colin virtually unchanged at 218.00p, 3.9% below the all time high Buchan will assume chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
As of 226.75p achieved in January 2004. mentioned in the interim report, Oliver Baring joined the Board on 4 November 2004.
He worked for Anglo American Group Performance prior to joining Rowe & Pitman in 1970, subsequently leading Earnings per share were 3.01p, an increase of 74% from the UBS Warburgs International Mining Group.
He is currently previous year which includes the benefit of some investment Group Executive Chairman of First Africa and his experience trading.
The dividend is increased once again, from 1.70p to should prove invaluable.
1.75p and the directors have declared a special dividend of 0.75p per share.
Outlook Although the pace of economic expansion may well moderate In March 2004 shareholders were issued with bonus warrants during the year ahead, the outlook for demand growth in the on the basis of one warrant for every five shares held.
These metals and minerals sector continues to be encouraging.
Once become exercisable on 29 April 2005 at a share price of 219p again China should help lead the way, with commodity prices compared to the price at going to press of 227.50p a new all predicted to strengthen further.
We are hopeful that this will time high.
The warrant price at this time is 10.50p.
We will lead to the mining sector outperforming global equities shortly be writing to warrantholders setting out the possible generally.
Your Company is fully invested to benefit from these courses of action.
Commodity markets experienced a strong year in 2004 as the P S Wilmot-Sitwell global economy continued to prosper, led in the main by China.
14 February 2005 In particular, metal prices surged in US dollar terms although the weakness of the currency served to reduce the benefits to sterling investors.
With China continuing as the growth engine for the world economy your Company has been well positioned to reap the benefits.
As detailed later in this report, your Boards Corporate Governance responsibilities continue to expand.
We are fully supportive of the guidelines issued by the AITC in this connection and will be adopting the further measures recommended for the coming year.
