CHAIRMANS STATEMENT highlights Over the year, net asset value Good stock picking in the UK Increased exposure to Japanese rose by 24.2%, compared with a and North America helped to and Asian Pacific markets and 15.5% rise in the FTSE World achieve outperformance against the presence of gearing also Index in sterling terms.
the comparative index of made notable contributions.
Chairmans Statement After two successive years in which our net asset value fell, it is gratifying to report that in the year to 30 April 2004 net asset value rose by 24.2% to 208.0p.
This rise compares favourably with the 15.5% increase in the FTSE World Index in sterling terms which the Board uses as a broad comparative measure for the Companys performance.
The greater part of the return was achieved that we should write off all our claims, Revenue Account in the six months to 31 October, when our including the most up to date.
These are Earnings per share were 1.02p, marginally net asset value rose by 16.4% to 194.9p: sums to which your Company is clearly lower than last years 1.04p.
The most in the second six months it increased by a entitled and which may eventually be notable positive factors were the drop in further 6.7%.
There was considerable received but the fact that we have had to interest paid on our bank borrowings, from divergence in the performance of markets in write them off is a comment on the 1.16m in 2003 to 333,000 this year, the different parts of the world.
Far Eastern deplorable dilatoriness of the tax authorities and a 1.2m uplift in dividends on our markets fared best with Japan up 45.0% of a fellow member of the European Union.
On the negative side, and Pacific ex Japan up 28.8%.
Europe ex there was a 350,000 increase in the UK rose by 19.9% and the UK itself by In view of the non-recurring nature of this investment management fee, reflecting the 18.3%, while the United States was the write-off, we have decided to recommend rising asset value, and lower income on laggard with a rise of only 8.8% all figures an unchanged final dividend of 0.65p, our new investments in Japan than we had are capital only returns and those for even though its payment will require a been receiving on our previous holdings in overseas markets are expressed in sterling.
small transfer from our substantial revenue the UK and Europe.
We also wrote off As can be seen from the attribution table on reserve.
367,000 of outstanding Italian page 12, we had good stock-picking withholding tax, which is tax deducted results in the UK and North America which Investment Activity from dividends paid on our Italian equity more than outweighed the disappointing Throughout most of the year we had a holdings and which we are entitled to outturn in Europe, while our additions in strongly optimistic view of markets, were reclaim under the double taxation treaty Japan and Asia and our gearing all made positively geared into equities and held between the UK and Italy.
Last year we notable contributions.
Although having over only minimal amounts of cash.
During the wrote off 300,000 of this tax, in respect 40% of our portfolio in North America, the first half we put 12m into Japan and of repayment claims which had been poorest performing market, may seem 11m into Asia Pacific, which was outstanding for more than three years.
In questionable, the FTSE World Index has a financed by reductions in the UK, Europe the last twelve months we have received considerably higher proportion than that in and North America.
In the second half of nothing from the Italian authorities in North America, which helped our relative the year, we invested a further 19m in respect of these claims and we have now performance.
Japan, as confirmatory evidence of a decided in consultation with our auditors 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir Charles Nunneley Chairman strengthening economic recovery became the requirements of the law and the Listing Share Rating more abundant, but elsewhere we became Rules.
We should be glad to know to what I noted last year that the Managers had more cautious, as we felt that share extent the information and disclosures been increasing their efforts to market our valuations had become rather high in some made on pages 26 to 32 of this report are shares, both through higher spending on cases and the deteriorating situation in the of interest to shareholders.
promotional activities and through Middle East was causing increasing introducing new products, such as the Last year Edward Harley joined the Board, concern.
We paid off our short-term bank Childrens Savings Plan.
These efforts while Michael Sayers and Tim Shakerley loans in late March, financing this by a continued last year, but had less impact retired.
During the year under review we reduction in the holding of the Baillie than either the Board or the Managers had Gifford High Yield Bond Fund and by sales were joined by Carol Ferguson, who is a hoped, and the proportion of our shares former partner in Wood Mackenzie & Co, of equities in all markets except Japan.
As held by or on behalf of individuals, as set stockbrokers and a director of the can be seen from the table on page 12, out on page 52, has not risen very Association of Investment Trust we made net sales over the year of significantly.
On the other hand, there has Companies.
She has considerable financial 22.5m in the UK, 9.5m in Europe, been a good two way market in the shares services experience, as further detailed on 20.9m in North America and 6.8m in during the year and no shares were bought page 9, and I commend to you her Emerging Markets.
In the second half of the in for cancellation.
The Board continues to election as a Director, which forms part of year we also made sales of 3m in Asia, monitor this aspect of the Companys the business of the Annual General but were net investors in that region over business very closely.
Meanwhile, David Howell, who the full year.
has been a Director since 1993, will be Directors and Corporate The result of all this activity, and of the retiring at the AGM.
His experience of Governance market movements noted above, has been politics at a high level and latterly of a doubling of our weighting in Japan to international finance has been of great Corporate governance is a matter which 13% of the total, an increase from 6.9% to benefit to us and we wish him well in the takes up an increasing amount of time at 9.3% in Asia Pacific and reductions in the future.
Finally, as I will be in sight of my our Board meetings, and we try to operate other parts of the portfolio.
By contrast, seventieth birthday in a years time, I have in accordance with the spirit of the codes there has been little change in the sectoral told my colleagues of my intention to retire which apply to us as well as to the letter of weightings.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Shares are no longer moderately cheap, as Outlook they were twelve months ago, even though The worlds economy is currently doing many markets look reasonable enough well with nearly all areas apart from the value if estimates for profits to be earned in core countries of Europe enjoying strong 2004 are actually achieved.
In these growth with low inflation.
Corporate profits circumstances, the Board and the are in general very good.
Despite this, Managers are keeping the Companys stockmarkets have made no overall gearing levels under close review.
progress since the start of the year but have been volatile and trendless.
It is not hard to I look forward to seeing shareholders of the see reasons for this state of affairs.
The Company at the Annual General Meeting, occupation of Iraq has not gone well and to be held at the Institution of Electrical the process of establishing an Iraqi Engineers, Savoy Place, London on government with legitimacy and authority 3 August.
will be at best extremely difficult.
Increasingly frequent terrorist incidents in the Gulf region are a source of rising concern and the possibility of a supply disruption to an already tight oil market cannot be ignored.
At the same time, the Charles Nunneley vigour of the economic recovery means that 16 June 2004 interest rates are starting to move up from the very low levels of the last eighteen months, and this may lead to some indigestion in the markets as speculative, debt-financed positions are liquidated.
