Chairmans Statement Performance believes that the new benchmark is now more The Net Asset Value total return for the year ended appropriate to the investment aims of the Company.
This compares with the Following extensive Shareholder research and a full return on the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, the review of the management of the Companys assets, Companys benchmark until 30 June 2004, of 19.1% some alterations have been made to the way in and the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys new which the portfolio is structured.
In particular, the benchmark of 16.9%.
Over the year ended 30 June emphasis on the management of risk and of the 2004, Murray Incomes Net Asset Value Total Return absolute return from the portfolio has been was ranked 7 out of 17 within the AITC UK Growth increased through ensuring appropriate and Income sector.
Attribution Analysis shows that diversification of stocks and sectors.
gearing and asset allocation benefited the Company Your Board stresses that the Company retains its by 1.6% and 0.2% respectively but stock selection essential character, in particular: cost 1.2%.
There is no change to the current dividend policy.
Dividends The Company continues to invest a high Interim dividends were paid on 16 January 2004, 5 proportion of its assets in strong, well-known April 2004 and 16 July 2004 each at the rate of British companies.
Shareholders may recall The Company continues to use low cost, flexible that the second interim dividend was paid earlier borrowing facilities to enhance Shareholder than normal in order that those Shareholders whose returns when appropriate.
shares are held within a PEP or ISA could benefit from the final opportunity to reclaim a tax credit on At the year end total committed facilities amounted the dividend payment.
A change in the law means to 45 million, of which 40 million was being that this is no longer possible.
Subsequently, the level of utilisation has been reduced to 24 million.
As announced on 16 July 2004, the Directors propose a final dividend payment of 4.75p, payable Your Board on 29 October 2004 to Shareholders on the register Shareholders may recall that in the 2003 Annual on 1 October 2004, making total dividends for the Report, I reported on the new Combined Code of year ended 30 June 2004 of 18.25p.
This represents Corporate Governance and on the AITC Code of an increase of 2.8% on the total dividends paid in Corporate Governance.
Whilst Companies are the previous year and continues the steady increase required to apply the new Combined Code for which has taken place for more than twenty years.
reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, your Board is determined to remain at the Share Buybacks forefront of best practice and consequently will During the year ended 30 June 2004, the Company report on Compliance with the two new Codes, repurchased 643,000 Ordinary shares at an average rather than the old Combined Code published in price of 428.56p, representing 0.9% of the share 1998, as it believes this is in the best interests of capital at 29 October 2003, the date of renewal of Shareholders.
The consequence of this is that, in the authority.
These repurchases contributed addition to what was reported on in previous years, marginally to the Net Asset Value of the remaining the Directors Report on pages 26 to 29 and the Ordinary shares.
Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 30 to 35 deal with performance evaluation of the Board, Strategy and Borrowing Directors appointment procedures, rationale relating On 1 July 2004, your Board announced that from to their appointment or re-election, explanations as the beginning of the new financial year 1 July 2004 to why Directors are considered to be independent the benchmark of the Trust would be changed to the and reasons for recommending the continued FTSE-All Share Index from the FTSE-350 Higher Yield appointment of the Manager.
Your Board remains committed to the investment objective and policy of the Company and 10 Murray Income Trust PLC As I stated in the 2003 Annual Report, I will be Outlook retiring from the Board at the AGM on 27 October Despite a positive economic background in the UK, 2004 and Patrick Gifford has agreed to succeed me where growth remains above trend, and a healthy as Chairman.
We again appointed consultants to corporate sector, the equity market remains stalled.
Having assessed the It is being held back by a combination of rising mix of skills within the Board, we specifically briefed energy costs, in particular a high oil price, and higher the consultants to identify candidates with a strong short-term interest rates.
Stock market valuations UK Equity Income fund management background.
The changes made to the We are therefore pleased to have appointed portfolio, following the move to the new benchmark, Humphrey van der Klugt who was, until his leave Shareholders with exposure to a wide spread retirement in January 2004, an executive director of of good quality investments generating an attractive Schroder Investment Management Limited.
This should allow Shareholders to greatly value the experience and knowledge gained benefit from any upturn in equity markets.
in his twenty year career at Schroders, where he was a member of the Group Investment and Asset Blaise Hardman Allocation Committees, and also managed the 10 September 2004 Chairman Schroder Income Fund.
