Chairmans Statement Background recognise once again the importance of rising income to It was a measure of the degree to which equity valuations Shareholders.
had fallen from the market peak at the end of 1999, that I am pleased that we have seen the benefits of these despite higher interest rates, rising oil prices and changes in 2004 with income rising from 13.3p per continuing violence in the Middle East, share prices moved Ordinary share in 2003 to 15.8p per Ordinary share.
Thus further ahead in the year under review.
Bond markets also the shortfall between the earnings and the proposed achieved positive returns.
Global equity markets were dividend was considerably reduced but not eliminated.
relatively flat in the early part of the year but good The Board, with the help of the Manager, has carefully earnings growth and positive sentiment produced a strong examined the income level to be expected in the current performance from August onwards.
It seems likely that the rising trend of income will be terms regional performances were very tightly bunched maintained.
Therefore the Board believes that there is now but ongoing dollar weakness significantly reduced US scope to increase the dividends to be paid to Shareholders market returns in sterling terms.
The future direction of in 2005.
The proposal to be put to Shareholders at the the US dollar will undoubtedly continue to exert a AGM will reflect these thoughts.
In respect of 2004, the powerful influence over financial returns worldwide.
Board is recommending a maintained final dividend of 5.95p per share payable on 20 May 2005 to Shareholders Performance on the register at the close of business on 22 April 2005 The total return on Net Asset Value was 14.1%, making a total distribution for the year of 16.3p.
The considerably ahead of the return on the benchmark index Board also proposes that three interim dividends of 3.55p of 9.4%, whilst the Share Price total return of 17.3% per Ordinary share, an increase of 2.9%, be paid for the reflected a slight reduction over the year in the level of year to 31 December 2005, payable on 15 August 2005, discount at which the shares trade in the stock market.
It is also the The Investment Managers Report contains an attribution Boards intention that the final dividend for the year to analysis which provides detailed analysis of all factors 31 December 2005 will be at least maintained.
The key positive B Ordinary Shareholders will receive a capitalisation in B influences were an overweighting of euro-denominated Ordinary shares on 20 May 2005 amounting to 3.55886 B assets, a significant overweighting in Asia and Emerging Ordinary shares for every hundred held at the close of Markets and good stock selection across all regions.
For business on 22 April 2005, which is equivalent in Net Asset the third consecutive year, a large underweighting to dollar Value to the recommended final dividend and three assets also contributed positively to relative interim dividends for the current year.
Resolutions Dividends Last year a number of special resolutions were passed at The Board is conscious that the dividend paid to the AGM.
One such resolution allows us to buy back Shareholders has been flat for the last few years.
Falling shares not only for cancellation but also to keep in yields on fixed interest securities and cash together with Treasury.
I emphasised that we would only use these the belief within parts of the corporate sector worldwide powers if it was in the interest of Shareholders to do so.
that share buy backs were somehow a substitute for No use was made of these powers in 2004.
With the dividend increases had led to a flattening out in the discount of the share price to underlying assets remaining revenue of the Company.
Our dividend has not been fully in single figures throughout the year a buy back covered by earnings for the last few years but it has been programme would have been of little benefit to existing maintained by using the ample revenue reserves for part Shareholders.
Although meeting our corporate objective of providing a high yield to our Shareholders, no Another of the special resolutions passed at last years growth has been seen in the dividend since 2001.
AGM introduced a new fee structure incorporating a reduced basic fee to the Manager but adding a In my remarks last year I mentioned that we had switched performance fee provided the Managers performance met some money from bonds to higher yielding equities as certain criteria.
An overall cap was also introduced.
I am there was evidence that companies were starting to 10 Murray International Trust PLC pleased that the strong outperformance of the Company trade positions of a number of countries, particularly the against its benchmark in 2004 meant that the Manager United States but also including the United Kingdom, have met the level required to receive the maximum deteriorated to such an extent that measures will have to performance fee and accordingly, this is provided for in the be taken to correct the position.
lower growth look as though they will have to play a part in this process.
Lower growth is also likely in Europe if the Your Board euro strengthens further.
However, a number of countries No changes took place in Board membership during 2004 in the emerging world such as India and China have now but I have to report that Sir Raymond Johnstone has grown sufficiently to see domestic consumption taking indicated his intention to retire at the conclusion of the over from exports to the developed world as an important forthcoming AGM.
Sir Raymond has been a Director of driver of growth.
The Manager has taken note of these the Company for 15 years and his wise counsel has been changes and has taken action to purchase shares likely to of great benefit throughout that period.
We will certainly benefit from them.
We will continue to emphasise high miss his contribution and I would like to thank him on quality, financially strong companies in these high growth behalf of our Shareholders and wish him a very happy international markets within the risk constraint which a retirement.
We have instructed an executive search Company such as ours must continue to impose.
company to help to identify a successor.
Outlook J F H Trott The Investment Managers Report gives their views on the Chairman outlook for stock markets around the world.
My major 1 March 2005 concern is that recent economic growth in the developed world has only been achieved by large increases in Government and personal indebtedness.
The fiscal and Murray International Trust PLC 11
