Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 04 Chairmans Statement CAIRN HAS A CLEAR STRATEGY TO CREATE VALUE THROUGH EXPLORATION.
IT HAS FOCUSED ITS EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES ON SOUTH ASIA FOR MORE THAN TEN YEARS AND HAS OPENED UP AN IMPORTANT NEW HYDROCARBON BASIN IN RAJASTHAN.
By developing and producing its own discoveries across the The 2P reserves estimate has been revised by Cairn to 376 region Cairn has grown organically creating a robust and mmbbls, based on secondary recovery by water flood until 2041. material business presently operating more than 100,000 boepd on behalf of its joint venture partners.
Cairn has a Cairn estimates the total 2P reserves for the three northern clear competitive edge for the future in this part of Asia.
There is scope to add further reserves to this figure by applying Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world.
It techniques, early in the production life of the fields.
In the case currently imports the bulk of its oil needs which explains the of Mangala this could be more than 100 mmbbls.
importance it places on new indigenous oil discoveries.
Our relationship and partnership with ONGC, Indias largest oil and An independent review by the international firm of reservoir gas company which took a 30% stake in the Rajasthan engineering consultants, DeGolyer & MacNaughton D&M, development area earlier this year along with an alignment of conducted in April 2005 has assigned a 2P oil in place volume needs with the Rajasthan State Government and Government estimate of 1.64 billion bbls for the three northern fields of India, leaves Cairn well placed to maximize the value of the comprising Mangala 1,067 mmbbls, Bhagyam 355 mmbbls and Rajasthan discoveries.
The Mangala oil discovery in the Rajasthan desert in January Peak production targets for the three northern fields are in the 2004 highlights the vision and perseverance with which this 120,000 to 150,000 bopd range with Mangala planned to come South Asian strategy has been pursued.
Mangala is the largest on stream at the end of 2007. oil discovery by any company in India within the last 22 years.
Cairn currently estimates full field development costs of $3 - Cairn has made a total of 11 discoveries on the Rajasthan block.
The majority of expenditure is expected to Each discovery is at a different stage of appraisal and evaluation.
be incurred after the commencement of Mangala production.
It is currently estimated that the total volume of oil in place found so far is more than two billion bbls.
During 2004, six The other discoveries made in 2004 were Shakti June, Vijaya discoveries were made, including the three northern fields N-R-1, September and Vandana N-R-2, November.
Mangala, Aishwariya March and Bhagyam August.
The Mangala and Aishwariya fields have both been fully appraised A total of 77 wells have now been drilled by Cairn in Rajasthan, by six and five appraisal wells respectively and 3D seismic data.
This is a strong Appraisal of Bhagyam had to be delayed until the award of the achievement when the logistical requirements for land north-west extension acreage in January 2005.
Four successful acquisition, well site preparation, road building as well as Bhagyam appraisal wells have since been drilled between forging relationships with the local community are considered.
February and April 2005 and two more appraisal wells are A further 20 to 30 wells are presently planned in 2005. planned.
A 3D seismic survey over Bhagyam is commencing This pace of activity can only be sustained in an onshore shortly.
environment where the costs of each well are relatively low compared to offshore drilling.
Mangala is the largest of these discoveries and it will form the core of future developments.
Cairns proven plus probable It is Cairns belief that there is potential to add further oil in 2P oil in place estimate for the Mangala field is 1,071 mmbbls.
place volumes, elsewhere in the basin, through the continuing exploration and appraisal programme.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Chairmans Statement The appointment of Andrew Shilston, the finance director of Rolls-Royce plc, as a non-executive director during 2004 has added considerable industry knowledge and financial expertise to the Board.
I would like to thank and congratulate all employees for their tremendous efforts in what has been a very special year for the Company.
The scale of the discoveries in Rajasthan meant that extra staff were needed and increased demands were placed on those already in place.
The continued success of Cairn is very much a team effort, based on the energy, expertise, enterprise, enthusiasm and commitment of every one of its employees in Bangladesh, India and Edinburgh.
Financial Results Outlook Average daily production for 2004 was 22,789 boepd 2003: Our explorational and operational strengths continue to be 30,214 boepd.
The reduced rate reflects an increase in underpinned by a solid financial base, which gives us maximum Government entitlement pursuant to the Sangu and Ravva flexibility to capitalise on the many opportunities in South Asia.
Production Sharing Contracts PSCs and a temporary Having already built a material business, Cairn is well positioned reduction in field deliverability from Sangu and Lakshmi as a to use its competitive edge to participate in the economic and result of well intervention and infill drilling programmes.
This energy growth of the region.
activity to increase delivery capacity at both these gas fields commenced in the latter part of the year.
As a consequence, Cairn will submit development plans for its commercial 2005 production is currently forecast to exceed 2004 levels.
discoveries for the fields within the original development area in May 2005, with the aim of obtaining all of the required Due to the Groups current production mix being heavily gas approvals by the end of the year.
biased and the existence of contractual caps on the price received for this gas, the average price realised for 2004 was An application has been made to the Government of India to $24.06 2003: $22.86.
Group turnover, pre exceptional items, enlarge the existing development area to include the Bhagyam was 110.2m 2003: 155.8m.
Operating profit pre and Shakti discoveries.
If granted, the size of the development 2 2 exceptional items and operating cashflow were 31.5m and area will increase from 1,858 km to 4,743 km.
Profit after tax before exceptional items was 19.6m compared to 46.2m It is Cairns belief that significant exploration potential remains in 2003.
Exceptional items mainly comprise a provision made in South Asia.
Commitment to this belief combined with the following the recent Ravva arbitration award.
Profit after tax application of state of the art exploration technology in both and exceptional items was 10.8m 2003: 46.2m.
mature and frontier areas, offers the best chance for continued success.
As evidence of this belief Cairn will be participating in The financial statements presented have been impacted by the the Government of Indias next exploration licensing round weakening of the US$ against Sterling during the year as NELP V which closes at the end of May 2005. although principally a US$ underlying business the Group reports in Sterling.
Cairn will implement International The challenge for Cairn in 2005 is to grow and augment the Financial Reporting Standards in 2005.
The Group is also world class position it has created in Rajasthan, taking the considering a transition to US$ for future currency reporting.
projects through appraisal, development and on to production.
The Group had net funds of 72m at the year end 2003: net funds 17.8m and unutilised unsecured credit facilities of $240m.
$135m proceeds were received in March 2005 following completion of the ONGC transaction.
Directors and Employees Norman Murray Chairman A key asset of a business is its people.
The attitude, common 19 April 2005 sense and judgement of the Cairn team is critical to our business culture.
Operating in any foreign country is only sustainable when values are shared.
