16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I took on the chair of Northern Rock in April 2004 from Sir John Riddell, whose four years as Chairman saw not only significant growth in assets under management, but also a near doubling of the share price.
That record speaks for itself, and I pay tribute to the skill and good humour with which he ran the Board of Northern Rock.
He will be a hard act to follow.
Northern Rock once again hit its strategic targets in 2004 despite intense competition, expensive regulation and a sharply slowing market.
We grew both assets and profits to record levels.
We achieved this by sticking to the markets we Dr M W Ridley know best, maintaining our position as the most cost-effective mortgage lender in the UK and continually adjusting our products to attract profitable business.
This performance has not come at the expense of service to customers, where Northern Rock remains committed to continually improving efficiency, transparency and fairness.
Our customers benefit from our Open Book policy of making our new mortgage products available to existing borrowers as well as new customers.
2 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 5 Statutory mortgage regulation became effective on 31 October 2004.
Extra regulation has plainly added to costs and erected barriers to entry.
This may in the long run hamper competition, which has been the most powerful force in getting customers value for money in the mortgage market.
None the less, we were compliant with the new regime from the first day.
Northern Rock is a global company in terms of where it raises funds, a national company in terms of where it lends and a regional company in terms of where it employs people: most of our employees are in the North-East of England.
During 2004 we created over 1,000 new jobs based in the North-East.
The latest stage of our Head Office expansion, which neared completion in 2004, will add capacity for a further 1,000 jobs.
We also have plans to redevelop part of our Head Office accommodation to provide facilities for another 1,400 staff.
3 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued ECONOMIC AND MARKET BACKGROUND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The British economy remains in reasonable shape in 2005.
With Northern Rock's primary social responsibility is to prosper.
By the Bank of England Base Rate still low by historical standards, offering competitive rates to both savers and borrowers, we benefit continued low unemployment, well controlled inflation and stable them.
In growing, we benefit our employees by providing new jobs economic growth, the UK continues to offer an attractive and better working conditions.
By meeting our targets, we benefit environment for home ownership, especially given the limited our shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Likewise, in order to do well it pays us to be a socially responsible House price inflation has eased, and we expect it to be in line with business.
By that I mean that Northern Rock will prosper if we earnings growth for the next few years.
Barring surprises, we see recruit from all sections of the community, if we find flexible little prospect of a crash, given that mortgages are still employment practices that suit those who want to work appropriate comparatively affordable and that credit quality remains good.
hours to balance life and work, if we provide good facilities for staff and if we minimise harmful impacts on the environment from our We fund our lending from retail deposits, wholesale funding, activities.
There is, in other words, no conflict between creating securitisation and covered bonds.
All four funding arms are shareholder value and being socially responsible.
To ensure that we important to us, and give us access to large international markets set the highest possible standards of personal and corporate ethics, where we work to ensure that the supply of affordable funding provide good customer service and give employees a good working does not constrain the growth of profitable lending.
environment, we encourage assessments by Ethical Investments 4 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 7 Research Services, support the Work-Life Balance Initiative and board as a Non-Executive Director on the same date.
Furthermore, Rosemary Radcliffe, former complaints commissioner of the FSA and maintain a high position in the Business in The Environment Index.
But we do not mistake such commitments for action.
former chief economist of , will also join the Board as a Non-Executive Director, with effect from 1 March 2005.
On top of the good we can do by doing well, we also remember DIVIDEND those not benefiting directly from our prosperity.
Northern Rock Your board is recommending a final dividend of 18 pence per is consistently one of the top UK companies for corporate giving, share making a total for the year 26.5 pence an increase of because of its donation of 5% of pre-tax profits to The Northern 13.7 % on 2003.
The Foundation supports local charities and community causes CONCLUSION mainly in the North-East of England, a region that is comparatively In highly competitive markets we have once again risen to the under-served by charities.
I am particularly pleased that our staff challenge and hit strategic targets in 2004.
Our business model continue to take part in voluntary initiatives, fund-raising, mentoring remains robust: we keep costs low, invest in product and process and secondment programmes.
innovation, give our customers transparency and so add low-risk assets to our balance sheet to provide attractive returns to our CORPORATE GOVERNANCE shareholders.
We fund this growth through retail, wholesale and This year has seen substantial changes to the Combined Code on securitised channels.
Corporate Governance, with which the Board is obliged to comply or explain.
We are in a position to comply with the code in full.
We have always told shareholders that we can perform well in a weak The Boards procedures and practices ensure that it identifies and housing market as well as a strong one.
Our results differentiate us controls risks to the business in a transparent and accountable way.
from our competitors and if, as expected, the housing market slows The results of our Board evaluation and appraisal process are further in the coming year it will remain sufficiently large to enable summarised in the Corporate Governance statement.
us to achieve our targets without compromising on credit quality.
I am pleased that since the year-end, we have strengthened the I am grateful to my Board colleagues, to management and all Northern Rock staff for their ingenuity, hard work and success Board with four new appointments.
Keith Currie, our treasurer, and Andy Kuipers, our sales and marketing director, both joined the Board from 5 January 2005.
Michael Queen, an executive director of 3i Group plc, joined the 5
