04 | Chairmans Statement I retire this year, knowing that the business is in good hands and set fair for the future Mike Levett, Chairman Chairmans Statement | 05 DEAR SHAREHOLDER, BOARD Old Mutuals results rebounded in 2004, with good performances from Chris Liebenberg retired from the Board in October 2004, having served all businesses, and as a result earnings per share increased by 53% to as a non-executive director of the Company since 1999.
I am most grateful 15.3 pence, a very pleasing outcome.
to him for his contribution to the Group, and wish him a long and happy retirement.
On behalf of the Board and all the Companys shareholders, I would like to thank management and employees in each business for their Russell Edey joined the Board as a non-executive director in June 2004 continued dedication and commitment to the Group.
and we have also appointed Wiseman Nkuhlu as a non-executive director with effect from 1 March 2005.
I am delighted to welcome This commitment will ensure that your Company is well placed to them to the Board.
continue to build in the future on the momentum that has been created.
I shall be retiring as Chairman of the Company at the end of the Investment performance was strong at Old Mutual South Africa, AGM on 11 May 2005, thereby ending over 46 years with the Group.
benefiting sales of unit trusts, and our South African general insurance During that period Old Mutual has transformed itself from a major business, Mutual & Federal, had a spectacularly good result.
Nedcor Southern African mutual life assurer into the international financial is well on the recovery path that we have outlined.
We are continuing to services group it is today.
No greater changes have happened during develop our plans in South Africa to address Black Economic Empowerment.
that time than those that have occurred since the Group demutualised and listed in 1999, which was the springboard for our subsequent In the USA, our asset management business had a successful year, international development.
At the end of 2004, 38% of the Groups net and we were able to resolve the regulatory issues that had arisen at assets were in countries other than South Africa and 52% of the value Pilgrim Baxter & Associates, Ltd. Our US life business continued to of life new business came from those countries during the year.
write a significant amount of new business.
I have no doubt that the decision to demutualise and seek a primary In the UK our asset management operations continued to make listing on the London Stock Exchange was the right one, and this years good progress.
DIVIDEND Your Company is financially strong, with a high return on equity, Your directors are proposing a final dividend of 3.5p per share, in line talented management and staff, and a dedicated Board.
I retire this with our progressive dividend policy, making a total dividend for the year, knowing that the business is in good hands and set fair for year of 5.25p per share, an increase of 9.4%.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2005 I wish my successor as Chairman, Chris Collins, the Board and all There are a number of items of special business included in the others involved with Old Mutual good fortune as the Group continues agenda for our AGM, which is to be held at our offices in London to develop in the years ahead.
The notice of the AGM is set out on pages 160 to 164.
The explanatory notes accompanying that notice provide further details Mike Levett of these matters.
Chairman 28 February 2005 We are proposing that the existing authorities for the Company to buy back its shares on the five exchanges where they are listed be renewed for a further year at the AGM, and that the Company be authorised to hold any shares that are bought back in treasury, as permitted by UK company law, as an alternative to their being cancelled.
The equivalent authorities were not activated during 2004, and we have no immediate plans to use them in the forthcoming year, but they do provide the Company with desirable flexibility in its capital management.
The directors recommend that you vote in favour of all of the items of business at the AGM, as they intend to do in respect of their personal shareholdings in the Company.
