Chairmans statement At the performance level, all ongoing areas improved with In my first report last year I set out some of the the Group operating result a profit of 456m, signicantly up major actions taken and changes made as part on prior year.
In particular, there were strong performances in of a stated determination of your Board and Scandinavia and the International businesses and an excellent result from the UK.
The transformation programme for the US management to address the fundamental issues business has continued.
Substantial actions were taken in the and requirements of the Company.
US, however, these efforts were offset partly by a continuing We also set out our intentions to address a number of key areas need to strengthen provisions for adverse claims development.
that arose out of the results of the substantive strategic review The overall result was within our expectations.
process that was completed in 2004.
These intents were to: Standards of risk assessment and compliance, and management Implement the strategic business plan, reshaping the reporting continue to improve, with a strengthened finance Group into a more coherent geographic and business t function under the new Chief Financial officer, George Culmer, who was appointed in May last year.
Further key appointments Deliver sustainable profit and earnings improvement were made within this general area, including a Board level Risk from increased efficiency, reduced costs and improved Director, David Paige, who joined the Company in February this margins, measured by profit growth and targeting a year, a General Counsel, Mark Chambers, and a Group Financial COR of 100% on average through the insurance cycle Controller, Pat Regan.
The improvements made in all control for our ongoing businesses processes have enabled us to meet the continuing challenges of Strengthen risk assessment and compliance, driving improvement and simultaneous need to introduce new accounting improvements in all key control, accounting and standards and meet new regulatory and other demands.
management information processes The balance sheet and capital position has been further Continue to strengthen the balance sheet and address strengthened by disposals and the technical rewording of capital requirement issues, enabling us to meet the challenge the Euro debt under new regulatory guidelines to make it of new regulatory requirements and grow the business on admissible for capital purposes.
The aim of an enhanced capital a selective basis position was achieved, which has enabled us to comfortably meet new regulatory requirements and have the capacity to All of the above, which are essentially linked, formed part meet our plans to grow the business.
of a planned long term total business and management transformation process.
A key factor in the progress made has been the raised standards of management performance in all areas.
This is supported by I can report that this plan is well advanced.
significant progress setting detailed objectives and targets, and a strengthened link has been delivered by actions taken and led by the Chief between remuneration and performance against those targets.
Executive and his management team.
These achievements are 2004 has also seen the strengthening of key functional levels detailed in the Group CEOs and other executive reports, and by recruitment as required.
Progress in this area is exemplied are summarised below.
by the continued success of the performance improvement At the strategic level, the reshaping of the business to general programme, directed towards improved business processes and insurance, focused on commercial and personal lines, with a efficiency.
This has already delivered annualised expense savings related exit from life in the UK and Scandinavia, has been of 190m and is on track to meet its target of 270m by the completed.
The ongoing business has strong and sustainable end of 2006.
The objective of transforming the business and market positions in the UK, Scandinavia and in our group of management culture has substantially progressed and delivered International businesses.
It has been a busy and constructive year for the Board and management of the Company.
John Napier Chairman 2 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The strategic aim to make further progress in the US, to transition In summary, the performance of the Company continues to it towards a less volatile business model, clearly remains in the improve.
Given this improvement, I am pleased to confirm best long term interests of shareholders.
Following the decision our proposal to make a final dividend of 2.96 pence per share, made last year to sell the renewal rights of the main business making a full year dividend of 4.61 pence per share, 2% above book, headcount and expenses have been reduced signicantly last year and in line with our stated policy of maintaining the with expenses down $270m and headcount reduced by 1,739 dividend in real terms.
It has been a busy and constructive year to 2,159.
To further address the US issues we have announced for the Board and management of the Company and while we our intention to sell the non standard auto operation.
This will are pleased with our achievements to date we still believe that require the approval of the relevant US state regulators but a there is significant further progress to be made.
successful outcome should be in the interests of all parties.
The response of all staff and management at all levels to Additional actions have also been taken to simplify the legal and the challenges of change that the Company has needed to regulatory structures in the US with the number of state regulators undertake has been fundamental to the successes to date.
We were also pleased to announce two There has been increased understanding and awareness of significant appointments to the US board with the appointment the essential nature of the strategic and other decisions that of Bill Shea and Mike Crall, as Chairman and non-executive have been necessary to implement, and the critical importance director respectively, both experienced executives in the US of working towards, sustained profitable performance.
They will bring highly relevant skills and experience like to thank my Board colleagues and all staff for their efforts to support the US management team through the transition and for the progress made to date.
of the business, and in developing suitable options for the longer term future.
As the insurance industry moves through a period of significant regulatory change, recent allegations and John Napier Chairman examples of unacceptable business practices, highlighted by the NY Attorney General Mr Spitzer, have not helped maintain a strong reputation for the industry.
We believe that working positively with regulators is the best long term solution to ensure that confidence is maintained in what is an essential industry in any progressive economy.
The announcements of the appointment of Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May as non-executive directors of the Company and George Culmer as Chief Financial officer were made last year.
More recently, the Board has been further strengthened by the appointment of David Paige as Group Risk Director and Mark Chambers, the new General Counsel who also acts as Group Company Secretary.
Given the range of governance processes adopted and successfully implemented, the Board may consider adding one more non-executive director to ensure there is good coverage for all main Board Committees.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3
