CHAIRMANS STATEMENT highlights Net asset value per share rose Exposure to Asian and Emerging During the year, equity markets by 33.6%, 9 percentage points Markets increased considerably generally recovered strongly.
Chairmans Statement In a year when equity markets made a strong recovery, our Company significantly outperformed its benchmark index.
Net asset value per share rose by 33.6% compared to a 24.7% increase in the benchmark 50% FTSE All-Share and 50% FTSE World Ex UK in sterling terms.
Having paid a regular interim dividend weakness of the US dollar and the strength important that it is actively managed and of 2.2p and a second interim dividend of of metal and commodity prices.
adjusted to suit circumstances, and this we 4.4p, the Board is recommending a final have done.
During the year we borrowed dividend of 0.4p making a proposed total Investment Performance and an additional 25m denominated first in for the year of 7.0p: a 6.1% increase Swiss francs and subsequently in US dollars Activity compared to a 2.6% rise in inflation RPI.
to take advantage of the prospects for equity The good performance of our Company market recovery.
Net investment of 20m relative to its benchmark can be accounted The total return revenue and capital was made into equities funded largely for by a combination of: combined per ordinary share this year was through sales of fixed interest holdings.
In percentage the benefits from the investment of percentage of total assets, exposure to fixed terms, the total return was 36.8% while the borrowings interest and cash fell from 9.1% to 7.3% benchmark index total return was 28.1%.
the decisions taken on where to allocate over the course of the year.
These results reflect two enduring strengths assets throughout the world most notably of Scottish Mortgage: In geographic terms, we continued to through greater exposure to Emerging increase the Asian excluding Japan and Markets and Asia its truly global perspective Emerging Markets content which rose the generally good choice of shares by the active approach taken by the sharply from 8.8% of total assets to 14.4%.
We continue to see the opportunities in many of these rapidly expanding economies Market Background Performance attribution details can be found as more attractive over the longer term than with the Managers Overview on pages 10 Global equity markets recovered those available in the majority of developed and 11.
Past performance is no guarantee considerably during the first three quarters of countries.
our financial year with the pace slackening somewhat in the final quarter.
The recovery The Company was underweight in the was reflected in generally better corporate Being able to borrow funds to invest in United States, relative to its benchmark, earnings, especially in the United States, equities, or other assets, has been a distinct throughout the period.
While there was an improvement in the outlook for many advantage for the trust this year.
Carrying a strong rebound in corporate profitability economies helped by low interest rates and gearing into rising equity markets made in the US, the weakness of the dollar the boost given to the global economy by a good contribution to the overall diminished market gains in sterling terms.
As gearing can adversely Exposure to the UK market was reduced as striking features of the period were the affect performance in falling markets, it is more attractive investment opportunities were 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT found overseas.
However, we note that can benefit shareholders by enhancing having served on the Board for 7 years.
the UK equity market does offer an above NAV per share for continuing shareholders.
During his term, I know that his balanced average yield and reasonable prospects viewpoint and carefully considered opinions for renewed dividend growth.
have been of considerable benefit to both Marketing myself and my predecessor.
Large global investment trusts can be Balance Sheet excellent vehicles for long term investment I have pleasure in inviting shareholders to While more short term debt was taken out, and savings.
Scottish Mortgage gives the AGM which will be held on 1 July in no changes were made to the long term investors exposure to a diversified global Edinburgh.
Details are given on page 50 of debt which, when priced at market value, portfolio under very experienced this document.
now accounts for a reduced 14.9% management at a reasonable cost.
It has 18.8% of total assets following the rise in a good track record in comparison with its Outlook markets over the period.
If our debentures large peers in the global growth sector, The global economy is currently buoyant.
are valued at current market prices rather especially so over the past year.
This has allowed stockmarkets to recover than at par the net asset value would fall from the prolonged bear market.
Further Significant resources were devoted to to 362.8p compared to an unadjusted progress will depend on the continuance marketing to attract new investors and levels 381.5p.
We will continue to manage the of healthy and non-inflationary growth in of activity have been high.
The Managers Balance Sheet by offsetting the debt against America and China.
At present growth are looking at ways to accelerate progress appropriate classes of assets and adjusting in both economies is sufficiently strong to in this area and further initiatives can be this balance in the light of prevailing reassure those looking for corporate expected in the current year.
earnings growth but also to alert markets to the probability of tightening in monetary Repurchase of Shares Board and AGM policy.
Scottish Mortgage will manage your A total of 700,000 shares were bought I am pleased to welcome Michael Gray and investments actively in the hope that we can back at a cost of 1.8m.
While we are Lord Strathclyde to the Board.
Both are again report good results in 12 months time.
not convinced that there is a direct extremely experienced in their respective correlation between the level of discount fields of business and politics and I am sure and buyback activity, we will be asking that they will make a valuable contribution to shareholders to renew the mandate to the Company in the years ahead.
I would repurchase up to 15% of the then also like to express the Boards gratitude to Sir Donald MacKay outstanding shares at the AGM.
Buybacks Lord Portarlington who is retiring at the AGM 10 May 2004 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7
