4 Chairmans Statement Flexibility is essential to meeting change in the future This is my first report to you as Chairman.
I succeeded Bruce Over the longer term, more balanced world growth depends in Johnston in April 2004 and would like to express the directors particular on Asian consumers increasing their expenditure and appreciation of his long and dedicated service to the Company.
mobilising their substantial savings, while US and UK consumers reduce their consumption and increase savings.
Dollar weakness may re-emerge at some point as it did in our first half when it Results affected our returns and continued international co-operation I am pleased to be able to report a year-end increase in net will be needed to avoid the global instability that too swift a assets together with income at a record level.
Earnings stand at depreciation could bring.
Sterling has been particularly strong 66.2 pence per ordinary stock unit.
We are recommending a but is now beginning to weaken, reflecting greater doubts final dividend of 32 pence, making a total dividend for the year about the economy, as well as the likely peak of the interest of 63 pence per ordinary stock unit.
This is an increase of one rate cycle in the UK.
penny over that paid last year, and marks 38 consecutive years of dividend increases.
The picture may be a cyclical one for individual economies and much depends on the central banks and other policymakers across the world, especially in the light of the high oil price Outlook for the Company and persistent difficulties in the Middle East.
Company profits This past year saw the recovery in stockmarkets and economies exceeded most expectations through the year but are likely to finally broaden out from the US and China, and if world growth is grow more slowly from here as higher oil prices or interest rates sustained, Japan could even escape from its 15-year downturn.
may affect the margins of many companies and their scope to We can see growth slowing as the leading economies become invest.
Despite the strong recovery in corporate profits of the less expansive and the higher oil price may be a further last year, equities are still fairly fully valued since in most constraint.
We expect the best opportunities to lie beyond the economies company profits are at historically high levels and US and the UK.
Economic policy in the US will be the rate of profits growth is past its peak.
accommodating until the Presidential election in November, but thereafter the strength of the US jobs market will become Progress over the year a more critical factor.
The UKs buoyancy has come at the price For us it was a year of two distinct phases.
The first part of being dependent on the housing market and in the future it included the strongest phase of the recovery in absolute terms will have to rely more on growth elsewhere.
There are signs in but was more challenging for us on relative measures, whereas Japan and Europe that incomes and employment can grow, in the second half absolute growth has only been marginally which would enable their recoveries to become sustainable, positive but our performance was more evident relative to possibly even providing some global economic leadership.
China is attempting to cool its increasingly influential economy to a more sustainable pace whilst maintaining its Most of our focus continued to be on companies which have positive momentum.
reasonable prospects in a range of economic scenarios, can 5 generate cash and are capable of sustainable dividend a series of smaller discussion groups to hear our stockholders increases.
Nevertheless we did add more cyclical stocks to the views.
We are committed to the expansion of these activities as portfolio during the first half of our year, to the point of being well as to enhancing our written and website publications such almost fully invested.
More recently we have become more as Your Core Investment and our monthly fact sheets.
cautious again, selling our more cyclical exposures, although finding some opportunities to purchase stocks neglected during Alliance Trust Savings the recovery phase.
Our holding of cash has thus increased over The Company, along with the Alliance Trust, owns Alliance Trust the twelve months and appears to be our best alternative to Savings ATS, which provides investment plans for this wide equities for now.
The Select PEPs, ISAs and Pensions provided by ATS are necessarily, because of their tax status, Diversification only available to individuals.
The Select Investment Plan, which The Second Alliance Trust is not constrained from investing in is available to all investors, not just individuals, is also new areas.
Over its history it has moved from being a mortgage becoming recognised as an efficient and economical means of provider over a century ago, to investment in fixed interest holding an investment portfolio.
Nearly 26% of the Companys securities and then in equities.
This flexibility has been a key ordinary stock is now held through the plans provided by ATS.
part of its longevity and is essential to meeting change in the We see the investment ATS is making in its own infrastructure future.
While we see no great shift away from the fundamentals and resources as a good, long term investment, not only to of equity investing, we also believe that we should not shy generate value for the Company, but also as critical to the away from using our wide powers of investment to shelter our positioning of ATS as a preferred core investment administrator.
investors from the most extreme vagaries of the equity market.
This we can do by considering investment in other asset Board classes.
To this end, we are developing property expertise Gavin Suggett retired as Chief Executive at the end of within the Company.
When appropriate, in a manner consistent December 2003.
I would like to thank Gavin for his pivotal with our general approach to investment, we will be in a contribution to the Company and to ATS, which he founded.
position to diversify into property when opportunities arise.
We He has been succeeded by Alan Harden, who has wide are also increasing our fixed income expertise to add further international expertise, both in investment management and flexibility in our asset class diversification.
The board welcomes Alan Harden and wholeheartedly recommends to stockholders approval of Stock price his appointment as a director at the AGM, along with those While our assets and income have increased for a second other directors, including myself, who stand for re-election successive year it is disappointing that the stock price fell, by rotation.
widening the discount, a feature that has affected much of the We have been fortunate in securing the services of Gordon investment trust sector.
This trend can be partly attributed to McQueen as a non-executive director and we strongly selling by institutional investors, which has also influenced the recommend that the stockholders approve his appointment.
Information about the directors standing for election or re-election is contained in the enclosed Notice of Meeting, Investors which also contains information about the other resolutions to The Companys stock is owned by a wide community which be proposed at the AGM.
includes charities, pension funds, trusts and corporations, as I extend a warm invitation to you to join us at Discovery Point well as many individuals who hold their stock in their own in Dundee for our Annual Meeting on 29 October 2004. names, or through their stockbroker or other nominees.
Our investor relations programme focuses on the importance of communication with all stockholders and giving individuals the opportunity to meet us at the various investor forums we hold throughout the country, as well as at the AGMs.
This year we have met investors in Hampshire and Surrey as well as starting Lesley M S Knox
