Chairmans Statement In this, my last statement to shareholders before I stand down as Chairman, I am pleased to report that Carillion made good progress in 2004.
Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items increased by 8 per cent and was again backed by strong cash generation.
Earnings per share before goodwill and exceptional items increased by 18 per cent.
Our programme of PPP equity disposals for our customers.
In addition, our focus on been achieved.
I leave Carillion in good shape continued with two further sales in 2004, sustainable profitable growth by continually and in the capable hands of a restructured and generating an exceptional profit of 7.7 seeking to improve our impacts on the refreshed Board that I am confident will build million.
One third of this profit has already environment and on the communities in on the success that has been achieved during been returned to shareholders by way of an which we operate, has made Carillion a our first five years.
additional dividend of one penny per share, recognised leader in corporate social paid with the 2004 interim dividend.
To one area of corporate Carillion has already made a good start to equity sales have consistently supported the responsibility, Health and Safety, we give 2005, winning a number of significant new Directors valuation of our PPP equity portfolio, absolute priority so that all our people can contracts to add to its strong order book.
which is currently some 83 million, based on expect to work safely wherever they are.
This supports the Boards view that the outlook discounting the cash flows from our equity for the Group continues to be positive and investments at 10 per cent.
The value we have Carillions transformation over the past five that we will make further progress in 2005. created is increasingly being recognised by years owes most to the leadership of our the market and our future policy will be to sell senior management team and to the skills In view of the Groups financial performance equity investments only when this achieves and commitment of all our people.
I should and its prospects for further growth, the Board returns in excess of those we would expect if like to offer my personal thanks and those is making a number of recommendations we retained them over the life of our of the Board to everyone in Carillion for the regarding dividends.
It is recommending a concession contracts.
contributions they have made to our success.
final ordinary dividend of 4.825 pence per share, which will be paid on 24 June 2005 Delivering healthy earnings growth in As previously announced, the Board has been to shareholders on the register at close of 2004 despite the impact of transferring rail reviewing its independent director structure to business on 29 April 2005.
The total dividend maintenance to Network Rail, reflects the reflect the strategic direction of our business for 2004 would therefore be 7.5 pence per resilience and strength of our business.
This and has made a number of changes.
Two share, including the additional dividend of one comes from our clear vision and consistent new Non-Executives joined the Board in 2004, penny per share.
This represents an increase of strategy, which have made Carillion a very David Garman and Philip Rogerson, who is also 11 per cent on the total dividend paid in 2003, different company from the one we launched Deputy Chairman.
Jean-Paul Parayre, who was 56 per cent on 2002 and 88 per cent since in 1999.
Then, we were predominantly a a founder member of the Board and latterly Carillion was launched in 1999.
The Board no construction company.
Today, we generate our senior independent director, left the longer intends to pay additional dividends in nearly half our turnover and over two thirds Board at the end of 2004.
I would like to respect of any future PPP equity sales, but is of our profit from support services and thank him for his personal support and recommending that the additional dividend equity investments in Public Private wise counsel to the Board.
Andrew Parrish, paid in 2004 should be consolidated into Partnership projects.
who has been a member of the Board since the ordinary dividend.
This would rebase the 2000 and has acted as Chairman of the 2004 ordinary dividend at 7.5 pence per share, Changing our business mix and establishing Remuneration Committee since 2001, which would become the starting point for strong well-balanced positions in all our key will not be seeking re-election at the AGM.
determining future dividend payments in line markets has significantly improved the risk I should like to thank him for his significant with our progressive dividend policy.
profile of our activities and the predictability contribution to Carillions development.
These changes are also clearly As I have already indicated, now that the new reflected in our order book, which has grown appointments have settled in, I propose to and lengthened considerably since 1999. stand down as Chairman and as a Director of Carillion on 11 May 2005, at which point It is not only what we do that has changed, Philip Rogerson will succeed me as Chairman.
Our values guide the Sir Neville Simms way we work together with all our supply I have greatly enjoyed leading the business and Chairman chain partners to provide high-quality services I am proud to have played a part in what has 9 March 2005 05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 A Year of Good Progress 02
