SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 02 Portfolio overview Asset Management GAM appointed in June Chairmans statement I am pleased to report a strong set of results, 2001 : Francis Finlay, Chairman of with net assets increasing by 17.7% to Clay Finlay Inc. appointed October 2004 : 539.7p per share fully diluted in the and Charles Sinclair, Chief Executive of Daily 12 months, comparing favourably to public Mail & General Trust appointed January markets, with the FTSE All-Share increasing 2005.
The elections of Francis Finlay and by 9.2% over the same period.
Charles Sinclair are proposed at the AGM, and further biographical details for them are This strong performance has been driven by contained in the Report of the Directors on a general improvement in both the operating page 25. and exit environment and by a significant increase in distributions from the portfolio, As part of these considerations, I have especially from recapitalisations, which signalled to the Board that after nine years together have led to several material increases as Chairman of the Company, I have decided in valuation.
to retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Over the last five years, SVG Capital has The alternatives for my replacement as reported a compound growth in diluted net Chairman of SVG Capital have been carefully assets per share of 8.3% p. a. out-performing considered by the Board and the Nominations the FTSE All-Share by 14.0% p. a. over the Committee excluding Nicholas Ferguson.
The conclusion reached was that from all the alternatives, Nicholas Ferguson, the current Change to investment policy and Chief Executive of SVG Capital provides the formalisation of relationship with ideal experience and continuity for the Permira Company and he has agreed to step down as We have posted a Circular to shareholders Chief Executive and succeed me as Chairman.
regarding a proposed change to the Companys investment policy, a formalisation We are not proposing to replace Nicholas of our relationship with Permira, including the Ferguson as Chief Executive.
His appointment appointment of Damon Buffini, Managing as Chief Executive in 2001 was to oversee, on Partner of Permira to our Board and the issue behalf of the Board, both the investment of of 6 million shares at 600p per share to SVG Capitals assets and the development of its I am pleased to report a Permira Capital Limited.
fund management business, SVG Advisers.
strong set of results, with net SVG Advisers is now profitable, with combined We will be seeking shareholder approval at third-party funds under management and assets per share increasing by the forthcoming AGM for this proposed commitments of 1.5 billion and strong growth 17.7% to 539.7p fully change to the investment policy and the potential.
The Board has decided that in future diluted in the 12 months, arrangements with Permira, further details of all such executive work will be conducted by which are contained in the Circular to SVG Advisers, led, as currently, by Andrew comparing favourably to shareholders.
Williams, with an advisory agreement between public markets, with the FTSE SVG Capital and SVG Advisers.
Board succession All-Share increasing by 9.2% In recent years, the Board and the In proposing this appointment, we have over the same period.
Nominations Committee have been considered the requirements of the revised John McLachlan, Chairman carefully considering the issues of Board Combined Code.
The revised Code states that and management succession.
Four of our if, exceptionally, a Board decides that a chief former Directors have retired, and they have executive of a company should become been replaced by three new independent chairman, the Board should consult major non-executive Directors: Denis Raeburn, shareholders in advance and set out its former Managing Director of Global reasons to shareholders at the time of the SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 03 appointment and in the next annual report.
Euro Depositary Receipts EDRs Outlook In considering the issue of succession, the Following a review of the liquidity of the The growth in net assets over the last Board has taken into consideration the Companys EDR programme and consultation 12 months is very satisfactory and 2005 has specialist nature of SVG Capital and the with the major holders of the EDRs, the got off to a good start, with a number of importance of having a Chairman who has Company terminated the depositary recapitalisations within the portfolio and the a thorough understanding of private equity arrangement and delisted the EDRs in February listing of Premiere on the Frankfurt Stock and who can provide continuity with 2005.
The majority of the holders elected to Exchange.
SVG Capitals relationships with its underlying transfer their holdings back into ordinary shares.
We are seeing increased levels of distributions.
Corporate governance By the end of the first quarter of this year, it is The Board believes that Nicholas Fergusons During the year ended 31 December 2004, expected that SVG Capital will have received appointment will provide the Company the corporate governance environment for distributions of over 95 million, which with a Chairman that has deep knowledge UK publicly listed companies has significantly compares to total distributions of 144 million of the private equity industry, a demonstrated changed.
The Financial Reporting Council in 2004.
This will increase our cash balances commitment to value creation for shareholders published a revised Combined Code in in the short-term.
However, we expect these and a clear commitment to first class corporate July 2003 and the new Code applies to to reduce as calls are made on our governance.
In addition, he commands the the Company for the year ended 464 million of uncalled commitments.
respect of shareholders and our underlying 31 December 2004. investment advisers, and will give the We have been encouraged by the Company the continuity to enable it to In order to ensure that the Company continues performance of our share price over the year, follow successfully the excellent results of to demonstrate the highest standards of which has appreciated by 19.6%, significantly our first nine years.
corporate governance, the Board undertook a out-performing the FTSE All-Share.
We believe strategic review of its governance structure.
that this out-performance is in part a The Company has consulted its largest Following the conclusion of the review, revisions reflection of better market sentiment towards shareholders regarding the appointment and have been made to the schedule of matters private equity, but also recognition of the shareholders representing approximately 60% reserved for decision by the Board, and revised potential returns achievable by investing in of the Companys share capital at 18 March terms of reference for the Boards committees private equity and the performance of our 2005, have indicated that they are supportive have been adopted.
A formal and rigorous underlying private equity advisers.
process to evaluate the performance of the Directors, the Board and its committees has In the nine years I have been Chairman, Further details are contained in the Corporate been developed.
SVG Capital has grown, both in assets and Governance report on pages 32 to 34. standing, none of which would have been In accordance with the provisions of the Code, achievable without the impressive Directors fees Anthony Habgood has been appointed as performance of its underlying fund advisers, The Board continues to monitor the payment Senior Independent Director of the Company particularly Permira, and I wish both the of fees to Directors.
In order to provide the with effect from 1 December 2004.
Board and shareholders continued success.
In Board with additional flexibility in the setting addition, I would like to thank the team at of Directors fees in the future, a resolution Annual General Meeting AGM SVG Advisers for their hard work and will be proposed at the AGM proposing that The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Monday dedication in creating a thriving fund the cap on the total amount of Directors fees 25 April 2005 at 111 Strand, London management business with strong growth be increased from 200,000 to 600,000.
WC2R 0AG, and will, as in previous years, potential.
The total estimated Directors fees for 2005 include a presentation on the activities of the are 415,000, and this increase will give the Company.
Company the ability to appoint further Directors, as we intend to do.
