Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Chairmans statement The Group has recorded another record full year profit and has made 2 significant progress both in the core UK and Republic of Ireland business as well as the Benelux business acquired some 18 months ago.
The Group recorded an underlying operating profit pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation after interest of 65.0 million, an increase of 23.4% compared to last year.
The Groups profit on ordinary activities before taxation increased by 33.3% to 67.1 million inclusive of the 0.9 million goodwill amortisation.
The Groups underlying earnings per share basic earnings per share pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation increased by 26.1% to 70.1p.
Basic earnings per share increased by 37.3% to 68.8p.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative and during the year achieved an operating cash flow of 91.5 million.
The net debt at the year-end was 30.0 million, an improvement of 3.8 million on last year.
This was after funding a total of 41.1 million in share buybacks during the year.
The Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by 22.7% to 27.0p, which together with the interim dividend of 17.0p takes the total dividend for the year to 44.0p per share, an increase of 18.9% on the prior year.
The final dividend will be paid on 24 September 2004 to shareholders on the register on 10 September 2004.
UK and Republic of Ireland Results The UK and Republic of Ireland business achieved another record underlying operating profit pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation of 64.8 million, an increase of 14.1% against the comparable 52 weeks last year.
This included the 0.6 million loss from the acquisition of Carpet Express.
The business made a further 3.1 million on the disposal of fixed assets.
Sales for the year were 397.1 million, an increase of 4.7% against the comparable 52 weeks last year, with a like for like sales increase of 1.2%.
The trading environment was difficult for floor coverings during the year but once again the business managed to increase sales and market share.
We remain confident that our business proposition of offering the widest range, best prices and excellent service will enable us to continue to grow sales and market share in the future.
Gross margin, excluding Carpet Express, improved by 1.6 percentage points to 61.1% against the comparable 52 weeks last year.
This growth was driven by a strong first half increase of 2.9 percentage Lord Harris Chairman points reflecting the full year effect of our in house cutting operation, our 5 metre warehouse, and buying scale from Group sourcing.
The second half gross margin was up 0.2 percentage points on last We achieved another record year in line with expectations.
We expect to continue to improve gross margin going forward primarily through further in-house efficiencies profit performance for the and buying scale.
Costs as a percentage of sales, excluding Carpet Express, were Group with continued strong 44.8%, a reduction of 0.1 percentage points against the comparable 52 weeks last year.
This reflects the cost reduction programme put into cash flows and a dividend place during the second half of last year.
The rollout of the In House Carpets concessions within the Allders department stores had a small increase of 18.9%.
adverse impact on the costs to sales ratio: we expect this will continue into the current year.
Operations We have seen another year of development to our portfolio of stores as well as further improvement of our offer during the year.
We ended the year with an additional 13 Carpetright stores giving a total of 364 stores trading from approximately 3,488,000 sq.
Many of the new openings were in our new small store format in smaller towns.
These stores enable us to trade in areas dominated by the independents and where up to now Carpetright has been under-represented.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 We successfully completed the rollout of In House Carpets departments Gross margin has continued to improve as the benefits of Group sourcing, 3 to a total of 38 Allders stores.
These flooring departments average supply chain efficiency and more effective promotions take effect.
ft and sell a wide range of carpet, laminate and vinyl to Allders product margin for the year improved to 53.5% a full 7.1 percentage points customers providing both excellent value and a strong focus on service above the comparable period last year.
There is scope for further margin as a critical part of the offer.
The rollout has enabled us to reach a new growth both from internal efficiency and improved sourcing over market sector not currently served by the Group.
Our Carpetright at home business has continued to show good sales Costs continue to benefit from the action initiated during the second and profit growth during the year.
The van fleet has been expanded to 40 half of last year and then completed in the first half of this financial year.
and we can now provide coverage for all areas of the country.
Costs as a percentage of sales have reduced to 45.7%, a 2.4 percentage Inside our stores there has also been significant improvement.
point reduction on last year.
During the year we completed the rollout of a full laminate offer as well Operations as further improvements to our vinyl offer and merchandising.
Sales of We closed the year with 88 stores trading, having closed three stores during laminate during the second half were more than double the previous the year and opened one.
The business was trading from 60 stores in year as the appeal of our wide range, good prices and excellent service Holland and 28 stores in Belgium at the year-end with a combined trading provided a compelling offer to the customer.
Carpet sales have grown space of 1,158,000 sq.
ft. We completed our first new store opening at strongly in the second half of the year after what had been a difficult first Venlo, Holland, during March and the second new store at Deventer, half trading period.
Holland, opened just after the year-end.
Our medium term target is to Our programme to assess and train floor covering fitters, run in achieve 100 plus stores across Holland and Belgium.
association with the Flooring Industry Training Association FITA, has We have continued to sublet excess trading space to complementary also progressed well over the year.
At the year-end we had assessed retailers during the year.
We had completed five such sublets by the over 700 fitters, with over 60% of our regions complete.
year-end and a further three were completed in May and June.
Carpet Express Whilst we are still only 18 months into our first acquisition into As previously announced, on 11 March 2004 Carpetright entered into mainland Europe we believe we have established the foundations of an arrangement with Associated Weavers International AWI to purchase a good long-term business.
from the receiver the assets and operations of Carpet Express Limited.
Carpet Express operates a nationwide carpet distribution service Group and counts both Carpetright and AWI amongst its many customers.
Board We are working with AWI to improve the operations and have The Group announced on 1 June 2004 that Mr Simon Metcalf had commenced a review of the longer term requirements which we joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director.
Sir Harry Djanogly has should have completed by the end of the first half.
confirmed his intention to stand down from the Board in spring 2005 having served on the Board since the Groups flotation in 1993.
Benelux The Group has started a process to recruit a further Non-Executive Results Director to replace Sir Harry in line with this timetable.
Baroness Noakes The Benelux business recorded its first underlying operating profit has assumed the role of Senior Independent Director with effect from pre exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation of 1.8 million for the 29 June 2004. year to 30 April 2004 compared to a 2.9 million loss for the 10 months Incentives to 30 April 2003.
The Group intends to launch a new Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Sales in both Holland and Belgium have continued to improve from the start of the current financial year.
This LTIP would reward within throughout the year.
The offer has been tailored differently for each country a range from above average to excellent performance an allocation of and then as required to specific geographical areas within those countries.
up to 40% of annual salary in shares, which would be purchased in the The range has been expanded to give us the authority as the floor covering market.
The LTIP is applicable to the Executive Directors as well as up to specialist and our market leading price position has been further improved.
20 of the Groups senior managers and full details are provided within the As a result of this action, sales were broadly level on a comparable basis for Annual Report for proposal to the shareholders.
the year despite trading from five fewer stores during that time.
With both The Group is also requesting approval from shareholders to launch markets down on last year this resulted in an improvement in the market a new savings related share option scheme for all employees.
This will share for both the Dutch and Belgian operations.
We believe that with the enable eligible employees to save up to 250 per month for the purchase platform now in place in both countries and our better understanding of the of the Groups shares on favourable terms.
local requirements there is significant opportunity to grow market share over the short and medium term.
Once again I would like to take this opportunity to thank our staff for all their hard work over the past year.
Their skills, experience, dedication and hard work continue to enable us to grow the business and maintain our position at the forefront of carpets and floorings retailing.
Lord Harris of Peckham Chairman Last year has been restated to reflect the implementation of FRS5 Application Note G.
