Chairmans statement Savings Scheme together with general marketing and shareholder support activities facilitate the maintenance of the discount at an acceptable level.
The Board recognizes that the market ultimately determines the value of the Trusts shares and aims to maintain a good dialogue with both current and potential shareholders and to provide a presentation on the portfolio at the AGM, with a view to ensuring that the Trusts investment strategies and potential are widely understood.
Board One of the Trusts directors, John Hudson, will be retiring from the Board at this years AGM.
John has served on the Board for over a decade during which time we have benefited greatly from his wise counsel and thoughtful views.
We wish him well in his other After a quiet first half of 2004, UK equities moved pursuits.
In September 2004 we were delighted to higher in the second half to produce another year of confirm the appointment to the Board of Martin good returns.
He has a wealth of investment trust knowledge which will be available to the Board in the coming The total return on net assets of Temple Bar during years.
We expect to make a further appointment to 2004 was 21.8%, which compares with a total the Board over the course of this year.
return of 12.8% for the FTSE All-Share Index.
The underlying outperformance of the portfolio was Debt amplified by the Trusts capital gearing, which is As stated above, the Trusts capital gearing maintained at a conservative level.
A detailed enhanced shareholder returns for the year.
The analysis of performance is provided in the Managers Board remains comfortable that the 63m of report.
debenture debt is appropriate in current circumstances.
The Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 3.3% to produce a total increase for the International Financial Reporting Standards year of 3.0%, reflecting the positive dividend IFRS announcements made in 2004 by many of the This will be the last occasion that our financial companies in the portfolio.
This dividend will be statements are prepared on the basis of UK payable on 31 March 2005 to those shareholders on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
For the 2005 financial year our accounts will be prepared under the requirements of IFRS in Gross revenue was lower compared with 2003, due accordance with the Listing Rules.
The 2005 interim mainly to the absence of a large special dividend accounts will be prepared under the IFRS received in the prior year.
As a result post-tax measurement and recognition principles that will earnings were reduced by 3.8% but still cover the apply at the year end.
The principal differences increased dividend.
resulting from this change, based on current The Board closely monitors the relationship between guidance, will be the need to adopt bid price the price of Temple Bars shares and their underlying valuations for the portfolio, which is currently valued net asset value and is pleased to note that the on the basis of mid price valuations, and the shares have traded close to asset value for much of requirement not to accrue for any dividends that 2004: at the year end the shares were trading at a have not been approved by shareholders at the small discount of 0.6%.
The operation of a low cost balance sheet date.
There will also be some TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 7 Chairmans statement continued presentational changes to the primary financial Thus, while your Board and the Manager remain statements.
None of these changes is expected to strong believers in the long term value of investing in have a material impact on Temple Bar.
If the high yielding out of favour companies, current accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 had market conditions suggest that we are entering a been prepared under IFRS the NAV per ordinary period in which we should be slightly more cautious share would have been approximately 688.8p rather in the application of our standard approach.
Accordingly, we expect to supplement our typical holdings with investments in those companies with Outlook under-appreciated recovery prospects, undervalued The last few years have proved to be an excellent growth opportunities or with assets which are likely environment for investing in high yielding equities.
to attract interest from competitor companies.
In The collapse of the technology bubble left many addition, we will be prepared to hold a higher than stocks significantly undervalued and those investors normal level of cash pending the identification of willing to stand apart from the crowd have had sufficiently attractive investments.
We are confident ample opportunity to produce attractive returns.
that this approach will generate a number of However, valuation anomalies do not persist interesting investment opportunities in the year indefinitely.
The importance of dividends as a part of ahead.
overall returns is now firmly re-established in investors minds.
In fact, as the Manager states in his report, dividend yield seemed to be of pre- 15 February 2005 eminent importance in 2004.
John Reeve Correspondingly, investing in those companies with superior long-term growth prospects has become relatively unfashionable and, consequently, the ratings of these companies have converged with those of higher yielding stocks.
