TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT At 30 April 2004, your Company had net assets of 778.46 million, compared with 595.49 million at 30 April 2003.
At year-end, 98.7% of the Companys net assets were invested in equities, with the remaining 1.3% being held in liquid assets.
The general policy of the Investment Manager is to be fully invested.
Undiluted net asset value per share at 30 April 2004 was 171.01 pence, an increase of 30.7% from 30 April 2003.
The share price at 30 April 2004 was 144.00 pence, compared with 107.25 pence at the beginning of the fiscal year, an increase of 34.3%.
Over the same period, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, on a total return basis, rose 38.4%, and the S&P IFCI Composite Index increased 40.2%.
The Managers Report and Portfolio Review pages 12 to 15 gives a detailed analysis of the Companys performance over the year.
It is with great satisfaction that we have received the news that TEMIT was chosen as the Best Large Trust 2003 by Investment Trust Magazine and tipped as one of the 15 to win in 2004.
It confirms TEMITs position as the 10th largest Investment Trust in the UK and maintains its position as the UKs largest Emerging Markets Trust.
Our congratulations go to Mark Mobius and his team for this achievement.
Most emerging markets recorded strong stock market performances during the year under review as investors regained confidence.
Of the four primary emerging markets regions, Latin America performed best as political and financial issues that engulfed the region during 2003 subsided.
Brazil and Argentina experienced renewed investor interest as their governments strived to implement key structural reforms and sealed agreements with the International Monetary Fund.
Asian markets benefited from strong macroeconomic data and diminished investor concerns over the avian flu outbreak.
The US dollars decline contributed to the South African rands strength, which helped contain inflation.
Eastern European markets continued an upward trend as European Union candidates within the region worked toward the fulfilment of accession goals.
To the south, investor confidence in Turkey seemed to remain unshaken despite November 2003s terrorist attacks.
In fact, Turkey was the top-performing emerging market during the year under review.
Last year, the Directors renewed the authority to buy back shares.
During the year no shares were bought back.
At 30 April 2004, the discount was 15.8% of TEMITs quoted share price to its underlying net asset value compared with 18.0% at 30 April 2003.
The Board of Directors wish to be in a position to repurchase shares should this be in the best interests of the Company and are seeking to renew the authority to buy back up to 15.0% of the issued share capital.
Profit after tax was 13.16 million, an increase of 70.0% over the year.
The Board of Directors have proposed a cash dividend of 2.25 pence per Ordinary Share.
The dividend will be paid on 22 September 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 August 2004, subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, which will be held on 21 September 2004.
The portfolio is managed using the value style of investing.
This requires a detailed research of stocks, and we purchase only those trading at less than their assessed value.
Since inception, the net asset value of TEMIT has risen by 393.8% in sterling terms compared with a comparable rise of 203.4% for the S&P IFCI Composite Index and 231.0% for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Aside from the very favourable results achieved by the portfolio managers of the Company during the year under review, this has been a significant period for TEMIT.
This is due to a combination of new regulations, guidelines on corporate governance and the steps the Board and management have taken to make sure that the Company complies with them.
In addition, the Company has also made preparations for the capital increase which is expected from the exercise of the warrants outstanding, the final date for which is 30 September 2004.
10 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Shareholders will be invited to vote at the Annual General Meeting to take place on 21 September 2004 on the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The Directors are delighted to recommend that you vote in favour of such continuation.
New rules on corporate governance have meant that substantial alterations were seen fit by us to be made in the composition of the Board of Directors, bearing in mind such factors as time of service, and the requirement that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should be independent and that no more than one current or recent employee of or professional advisor to the Investment Manager should serve on the Board of Directors and any such Director should offer himself for re-election annually.
On 15 December 2003, Sir Richard Brooke, Martin Flanagan, Richard Frank, Sir John Shaw and Sir Robert Brian Williamson resigned from the Board.
On 15 December 2003, I was appointed to replace Sir Richard Brooke as Chairman of the Company until the next Annual General Meeting, which is scheduled to take place on the 21 September 2004.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee met on 15 December 2003 to recommend for election the following new Board members: Sam L Ginn, Peter C Godsoe, Sir Ronald Hampel and Andrew S B Knight and these appointments were approved by the Board on 15 December 2003.
Subsequently, on 21 April 2004, the Committee nominated Peter A Smith for election to the Board.
This nomination was approved by written resolution of the full Board on 26 April 2004.
Following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, I shall step down as Chairman and it is the Boards intention to elect Sir Ronald Hampel to succeed me.
I shall remain on the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
As indicated in the Directors Report, it is proposed that Sir Peter Burt be elected as a director with effect from 1 October 2004.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our departing colleagues for their friendship, loyalty and dedication to the Company, as well as their important contribution to its success, and their defence of the shareholders interest at all times.
I am also confident that the new directors, whose very distinguished resumes are included in this Annual Report, will continue in this work, and help to maintain TEMITs excellent reputation in the marketplace.
In reconstituting the Board, we have been mindful of expanding the amount of detail in the biographical synopses of all directors so that you, the shareholders can feel reassured that your best interests are being preserved.
We have already put in place and intend to perfect mechanisms for formally assessing Board members on a yearly basis, also identifying any training that may be required.
Initially Board members will participate in training on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines, with particular reference to investment trusts.
Geoffrey A Langlands 2 July 2004 Indices above are shown on a total return basis in GBP.
Sources: Franklin Templeton Investments and Standard & Poors.
