Chairmans Statement Alastair Ross Goobey CBE MA Hon.
RICS Chairman 3 June 2004 Introduction of our Company.
At this year end, the net asset value per Since this Report marks the end of my Chairmanship of share had reached 113.1p, and the share price was your Board of Directors, I hope shareholders will forgive hovering just under the 100p mark.
The dividend per me if I indulge in a retrospective of the ten years during share has risen over the same period from 0.90p per which I have served on the Board.
My involvement in our share to the recommended 2.50p for the year just ended.
Company began when PosTel, as it then was, now There are very few companies of any sort that can match Hermes, swapped some of the smaller properties in its this record, and TR Property has outperformed almost all clients portfolios for shares and warrants in TR Property.
other investment trusts over the period.
The shares were issued effectively at a premium to net asset value, and Hermes clients became owners of over Management 20% of the share capital of the Company.
I was invited Shareholders will have been disturbed to read that, at the to join the Board as a representative of that shareholding.
end of April, the Board gave notice on the investment Consequently, while I was Chief Executive of Hermes, management contract with Henderson Global Investors.
I was not an independent director.
Only when I retired This followed on the resignation from Henderson of from Hermes, and the investment of Hermes clients in Chris Turner and Marcus Phayre-Mudge, the Trusts fund the Company had fallen below 10%, could I agree to manager and his deputy.
As you will be aware, the Trust succeed Grant Cochrane as your Chairman.
The decision contracts with Henderson for its investment management, taken back in 1994 has proved to be one of the more not with our individual managers, who are employees of rewarding, in personal satisfaction, that I have taken in my the incumbent management house.
The quality of the Board, and, particularly, of the locus in discussions between our appointed manager and investment managers, has enabled TR Property to create its employees, but we have taken the opportunity given by an extraordinary record of success over the period.
The B this unwelcome development to give notice on the share issue with warrants made in 1994 was at a price investment management contract to expire at the end of equivalent to 40p a share.
After a couple of difficult years September, with no compensation payable to Henderson.
in the share market when the net asset value fell, there We have invited proposals for the management of your has been a striking rise in both the assets and share price Company, and are currently engaged, with help from our 4 TR Property Investment Trust Chairmans Statement continued Five Year Performance 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 Mar 99 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Index of TR Property net asset value and share price compared with a composite index comprising the FTSE Real Estate Index for the period 31 March 1999 to 30 September 2001 and the S&P Citigroup European Property Index for the period 1 October 2001 to 31 March 2004 Composite Index FTSE Real Estate Index to 30 September 2001: TR Property Share Price TR Property Net Asset Value S&P Citigroup European Property Index from 1 October 2001 advisers, in sifting through the many applicants for this from property to flow through to the equity investor role.
We have asked Henderson to make a proposal.
During the year we saw the introduction of the appointment will be made in good time before the current French equivalent of a Real Estate Investment Trust, and, contract expires.
Meanwhile the fund managers remain at in the UK, the Chancellor is consulting on the introduction their desks at Henderson until their notice period expires of a similar regime.
The consultation will determine the and continue to run the Trust.
I am pleased to say that details of any British version.
This, together with a everyone involved in this development has behaved in a constant flow of quoted companies being taken private at mature and sensible fashion, always keeping the interests nearer their quoted net asset values, produced a total of our shareholders uppermost in their minds.
It is possible return of 62% in the year to March 2004.
European that a decision on a new management contract will have property shares, in sterling, gave a total return of 34.5% been made in time for the Annual General Meeting at the over the same period.
Our benchmark Index showed a end of July, but, at least, we will be able to give you an total return of 47.4%, and I am pleased to report that the update on the position then.
Trusts net asset value rose by 54.8%, from 73.0p to 113.1p and that our net asset value total return was The Past Year 59.1%.
This is the sixth year in succession that the net In last years Annual Report, I expressed the view that asset value total return has beaten the benchmark total direct property has probably reached the zenith of its return.
The share price rose from 59p to 95p, a 61.0% relative performance in the current cycle.
The sharp increase and showed a total return of 66.2%.
The recovery in equity markets has indeed reversed the ungeared total return from our direct property portfolio performance order over the past twelve months.
However was 12.5%, well below that achieved in property property shares have outperformed even the rise in the securities.
Your managers had reduced the exposure to general equity market, both in the UK and in many of our direct property to take advantage of the anticipated favoured European markets.
The common factor has been recovery in equity share markets.
This ability to arbitrage the move towards enabling more of the rental income between the direct and indirect property markets is TR Property Investment Trust 5 Chairmans Statement continued unique to TR Property among the larger investment trusts, costs of running the Trust are charged to the capital and your managers have been singularly adept at making account.
Consequently, in cash flow terms, payment of a such switches of emphasis over the years.
high percentage of reported earnings actually requires the sale of capital assets to meet the management costs Revenue and Dividends charged to that account.
Reported revenue earnings per share for the year are 2.51p per share, a rise of 9.1% over that reported for last Share Repurchases year.
In a lower inflation environment, we cannot expect Your Board has taken active steps to ensure that the underlying rental growth, from which dividends ultimately discount of the share price to underlying asset value is not derive, to maintain the 14.7% compound growth in the simply left to chance.
Where we have identified the Trusts revenue we have achieved over the past five years.
possibility of buying back shares in the market that would Earnings per share are also affected by the timing of enhance the net assets for remaining shareholders and dividend receipts, often changing in successive years from help keep the absolute size of the Trusts portfolio to a March to April or vice versa, the effects of the repurchase level appropriate to its investment universe, we have acted.
of our own shares, and the occupation levels of our direct Our managers, working to the Boards instructions, bought property holdings.
Two of our largest direct property back a total of 62.08 million shares at a total cost of holdings are in receipt of planning permission for 48.02m an average price of 77.35p per share including redevelopment, and occupation levels have been reduced costs, adding around 2.10p per share to the total return of deliberately to facilitate these redevelopments.
Some 53.8 million almost 90% of these shares were bought back in a single transaction Our managers are currently advising that the Trusts at the end of October 2003, details of which I included in revenue per share will increase further in the current year, my interim report.
The purchases almost exhausted our subject to unforeseen circumstances.
In the medium term, buy-back powers granted at the last Annual General the Trust may be the beneficiary of a greater flow-through Meeting, but these powers were renewed at an of rents from property shares following the introduction of Extraordinary General Meeting held in January.
In the a tax transparent vehicle in the UK property market.
event, no further repurchases have been made since then.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.40p Gearing and Currency Exposure per share to shareholders, a 21.7% increase over last The Trust has maintained gearing in the 15% to 33% years figure of 1.15p.
Together with the interim dividend range this year.
Net debt rose by 72% from 47m at the of 1.10p already paid, this produces a total dividend for start of the year to 81m at the close.
Part of the the year of 2.50p, a 22.0% increase over the 2.05p paid increase was in order to finance the share buy-back last year.
The proposed dividend is only just covered by mentioned above.
In accordance with the Boards policy, reported earnings per share, yet the cost of it is clearly the foreign currency assets and revenue income were lower than the after tax earnings of the Trust.
This unhedged throughout the year.
Sterling rose by 3.2% anomaly occurs because the Trust repurchased a large against the Euro over the year.
This modestly benefited number of its own shares last October.
Stated earnings the Trusts performance against its benchmark, since the are calculated on the weighted average number of shares exposure to European property shares was below that of outstanding in the year 388.8 million, whereas the cost the Index level.
of the dividend is based on the actual number of shares ranking for this final dividend payment 354.4 million.
The Board Board has taken the view that there is no reason to As previously announced, I will retire as Chairman and as increase our revenue reserves further, and that it will, in a director of the Trust at the conclusion of the Annual principle, try to distribute its after tax earnings more fully, General Meeting.
The Board has elected Peter Salsbury, on a sustainable basis.
I would point out however that, in who joined the Board in 1997, as my successor.
Peter is common with almost all investment trusts, part of the taking a leading role in the process of selecting an 6 TR Property Investment Trust Chairmans Statement continued investment manager to run the Trust on the expiry of the you will recall, investors wanted clicks not bricks.
The Board is also actively considering are estimates of unfilled demand for property investments the recruitment of a new non-executive director.
I am of over 10 billion in the UK alone.
Investors have also delighted to leave the Company in the hands of a Board been attracted by the relatively high income yields which is blessed with such able and experienced people.
available in some of the Continental European markets that have tax-transparent investment vehicles.
Outlook Investment property should remain part of a wellWhereas a year ago the stock market was over-fearful diversified portfolio.
It has income and capital of the future, there is a danger that an equally erroneous characteristics not available in other asset classes, and is complacency has entered into investors minds.
not closely correlated with them.
Property shares, while In the UK, interest rates are on an upward path, and this more closely correlated with equity markets, also reflect is not a perfect background for property investment.
the underlying trends in the direct property world.
For Some of the larger property companies have been most of us, with little opportunity of building up a direct making more encouraging noises about tenant demand.
commercial property portfolio of our own, and certainly This reflects the recovery in financial activity in London not on an international basis, TR Property represents an particularly, to which the demand for space is highly excellent way in which to attain that exposure at a low sensitive.
The asset bases of the UK property shares in cost, with highly professional and successful management.
which we invest are dominated by value by City and I shall certainly be keeping my own investment in the West End offices and large retail investments.
Retail demand has been sustained by a continuing rise in Although I regret that I am standing down from the Board house prices and growth in remortgaging.
Whether these at a moment when the future management arrangements factors will remain supportive is more questionable, in an are not settled, I am confident that a solution which will environment of rising mortgage rates and can only be benefit our shareholders will be found.
One hopes that the residential price bubble can manager suggests, it is unrealistic to expect a growth rate be deflated, rather than burst, but precedent is not over the next ten years as strong as over the last, the Trust encouraging.
Your portfolio is very lightly exposed to the is uniquely placed to take advantage of developments in housing market.
In Continental Europe the economies are real estate markets, both direct and indirect.
still recovering more slowly, and tenant demand remains The Board may have had a little influence on the Trusts generally weak.
success over the past decade, but the prime credit must Property investment has become an area of choice for be given to the fund manager and his colleagues.
They many institutions that ignored the asset class, or actively have worked indefatigably on your behalf, with sold it, in the 1990s.
It is a source of amazement to me self-evident results.
I am grateful to them, and to my that people are doing now what they should have done Board colleagues over the years, who have made this four years ago, at the height of the dot.
I am pleased to announce that our However, i TR Property Investment Trust 7
