Chairmans Statement Harry Henderson Highlights of the Year beauty contest where it is important to choose not who you Witans share price rose 9.4%, outperforming both FTSE think is the prettiest girl but who the judges will think is the world and domestic indices.
In the future, half the portfolio will continue to be The move to multi-manager was completed in managed in this manner while the other half is being run by September 2004. managers who believe they have a true eye for beauty.
They are The team of managers has outperformed since appointment.
high conviction managers, investing in companies and markets The dividend policy has been reinforced.
with little regard to the relevant index: these managers we A progressive discount management policy has been believe will produce lumpy but higher returns over time.
Board has worked hard to select the highest quality manager talent available in the world today.
Review of 2004 Markets In 2004 the world experienced the fastest economic growth for In the dead there is thirty years which is surprising considering the battering confidence had taken from global terrorism, technology bubbles, no change.
Lord Macaulay rising oil prices and war.
The resulting earnings growth has driven In the last twelve months we have implemented the changes good returns in global equity markets.
announced at the end of 2003 and we are encouraged by the early results.
Witans share price rose by 9.4% over the year: the As always at this point in the cycle, one questions the net asset value per share rose by 7.6% over the twelve months sustainability of the recovery.
It would seem that the answer and is now 46.2% above its low point in March 2003. this time rests more with the politicians: the concerns for the year ahead are well rehearsed in the press, namely oil prices, the The decision to reduce the UK exposure was taken in the belief US deficits, demand in Japan and the Euro zone, house prices, that in the long term world growth is likely to be driven by the protectionism and Chinese growth.
To keep these risks at bay developing economies of the world, in particular those in Asia.
policymakers must continue to foster global co-operation and Your Board has also decided to downplay the importance of the adopt sensible domestic policies.
benchmark in the management of the portfolio: this will enable your global managers to invest in the markets and companies Discount Management that offer the best value at any one moment in time.
Your Board believes that one of the more important long-term objectives is to create sustainable liquidity in Witans shares at or Prior to the appointment of new managers in September, the near to asset value.
Our strategy for achieving this goal has been, Witan portfolio was managed in a fashion labelled by the first, to put in place a team of investment managers to improve industry as benchmark aware.
This means that the portfolio investment performance.
Secondly, we have put in place an was invested with the hope of achieving a modest quarter by approach that is clearly different from our competitors, namely quarter relative performance.
This approach is that advocated by our unique combination of talented managers and the price at Keynes when he said investing in the stock market was like a which they are accessed through an investment in Witan.
4 Thirdly, we have initiated a buy-back programme that will give Annual General Meeting investors the confidence that any narrowing of the discount is Our AGM will be held this year at Drapers Hall, on Thursday sustainable and not just an opportunity to sell.
Formal notice of the meeting is set out announced in December that our aim was to reduce the level of on pages 48 and 49 and further details are given on the enclosed the discount to at least 10%, calculated by valuing Witans longinvitation card.
With our Chief Executive officer, Jim Horsburgh, term borrowings at market value fair value.
I am pleased to I look forward to the opportunity to meet you then.
report that, at the time of writing, this goal has been achieved and it is your Boards wish and intention that the shares rating should improve further.
Therefore, the Board will continue to Harry Henderson employ share buy-backs with a new aim of permanently 14 February 2005 reducing the level of the discount well below 10% with debt at fair value over the medium term.
Dividend Policy In October 2004 Witan announced that it would continue to grow its dividend in line with ination.
This was a formal clarification of Witans policy in the light of recent investment changes.
It is our intention, subject to shareholders approval, to pay a final dividend of 4.90 pence per ordinary share to make a total distribution for the year of 8.60 pence 2003: 8.30 pence out of earnings of 8.63 pence per share.
