qxd 13 3 05 12:04 pm Page 2 Chairmans statement Focusing on our customers to create shareholder value buyback programme and I was delighted to take over in May as by the end of 2004 we had chairman of Centrica following Sir Michael bought back 205 million of shares for cancellation.
Perrys retirement and it is a great pleasure We committed to pay a to report the groups first full year results dividend for 2005 equivalent to a 50% payout of earnings since I took on the role under current UK accounting standards.
We believe this In July I outlined the guiding good, with turnover from combination of immediate principles which the board continuing operations, excluding reward and longer-term dividend believes are critical to the way Accord and operating profit growth is a clear demonstration in which Centrica carries out its up by 9% and 16% respectively.
of our commitment to business to ensure the creation These results were delivered in a shareholder value.
year that saw significant change These principles have in energy markets with The board of directors underpinned our 2004 increasing awareness of the 2004 has been a year of performance and will continue UKs future gas position and considerable change within the to guide our actions as we wholesale oil and gas prices board.
Sir Michael Perry retired face the challenges that 2005 reaching unprecedented levels.
having served the company for will undoubtedly present.
These issues have clearly seven years as chairman, The overall performance of impacted the whole industry overseeing the development the company in 2004 has been and all energy consumers.
of Centrica from its difficult early In July we announced the days to its position today as sale of the AA, which not only crystallised the significant value that we had created in that Our guiding principles The combination business, but also gave us the of immediate opportunity to both refocus our Commercial air, professional business on energy and related reward and longercompetence, financial rigour and home services and reward our term dividend shareholders.
I have no doubt commitment to customer satisfaction.
that this clarity of focus is growth is a clear crucial for our future growth Customer focus underpinned demonstration of and success.
by asset strength to maintain our commitment to Returns to shareholders cost-effective supply.
shareholder value The board of directors is proposing a final dividend of Acquisitions that create value, 6.1 pence per share to be paid a successful and respected in June 2005.
In line with our requiring patience in identifying energy company.
We are previously stated commitment, indebted to him for his targets, skills in negotiation and the 2004 total ordinary dividend considerable contribution.
of 8.6 pence per share ready availability of funds.
Following the sale of the AA, represents a 40% payout of Roger Wood stepped down as earnings and is a 59% increase managing director of the AA Cost control and operational on the 2003 full year dividend.
and from the board of Centrica.
efficiency to build competitive edge In addition to the ordinary We are grateful to Roger for his dividend, in November the immense support in building the and a unique customer offering company also paid shareholders service businesses of the group of bundled, branded services.
1.05 billion through a special over the last seven years.
dividend of 25 pence per share.
Finally, having made a valuable Effective balance sheet management.
In August we commenced contribution to Centrica, nonour 500 million rolling share executive director Robert Tobin including joint ventures and associates, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 2 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 2 CT001 ifc-p03 AW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:04 pm Page 3 stepped down from the board recent trends in customer We have made a good start in September to focus on his churn.
This will be achieved to 2005 and have a clear focus other interests in North America.
by greater innovation in on the challenges ahead.
We have welcomed to the developing our customer Creation of shareholder value board two new non-executive offering, a vigorous is, as always, at the top of our directors who strengthen our commitment to selling and agenda and we will continue team with their considerable marketing our wide range to manage our balance sheet ability and experience.
Mary to ensure the cash generated Francis, Director General of by our business is used wisely the Association of British Insurers to maximise value creation.
The commitment and a director of the Bank of and dedication England, joined in May and Paul Rayner, finance director of BAT, of our employees joined in September.
Paul is also has, as always, chairman of the companys audit committee.
Reecting our been a crucial part renewed focus on energy, we of our success also announced the appointment Roger Carr of Jake Ulrich, managing director Chairman in the year of Centrica Energy, as an executive member of the board with effect from 1 January 2005. of products and services and Looking forward, we will decisive action to reduce the continue to ensure the boards level of our cost base.
structure is in keeping with Building on the excellent appropriate governance performance in 2004 we will standards and reects the mix continue to grow our Home of skills and experience Services and One.
Tel necessary to guide a successful businesses through appropriate international energy group.
investment, keen awareness of market opportunities and Our employees strong cost management.
The commitment and The growth prospects in dedication of our employees North America are encouraging has, as always, been a crucial and we will continue to focus part of our success in the year.
on acquiring and retaining I recognise that they faced a customers, increasing number of uncertainties, not operational efficiencies least as a result of the sale of the and expanding the service AA, and I am grateful to them for businesses we have their continuing hard work.
We will seek opportunities Outlook to acquire further upstream The market outlook for 2005 assets in line with our is heavily inuenced by the investment plans, whilst continued uncertainty over continuing to apply the UK wholesale energy prices financial rigour and patience and the implications for that has been our trademark retail prices for all energy to date.
In this challenging to manage our existing assets environment, however, the efficiently and to balance Centrica management team our equity and contractual are committed to building positions to optimise competitive edge and reversing our energy procurement.
