AstraZeneca Annual Report and Chairmans Statement 02 Form 20-F Information 2004 Chairmans Statement AstraZeneca relative share performance 31 December 1998 31 December 2004 AstraZeneca Major international pharmaceutical companies 150 120 90 60 Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec Jun Dec 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 Leading the Board during Abbott Labs, Aventis, BMS, Eli Lilly, GSK, JNJ, Merck, Novartis, AstraZenecas formative years Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Schering, Schering-Plough and Wyeth has been an exciting journey.
Source: Thomson Financial Datastream 2004 was a year of both performance and during the year with the divestment of its bodies.
In preparation for the adoption of challenge for AstraZeneca and the joint venture interest in the seed company, new international accounting standards in pharmaceutical industry in general.
Of all the major pharmaceutical 2005, AstraZeneca was the first FTSE 100 demand for modern medicines continued to companies, AstraZeneca is probably the company to make available to shareholders grow, driven by the availability of innovative most focused on prescription medicines, financial information for 2003 and the first new medicines, demographics and emerging our only other businesses being Astra Tech, half of 2004 prepared in accordance with market opportunities.
At the same time, these the medical device company, and Salick the new standards.
global drivers are being offset by increased Health Care, which delivers services to pricing pressure, escalating costs in the cancer care centres.
AstraZenecas share price performance, development and commercialisation of and that of other major pharmaceutical medicine, and a generally more risk-averse In such a rapidly changing environment, the companies, were disappointing in 2004 environment as regulators seek to strike Board has been monitoring developments with the AstraZeneca share price in an appropriate balance in weighing the risks carefully to ensure the appropriateness of particular affected by the FDAs nonand benefits of innovation.
Particular attention approval of Exanta, the challenges facing has been paid to the regulatory progress Crestor and the recent clinical trial results For AstraZeneca, the year was and sales performance of our newer for Iressa.
characterised not only by good sales products, the overall composition of our growth, productivity gains and continued product portfolio and the various The composition of the Board is also investment in innovation but also by the productivity initiatives that have been undergoing some change.
On my disappointments of the US FDA decision pursued.
Success in Research and retirement at the end of the year, the Board not to approve our novel anti-clotting agent, Development is essential to our strategy confirmed the appointment of Louis Exanta, the failure to demonstrate an overall and it is good to see the emergence of Schweitzer as my successor as Nonsurvival benefit for the lung cancer product, an impressive early development portfolio Executive Chairman of AstraZeneca with Iressa, and what we consider to be with 40% more projects in phase 2 clinical effect from 1 January 2005, following his unfounded speculation about the safety trials than this time last year.
We also appointment to the Board in March 2004. of our lipid-lowering medicine, Crestor.
have more new development candidates Louis Schweitzer is a distinguished emerging from Discovery than ever before.
industrialist with wide international Growth came from our broad range of As well as new investments in R&D experience and I congratulate him most products, especially the newer products facilities in Sweden, the UK and the US, warmly on his appointment.
which are largely free of threat from patent we announced a 75 million equity expiry.
In addition to strong performances investment and R&D collaboration with Karl von der Heyden, the Chairman of from the established markets, good Cambridge Antibody Technology to the Audit Committee, retired at the 2004 progress continued to be made in emerging discover and develop human antibody AGM after more than five years as a markets such as China and Mexico.
This strategic alliance Non-Executive Director.
I thank him 2001, we have recruited an additional complements last years oncology alliance for his contribution to the Company 2,500 staff to strengthen our presence with Abgenix Inc. and brings to over 1,700 and, in particular, the role he played in in emerging markets and AstraZeneca is the number of active R&D collaborations the development of the work of the Audit now one of the fastest growing major and agreements we now have in place.
John Buchanan succeeded pharmaceutical companies in the worlds Karl as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
top eight emerging markets: China, Mexico, The Board has also reviewed its corporate Most recently, the Board announced the Brazil, South Korea, India, Poland, Turkey governance including individual Directors appointment of Dr John Patterson, with and Taiwan.
A great deal of effort has effect from 1 January 2005, to the Board gone into preparing and implementing as Executive Director responsible for AstraZeneca further emphasised its strategic the numerous changes required to comply Development, emphasising the importance focus on prescription pharmaceuticals with the increasing demands from external we place on this activity.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Chairmans Statement Form 20-F Information 2004 03 I look forward to playing my part in ensuring AstraZenecas future success.
My six year engagement with AstraZeneca, I am grateful to the AstraZeneca Board Following the Companys strong financial from the announcement of the proposed for the confidence they have shown in performance in 2004, the Board has merger in December 1998 to my departure me by electing me as their Chairman.
recommended a second interim dividend as Chairman at the end of 2004, has been Percy Barnevik as the first Chairman of of $0.645, 34.3 pence, SEK4.497 per an exciting journey.
This includes the fast AstraZeneca has served the Company Ordinary Share bringing the total dividend merger with delivery of promised synergies with distinction.
On behalf of the Board, for the year to $0.94, 50.3 pence, and, not least, the creation of a crossshareholders and AstraZeneca employees, SEK6.697 per Ordinary Share, an increase border, unified culture.
The growth of new I would like to thank him most warmly for in dollar terms of 18.2%.
products and penetration of developing his wise counsel, influence and leadership markets helped bridge the inevitable gap of the Board.
In 2005, we aim to deliver strong financial caused by patent expirations of mature performance, characterised by top-tier products.
In spite of recent setbacks in Since my appointment to the Board in earnings growth and improved shareholder product launches, we have a strong March 2004, I have had the opportunity returns, while continuing to build an innovative product pipeline underpinning further to get to know my Board colleagues, to and valuable pipeline capable of driving growth ambitions.
meet senior managers in the Company shareholder value over the long term.
and to get a clear view of the Companys I want to thank my Board colleagues for strong financial performance as well as their valuable support and the Company the strategic opportunities and significant management, spearheaded by Sir Tom challenges facing AstraZeneca.
I have been McKillop, for their excellent achievements most impressed with what I have seen of over these years.
I also want to thank all the senior management of the Company employees and wish them and this fine led by Sir Tom McKillop.
I very much look company every success in the future.
forward to working closely with him and my Board colleagues and playing my part Louis Schweitzer in ensuring the Companys future.
