3 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Chairmans message Your company has continued to make good progress this year delivering strong financial results while continuing to transform the business.
New wave revenues grew by 30% to 3,387 million.
Earnings per share, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, grew by 19% to 16.9 pence almost doubling in two years.
While continuing to invest for the future, we generated free cash ow of over 2 billion and reduced net debt to 8.4 billion a reduction of two thirds on the level of three years ago.
Wider responsibilities Our business It is important that companies such as BT live up to Your company continues to make progress by their responsibilities in the wider communities in which innovating in our traditional markets and by growing we operate.
Im proud to report that in the 2004 revenues in all the new wave markets ICT financial year, we were the highest placed information and communications technology, telecommunications company in the Dow Jones broadband, mobility and managed services in which Sustainability Index for the third year in a row.
We continue to invest where we believe it Our goal is to help everyone benefit from will make the greatest difference, while achieving improved communications and to spread the benets rigorous standards of cost efficiency and smarter of new technology as widely as possible.
demonstrated, for example, by our wide deployment of broadband technology throughout the UK, and by the Returns to shareholders BT Education Programme, which has enabled more Although long-term shareholder return remains the key than two million young people to participate in a measure of our success, our share price performance drama-based campaign designed to help them improve this year has not been strong.
Earnings per share their communications skills.
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items have risen well, but this has yet to be reected in our Strategic progress and outlook share price.
The strong growth in new wave turnover, our ICT order However, total shareholder return also includes the book and broadband shows that our strategy is dividend, and here the news for shareholders is working.
We remain committed to that strategy and positive.
are confident in our ability to deliver our key strategic We are recommending a full year dividend of goals.
Reecting BTs commitment to a Weve come a long way since May 2001, when progressive dividend policy, the dividend pay out ratio your Board announced a radical plan to reduce debts, for the 2004 financial year was around 50% of manage costs and improve customer satisfaction.
earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional Weve established a solid platform for future growth items.
The full year dividend is 31% up on last year, and success.
and over four times higher than two years ago.
We are None of this could have happened without the targeting a 60% pay out ratio in 2005 06. loyalty and support of our shareholders, customers, The strong cash ow generated by the group also suppliers and employees.
Given the continued support enabled us to begin a share buy back programme in of all our stakeholders, we will build on this success the 2004 financial year.
This is being funded from cash and accelerate the transformation of our business.
generated over and above that required to meet our debt target of 7 billion in 2006 07, after paying dividends and taking into account any acquisitions or disposals.
Sir Christopher Bland Regulation Chairman The recently announced strategic review of 19 May 2004 telecommunications by the UK regulator, Ofcom, is important and welcome to BT.
The review will cover, within the 21 key strategic questions to be addressed, the possibility of the structural separation of BT.
Your company believes this is not in the interests of shareholders, customers or employees, and will argue in favour of a strong and integrated BT.
