Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 4 Chairmans Statement plc, increasing our direct access to our UK contract customer base to over 90%.
We also disposed of interests in mobile businesses in India and Mexico, as well as our fixed line operations in Japan.
In addition, we extended our Partner Networks to a total of 13 countries through new agreements with operators in Bahrain, Cyprus, Iceland, Lithuania, Luxembourg and Singapore.
We expect to add further countries in the coming year.
In February of this year, we entered into a high profile auction process for the acquisition of AT&T Wireless in the US.
One of the many responsibilities that your Board has is its duty to shareholders to explore opportunities where it believes enhanced shareholder value may be achieved.
Your Board considered that acquiring AT&T Wireless at the right price would have enhanced the Groups position in the US and delivered, over time, better returns for shareholders.
In entering the auction process your Board determined a price ceiling which, had it been exceeded, would not have provided the returns we considered necessary to justify such an acquisition.
In the event, our ceiling price was exceeded by Cingular Wireless and we retain our 45% investment in the leading mobile operator in the US, Verizon Wireless.
Our relationship with Verizon Communications, our partner in Verizon Wireless, remains strong.
They supported our participation in the auction and we look forward to continuing to work with them to further strengthen Verizon Wireless.
Corporate governance continues to be at the forefront of your Boards considerations.
During the year we have fully complied with the Combined Code relating to corporate governance, as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In addition, we also have to comply with US securities laws.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has introduced a number of changes to corporate governance requirements with which we have complied this year and with which we will comply as new requirements are It is my privilege to report, once again, another highly successful year for your introduced over the coming years.
More details of the corporate governance work of company, with an excellent overall operating performance generating further substantial your Board are provided later in this Annual Report.
growth in profits and cash flows.
Your companys total venture mobile customer base On 1 September 2003, Luc Vandevelde joined the Board as a non-executive director.
has increased to over 340 million people.
This is a wonderful achievement for a He brings with him many years of experience gained in retailing and consumer goods company that is only 20 years old and provides us with a really strong platform as we and his financial, management and marketing skills in international business will be of transition into the next phase of our development.
It is only with the dedication and great value to the Board.
I would also like to congratulate my colleague Alec Broers commitment of all members of staff throughout the world that we have achieved such who was advised on 1 May 2004 that Her Majesty the Queen intends to make him a excellent results to date and on behalf of the Board I thank them all.
Life Peer for his contribution to engineering and higher education.
For us, the year saw a rapid uptake of Vodafone live!
across our footprint, following its Vodafone is a vibrant company, dedicated to the creation of shareholder value.
This successful launch last year, with nearly 7 million controlled customers now enjoying the value is achieved through the enhancement of products and services such as Vodafone richer mobile telecommunications the service delivers.
We also started to introduce 3G to live!, the advance in technology 3G and the investment in assets where positive our customers.
In February, we launched the Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS returns may be clearly identified.
A progressive dividend policy and our share buy back datacard, which provides fast, secure access to corporate networks from lap top programme are means by which value is returned to shareholders.
In light of the computers, across seven European countries and more recently we announced the launch excellent results and the confidence with which it views the future, the Board is of consumer services through Vodafone live!
with 3G in Germany, Portugal, Italy and recommending the payment of a final dividend per share of 1.0780 pence which, Spain.
I believe that this technological evolution offers us significant growth opportunities together with the interim dividend already paid, makes a total dividend for the year of and Vodafone is very well positioned to take advantage of these opportunities due to its 2.0315 pence, an increase of 20%.
We will also seek your approval to extend the share global footprint and its continued strong financial performance.
Although the mobile buy back programme we announced in November, with 3 billion of purchases planned telecommunications industry remains extremely competitive, with new entrants driving for next year, following the 1.1 billion purchased up to March 2004. new technologies and many existing operators having recovered from the financial pressures they faced only a short time ago, your company remains the industry leader.
As a global business, we are mindful of our responsibilities to all stakeholders around the world and in particular that the delivery of our services should have as little impact on the As our international business expands it is essential that, in order to deliver the best environment as possible.
As part of this endeavour, I would encourage shareholders to possible experience to our customers and to achieve brand preference, we provide receive communications from us electronically.
In doing so, documents are provided more similar levels of excellence in all of our markets.
To this end we have created two new quickly, communications are less costly and importantly it is more environmentally friendly.
central functions, Group Marketing and Group Technology & Business Integration.
Group Marketing, led by Peter Bamford, provides leadership and coordination across a As we transition to a new era in mobile telecommunications, I am confident that range of marketing and commercial activities including brand, product development, through our focus on our strategic goals we are well positioned to make further content management, Partner Networks and global accounts.
Group Technology & significant progress in the year ahead.
Business Integration, headed by Thomas Geitner, leads the implementation of a standardised architecture for business process, information technology and network systems, which will support the next generation of products and services and the critical role of introducing and operating 3G capacity.
During the year, we continued our policy of increasing our shareholdings in existing Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL operations, moving to 100% in Vodafone Malta and over 99% in Vodafone Greece.
In the Chairman UK, we acquired prominent service providers, Singlepoint 4U Limited and Project Telecom
