Chairmans Statement In a year of extreme and volatile raw and Australia have added exciting material prices, British Vita remained new high value-added opportunities resolutely focused on successful delivto grow volumes and margins.
We ery of robust profits in tough market plan to accelerate our programme conditions, delivery of new investment of organic expansion, supported by for future growth, and delivery of selected bolt-on acquisitions, in 2005 shareholder returns, through cash and beyond, to leverage the range generation, a strong dividend and of attractive growth opportunities share buy-backs.
Delivering profit Delivering shareholder returns 2004 presented two distinct challIn 2004 the strong focus on cash enges.
Firstly, many of our businesses generation within Vitas businesses endured substantial increases in the was supplemented by the disposal of cost of raw materials, as the price of our remaining shareholding in our US oil from which they are derived, rose Associate, raising a further 67m.
Secondly, initial demand Between 2001 and 2004 we have strength in our end markets softened returned 203m to shareholders as the year progressed.
Against this through a combination of dividend difficult backdrop, the majority of our and share buy-back.
Given our strong businesses succeeded in maintaining balance sheet with little debt, this will profits, and margin pressure was now be extended to include a further broadly managed.
In addition, several substantial return of capital, coupled weaker performing businesses made with a 4.3% increase in the full year positive progress, most notably in US proposed dividend.
As a result, headline profit before tax and Associates was only Outlook marginally behind the prior year at Whilst the raw material price chall- 49.0m 2003: 50.7m.
enges seen in 2004 have continued into 2005, we anticipate progressive Delivering investment for growth recovery of recent resin cost increases.
2004 saw an expansion in Vitas This will be supplemented by full year investment for future growth.
In recent profits from the acquisitions and new years, extensive international experplants secured in 2004.
2005 has startience has enabled Vita to turn the ed with volumes slightly stronger than threat of customer relocation into an those achieved during the latter part opportunity.
We will also continue to purlabour intensive industries seek to sue growth opportunities, whilst recogimprove their economics by relocating nising that selective ongoing rationalto the developing economies of isation can deliver a rapid payback in Eastern Europe and Asia-Pacific, Vita developed markets.
has adopted an aggressive programme to partner customers and Finally, may I thank the Board, our develop more business by providing management and employees globally quality, cost-efficient supply locally.
for their dedication, energy and At the same time, innovation and enthusiasm in driving Vita forward.
acquisition serve to replace business lost in developed markets, whilst investment in rationalisation retains Vitas operating efficiencies.
As a result, in 2004 new sites were being built or were commissioned in HunD.
Cotterill gary, Romania and Slovakia, whilst 7 March 2005 acquisitions in Canada, the USA, UK 2 For more information on British Vita visit www.
