Chairmans statement Introduction Board 2004 was another extremely successful year for the The Board was further strengthened during the year Company, with strong returns, property acquisitions and through the appointment of Alan Coppin as an independent new institutional investment all contributing to the increase non-executive director.
He brings extensive experience in in property assets under management from 2.9 billion to the management of major visitor destinations and a strong 4.0 billion.
interest in management and governance best practice.
We generated a return on our equity of 39%, the second Employees consecutive year at this sort of level: the adjusted fully A company rich in physical assets is no less dependent diluted net asset value per share was 710p at the year end.
on its human ones than a so-called people business.
As the property assets for which the Company is responsible Our three principal funds, investing in shopping centres, have increased fourfold in the past three years, the Capital & retail parks and urban entertainment complexes, are run Regional team, now comprising 128 employees centrally by specialist teams who share an intense focus on attracting and 497 at individual centres, has worked with huge visitors to their centres, with a view to enhancing the commitment and imagination.
The exceptional results trading of their tenants and, hence, increasing rental values.
that I have been able to report are directly attributable to This proactive approach, combined with the generally our employees great efforts, for which, on behalf of the favourable conditions in our chosen sectors of the property shareholders, I give them corresponding thanks.
market, has demonstrably delivered excellent results.
Our intensive operational approach, allied to our acquisition, development and financing expertise, should Tom Chandos enable the Group to show continued outperformance Chairman against market benchmarks, leading to superior returns to our shareholders.
Dividends In the light of the substantial increase in recurring management fee income achieved during 2004, as well as the good prospects for continuing performance fees becoming payable in future years, the Board believes that it is now appropriate to rebase the level of the dividend, by recommending a final dividend of 9p 2003: 5p, to make 14p for the full year 2003: 9p, a 56% increase over the previous year.
