Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans statement 9 We are in an excellent position to capitalise on the significant competitive advantages we have gained through building a brand-led, major-market radio division and a leading independent music business.
Chris Wright, Chairman Welcome to the 2004 annual report.
There is also Lasgo Chrysalis, our distribution arm, has The 2004 financial year has produced the further progress to be made in terms of also evolved during the 2004 financial year, strongest ever set of results for the Chrysalis the yield we can achieve for our listening shifting its product mix towards music Group and this excellent performance hours.
These two factors should enable related books and DVDs countering demonstrates both the success of our Chrysalis Radio to continue delivering on the declining CD market, a move that corporate strategy and our ability to run our outperformance mantra over the has led to a significant increase in profits our businesses well.
The Chrysalis Group medium term.
is an increasingly focused business, with Chrysalis Music has also delivered a year At Chrysalis Books it was a year of releading positions within both the radio and of excellent growth.
Our music publishing engineering the operational performance music markets.
Our strategy has secured arm grew its Net Publishers Share by 8% of the division, and the management team us significant competitive advantages in in the 2004 financial year.
While much of have made much progress.
The division our core markets and these, coupled with this growth can be attributed to the has produced a significantly reduced but the proven expertise of our management defensive nature of the rights ownership more focused publishing list for the current teams, put us in an excellent position to model, it is also our position as an financial year, and there has been much continue delivering above industry average innovative and creatively-led independent demand for many of the titles in the run growth over the medium term.
music company that has enabled us up to Christmas.
In the ten years since we have been involved to deliver such consistent industry In conclusion, it is clear that over the past in radio, we have consistently outperformed outperformance: over the past year we decade we have built two hugely valuable our industry peers.
This is due to the focused have witnessed worldwide success from businesses in radio and music from what strategy we have relentlessly pursued, as the band OutKast, signed to our US has been a very modest level of investment.
well as the excellent management team publishing arm and we have also attracted It is the continued hard work, commitment, we have in place.
We will continue to grow internationally renowned acts including creativity and passion that we are so our radio business both organically and by Morrissey and Velvet Revolver.
The ability fortunate to enjoy from all our staff that has acquisition, focusing on brand-led, majorto bring in and retain such sought after driven the success of our Company and its market radio licences, which offer talent is testament to our position as ongoing outperformance.
Consequently, compelling music or speech content to a leading independent offering an we are disappointed that the underlying listeners and deliver attractive demographics increasingly attractive alternative to value of the businesses that make up to the advertising community.
Chrysalis Group are not appropriately The fide-regulation of the radio market will Our size means that we can adapt our reflected in the current share price and we potentially offer up many opportunities, business model to take advantage of the will endeavour to have this better recognised but I am confident that we still have much trends emerging in this new age of the by the financial markets in 2005. in the way of organic growth to offer music industry.
This year has seen us move shareholders.
As an industry, radio has into the exciting world of mobile music compelling growth dynamics and is downloads where we believe our music continuing to grow its share of advertising.
heritage, coupled with our experience of Additionally, the advent of digital radio brand-led radio stations, will give us a should allow the commercial sector to great competitive advantage in this rapidly increase its share of listening against the evolving space.
Other new ventures dominant BBC.
At Chrysalis, we still have include the extension of The Echo Label Chris Wright the ability to grow our audiences, into the US market on an incremental, Chairman particularly within the key London market low-cost basis.
