OUR PERFORMANCE Overview and Capital Restructuring approval and the confirmation of the Court, The proposed return Five years ago, I announced the first of is structured to give shareholders a choice a series of initiatives designed to transform between receiving a capital repayment or of cash would enhance Great Portland Estates into a focused, a special dividend.
Such a return would shareholder returns central London investment and development result in a more efficient balance sheet without impairing our business, with an appropriate debt and gearing level, thereby helping to enhance investment capacity gearing structure.
A good deal of progress prospective shareholder returns without had been made by 2002 when Toby unduly impairing the Groups financial Courtauld and Robert Noel were brought headroom or investment capacity.
Full in as Chief Executive and Property Director details of the proposals are included in respectively.
Under their leadership, the the accompanying Circular.
property strategy has been further refined towards a business model involving the Results and Dividend sale of mature, non-core properties, a I now turn to the results for the year to greater emphasis on active management 31 March 2004, which will be covered and the redevelopment of selected assets.
in depth by the Chief Executive and the We currently have projects in hand, with Finance Director later in the Report.
an estimated cost of 110 million, of Adjusted diluted net assets per share over which one is on site and a further five are the year have declined by 1.7% to 282p but, in various stages of planning.
With the significantly, have improved by 2.5% from reduction in income following sales, and as the figure reported as at September 2003. developments come on stream, short-term This emphasises our belief that the central earnings will be foregone in order to London market has turned the corner and achieve improved shareholder returns over that growth prospects are close at hand.
Adjusted earnings per share were 12.8p and your directors are recommending In my Statement in the Interim Report a final dividend of 7.0p per share, making last November I highlighted two matters a total for the year of 10.5p, up 2.4%.
First, we were cautiously optimistic about the prospects for central We remain of the belief that the dividend London, especially the West End, and, forms an important component of total secondly, we would review the most return and I am conscious that many of appropriate capital structure in the our shareholders are of the same view.
As I explained earlier, we are likely to We believe that the markets have stabilised, see a fall in short-term earnings, with with rental growth likely to re-emerge an uncovered dividend being a potential during 2004.
However, I would emphasise of appropriately priced acquisition that our current property strategy will not opportunities remains limited and we have be affected, because the Company has concluded that the Group is unlikely to need ample capacity to service the dividend, with all its current cash resources in the shortdistributable reserves of over 170 million.
We, therefore, propose to return cash of 50p per share representing approximately 18% of net assets.
The proposed return of cash, which is subject to shareholder CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 4 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 OUR PERFORMANCE Board and Corporate Governance Prospects After six years as a non-executive director Shareholders will probably be aware that and four years as Deputy Chairman, David the Government has recently mooted the Godwin will be retiring at the Annual introduction of a Property Investment Fund General Meeting, and I would like to take and, whilst a tax transparent property this opportunity of thanking him for the vehicle could have certain attractions, invaluable contribution he has made to it is impossible at this juncture to judge the restructuring of the Company: I am whether such a change would bring also extremely grateful to him for the material benefits to this Company.
The time, counsel and wisdom he has given devil will be in the detail of the proposals me personally.
Kathleen ODonovan will which, in any event, are unlikely to be take his place as Deputy Chairman and issued until 2005 at the earliest.
Charles Irby, who has a wealth of experience and Meanwhile, the Government is also knowledge of the City, joined the Board questioning the continuing need for the on 1 April.
upward only rent review, which for so long has been an essential ingredient On Corporate Governance matters generally, of investing in property in the United I am pleased to say that the Financial Kingdom.
It would, indeed, be a paradox Reporting Council paid heed to some of if, simultaneously with attempting to the criticisms of the proposals contained make real estate more attractive to a wider in the Higgs Report concerning the role, range of investors, Parliament should and the effectiveness, of non-executive legislate on unnecessary lease reform.
We are fully compliant with Market forces should be allowed to prevail.
the 1998 Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and next year will be reporting We have arrived at another seminal moment on our compliance with the new Code, in the development of the Group and, which was issued in July 2003.
We are well once the return of cash has been effected, on the way to meeting its requirements.
I am confident that, with sentiment towards central London improving, the Company, with its well regarded management team, has put itself in excellent shape to face the challenges of the future.
Richard Peskin Chairman Richard Peskin Chairman GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 5
