chairmans statement In my final communication to shareholders I am pleased to report on lastminute.
As previously stated, the final quarter of the 2004 financial year has been difficult for the travel industry as a whole.
Against these UK market conditions, lastminute.
com has continued to perform solidly.
We have now completed the The acquisition of lastminute.
fide acquisition programme agreed by was strategic, creating the leading the Board to deliver scale and online travel company in Germany, industry leading operating margins the largest single European travel in all major European countries.
This transaction removes The Groups strategic focus on the confusion between the acquisitions during this year has lastminute.
fide been to expand product, enhance brands and ensures that all our scale in local markets and acquire marketing efforts benefit the supporting technology.
com businesses in three acquisitions, Med Hotels, Germany.
We believe that the First Option and Gemstone Travel online travel and leisure market have created an opportunity for in Germany is set for substantial further growth in the hotels growth over the next few years.
category where margins are good Our enlarged German business and the returns sustainable.
In will have the broadest travel addition, First Option provides us offering of any online company with a unique marketing in Germany and is very well opportunity, enabling the Group positioned to exploit this to re-brand the First Option outlets expected market growth.
at principal railway stations and airports as lastminute.
OTC Strategy expanded our trade product and The Groups strategy has provided excellent technology remained consistent since its with which to further develop inception in April 1998 to be white label products throughout the Number 1 independent the Group.
online travel and leisure group in Europe, providing customers with inspiration and solutions for all their travel and leisure needs.
European markets and help deliver his role at the end of June 2004. the lowest customer acquisition I would like to take this opportunity Acquired businesses have costs in the industry.
on behalf of the Board to thank generated scale in either a Clive for his valuable contribution particular product category or in a The focus for the 2005 financial to the Group.
In addition to year is to integrate the acquired the acquisitive growth, significant businesses in all countries, In September 2004 Alan Barber organic growth has ensured that remove duplication and overlap in joined the Board as a Non-Executive the Group has doubled TTV each operations and demonstrate the Director and Chairman of the Audit year during the past four years.
We scalability of the model.
Im sure Alan will make enjoy strong market positions in process will reduce the cash cost a very valuable contribution to the Europe, particularly the UK, France, base by some 13.0 million in the Group over the coming years.
Germany, Italy and Spain being our 2005 financial year and 16.0 main markets.
Lifestyle products million annually thereafter.
In October 2004 it was announced remain fundamental in attracting that I would step down from the new customers at low cost and Board changes Board at the end of December, at differentiate us clearly from our Clive Jacobs, who was appointed which time Brian Collie will take competitors.
During the coming Vice Chairman following the over as Chairman.
I wish Brian year Lifestyle products will be acquisition of holiday autos in and the Group every success for further established across the March 2003, stepped down from the future.
com plc annual report 2004 chairmans statement UK We felt like thieves when we arrived at our destination.
The value for money was outstanding.
Even the Rep told us not to tell anyone how much we had paid!
Customer feedback received from lastminute.
coms post sales emails Germany Finally, David Howell, our Chief in their travel plans and look to Financial officer, has indicated that create short breaks, holidays he wishes to leave the Group early and leisure packages that are in 2005.
We have initiated a search unique for them.
com with external consultants and an is well positioned to benefit from update will be given to the market these trends.
when we have further news.
Outlook The shift from traditional booking methods towards the internet continues at pace in the travel Allan Leighton and leisure sector.
External Chairman observers suggest that this shift 25 November 2004 will accelerate over the coming months as customers become more confident with buying online, France particularly travel, increasingly use broadband communications as an access tool, demand more exibility lastminute.
