Chairmans Statement This has been a challenging year.
We met our like for like turnover growth, new business and contract retention targets.
But a number of trading issues allied to little improvement in the macro-economic backdrop had an impact on performance.
Like for like turnover growth for the year was Total operating profit of 290 million benefited In January 2004, we announced the creation 7% driven by record levels of new business, from the reallocation of defence business and of a new international concessions division, 1.2 billion, and a contract retention rate purchasing income and overheads previously Select Service Partner SSP, in order to of 95%.
The continuing trend towards reported in the UK division.
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our outsourcing in the Healthcare and Education existing concessions operation and to ensure sectors was a key driver of growth.
The onSignificant contract gains included SNCF the on-going development of the Groups brand going high level of military and peace keeping and Areva in France: Nissan and Sony in Japan: portfolio.
Andrew Lynch, who has been Group activity across the globe, particularly in the Vinci Construction Grand Projects in Chile: the Finance Director since 1997, was appointed as Middle East, generated incremental turnover in Norwegian Parliament Complex and our first Chief Executive of the newly created division.
the Defence, Offshore and Remote Site sector.
contract in Iceland with Bechtel.
He remains a member of the Group Board and Executive Committee.
Given the strong new business and like for Free cash flow was affected by two like turnover growth performance, operating developments in the business which Andrew Martin replaced Andrew Lynch as profit and free cash flow were disappointing.
First, the Group Finance Director in March 2004, joining A number of factors, principally in the UK, allied rapid growth in the Defence, Offshore and Compass from First Choice Holidays PLC, to poor summer trading in parts of Continental Remote Site sector, where we are now global where he was Group Finance Director.
Prior Europe, resulted in total operating profits for the market leader, and a change to the payment to that Andrew spent six years with Forte and year of 775 million compared with 797 million profile in respect of a number of suppliers.
Granada Group in a number of senior financial in 2003.
Consequently, free cash flow was down 41% management positions.
An excellent performance in the North Brands Our brand portfolio continues to American division where major contract gains The whole business is focused on driving be one of our key differentiators.
The unique included Anschutz Entertainment Group AEG, organic growth, free cash flow and return combination of international, local and bespoke Newark & Richmond Public Schools, Johnson on capital employed.
The outlook is very brands that we have developed over the last City Medical Centre and the 2005 US Open encouraging and we are confident that like for decade is a genuine competitive advantage.
Golf Championship resulted in like for like like turnover growth in 2005 will be at least 6%.
I am particularly pleased with the on-going turnover growth of 7% and total operating development of Caff Ritazza and Upper profit of 190 million up 22% on a constant Shareholder returns The recommended Crust both of which are leaders in the critically currency basis.
final dividend is 6.2 pence per share resulting important coffee and bakery categories and in a total dividend for the year of 9.3 pence per compete on equal terms with their high street Turnover in the UK grew by 5% despite tough share, an increase of 11%.
We are not only leveraging operating conditions.
Contract highlights in our ability to generate strong free cash flow the strength of our brand portfolio in the included the renewal of the Eurostar and Royal going forward.
concessions sector but clients in the contract Mail contracts, Arena Coventry, East Kent environment are also recognising the added Hospitals NHS Trust, London Stock Exchange Management During the year we have value of a branded offer.
During the year, Caff and London Zoo.
The reallocation of defence made a number of changes to the Group Ritazza has been installed in business and business and an improvement in the alignment Board.
Denis Cassidy, who has been a industry operations including our first Caff of purchasing income and overheads between non-executive director since 1994 will retire Ritazza in Japan at Nissans Atsugi office.
the UK and Continental Europe and rest of the from the board in February 2005.
I would like world divisions contributed to the decline in UK to thank Denis for the marvellous contribution total operating profit to 295 million.
he has made to Compass over the past decade.
Steve Lucas, Group Finance Director In the Continental Europe and rest of the of National Grid Transco PLC, was appointed world division, Spain, Portugal, Australia and a non-executive director of the Group in July Japan all turned in strong performances with 2004 and I am delighted to welcome him to continuing weaknesses in the economies of the Group Board.
Scandinavia, France and the Netherlands.
Like for like turnover growth was 6%.
04 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 05 Turnover by sector Turnover by sector Group UK Outlook High levels of contract retention and new business gains have been the cornerstone of our growth and both are set to continue at record levels.
We have already secured 80% of the turnover needed to deliver at least 6% like for like turnover growth in 2005.
Our future sales pipeline is also very encouraging.
B B Bu u us s siiin n ne e es s ss s s & & & IIIn n nd d du u us s st t tr r ry y y 3 36 6% % B B Bu u us s siiin n ne e es s ss s s & & & IIIn n nd d du u us s st t tr r ry y y 3 38 8% % Defence Offshore & Remote Site 8% Defence Offshore & Remote Site 5% The business is focused on driving turnover Healthcare 12% Healthcare 6% growth, profit improvement, cash generation Education 11% Education 9% V five en nd diin ng g 9 9% % V five en nd diin ng g 2 2% % and improving our return on capital employed.
C Co on nc ce es ss siio on ns s 2 24 4% % C Co on nc ce es ss siio on ns s 4 40 0% % The investment we have made in developing our purchasing infrastructure outside the UK will continue to improve our operating margin.
Turnover by sector Turnover by sector North America Continental Europe & the rest of the world We have a market leading position in all the major world economies, a strong management team and a strategy for delivering shareholder value.
Sir Francis Mackay Chairman B B Bu u us s siiin n ne e es s ss s s & & & IIIn n nd d du u us s st t tr r ry y y 2 29 9% % B B Bu u us s siiin n ne e es s ss s s & & & IIIn n nd d du u us s st t tr r ry y y 4 41 1% % Defence Offshore & Remote Site 1% Defence Offshore & Remote Site 14% Healthcare 20% Healthcare 11% Education 19% Education 6% V five en nd diin ng g 1 14 4% % V five en nd diin ng g 8 8% % C Co on nc ce es ss siio on ns s 1 17 7% % C Co on nc ce es ss siio on ns s 2 20 0% % Based on 2004 reported turnover excluding fuel.
04 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 05
