04 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Chairmans statement The Group has delivered a good set of results for 2004.
Our strategy of being focussed on the provision of flexible business space will provide a firm foundation for growth.
2004 Results Review of the Year Improvements in Group occupancy which The Chief Executive, Ian Coull, reports fully was 89.6 per cent remained elusive as, Slough Estates has delivered a on the year on pages 10 to 13. whilst we were very successful in leasing good set of results with increases a record 177,633 sq.
m. of space, in pre-tax profits and net asset I would like to highlight some of the corporate relocations and rationalisation value per share.
It has been a significant events: resulted in some 211,000 sq.
m. being Good progress was made to increase returned to us.
In stronger occupancy busy year in which the Group has our focus on developing and owning demand cycles, this level of space completed purchases and sales a portfolio of flexible edge-of-town surrender could be regarded as a of about 900 million in value.
business space in the UK, Continental significant opportunity for redevelopment The net effect of this activity is Europe and California at a time when and portfolio modernisation.
The mix of we expect to see a cyclical upturn in occupancy has also changed as a result to increase our focus on the this segment of the property market.
of the property swap with Land Securities.
flexible business space sector A property exchange was made with Steps are being taken across the portfolio in quality locations at a time Land Securities which enabled the to upgrade customer retention, the when we expect to see cyclical Group to acquire 303,161 sq.
m. of marketing of space and improvements industrial space located mainly in the to individual estate environments.
In return, we disposed of a very large part of our retail portfolio.
Key economic indicators encourage us Adjusted pre-tax profits In the UK we entered into a joint venture to believe that levels of growth coupled adjusted for the profit loss on with Helios Properties to develop a with an increasing number of enquiries the sale of investment properties network of strategic distribution parks.
will improve occupancy demand and In California we completed the research consequently portfolio occupancy.
showed 4.8 per cent growth to campus of 71,709 sq.
m. for Pfizer 146.8 million, diluted net assets in San Diego and sold it to them for The Groups property management in per share increased by 12.3 $372 million which represented a both UK and Continental Europe is being per cent to 521 pence per share surplus of 109 per cent over cost.
developed to ensure a greater and more and adjusted diluted net assets In South San Francisco we have localised focus on development, leasing contracted to provide Genentech with and customer service.
per share adjusted to exclude 72,464 sq.
m. of offices and laboratory FRS19 deferred tax increased by space over a four-year period.
This is During the year, a number of awards 11.7 per cent to 564 pence per the largest pre-let undertaking made by were made in the UK which recognise share.
The Board recommends the Group and in many ways mirrors the not only the design of buildings but also successful Pfizer deal.
the landscaping of the estates.
These that the dividend for the year We completed the Group exit from awards included the British Council for should be increased by 6.7 per Canada with the disposal of the Offices Best South of England Commercial cent.
During the past five years, 71,117 sq.
m. Willingdon Park office Workspace Building at 240-252 Bath dividends have increased by 7.4 park in Vancouver to our partner for Road, Slough, the Industrial Agents C$80 million.
Society award for Best Industrial per cent per annum compound.
Development for our project at Uxbridge, and for our Cambridge Research Park the BALI Award for grounds maintenance.
Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 05 Sir Nigel Mobbs Chairman Market conditions market by over-regulation and the we are very well positioned to continue Property and property securities are possibility of new taxes and levies on to meet the aspirations of both our increasingly becoming a major global development gains, and the threat of customers and our shareholders.
Institutional and controls could destabilise a balanced private investors now recognised the marketplace.
Real estate is an important Corporate responsibility asset-backed characteristics of real estate economic activity which contributes to a We continue to adopt a very positive and that its performance is not determined nations economic wellbeing.
approach to good corporate by the same pressures as stock markets.
The Board is I believe there is now widespread We were pleased to note that the committed to adopting high standards acceptance that real estate deserves a Government has published a discussion of environmental management across the significant long-term place in investment paper for the introduction of UK REITS portfolio, compliance with good corporate portfolios on its own merits.
The paper is indicating a governance and a concern for maintaining consequences of this renewed focus is preference for a flexible format which excellent employment practices.
that there is an overhang of new money has been strongly advocated by the seeking to invest in global real estate property sector.
There remain a number Our stewardship of these issues is more centres resulting in value appreciation of unresolved issues in relation to the particularly described in the separate report and yield compression.
This search for potential conversion charge and gearing.
on Corporate Responsibility distributed real estate, whilst rewarding to current The Government is proposing the with this statement.
investors, does bring with it risks of establishment of a working party to frustrations if rental growth fails to match discuss the proposed structure for UK We continue to maintain our policy of investor expectations.
REITS and to co-operate with the property supporting a range of charitable and industry during this consultation process.
community initiatives in the fields of Rental growth is generated by occupancy We believe that the Groups corporate education, health, heritage, crime demand which is based upon customer structure means that we could convert prevention and the voluntary sector.
We confidence in the underlying strength if the overall legislative proposals and provide both financial and management of the markets they serve.
Whilst business terms are favourable.
support to equate generally to 1 per cent confidence is improving, current of dividends paid.
Additionally, through the economic conditions are more muted Businesses in the UK and abroad need Town Planning system, we also contribute than earlier predictions suggested.
flexible business space to enhance their over 670,000 to planning gain mitigation own operational efficiency, productivity and across a number of our development Focus on real estate as an international working conditions for their employees.
projects in 2004. asset class can also mask the fact that by New intensified land use legislation and its nature real estate is a static investment added focus on sustainability will over time In 2004 we selected a charity of the year, which is anchored to its location and rental make it more challenging to accommodate Macmillan Nurses, for our employees performance more influenced by local future business investment.
to support by a number of innovative considerations of land availability with fund-raising initiatives.
Some 35,000 suitable planning permission, occupancy On pages 7 to 9 we discuss in more detail was raised by them and this sum was supply and demand, local demographics the market forecasts which influence our matched by the company.
There is therefore development and investment decisions.
encouraging staff to devote time to helping a need for property owners to be vigilant individual causes which interest them.
to these trends and ensure that their Slough Estates is well aware of the threats properties not only provide consistent and opportunities posed by the economy Corporate governance investment returns but are also relevant and governments.
Our continuing strategy During the year, we have achieved a very to the occupancy markets they serve.
is to buy and invest in the best locations significant level of compliance with the for a wide range of business demand Combined Code.
A report on corporate It is in this context that I remain concerned where we believe that values will grow governance is made on pages 49 to 53. that government intervention in an open consistently over time.
We believe that 06 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Chairmans statement continued The Board comprises 12 members of At this years Annual General Meeting the Management and Staff which seven are non-executive.
Six are following directors will retire by rotation The Group faces a number of changes deemed to be independent in character Mr Dick Kingston, Mr Steve Howard and as it focuses on its core edge-of-town and judgement including two who, by Mr Douglas Kramer who is not standing business space portfolio.
2004 has virtue of the fact that they were first for re-election and Mr Marshall Lees.
presented our team with a number of appointed more than nine years ago, Mr Kingston, Mr Howard and Mr Lees challenges.
Their professionalism, are considered to be no longer fully offer themselves for re-election.
experience and commitment have greatly independent under the Combined Code.
On behalf of the The Board believes that the Company In compliance with the Combined Code Board and shareholders I would like to gains advantage from the involvement of both Mr Paul Orchard-Lisle and Lord thank each and every one of them for these two non-executive directors and that MacGregor will retire and offer themselves their hard work, loyalty and support to they fully demonstrate independence of for re-election.
Both directors have been on the Groups continuing success.
Real estate is a the Board for periods exceeding 10 years.
long-term business where long experience Outlook of markets and locations can be important Mr. Orchard-Lisle, who joined the Board in The Board believes that Slough Estates factors in investment decisions.
1980, is Deputy Chairman and continues is today well positioned to take advantage to provide excellent and penetrating advice of the opportunities in the marketplace as We are progressively working towards a on a range of property issues where his the Group has excellent properties and planned strengthening of the Board over advice is invaluable.
During 2004 he substantial land holdings with planning a two-year period.
relinquished his role as Chairman of the consents for development, located in Remuneration Committee.
many of the prime international business We have a very strong Board of Directors centres.
This will enable us to start to build with a majority of non-executive directors Lord MacGregor joined the Board in 1995. into the recovery in occupier demand and, together with experienced executive He is currently Chairman of the Audit having already successfully put in much of directors.
We combine the independence Committee.
He continues to provide the infrastructure for these new schemes, of newer members with the wisdom and incisive advice and, with impending it will be possible to accelerate this pragmatism of the longer-serving members.
changes in accounting standards, development pipeline as demand expands.
the Board believes that continuity of The Board direction of the Committee is important.
Nigel Mobbs In January 2004 we welcomed to the Chairman Board two new independent non-executive Both these directors have expressed an directors Andrew Palmer, Group Finance intention to retire from the Board in 2006.
Director of Legal & General, and Chris Peacock, formerly Chief Executive of Brief biographical notes for all Board Jones Lang LaSalle.
members are set out on pages 54 to 55.
At the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting, Mr. Douglas Kramer will retire from the Group Board after completing 24 years service as a nonexecutive director.
Mr. Kramer has been a very important influence in the success of our US real estate activities since 1974.
I am glad to say that he will continue as non-executive chairman of Slough Estates USA.
We all wish him well in his retirement.
