com 05 Chairmans Statement Results I am delighted to report another year of record results and strong progress in delivering Crest Nicholsons urban regeneration strategy.
Pre-tax profits rose by 10% to 82.1m and our earnings per share increased by 9% to 49.4p.
Dividend We are recommending a final dividend of 8.3p per share.
This will give a total for the year of 12.3p, up 12%.
The dividend will be covered 4.0 times.
The final dividend will be paid on 11th April 2005 to shareholders on the register at 11th March 2005.
Chairman John Matthews Strategy Crests strategy is to be the market leader in the design and delivery of sustainable housing and mixed use development.
We have made considerable progress with this strategy in 2004, the highlights of which have been the increase in affordable housing, the establishment of a new Eastern region and the expansion in our urban regeneration work.
With regard to urban regeneration, the success of our mixed use developments such as Bristol Harbourside and Park Central, Birmingham and of Ingress Park, our flagship Thames Gateway development, has generated the momentum for Crest to make further inroads in this important growth market.
In September, we announced that we had been appointed as lead developer for the 500m development of the Oakgrove Millennium Community, the very first millennium community project to be awarded.
In October, we announced a partnership agreement with Grosvenor for the 1 billion regeneration of Bath Western Riverside.
In November, we announced that we had entered into a contract with Surrey Heath Borough Council for the 100m redevelopment of a major site in Camberley town centre.
In September, we announced that we had been appointed as lead developer for the 500m development of the Oakgrove Millennium Community, the very first millennium community appointment to be made.
com Chairmans Statement continued Prospects Crest Nicholson is well placed to play a major role in delivering new sustainable communities and the supply of the affordable homes that are so clearly needed in all our areas of operation.
Our market positioning offers our shareholders excellent prospects for future growth and increased value.
Chairman John Matthews Crest Nicholson is well placed to play a major role in delivering new sustainable communities and the supply of the affordable homes that are so clearly needed in all our areas of operation.
com 07 Region: South East I Development: Ingress ParkKent I Category: Street Scene 08 www.
com Region: London I Development: The Island - Brentford - Middlesex I Category: Waterside www.
com Region: London I Development: 100 Westminster Bridge Road - London I Category: Interior
