Pre-tax profits on continuing operations before exceptional items in 2004 were Chairmans 45.2 million, compared with 38.9 million the previous year, on sales of 291.1 million 2003 279.8 million.
A small loss on discontinued businesses trading and an exceptional loss arising on the disposal of the same non-core operations leaves statement Group pre-tax profits at 41.7 million, compared to 43.0 million the year before.
In 2004, sales in sterling terms were 4.0 per cent up on 2003 and pre-tax profits improved by over 16 per cent for our continuing businesses.
In constant currency terms, sales would have been up by 10 per cent and the increase in pre-tax profits would have been significantly higher.
Pre-exceptional earnings per share amounted to 22.2 pence, after a tax charge of 35.3 per cent, an increase of over 15 per cent on 2003 basic earnings per share were 20.1 pence compared to 22.5 pence in 2003.
Therefore, your Board is recommending a 7 per cent increase in the final dividend to 8.4 pence, making a total for the year of 12.5 pence, covered 1.8 times before exceptional items 1.6 times after exceptional items.
After spending a net 4.9 million on buying in our own shares, net debt at the year end was 14.8 million, equivalent to 8.7 per cent of net assets.
Antony Beevor Chairman Innovation satisfies the need to grow and change.
Not only by bringing new products to the marketplace, but in every aspect of our business.
The growth we have achieved in sales and profits in 2004 was entirely organic, capitalising on the inherent strengths of our core business.
Our performance is the product of hard work over a period of years by our technical sales forces around the world, and the scientists behind them, in winning the confidence of our multinational customers in our talent for innovation, in our ability to deliver what we promise and in our commitment to continuing development to improve their products still further.
Good growth last year came again from our actives businesses, but also from a wide cross section of Group businesses, sometimes under difficult conditions.
The UK manufacturing businesses coped well with the sharply appreciating sterling dollar exchange rate.
North America performed well after a difficult second half in 2003 and sales ended the year on a high note.
Our remaining Other businesses also had a much improved year.
Strategy Considerable emphasis is being put on driving the organic growth of the business.
From January 2005, a member of the Executive Committee is leading a major initiative to bring new technologies to the Company.
We believe this could contribute significantly to our business in the future.
However, we will not ignore opportunities for acquisitions in areas of business where we have expertise and which bring real and ongoing synergies.
Such targets are few in number and only rarely become available, but the strength of our balance sheet will be of great assistance when they do.
At the same time, we recognise the importance of using our balance sheet efficiently and we are continuing to buy in shares as the opportunity arises.
Chairmans statement 03 Culture Our Leadership Development Group, a group of present and future senior managers Chairmans which meets regularly to discuss strategic matters, this year set out to define the corporate values of Croda.
Under the leadership of the Chief Executive, they did so in a way which I believe will ensure that we remain a place where talented people want statement to work and that we conduct ourselves to the highest standards and in a way which will also ensure the future reputation and sustainability of the business.
The time and effort we put into the areas of safety, health and the environment is part of this culture.
This is born from the belief that high standards in these areas are fundamental to the long term health of our business.
The detailed report included in this Annual Report shows that, having been successful in meeting our previous targets, we are making good progress towards the more demanding set of objectives we have now set ourselves.
People The group referred to above is just one of the steps we take to ensure that we have the talent to continuously drive the growth of the business.
Wherever possible, we feel there is merit in filling vacancies internally.
I believe that our internally generated performance in 2004 is evidence that we have a good resource of such talent available.
I would like to thank them for their efforts last year as well as for the contribution they will undoubtedly make in the future.
We will be submitting to the Annual General Meeting proposals for a Co-Investment Scheme and an LTIP which will align the interest of senior employees with shareholders and enable them to build equity interests in the Group.
Prospects Against the trend of recent years, the second half of 2004 was as strong as the first in both sales and profits.
Our momentum has continued into the new year.
World economic prospects are difficult to read at present but we believe the opportunities in our business enable us to look forward with confidence.
Antony Beevor Chairman 04 Chairmans statement
