Chairmans statement 2004 has been a remarkable year for CSR.
Our Company is now recognised as the most successful European IPO of 2004.
2004 has been a remarkable year for CSR.
Our During the past year we have also established Company, established a little over 6 years ago and a Board appropriate to meet the needs of a listed listed on the London Stock Exchange in March, is now company in the FTSE 250.
Mike Shone, who did recognised as the most successful European IPO of such an able job as Chairman in guiding the Company 2004.
Our earnings per share grew to $0.53, far through to the IPO, agreed to stay on the Board for a exceeding the expectation at the time the Company further year as a non-executive director to ensure listed, with a consequential near doubling of our continuity.
David Tucker joined us prior to the IPO, market capitalisation since placement.
Sales grew by taking responsibility for the Audit Committee and almost four times over the prior year and we achieved a subsequently agreeing to assume the role of Senior market share of 45% of the Bluetooth semiconductor Independent Director.
He brings a wealth of market worldwide.
commercial and financial experience to our Board Such performance does not occur simply having worked with many listed companies over the through chance or good fortune.
To ensure the right balance of skills, I was offering of our Bluetooth products, giving advantages delighted that Ron Mackintosh and John Scarisbrick of functionality, size and value, was a consequence were also able to join us during the year, bringing of clarity of purpose, dedication to a vision, attention respectively, in depth knowledge of IT and to detail and a profound technical competence.
achieving such an impressive growth rate also imposes Your Board has developed quickly into an a significant stress on the organisation, testing our effective team, with the executive directors responding systems, management processes, relationships well to the rigours and opportunities presented within with suppliers and even with our own employees.
We have yet to address all the Nevertheless, over the past year we have increased our issues that apply in todays Corporate Governance staff by 60%, achieved a 69% Bluetooth design win environment, but a good start has been made and share, tightened cost control and, most importantly, further progress will be seen in the coming year.
kept up high standards of customer service and In conclusion, I would like to thank all our support across all our markets.
stakeholders for their support over the past year.
The response to the challenges of 2004 by Having already mentioned our staff, it would be remiss management and staff alike, often working long hours if I did not also express the Boards appreciation to our at our various locations across the world, is much customers, without whose patronage the appreciated by the Board.
achievements of the past year would not have been Foundations have also been laid for the future.
possible, and to our suppliers who have enabled us to We announced our low power single chip WiFi UniFi respond so effectively not only to the growth but also product in November 2004, moved offices within the inevitable fluctuations in market demand.
Cambridge and are well into the implementation of For the coming year we will continue to develop a new enterprise resource planning ERP system our technologies and products, strengthen our to ensure a robust supply chain to accommodate organisation and invest in our infrastructure.
technology sector within which we operate is in the early part of its life cycle, ensuring that 2005 will be another fascinating year as the market develops and grows.
CSR will be playing a major part in stimulating and leading that development.
John Whybrow Chairman CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 05
