2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Chairmans statement The Group has delivered another good performance in the year ended March 2004 with progress being made in key areas.
The Group reported adjusted profit before taxation of 85.1 million on turnover of 1.36 billion, with adjusted earnings per share increasing to 50.0 pence.
We are particularly pleased by the strong cash generation, which is coming through as forecast, with year-end net debt down to 279.7 million.
The Group has also continued to improve the quality of its earnings through the growth of its brands, the closure of the commodity ingredients facility at Chard in July 2003 and the sale of the juice business in September 2003.
The Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 19% to 13.4 pence per share.
This together with the interim dividend of 5.5 pence makes a total dividend for the Simon Oliver, Chairman year of 18.9 pence per share, an increase of 15%.
This significant uplift demonstrates the Boards confidence in the cash generative nature and future prospects of the business and its commitment to a continued progressive dividend policy at a reduced level of dividend cover.
One of the major issues facing both the dairy industry and dairy farmers in particular is the implementation of the Mid Term Review of the EUs Common Agricultural Policy from July this year.
To mitigate any possible adverse impact from this reform it will be important for the dairy industry to work together to drive efficiencies throughout the supply chain.
In the longer term there is a need to grow the proportion of added value dairy products produced by the UK dairy industry which is, of course, consistent with Dairy Crests own strategy.
Our direct farmer groups have now come together in a more formalised way to create Dairy Crest Direct and we look forward to working closely together with them in the future.
Dairy Crest benefits from employing a high quality and committed workforce throughout the business.
I would like to thank them for their hard work and professionalism, which has enabled the Group to deliver a successful year and put us in a strong position for the challenges ahead.
Simon Oliver, Chairman 26 May 2004 Delivering top quality milk in partnership Dairy Crests Direct Supplies Manager, Chris Mayo, with Michael Masters of Edgarley Farm in Glastonbury 7am
