The Demerger enables us to focus more closely on our goals as a specialist home equipment retailer.
David Newlands, Chairman Chairmans statement 4 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 An encouraging start Alongside running our operating We have also explained that Kesa businesses, the demerger has required focuses on cash generation as this Dear Shareholders, us to assemble a central organisation is ultimately the true measure of profit, This has been an exciting year and capable of providing all the functions and opens the way for debt reduction, I am pleased to introduce the first annual of an independently listed company: capital and revenue investment and report for Kesa Electricals since gaining treasury, secretarial, financial control, increasing dividends to shareholders.
our independence from Kingfisher Plc internal audit, investor and public last July.
I believe that our first year In the seven months since the relations.
I am happy to report that all of trading fully justifies our confidence demerger, our committed management our new recruits have settled in well.
that demerger from Kingfisher enables team has succeeded in establishing us to focus more closely on our goals Everyone at Kesa understood the Kesa Electricals as a leading European as a specialist pan-European home importance of our share price performing electrical retailing group and I would equipment retailer.
well in the first months after demerger like to congratulate them all.
The price has risen from pleased that our strong cash flow has Working within a difficult economic an initial quote of 193 pence to the enabled us to reduce debt significantly climate in Europe, all three of our price of 263 pence as of 30 March 2004. and allow continued capital expenditure principal operating companies, Darty, This gives Kesa Electricals a market to fuel organic growth.
Comet and BUT, grew sales and market capitalisation of approximately 1.4 billion share.
Our other businesses, Vanden In the year ahead, we will continue to and clearly reflects the successful efforts Borre, BCC and Datart, also made drive organic growth and cash generation of our Executive Directors, Jean-Noel progress, particularly in the second half.
together with margin management and Labroue and Martin Reavley in strong cost control.
We will also strive Highlights explaining Kesas strategy to the to improve the quality of our customers Group turnover increased by 10.1 per financial community.
shopping experience through increased cent to 3,771.1 million during the period In successive presentations our investment in our store modernisation 1 4.0 per cent in constant currency.
Executive Directors have emphasised and staff training programmes.
2 Group retail profit grew by 4.9 per cent that our three main brands, Darty, to 202.7 million down 2.7 per cent All in all, I am confident that Kesas first Comet and BUT along with our smaller, in constant currency.
experience of independence has laid businesses, Vanden Borre, BCC and Excluding the increased central solid foundations on which we can build Datart, are strong and capable of further costs resulting from the demerger, for future success.
They have Group retail profit grew by 8.2 per cent demonstrated how our trading strategy Yours sincerely, 0.4 per cent in constant currency, combines a shared European vision with driven by Darty, 1.6 per cent, and sensitivity to local market needs, based Comet, 9.5 per cent.
on a customer proposition offering The second half results compared unbeatable price, choice and service.
to the same period last year, including the increase in central costs, saw This proposition is supported by David Newlands, Chairman Group turnover increase by 11.0 per cent constant innovation in our store formats, to 2,187.4 million 4.9 per cent our product offerings and in the range 1 Constant exchange rate of 1 1.44.
2 Retail profit equates to operating profit including share in constant currency, and retail profit of customer services we provide.
These of joint ventures and associates and after central costs by 10.2 per cent to 149.9 million now include direct shopping channels but before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
3.1 per cent in constant currency.
using the latest website technology, Profit on ordinary activities before interest enabling the customers of Kesa and taxation, after goodwill amortisation Electricals operating businesses to shop 3.6 million and the loss on disposal when they want and how they want.
of fixed assets 2.7 million and The growth of our own label brands operating exceptional items 5.7 million and our increasingly integrated sourcing was 202.1 million, up 13.1 per cent.
strategy is also helping us to develop Retail operations generated a strong long-term relationships with our cashflow of 296.6 million, compared suppliers.
This creates savings in buying to 247.4 million for the same period and distribution costs and allows us last year, which enabled net debt to generate economies of scale, further to be reduced to 272.0 million.
leveraging the combined strength of Earnings per share were 21.4 pence.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 7.5 pence per share, making a total dividend for the year of 10.0 pence per share.
