CHAIRMANS STATEMENT: The Board is delighted with the progress that has been made since the appointment of Carl Leaver a year ago, particularly on the development and implementation of the Groups new strategy.
This has been achieved against a backdrop of defending an unwelcome partial offer from GPG earlier this year, which was expensive both nancially and in terms of management time.
TURNOVER CAPITAL INVESTMENT 2004 The hotel market in the UK has Dividend strengthened compared to the previous The Board is recommending a final dividend financial year.
This has been particularly of 8.82 pence per Ordinary share.
The final noticeable in the London market and in dividend together with the interim dividend, improved provincial demand from corporate of 4.28 pence per Ordinary share, makes a single sleepers.
Recovery in the conference total of 13.10 pence 2003: 11.70 pence market tends to lag behind these indicators.
The leisure market remained buoyant People throughout the period.
significant progress has been made Group turnover for the year increased during the year to enhance development by 3.1% to 321.8m 2003: 312.2m programmes for all our employees as it is and operating profit on a pre-exceptional their contribution that drives the success basis was up by 5.4% to 57.6m 2003: of our business.
Return On Capital Employed programmes are now in place to assist in ROCE increased by 0.4%pts to 7.2% on each staff members ongoing development a pre-exceptional basis.
profit before tax, and the teamwork structure has also been excluding exceptional items, was up by enhanced to support the achievement of 14.7% to 45.6m 2003: 39.7m.
both personal and Company objectives.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our staff for their contribution to the businesses.
4 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The foundations are now being built to push forward our growth aspirations, whilst ensuring that our assets, systems and procedures are enhanced to deliver the highest possible return for our shareholders.
TOTAL SALES TOTAL LEISURE MEMBERSHIP Excluding advance sales at DVRO total Improved trading and management Current trading and outlook turnover for fide Vere was 0.1% down action to improve efficiency are having a During the first nine weeks of the new on prior year, also impacted by the beneficial impact on like-for-like margins in financial year total Group turnover has completion of the sale of the Bellhouse both hotel brands.
We expect to maintain increased by 1.6% on the same period in on 1 November 2004 and continued progress, notwithstanding significant 2003 04. challenging trading at the Dormy ahead increases in energy costs and, potentially, Like-for-like turnover at fide Vere excluding of its closure later this month.
property tax following the rating refide Vere Resort Ownership DVRO valuation later in the year.
Like-for-like sales at Village were ahead by increased by 4.7%.
RevPAR on the same 7.8% with RevPAR up by 5.5%, driven by We continue to see improvements in basis grew 4.0%, with the fide Vere increased average room rates.
corporate demand, although, as yet, Cavendish now like-for-like achieving 89% recovery in the conference market is occupancy and beginning to benefit from Like-for-like leisure membership was up proving elusive.
The leisure market remains the implementation of our new approach strongly in both Village and Greens by robust.
Encouraged by current trading to pricing.
7.7% and 9.2% respectively, with Greens and our strategic progress we believe the turning in a very respectable like-for-like In DVRO, advance sales at The Carrick prospects for the year to be good.
continue to give great cause for optimism and now stand at 4.2 million.
New Total turnover for Village was ahead 8.9%, lodges are also being built at fide Vere with early trading at Village Maidstone Slaley Hall and fide Vere Belton Woods.
more than offsetting the loss of Swindon All lodges currently under construction and Prestwich.
will be completed by Spring 2005 so that THE LORD DARESBURY all advance sales will ow into this years Non-executive Chairman results.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 5
