8 chairmans statement I am pleased to report that the 2004 financial year has been one of significant progress for Dimension Data.
Turnover increased by 18% in US dollars and we reported an adjusted operating profit of US$33 million compared to an operating loss of US$9 million in the previous financial year.
This is a solid turnaround and credit goes to the entire management and staff of Dimension Data.
During the period under review, demand growth markets and Dimension Datas for IT services started to pick up and a solutions revenues are growing strongly.
number of the markets in which we trade From small beginnings, they now showed signs of recovering from the contribute 23% to Group turnover.
An improvement in the trading environment coincided with The progress made by the Group during a stronger external focus for Dimension the year was assisted by the appointment, Data, which drove revenue growth and in March, of Brett Dawson to the position market share gains in a number of of Chief Executive Officer CEO.
transition from his previous position as Chief Operating Officer has been smooth Over the past 12 months we have refined due to his established working our strategy, improved our focus, aligned relationships with the senior executive our global solutions offerings and invested management team and his involvement in in enhancing the efficiency of our services devising and executing the Groups delivery platform.
was made in turning around unprofitable regions and our cost base was closely In early March we announced the sale of controlled.
We generated strong cash Proxicom, the US-based web design and flows and established a stable platform for Internet consulting business.
Proxicom was trading profitably, ongoing non-operational cash requirements were We have continued to invest in developing placing a burden on the balance of our skills and technologies to maintain US operations.
The disposal has allowed Dimension Data at the forefront of the us to concentrate on growing a more specialised IT infrastructure solutions focused US business.
The achievement of critical mass in certain strategic markets is key to our In September, our South African business future performance.
We are focused on achieved an important milestone when it strengthening our presence through finalised the Black Economic organic growth and market share gains, Empowerment BEE transaction.
This particularly in our solutions lines of equity shareholding transaction is business.
The solutions lines of business designed to result in the BEE Consortium in which we are investing, target high receiving a 25.01% interest in Dimension DIMENSION DATA 9 chairmans statement Data South Africa Pty Ltd through a As part of our ongoing commitment to In conclusion, Dimension Data has made shareholder facilitated loan.
Our increasing the number of independent considerable progress in an improving empowerment partners are Ngcaba non-executive directors on our Board, business climate.
While much in terms of Holdings Pty Ltd, Safika Holdings Pty Rupert Barclay joined the Board in June future performance depends on the pace Ltd and a group of broad-based BEE 2004.
Rupert brings with him a wealth of and sustainability of the broader global participants, including staff members.
We knowledge and expertise from the UK economic recovery, we are confident that feel confident that this exciting new market and will contribute to the increased we will continue to make progress in chapter in our lives will enhance our independence of the Board.
He is a nonestablishing Dimension Data as a leading growth prospects through removing executive director of Lowland Investment specialist IT infrastructure solutions barriers to participating in key growth Company plc and a partner of Cairneagle provider and in delivering further markets in South Africa and unlocking Associates LLP.
In an executive capacity, improvements in returns to shareholders.
opportunities in the rest of Africa.
he has previously served as CFO of Lombard Risk Management plc, Director On the Corporate Governance front, I am of Group Strategy Development at Jeremy Ord pleased to be able to report that we have Reuters plc and Director of Group Group Chairman made further progress towards Strategy at Allied Domecq plc.
compliance with the recommendations raised by the Revised Combined Code in David Frankel resigned as a board the UK and the King II Code on Corporate member on 16 November 2004.
I thank Governance in South Africa.
The him for his services to the Group.
appointment of Brett Dawson, as Chief Executive Officer and executive board Following these changes, the Board will member of Dimension Data Holdings plc consist of the chairman, four executive in March 2004 and the resultant splitting directors, four independent non-executive of the roles of Chairman and CEO was a directors and two further non-executive key development in this regard.
During the period, Malcolm Rutherford, Dimension Datas dividend policy has who played a central role in Dimension been to utilise cash generated by the Datas global expansion, resigned as Group to fund working capital Chief Financial Officer and as an requirements and to continue the rollout of executive board member of Dimension Group strategy.
The Board will continue to Data Holdings plc.
I would like to thank review this policy on an annual basis or as him for the contribution he made to the necessary.
David Sherriffs, who has been with the Group since 1997 in various financial The encouraging results of FY2004 are positions in Europe and South Africa, was attributable to the skills, enthusiasm and appointed as Chief Financial Officer and dedication of our management and staff as an executive board member of around the globe, to whom I offer my Dimension Data Holdings plc.
Finally, I would like to thank our customers, partners and friends for their continued support.
