CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW THE GROUP MADE GOOD PROGRESS THROUGH THE YEAR.
SALES AND PROFITS WERE UP AND WE RECORDED A STRONG PERFORMANCE IN OUR FOUR LARGEST CHAINS.
OUR INVESTMENT BUSINESSES ARE PROGRESSING WELL AND WE AGREED THE ROLL OUT OF PC CITY IN SPAIN IN THE SECOND HALF.
Our operations in all of these countries made good progress, and performance met our expectations.
At the year end we were trading 26 PC City stores and nine Electro World stores.
Progress in Spain reached our performance targets for roll-out and in January we approved the move to the next stage of development in the Iberian peninsula.
We see the potential for at least 40 PC City stores in this market over time.
We continued to develop our business to business operations.
After the year end we announced JOHN CLARE Chief Executive the acquisition of MicroWarehouse UK, a leading business to business value-added reseller.
This acquisition will strengthen our position in the In the UK, Currys, PC World and The Link performed small business PC market, an important part well.
Currys, in particular, recovered strongly after of our strategy to develop the PC World brand.
a disappointing year in 2002 03, and is once more growing its market share and profitability.
Despite At the year end we realigned our businesses the significant efforts of our store colleagues, the around our two principal trading formats: big performance of the Dixons chain was disappointing.
space electrical stores and PC superstores.
As a result, we conducted a thorough review of the These changes will help us achieve new scale and store portfolio and announced in April that 106 efficiencies in our buying operations, encourage Dixons stores, representing just 2 per cent of the the exchange of best practices across all the Groups trading space, would be closed.
These countries in which we operate, and thus enable stores were incompatible with our future trading us to improve our overall customer propositions.
Following the Across all 12 countries in which we trade the closures, Dixons will comprise 214 stores located competitive environment remains intense but our throughout the UK.
Trials of the new larger format financial position is sound, our overall business Dixons xL stores continue and we anticipate further performance is on track and we are encouraged openings over the next few months.
by the progress made in our investment businesses.
Our established international businesses in Ireland, The markets in which we trade are increasingly Italy and the Nordic countries all performed well.
polarised between commodity products and We are now the market leader in both Sweden feature-rich bigger-ticket purchases.
An advantage and Norway: we made further market share gains of our retail formats across Europe is our capacity in Finland and Denmark, and we continue to grow to serve the needs of all customers, whatever UniEuro, the number two brand in the Italian their requirements, and we will continue to trade market.
This was the first full year of consolidating aggressively across the competitive landscape as UniEuros results and we remain pleased with its we did in the last financial year.
Our product ranges progress since acquisition.
will continue to offer value and consistent quality to our customers at every price point.
We also continued with our investment in start ups of PC City superstores in Spain, France, Italy The role of the specialist retailer is also to offer and Sweden, and electrical superstores, branded advice, help and support both during and after Electro World, in Hungary and the Czech Republic.
the customer purchase, and this year we made 06 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 significant progress in improving our customer A steady pipeline of product innovation will continue services throughout the Group.
Telephone based to stimulate customer demand, counterbalanced technical support centres in Nottingham and to some degree by continued economic uncertainty Madrid now support all Group customers of PCs and the endless stream of red tape that feeds and related products.
A team of Nordic nationals bureaucracy and punishes entrepreneurship.
has been based in Nottingham to support The economic outlook across the twelve countries customers in our Northern European markets, in which we trade is mixed.
Assuming that interest with multilingual experts in Madrid servicing rates in our major markets do not rise to a level customers across Southern Europe.
at which they have an impact on discretionary Our PC ServiceCall facility in Nottingham won spending, we believe that our markets are likely more recognition and awards this year, including to deliver low levels of value growth, driven by an award for the best place to work in IT.
Further new technologies, but at lower prices.
innovation continues in service support.
We are Our strategy remains clear.
We are determined already investing in web-based support services, to be both the biggest and the best specialist with trials progressing well.
Long gone are the electrical retailer in Europe.
We will continue days when after-sales service was an engineer to grow and broaden our existing brands, whilst with a toolbox!
seeking opportunities in other markets where we Investment in efficiency improvements runs believe achieving market leadership is realistic.
alongside our ongoing investment in customer Investment in our stores, our people, in efficiency services.
Major programmes in supply chain and in customer services will continue.
management, in people management and in And, as always, the boundless capacity of the Groups store operations all continued to make progress employees to innovate, reinvent and improve will be through the year, with clear improvements to at the heart of our progress in the years ahead.
Iwould like to record my thanks to employees across We have also increased investment in our people the Group for their energy, their enthusiasm and significantly over the year, with a clear ambition their unwavering commitment to Being the Best.
to be the best in what we do, wherever we operate.
Operating across 12 countries also provides many opportunities to develop our people skills in different markets.
Our executive development programme, run in conjunction with some of Europes finest management schools, continues to create the next generation of leaders, whilst investment in training of store staff, in both JOHN CLARE customer service skills and product knowledge, Chief Executive continues to increase each year.
As ever, the year ahead will have its share of opportunities and threats.
We are encouraged by the enlargement of the European Union, allowing new member countries access to open markets and the economic and fiscal stability that can follow.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 07
