CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In 2003 04, we produced a creditable result and made important strategic progress.
Antony Hichens Chairman In 2003 04, DS Smith produced a creditable competitive and, in the face of rising input Your Board is recommending a final dividend result and made important strategic progress.
costs, the recent paper price rise will not be of 5.6p per ordinary share which, together Conditions remained challenging in most of sufficient to restore paper margins.
Also as with the restated interim dividend of 2.6p, previously indicated, for the first time for our markets and the cyclical downturn in the maintains the total dividend for the year, many years there will now be a significant paper market reduced margins significantly in as restated for the rights issue, at 8.2p.
charge to the profit and loss account in our waste-based Paper business.
The Group The Group continues to pursue its strategy respect of the UK pension scheme.
Our result benefited from our continued focus on raising of operational improvement and the will benefit from the contribution from the operational performance with further profit development of its two principal activities, LINPAC Containers acquisition but, until the advances in Corrugated Packaging and Office Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling.
outcome of the Competition Commission Products Wholesaling.
We will maintain the drive to improve the inquiry is known, we cannot start to generate The acquisition of LINPAC Containers, Groups return on capital employed, which the anticipated synergies.
This is likely to be completed in March 2004, enlarged our was 11.1% in 2003 04, while investing in another challenging year but the Groups position in UK Corrugated Packaging.
capital projects and bolt-on acquisitions resilience in recent times gives me The 167 million acquisition was partly which strengthen the Groups position in confidence in our future.
financed by a one-for-five rights issue, which its chosen markets.
raised 70.4 million, net of expenses.
It is In December 2003, two additional Directors disappointing that the acquisition has been were appointed.
Jean-Paul Loison, Divisional referred to the Competition Commission as Chief Executive of the Kaysersberg we believe that it will not lessen the vigorous Packaging Division, responsible for all competition which marks our industry.
We Paper and Corrugated Packaging operations are working closely with the Competition in continental Europe, was appointed as an Commission to seek to satisfy them and their Executive Director.
Christopher Bunker, report is due towards the end of the calendar Antony Hichens Chairman who has been Finance Director on the year.
In the meantime, the business is boards of three PLCs, was appointed as performing well, but we are not able to a non-Executive Director.
They both proceed with the planned integration until bring extensive and valuable experience the inquiry has been completed.
The Groups earnings per share before This years good performance was achieved exceptional items and amortisation of through the skills and commitment of the intangibles was, at 16.9p, slightly better Groups employees worldwide.
I thank them than last year 2002 03: 16.8p restated all for their continued contribution to meeting for the bonus element of the rights issue.
the requirements of our customers and raising Free cash flow, post dividends but before the standards of our operations.
acquisitions, of 33.1 million was marginally ahead of last year 32.0 million.
In spite In the coming year we expect to make further of the acquisition of LINPAC Containers, progress in Plastic Packaging and Office gearing only increased from 42.8% Products Wholesaling.
paper and corrugated markets remain highly 4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004
