Chairmans Statement Concurrent with the business restructuring, we are implementing an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system.
This is now fully operational in Central Europe, underpinning our operations in Netherlands, Belgium and Germany.
The roll-out to the rest of Europe and North America is scheduled over the next twelve months.
Philip Rogerson Overall, we have made a good start to both Chairman the implementation of our strategy and to Overview and Strategy Update the roll-out of the new ERP system.
Despite In March 2004 we announced the results of the the disruption and distraction caused by the Strategy Review which was carried out following implementation of such major structural changes, the appointment of Rupert Soames as the Group our trading performance has been encouraging.
The strategy has two strands: to restructure our Local business and implement Trading a new operating model within it: and to grow The Groups trading performance during 2004 our International Power Projects business by was significantly impacted by movements in extending our capability into new countries.
exchange rates and, in particular, the weakening I am pleased to report that good progress has in the US dollar from an average rate of been made in both respects.
In the Local 1 : $1.64 in 2003 to 1 : $1.83 in 2004. business, the new management structure is As reported, Group revenue at 323.6 million well established, and rental centres are now showed a decline of 2.5% compared with 2003: 1 operational in both Europe and North America, in constant currency, however, revenue enabling us to improve the way in which we increased by 5.0%.
Group trading profits, respond to customers.
In the International pre-exceptional items, were similarly affected, Power Projects business, good progress has been increasing by 7.5% on a reported basis, but made in growing our revenues in new countries: by 19.2% in constant currency.
I can report that over the last twelve months we have succeeded in establishing ourselves as Group profits before tax and exceptional a significant competitor in the South American items increased by 6.3% to 42.6 million, market.
We have also developed a new gaswhilst earnings per share pre-exceptional items fuelled temporary power solution which will increased by 6.8% to 10.86 pence.
As previously broaden the portfolio of services we can offer indicated, exceptional costs of 15 million were to our customers, and allow us to address new taken during the year relating to the reorganisation markets where gas would be a preferred source associated with the implementation of our new of energy.
Group pre-tax profits and earnings per share post-exceptional items were 27.6 million and 7.04 pence respectively.
1 Constant currency takes account of the impact of translational exchange movements in respect of our overseas businesses.
8 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 An early benefit from our Strategy Review has Employees been in the area of capital expenditure.
As a The credit for the encouraging progress in result of re-examining equipment specifications, implementing both the strategy and our new value-engineering and improved procurement, ERP system lies with our employees.
There have we have significantly improved the cost been very significant changes to the structure per megawatt of our power fleet purchases.
and operating processes of the business and this As a consequence, during 2004, we added has been achieved with no reduction in our high approximately the same amount of capacity standards of service.
The progress both in terms into the fleet, but at a cost 5.1 million lower of trading and against our strategic objectives is than in 2003.
Accordingly, Aggrekos total a tribute to the focus, hard work and dedication capital expenditure in 2004, the great majority of the entire Aggreko team, and I would like to of which was spent on fleet renewal, amounted thank them all for their efforts.
to 56.3 million, a decrease of 5.6 million compared with 2003.
This expenditure equates Management Change to 96% of our depreciation charge.
From the stronger platform which Aggreko will enjoy following the implementation of our The return on average net operating assets strategy, we will be able to focus on opportunities improved from 13.7% in 2003 to 15.0% in 2004. for further development.
In order to explore Notwithstanding a cash outflow of 6.9 million some of those opportunities, we have appointed relating to the exceptional items, net debt a new Director of Business Development reduced during the year by 17.8 million to Hendrik Jan Molenaar, previously Managing 82.1 million 2003: 99.9 million, reflecting Director of our European business who took strong cash generation during the year.
up this role from 1 January 2005.
He has stepped down from the main Board, but remains on the Aggrekos financial position remains strong, as Companys Executive Committee, reporting to measured by net assets of 178.3 million and Rupert Soames.
A search is in progress for a new interest cover on a pre and post exceptional basis Managing Director of our European business.
of 11.8 times and 8.0 times respectively.
With In the interim period before the appointment this in mind, the Board is recommending a final of a new European Managing Director, the dividend of 3.57 pence per ordinary share which, European business is reporting to Rupert Soames.
when added to the interim dividend of 2.25 pence, gives a total for the year of 5.82 pence Shareholder Information per ordinary share, representing a 3.0% increase Our website can be accessed at www.
At this level, the dividend would be This contains a large amount of information covered 1.9 times on a pre-exceptional basis.
about our business, including a range of charts Subject to approval by shareholders, the final and data, which can be downloaded for easy dividend will be paid on 20 May 2005 to ordinary analysis.
The website also carries further detail shareholders on the register as at 22 April 2005, about our Strategy Review, as well as all recent with an ex-dividend date of 20 April 2005.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook As is always the case at this time of year, we have 2005 is the second year, and in many ways limited visibility with respect to the outcome for the more challenging, of Aggrekos two-year 2005.
We anticipate that, for the year as a whole, restructuring programme.
It will see the we will continue to make progress compared with implementation of the new ERP system in some 2004. of our largest businesses, and it will also be the year when we bed down all the operational processes involved in the new Local business operating model.
We anticipate therefore that some business units will continue to experience Philip G Rogerson disruption in the year ahead.
In the International Chairman Power Projects business our focus is threefold: continuing to drive the growth of our business in 3 March 2005 new territories: establishing our new gas-fuelled solution in the market for temporary power: and ensuring that we continue to maximise our potential in our existing customer base.
We have had an encouraging start in North America, but Europe continues to be challenging.
Although the UK has had a poor start to the year, our Benelux business, which is the first unit to have implemented our operating model in its entirety and has now had stable systems and processes for the last six months, has seen sharply increased revenues and profitability.
In Aggreko International, the Local businesses in the Middle East, Singapore and Australia have all had a good start to the year, as has our International Power Projects business, which has recently signed contracts in a number of new countries in Africa, Asia and South America.
The prospect pipeline for new power projects is strong, and military revenues in Aggreko International continue to run at similar levels to 2004 with no indication of a reduction in the short term.
10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
