Chairmans statement During a year when most airline companies suffered a fall in returns or in some cases registered losses, easyJet was one of the very few which increased profit before tax and earnings per share by 20.8% and 25.5% respectively.
Passenger numbers and load factors also increased, as the Chief Executives report shows.
At a time of intensifying competition, this performance serves to underline the inherent strength of easyJets business model.
Despite those results, complacency can never be a feature of our business and we are dealing with five key challenges.
The first of these, affecting all airlines, is the price of oil which constituted some 14% of our costs for the year ended 30 September 2004.
To offset this, we are concentrating both on operating the most fuel efficient aircraft and reducing costs elsewhere.
However, easyJets returns will be adversely affected if there is not some abatement of the price of oil during the coming year.
Increased competition, the second challenge, continues and all of our planning assumes that this will be sustained for the foreseeable future.
We will continue to offer an attractive product to our marketplace and, as these results have demonstrated, many people have a preference for our combination of price, frequency, on time performance, convenient airports for both departure and destination, modern equipment and courteous and efficient staff.
easyJet has benefited from remarkable rates of growth since its beginnings.
The Chief Executives report emphasises our attention to developing new destinations and intensifying operations in these.
Aligning the rate of growth of our capacity to the clear market opportunities is the third of our major challenges.
Our fourth key issue is volume.
With the number of passengers we now fly, any small movement in revenue per passenger can have a significant effect on our results.
Unrelenting attention to cost reduction and revenue enhancement are the watchwords of easyJet in meeting this challenge.
Judging the levels of external influences, which are out of our control, can be difficult and, as a consequence, while easyJets performance showed a clear improvement on last year, it was not as good as we had originally hoped for.
We strive to keep shareholders informed of change and believe this is our fifth challenge.
2 Annual report and accounts 2004 There have been two notable changes in the composition of the Board of Directors in this financial year.
Nick Hartley decided to step down from the Board in August having served easyJet from its inception.
Nick was a significant contributor to the Boards deliberations and we miss his experience and wise counsel.
We were delighted to welcome Dawn Airey, the Managing Director of BSkyB Networks as a non-executive director.
Dawns creative talent and consumer understanding are already evident and fit well with a Board whose members have a balance of expertise and experience relevant to easyJet.
Despite the trading conditions faced by all airlines, easyJet has performed creditably and this would not have been possible without the efforts of our hard-working and committed staff.
To all of them, I offer many thanks from the Board you are much appreciated.
Looking ahead, the fundamental task is to continue to develop and maintain a growth business.
I have great confidence that this will be achieved.
Sir Colin Chandler Chairman 22 November 2004 Annual report and accounts 2004 3
