Chairmans statement In the year ended 31 March 2004, EMI maintained momentum and delivered good results in a marketplace that has continued to be extremely challenging but in which we see many exciting opportunities.
We delivered full-year sales and operating profit EBITA close to last years level while the global market declined by almost 6% in the same period.
This achievement demonstrates the strength of both our recorded music and music publishing businesses.
Encouragingly, we have seen some signs of improvement in the industry with several important regions, such as the US and UK, returning to growth.
There were notable signs that the steps we have taken to contain piracy in general, and illegal downloading in particular, are having a positive impact.
At the same time, legitimate digital music such as downloads and mobile ring tones became a meaningful revenue stream in the year.
We have continued to strengthen and improve our business, aggressively Eric Nicoli pursuing the range of emerging revenue streams and driving greater efficiencies in Chairman the more traditional parts of the business.
Through our operational discipline over the past year, we maintained our overall EBITA margin and substantially improved our cash flow.
EMI Group For the Group as a whole, turnover of 2,120.7m compared with 2,175.4m last year.
At constant currency, turnover declined by 1.4%.
On a reported basis, turnover declined by 2.5% with the adverse impact of the weaker US Dollar marginally outweighing the benefit of the stronger Euro.
Share price performance The Group saw successes from its artists and songwriters throughout the 12 months to 31 March 2004 world, with notable results for artists such as Norah Jones, Coldplay, Chingy and % Robbie Williams and songwriters such as Alicia Keys, Pink, Cathy Dennis, Jay-Z and Eros Ramazzotti.
EMI FTSE 250 rebased Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation EBITA was FTSE Media Sector rebased 249.3m compared with 254.7m last year.
At constant currency, EBITA declined by 0.8%.
Return on sales increased to 11.8% from 11.7% in the 300 prior year.
250 The Group is reporting operating exceptional costs totalling 138.3m for the 200 year.
This charge comprises several elements with the most substantial being 150 our recorded music divisions restructuring of some of its labels and artist rosters, particularly in Continental Europe.
100 50 The Group is also reporting a non-operating exceptional charge of 16.5m.
Mar Apr Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar As recently announced, our recorded music division is starting to outsource 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 04 04 04 the manufacture of its products in Europe and the United States.
This withdrawal from manufacturing results in a charge of 45.5m.
This is partly offset by gains related to the sales of several properties made throughout Total shareholder return the year.
12 months ending 31 March 2004 % The net result after taxation, amortisation and exceptional costs and minority interests was a loss of 71.6m compared to a profit in the previous year of 234.2m.
225.8 Last years figure included an exceptional after-tax profit of 189.6m from the sale of HMV Group plc shares while this years included significant exceptional costs.
Through effective cash management the Group delivered a substantial improvement in cash flow for the year which enabled us to end the year with net borrowings 111m 13% below the previous years level, even as we invested in building our business.
63.0 54.3 On a per share basis, adjusted earnings improved to 15.8p from 15.6p in the prior year.
On a fully diluted share basis, adjusted earnings were 15.5p.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per share, maintaining EMI FTSE FTSE a full-year dividend of 8.0p per share.
This results in a dividend cover very close 250 Media Sector to our target of two times.
Source: Datastream 2 Recorded music Our recorded music division delivered another year of solid performance, with increasing market share and with operating margins holding firm despite the difficult trading conditions in most regions of the world.
This years results are further evidence that the strategy and approach outlined by Alain Levy and his team in March 2002 are effective.
By delivering high-quality music in a range of formats that appeal to consumers, EMIs recorded music division achieved sales of 1,722.8m.
At constant currency, sales were 2.0% lower for the year while the industry saw a decline of 5.6%.
Operating profit EBITA was 147.4m compared to 151.1m last year.
At constant Nat King Cole currency, EBITA was 1.9% lower.
Operating margins were maintained even as we continued to invest in artist development and technology.
Our North American business was a key driver of the divisions improvement, with numerous creative successes from artists such as Norah Jones, Chingy, Joss Stone and Keith Urban and a substantial improvement in profitability for the year.
Music publishing Our music publishing division has once again generated strong results, overcoming the pressures from the recorded music industry.
EMI Music Publishing produced sales growth of 1.1% at constant currency.
Taking into account currency movements, sales were just 0.8% lower.
Martin Bandier and his team continued to drive the business aggressively, seeking out new revenue streams and additional uses of the songs contained in our impressive catalogue.
The business achieved growth in performance and synchronisation revenues that more than offset the Cliff Richard downturn in mechanical revenue.
Operating profit EBITA was 101.9m compared to 103.6m in the prior year.
This decline was entirely driven by currency movements.
At constant currency, EBITA increased by 0.7%.
In April 2003, we acquired 30% of the Jobete song catalogue, increasing our stake to 80%.
In April 2004, we acquired the remaining 20% stake for US$78.3m.
The full ownership of this impressive collection of Motown classics makes our outstanding publishing catalogue even stronger.
Further strengthening our company We have undertaken several significant initiatives during the year to strengthen The Beatles Queen the company, increase flexibility and position ourselves for the future.
At the Group level, under the leadership of CFO Roger Faxon, we successfully restructured our debt, completing a programme in October that diversified our sources of funding and extended debt maturity.
The strong acceptance of our debt offerings in the market demonstrated the financial communitys appetite for our credit and confidence in our disciplined approach to managing the business, now and for the future.
Our music publishing divisions reorganisation programme announced earlier in the year included headcount reductions and an increased focus on technologies that provide more automation and efficiency.
Music Publishing also recently Rolling Stones announced a new management structure for its Continental European business that brings to the centre proven leaders.
Our recorded music division initiated two important strategic moves at the end of the year to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
The first involves outsourcing our manufacturing in Europe and the United States to third parties.
The second involves restructuring some record labels and the artist roster, with a particular emphasis on Continental Europe.
These two initiatives together will deliver annualised savings of at least 50m, with 25m of that to be realised in the current financial year.
Duran Duran Tina Turner We are also investing in a technology change programme that will not only upgrade our information systems but will make us increasingly digital in how we operate, both internally and externally.
This effort will yield further significant annualised savings.
3 Apple Corps Ltd All of these steps are aimed at improving our agility and effectiveness in an ever-changing and challenging environment.
We recognise that we must work relentlessly to enhance our capabilities and approach our market both aggressively and progressively.
We have seen change in our Board membership over the year.
In November, we announced that Sir Dominic Cadbury would be retiring from the Board and that John Gildersleeve would succeed him as Deputy Chairman and Senior Nonexecutive Director on 28 February 2004.
In April, we also saw the addition of Sly Bailey as a Non-executive Director.
I would like to thank Sir Dominic for his commitment to the company and his invaluable guidance and wise counsel over the past six years.
We are delighted that John and Sly have come on to the Board.
Simon Rattle John brings a wealth of experience from his years at the highly successful Tesco and, with her media background and leadership of Trinity Mirror, Sly has developed a true appreciation for balancing creative freedom with commercial discipline.
Expanding opportunities In years to come, I believe that we will look back at 2003 as the year that saw legitimate digital music take off.
Downloading became a compelling consumer proposition in the spring of 2003 when Apple launched its iTunes Music Store in America, which sold more than 70m songs in its first year of operation and, at its current rate, is selling 170m songs on an annualised basis.
A variety of other companies have now begun selling downloads either on a pay as you go basis Beastie Boys Blur or as part of a subscription service.
Music and mobile phones also came together in some innovative and exciting ways this year with products such as musical ring tones and ring tunes.
Consumer demand in this area has been strong and growing, particularly in Asia and Europe.
At a Group level, we generated over 15m in sales from digital music products of all kinds in the financial year just ended.
Month-on-month growth has been accelerating during the year and we anticipate continued attractive growth.
EMI, as a progressive music content company, is committed to embracing and profiting from changes in technology and consumer trends.
We are highly encouraged by the breadth of activity and energy focused on developing the digital world.
This was also the year when we saw evidence that our efforts to fight piracy were making a difference with the levels of online piracy in the US lower by year end.
The theft of our content remains widespread, however, so we are continuing to deploy a variety of measures that have proven successful.
Robbie Williams Of course, these good results and our sustained progress would not have been possible without the support of all of our stakeholders.
In particular, on behalf of the Board, I want to pay tribute to the extraordinary dedication and commitment of my EMI colleagues across the Group and to the remarkable creative accomplishments of the artists and songwriters associated with our company.
The global music industry continues to undergo unprecedented change.
Our efforts to contain piracy are having a positive impact and we are experiencing exciting growth in legitimate digital music.
For the first time in several years, there are encouraging signs of market improvement, particularly in the US, the worlds largest music market.
While some regions remain difficult, we expect the overall global market to perform better this year than last.
Having gained market share and invested for the future, and taking into account our release schedule and savings programme, we view our prospects for the year ahead Coldplay Norah Jones with confidence.
