02 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Chairmans statement 01 Peter Brooks Chairman 01 Operating profit is stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Like-for-like operating profit requires prior year operating profit to be further adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange.
See other unaudited information on page 67.
Diluted EPS adjusted for the EPS effect of goodwill, exceptional items and deferred tax.
Introduction Joseph Ross, latterly Chairman Dividends We have a number of strong and CEO of Federal Signal European brands including I am pleased to present our The Board has previously stated Corp, a US safety products Merrychef and Convotherm annual report for the 53 weeks its intention to restore the and signalling equipment where recent and continuing ended 2 October 2004. payment of dividends when it manufacturer, also joined our investment will help reinforce is financially prudent to do so.
We are and build their market positions.
This year we have built on the To enable this to happen, already benefiting from his We plan to rationalise progress made last year.
certain shareholder and court wise counsel.
manufacturing and reduce consents have to be obtained Adjusting for the effects our cost base at a number of We are pleased to welcome to approve a corporate of foreign exchange rate under-performing European them both to our Board.
restructuring of the Group to movements, Food Equipment businesses, which will give create distributable reserves.
like-for-like operating profit rise to an exceptional charge Eryl Morris served on the Board We will commence the was up 10%.
for six years and on behalf of necessary process in 2005, my colleagues, I would like to Profit before tax improved incurring exceptional costs of In Q105 we expect to see thank him for his significant by 9.4m to 25.3m FY03: approximately 2m.
Reflecting increased like-for-like turnover input and contribution.
15.9m as interest and the significant progress of the compared to Q104 particularly exceptional items were Group, it is now the Boards in Food Service Equipment Employees significantly below last year.
intention, in the absence of North America, our largest We acknowledge that without unforeseen circumstances, to business.
The associated Profit after tax increased our 6,000 employees worldwide reinstate dividends in 2006. contribution will be offset by 34.5m to 44.0m we can achieve little.
They have by increased investments in FY03: 9.5m.
23.9m of this Outlook worked with considerable product development and improvement arose as the commitment to achieve our marketing along with materials We expect the momentum result of a significant deferred goals.
I would like to take this cost increases not passed on we have gained over the tax credit.
This led to a basic opportunity to thank them all by our price rise, effective past year in our US food EPS of 11.0p compared to for their endeavours throughout January 2005.
We expect lower service equipment market to 2.4p last year.
sales in Q105 in Food Retail due continue into next year.
We are diluted EPS was 8.6p to customers project delays.
Corporate governance with a large number of chain On balance, for the full year We have made further, The Board continues to aspire customers, who are particularly we expect our underlying substantial progress in reducing to high standards of corporate interested in our Accelerated performance in operating net debt, with the period end governance.
Our corporate Cooking Technology products profit and net debt in FY05, a figure of 91.3m being 35% governance report on pages and systems.
52 week period, to continue to lower than at the last year end.
27 to 29 describes how the demonstrate steady progress.
As previously signalled, we Group has applied the principles Board changes are experiencing significant of good governance set out in Conclusion increases in materials costs the Combined Code issued in Eryl Morris retired as a resulting in further headwinds In the last two years we have June 1998.
The Group is not non-executive Director at the in FY05.
In Food Service concentrated on positioning required to comply with the last Annual General Meeting.
Equipment North America the Group for the economic revised Code published in July He has been replaced on the we will continue to mitigate the recovery that is now 2003 until its financial year Board and as Chairman of our additional costs through further materialising in our North ending in September 2005.
Audit Committee by Michael price increases and continued American markets.
We are However, as our report shows, Arrowsmith, who until August focus on our lean operations now focused on our top line.
we have already taken further this year had spent over five and cost saving initiatives.
steps towards compliance so years with Tibbett & Britten We have enhanced our financial In Food Service Equipment that we expect to report that Group plc, an international flexibility by reducing debt and Europe Asia we saw some we meet the requirements of logistics and supply chain refinancing the senior portion.
inflation this year, and do the revised Code in our next management company, initially We enter FY05 with confidence not expect the same rate of Annual Report.
We are also in as CFO and more recently that we will achieve our increase in FY05 as will be compliance with those sections as CEO.
It will of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act made a major contribution to be more difficult to pass on that are applicable to us.
the Board and to the Audit cost increases in Food Retail Committee, a particularly as the market continues to demanding role in these times.
