CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT Highlights 2004 2003 change Turnover 174.7m 158.9m 10% Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items 28.0m 21.3m 31% Profit before tax 20.5m 7.4m 177% Adjusted diluted earnings per share 26.7p 20.5p 30% Earnings a share 18.2p 4.6p 293% Dividend 15.00p 14.75p 2% Net debt 62.5m 67.1m -7% The profits of many of the groups publishing our company reported a profit before tax, businesses fell due to weak advertising revenues and Ygoodwill amortization and exceptional items of the decline in the US dollar.
However, advertising 28 million in the year to September 30, against revenues showed signs of recovery in the second half 21.3 million for the previous 12 months.
Adjusted and there was a continued strong performance from diluted earnings a share were 26.7p against 20.5p the events and training businesses.
After a first in 2003. half improvement in profits of 1.9 million to The directors recommend a final dividend of 10p, 11.1 million, second half profits rose 4.8 million against 9.75p, making a total of 15p, against 14.75p to 16.9 million.
Full year revenues were 10% ahead of last year at Profit before tax was 20.5 million, against 174.7 million, compared to a 5% increase at the half 7.4 million, and earnings a share increased from year.
The weak US dollar has had a significant impact 4.6p to 18.2p.
The average dollar rate for the year was 1.81 against 1.61 in 2003, a 12% depreciation.
Second half performance improved on the first, with a This reduced revenues by 14.5 million.
better than expected increase in revenues.
September in particular was a strong month and accounted for a third of the years profit.
Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and recorded in the group profit and loss account and notes 2 and 10.
02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC In general, the groups traditional financial advertisers publishing fell over the year, but increased in the have been slow to increase their advertising spend in second half.
Gulf, the Houston-based energy publisher, spite of better market conditions.
Financial advertising the legal publishing business, and Engel, the revenues, excluding Hedge Fund Intelligence HFI, fell pharmaceutical marketing publisher, all experienced 4%.
Institutional Investor was the only major title to a strong second half advertising recovery.
increase advertising revenues over the year although Euromoney, with its best September issue for five The conference businesses had an excellent year, years, saw a marked improvement in the second helped by a better than expected contribution of half.
Both titles were helped by strong performances 1.8 million from Information Management Network from emerging markets, particularly Eastern Europe IMN.
Excluding IMN, conference revenues increased and Asia.
In contrast, the recovery in advertising from 25% and profits rose 3.5 million to 10.2 million.
the key London and New York financial centres has Euromoney Conferences was the best performer, been slow.
increasing profits through a combination of expanding existing events and the launch of new The weakness in advertising meant that profits from ones, particularly in Asia.
Euromoney Seminars and financial publishing excluding HFI fell by 1 million.
Institutional Investor Memberships also had good years.
However HFI, acquired in August 2003, has performed Adhesions profits increased as a result of a good well ahead of expectations since acquisition through contribution in the first half from the biennial Vinisud a combination of strong organic growth across all its wine exhibition.
products, and the launch of new events and its US hedge fund magazine, Absolute Return.
As a result, The results of the last three years have demonstrated HFIs profits have exceeded the level necessary to the value of conference businesses, particularly ones trigger the maximum deferred consideration under that are predominantly sponsor-driven, as a more the acquisition agreement and a final payment of robust revenue stream than advertising.
This has 5.5 million will be made in January 2005. reinforced the groups strategy of expanding its portfolio of market-leading annual events through Profits from business publishing increased 0.9 million despite a 2 million fall in revenues.
Most of the improvement came from the reduction in losses at Business Traveller following its restructuring in 2003.
Advertising revenues from business Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and recorded in the group profit and loss account and notes 2 and 10.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 03 CHAIRMAN S ST A TEMENT continued a mixture of organic and acquisition growth.
The Stronger emerging markets helped ISI, the electronic acquisition of IMN in February 2004 was part of that information service on emerging markets, to one of strategy and IMNs performance since acquisition has its best sales periods for several years.
IMN is the world leader in revenues increased by 14% and in October 2004 events for the securitization and indexation sectors.
annualized ISI subscription revenues passed $20 It made a profit of 1.8 million on revenues of million.
This revenue growth is gradually translating 5.9 million in the seven months since acquisition, and into profit growth despite the weak US dollar.
During traditionally makes more than 60% of its profits during the year, ISI expanded its service to cover a further the groups first half.
The next deferred consideration 15 countries, bringing the total to more than 60, with payment under the acquisition agreement is due in nearly 9,000 information sources now available to March 2005 and is expected to exceed $8 million.
In October 2004 ISI acquired the Business Intelligence division of Liquid Africa in South Africa to The groups training businesses also had an excellent help accelerate the development of its Africa-oriented year, continuing the growth begun in 2003.
It continues to seek other acquisitions.
businesses benefited from continued investment in new courses and marketing to increase delegate Net debt at September 30 was 62.5 million against numbers.
Revenues increased by 11% to 22.1 million, 67.1 million a year before, partly due to the fall in and profits improved nearly 1 million to 4.9 million.
The groups strong operating cash flows The financial and legal training businesses depend helped finance a net spend of 16.9 million on heavily on the performance of the global and emerging acquisitions during the year.
The groups debt funding market financial institutions.
Both have increased is provided through a bilateral facility arranged by its hiring and training budgets during the year which, parent company, Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
This combined with an improved travel outlook, have facility, which was due to expire in 2005, was renewed helped trading conditions.
after the end of the year for a further five-year term.
Profits from databases and information services increased by 0.6 million to 3.4 million.
The groups capital market databases, run as joint ventures with Dealogic, continued to grow despite tough markets.
The groups weekly financial newspaper, Euroweek, is working closely with Dealogic to launch a new database for the securitization market, as well as other news products.
04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC During 2004 the group has made further progress with not seek re-election at the AGM.
Jaime Gonzalez its strategy of driving profit improvement through a was appointed a non-executive director of the mix of organic growth, new business investment, and Company on November 23 2004.
He is Chairman acquisitions, while maintaining tight control of costs and CEO of American Orient Capital Partners, an and focusing on high margin products.
The acquisitions investment and financial advisory firm based in of HFI and IMN made a significant contribution to the Hong Kong covering the Asia Pacific region.
He groups increase in profits in 2004.
At the same time, will strengthen the groups growing Asian presence.
the more favourable trading conditions enabled the group to step up its investment in new products.
The new financial year has begun well.
That cannot be Launch costs of more than 1 million were charged relied upon as a guide to the first half, but in spite of against profits.
The benefits of this investment, and the the weak dollar the directors are confident about the contribution from high growth businesses such as ISI, groups ability to deliver further growth.
HFI and IMN, will form the base for stronger organic growth in 2005 and beyond.
Our people worked hard during the year to generate such improved results.
I thank them on your behalf The groups strategy was developed with the goal of as well as mine and wish them an exciting and more than doubling profits to 50 million over the prosperous year.
To support this demanding performance target, the Remuneration Committee has proposed a new equity incentive scheme to replace the Companys existing Executive Share Option Plan.
The Padraic Fallon Committee will consult shareholders and the ABI over Chairman this proposed new incentive scheme in December, with November 23 2004. a view to seeking approval for its introduction from shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on February 1 2005.
Gerard Strahan, who has been a director for more than 15 years, during which he has made an outstanding contribution to the growth of both Euromoney Seminars and Coaltrans, will retire from the board in December.
John Bolsover has previously indicated his intention to retire as a non-executive director and will Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment and exceptional items as set out and recorded in the group profit and loss account and notes 2 and 10.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 05
