06 01 Keeping Chairmans statement Financial and operational highlights our cool The safety and security of passengers and and goodwill amortisation, have again increased In March, we announced a number of changes Turnover up 8% to 2,479m with strong underlying cash generation that to simplify reporting lines and strengthen the staff is of paramount importance to the has enabled us to invest a net 197m in the Board by the appointment of Dean Finch as Group.
Buses and trains remain among the 1 business through capital expenditure and Commercial Director and David Leeder as safest methods of surface transport, and Adjusted earnings per share up 2% to 27.3p acquisitions whilst continuing with our Director, UK Bus.
Dr Mike Mitchell, previously we will strive to ensure that we use every progressive dividend policy and share buy Chief Operating Officer UK, becomes Business opportunity to improve our performance Dividend per share up 6% to 11.65p back programme.
Change Director and will step down from the wherever possible.
Board later in the year prior to his retirement in The new cooler units we fitted on our Turnover has increased to 2,479m 2003: 2005.
Iain Lanaghan, currently Finance Director, I am pleased to report another year of excellent Group return on capital employed 12% First Great Western fleet of High Speed 2,291m and profit before tax, goodwill will step down from the Board at the end of progress across all divisions.
All of our new Trains HSTs ensured that both our amortisation and exceptional items increased May and will leave the Group later in the year.
businesses have performed ahead of our 1 engines and our passengers remained North America US Dollar operating profit to 161.3m 2003: 159.8m.
This result is He will be succeeded by Dean Finch.
I would cool, despite soaring temperatures expectations confirming our ability to make impressive, as we have absorbed some 32m like to thank Mike and Iain for their contribution last summer.
This, together with earnings enhancing acquisitions and integrate up 15% strong growth continues of additional costs and subsidy reductions in to the Group and wish them every success for improvements in our maintenance and manage new businesses effectively.
Adjusted basic earnings the future.
systems, ensured that we achieved turnover and profit before tax, exceptional items record levels of service reliability, giving per share has increased to 27.3p 2003: 26.8p UK Bus revenue up 5.4% further growth a new lease of life to the HST units, and the Board has proposed a final dividend, We have a strong and dedicated workforce and in London and urban areas which continue to be the most subject to approval by shareholders, of 7.9p once again I would like to thank them for their successful diesel trains ever produced, making a full year payment of 11.65p, an hard work and commitment delivering another and form the backbone of our First increase of 6%.
The dividend is covered 1.9 set of good results for the Group.
UK Rail First Great Western passenger Great Western fleet.
times and will be paid on 27 August 2004 to shareholders on the register on 23 July 2004.
We will continue to increase shareholder value income up 8% by expanding our businesses in North America 2004 2003 The Groups strong financial position is and the UK through a combination of organic underpinned by an investment grade BBB growth and acquisitions.
We are extremely Yellow school buses are part of the Group turnover m 2,479.0 2,291.0 stable credit rating from Standard & Poors.
pleased with the performance of our North fabric of society in North America.
1 Seeing the Group operating profit m 204.1 216.1 In December we successfully issued a 250m American operations and confident about the A tried and tested product which 1 parents know they can rely on to 15-year bond, which was substantially prospects for growth in this very large and Profit before tax m 161.3 159.8 get their children safely to and from oversubscribed, to improve our debt maturity fragmented market.
Our UK bus business Profit on ordinary activities after tax m 92.2 97.6 school.
We are the second largest profile and reduce bank debt.
The Group now continues to generate significant cash flow 1 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 27.3 26.8 operator of school buses in North whole picture has, on average, 250m of unutilised bank and we anticipate further growth in London America and now we are bringing borrowing headroom.
Basic earnings per share pence 22.3 23.4 and other cities where we are able to work them to the UK a proven concept Our new integrated control centre at helps to keep trains running on time.
with local authorities to manage traffic Dividend per share pence 11.65 11.0 which can help reduce traffic Swindon not only lets our managers Improved co-ordination means A number of strategic acquisitions and congestion.
In UK Rail, we will continue to bid 2 congestion from the school run and EBITDA m 307.1 315.3 view the status of all the trains in problems can be solved more quickly franchise wins took place during the year which for new franchises in order to create a strong increase the safety and security of the Great Western Zone, but also and passengers are kept informed 3 Interest cover 7.2x 5.6x strengthened the Groups core businesses.
portfolio of railway operations and we are our children.
improves the liaison with Network with up-to-the minute information.
In July we acquired a North American transit encouraged by the opportunities for further Rail and other rail contractors.
By This model can be rolled out to 1 business which complements and extends our expansion in the rail freight market.
Before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and profit on disposal of fixed assets, as shown in the consolidated working together, we are able to deliver improved integration across profit and loss account on page 36 existing operations in this sector.
In August we 2 ensure a seamless operation that other parts of the railway network.
Group operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, plus depreciation acquired GB Railways Group Plc, which gives 3 2 Calculated as EBITDA divided by net interest payable and similar charges before exceptional items us an entry into the growing rail freight market Operating profit m Turnover m through GB Railfreight, and into passenger operations on the East Coast Main Line Martin Gilbert UK Bus 111.2m UK Bus 906.2m through Hull Trains.
On 1 February 2004, we Chairman UK Rail 49.8m UK Rail 945.0m commenced operation of the TransPennine North America 63.5m North America 620.7m Express passenger rail franchise for eight years Operating profit referred to in this statement and with an option to extend for a further five years.
in the Chief Executives review and Financial On 1 April 2004, we took over the franchise to review refers to operating profit before goodwill run suburban services from London amortisation and exceptional items.
Paddington, as First Great Western Link.
Operating profit in UK Rail is stated after charging the finance cost of assets, which is implicit in the operating lease rentals, whereas UK and US Bus operating profits are stated before finance charges.
Interest costs, as disclosed in note 6 to the accounts, were 42.8m.
