Chairmans statement As anticipated, turnover and profits for the Group declined as a result of weak capital goods markets, particularly in Logistex and Energy Technology, together with significant cost increases for insurance and US medical benefits.
Nevertheless I am encouraged by progress made in the year, especially on debt reduction, where cash Keith Orrell-Jones Chairman generation activities have significantly strengthened the balance sheet.
02 FKI plc Annual report 2004 The strategic review actions announced in January are Reflecting the Groups underlying performance, the Board has well underway, operating cash flow is strong at 108% of proposed to pay a final dividend at 3.0p per share, bringing the underlying operating profit, net debt reduced significantly total for the year to 4.5p per share, the same level as last year.
to 349 million and the operating profit is in line with I am pleased to say that FKI already complies with most of expectations.
the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Conditions across FKIs markets have been highly variable over Governance.
Where the Group is not fully compliant, the last year as a result of weak demand in many of the explanations have been provided.
countries where the Group operates.
In addition, the significant During the year we announced the appointment of Charles movement of sterling against the US dollar and the euro has Matthews as a non-executive director.
In November 2003, adversely affected the translation of results, as have significant John Rodewig retired as a non-executive director and we cost increases for insurance and US medical benefits.
As a thank him for the contribution he has made to the Board.
consequence, turnover and profit for the year declined.
John Biles, who has been Finance Director since January 1998, I am encouraged, nevertheless, by progress made in the will be leaving the Board to take early retirement on 30 June year, especially on debt reduction, where cash generation and in his place Neil Bamford has been appointed Finance activities have significantly strengthened the balance sheet.
Steve Jones, who joined the Board in April 1998 as Other important achievements include further reductions in Director of Corporate Planning and has been Managing Director the underlying cost base, identification of surplus property of FKI Logistex since 2002, resigned from the Board on 1 April assets, improved pensions management, introduction of an and will be leaving the Group shortly.
I would like to take this upgraded risk management process and the clarification of opportunity to thank John and Steve for their valuable the Groups strategy.
More detail is given in the operating contributions to FKI over a number of years and to wish them and financial reviews.
FKI Logistex, in particular, experienced very difficult The Board and I would also like to thank employees for conditions in most of its markets leading to orders, sales and their contributions in an extremely difficult economic profits being below expectations.
In contrast, Lifting Products environment.
As explained by the Chief Executive in his and Services markets stabilised and turnover and profits review, we have a clear strategy for the future and the improved compared with last year.
New housing starts in management is confident that the Group is well placed to North America reached a ten year high, boosting orders for benefit from improving market conditions.
window and door hardware although reduced demand for other Hardware products, combined with the weakening of the US dollar, held back Hardwares overall performance when translated into sterling.
Energy Technology experienced mixed markets with demand for turbogenerators recovering later in the year resulting in turnover and profit being slightly below Keith Orrell-Jones Chairman last years levels.
03 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Chairmans statement
