Chairmans Statement 2004 proved to be a challenging but successful year.
The Groups trading performance in the first half of the year was lower than in the previous year but, as forecast, the second half reversed that trend.
Underlying total operating profit grew 6% to 59.9m 2003 56.6m.
Group turnover increased by 4% to 162m 2003 156m : profit before tax, before exceptional items, increased by 3% to 49.9m 2003 48.6m and underlying earnings per share increased by 2% to 71.7p 2003 70.4p.
Basic earnings per share amounted to 72.6p 2003 81.4p.
Strategically, progress was made both in ports Property At the end of 2004, we announced the and property.
We acquired a 50% shareholding The property division improved its operating appointment of Morag McNeill to the position in Multi-Link Terminals Limited MLT, our first profits before exceptional items by 11% with of Group Company Secretary.
We made good progress the sale of further residential plots at Granton to us from McGrigors, the respected Scottish in property, delivering growth in operating and Western Harbour.
Infrastructure work at legal firm, where she was a Partner specialising profits through our residential sales programme Western Harbour and Granton increased in in corporate law.
and creating a strong platform for the creation scale during 2004 and this is set to continue of long-term value through the work carried out into 2005 and beyond.
Following approval by Shareholders in 2004 on the Leith Docks Development Framework at the Annual General Meeting, a new Save project LDDF.
Throughout last year, discussions took place As You Earn Share Option Scheme SAYE with City of Edinburgh Council the Council Scheme was successfully introduced.
This Dividend on the LDDF project.
Following an extensive resulted in over 60% of our employees applying The Directors propose a final dividend of 26.6p consultation process, the Council approved for 575,000 shares under the SAYE Scheme.
per share giving a total dividend for the year the LDDF plan as Supplementary Planning of 39.9p, an increase of 10%.
This reflects Guidance SPG on 10th February 2005.
We are extremely grateful to all who work for the confidence of the Board in the Groups The effect of this is to rezone the dock estate Forth Ports for their efforts and contribution prospects and takes account of the increase in Leith for mixed-use development.
We will over the last year.
in value year on year in the Groups property be developing proposals for phases of the assets which is not necessarily reflected in LDDF this year to ensure that development Outlook the accounts.
The final dividend, if approved is carried out in line with market demand.
Trading within the ports division is in line with by the Shareholders at the Annual General We have already applied for outline planning our expectations for the first two months of the Meeting, will be paid on 13th May 2005 to all for Waterfront Plaza, the earliest of the LDDF year and ahead of the same period last year.
shareholders on the register at 15th April 2005. development sites.
With the benefit of the Stora Enso contract commencing in July, we expect good growth Ports The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre continued in our ports business overall this year, with the The ports business recovered from a slow to improve its performance.
Twelve new tenants timing weighted to the second half.
Property start and achieved a marginal improvement in opened during 2004.
Footfall rose substantially sales in 2005 will be concentrated on fewer operating profit over the previous year.
Tilbury and further lettings should be progressed sites than last year and will be dependent again produced an excellent performance.
The overall value of the Centre on obtaining appropriate planning approvals: Although the Scottish Ports performed in line has increased by 25m over last year.
As a if these are delayed then this will affect the with the previous year, there was a downturn result, the temporary diminution in value which timing of property profits but not the realisation in piped cargo with its consequent effect on was recorded in December 2002 has now of property value.
Overall, 2005 should be marine and towage income.
This resulted in been reversed as the investment has been another year of successful progress.
a lower than expected performance from the revalued at a premium to the original cost.
People Over the last two years, the Scottish Ports Sandy Morrison, our Personnel Director, will be business has seen major changes to the retiring at the Annual General Meeting in May accounting and navigation functions.
A further after twenty one years with the Company.
We Christopher Collins review was carried out during 2004 within thank him for his outstanding contribution over Chairman marine which has resulted in a more cost this period and wish him well in his retirement.
The full benefits 21st March 2005 should be seen in 2005.
4 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 Three business drivers.
Business improvement processes are helping to deliver greater efficiency, productivity and customer satisfaction.
Project Enterprise has established Forth Ports PLCs leadership in technical innovation in the handling of paper products in the modern supply chain.
The Edinburgh waterfront is integral to the growth plans of the City.
Underpinning Edinburgh Forthside is the support of Edinburghs local and wider community including Scottish Enterprise and the City of Edinburgh Council.
Forth Ports are committed to the development of Edinburgh Forthside and will seek to ensure a sustainable development is created for the future, giving rise to economic growth and employment in the area.
Our 50% shareholding in Multi-Link Terminals Limited represents our first overseas investment.
This joint venture allows us to diversify into a trading area which is familiar to us and offers attractive growth prospects.
