08 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Chairmans Statement The merger of Securicor and the security businesses of Group 4 Falck was completed on 19 July 2004.
The proposed merger was first announced in February I am delighted that Grahame Gibson became an Board changes 2004 and it was completed within five months, a huge executive director on 1 April 2005.
Grahame joined It was stated at the time of the merger that I would tribute to the commitment and determination of those Group 4 in 1983, since when he has enjoyed a wide retire in September 2005 and that my successor as within Securicor and Group 4 Falck who worked on the range of senior management experience within the chairman would be appointed on the recommendation transaction, and to the efficiency and professionalism of security industry.
of the companys Nomination Committee.
It was the various teams of professional advisers.
I thank them further announced that Nick Buckles would succeed All the directors, except for Lars Nrby Johansen, are all for their hard work.
Lars Nrby Johansen as chief executive at the required to stand for election at the annual general appropriate time.
This first set of published results of Group 4 Securicor meeting on 30 June 2005.
Biographical details of the is unfortunately not straightforward, due to the merger directors are on page 29.
The board has determined that, with the businesses having taken place mid-year.
In accounting terms, Group 4, performing well, integration on track and the new Sir David Gore-Booth, who had joined the Group 4 which was what remained after the Falck businesses management team working together successfully, Nick Falck board in 2000 and then came onto the Group 4 were demerged from Group 4 Falck at the same time Buckles should assume the chief executive role this Securicor board, died in October 2004 after a long as the merger with Securicor, is treated as having summer.
It has therefore been agreed that Lars Nrby illness.
David was a colourful and forthright individual, acquired Securicor, and thus the statutory results of Johansen will step down as chief executive and leave extremely knowledgeable, and a fine contributor to the group for 2004 include a full years trading of the the board after the annual general meeting on 30 June.
security businesses of Group 4 Falck but, in respect of Lars was one of the main architects of Group 4 the Securicor businesses, only the trading from 20 July Securicor.
I have, as chairman, found him a most inspiring Staff tributes the first day the Group 4 Securicor plc shares were and visionary chief executive and it has been a privilege This group is all about people.
Around the globe, listed to 31 December 2004.
As this would give an to work with him.
His creativity is outstanding and is our employees are our ambassadors I am extremely incomplete picture of the trading in 2004 of all the envied by many.
He leaves the company in a healthy and proud of all of them, and grateful for their efforts.
businesses comprised in the new group, we have prosperous position and we wish him continued success Many of them frequently have to work at unsocial included on pages 43 and 44 unaudited pro forma in whatever he decides to do in the future.
hours, such is the nature of the security business.
This shows what the results would To all of them, I extend my best wishes and sincerest have looked like if the merger had been completed at Colin Sharman, joint deputy chairman and senior thanks for their friendship and support.
the beginning of the year and will thus act as a more independent director, has already announced that he useful indicator of likely future performance.
too will step down from the board later this year.
Future prospects He has a number of other high-profile directorships We have established a solid base for future and feels it is impossible to do adequate justice to Results development and we expect continued good progress them all.
I thank him warmly, in The figures I refer to in this section are taken from in 2005. particular for his help with the merger negotiations, the pro forma financial information for the reason and we all wish him well for the future.
Given the changes referred to above, the board believes Profit before interest, taxation, amortisation and that it would be beneficial for me to remain on the exceptional items was 218.9m, derived as to Jrgen Philip-Srensen board for longer than was originally envisaged and they 154.5m from manned security, 28.6m from security Chairman have asked me to stay, as chairman, until the annual systems, 59.6m from cash services and 2.4m from general meeting in June 2006.
The board has agreed, discontinued operations, less head office costs of 26.2m.
following a recommendation from the Nomination The overall profit margin on sales from continuing Committee, that I should then be succeeded as chairman business was 5.7%.
by Alf Duch-Pedersen who is one of the two deputy chairmen.
Alf was a non-executive director of Group 4 Dividend Falck from 2000 until the merger and he is currently The directors recommend a final dividend of 1.85p or chief executive of the Danish company, Danisco A S, DKK 0.1981 per share, payable on 12 July 2005. a position from which he will retire in August 2006.
09 A solid base for future growth We have established a solid base for future development and we expect continued good progress in 2005.
