CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder, your Companys progress since the of the Bakkavr offer, the Board has Geest had a very busy year with a beginning of 1996 when Geest sold agreed that a special dividend of number of notable successes and its banana interests.
At that time, 7.0 pence is paid to all shareholders Gareth and Mark report on this on Geest set out its intentions very clearly: on the register at close of business page 4 onwards.
Going into 2005, on 12 May 2005. people continue to demand more fresh... we will continue to work, in close prepared foods, we have gained partnership with our customers, our Bakkavr understands the industry new business and our improvement employees and our suppliers, to and its dynamics very well and wants programme continues to create valuable strengthen our position as a leading to own the business for the right reasons.
I believe that the actions we producer of fresh convenience foods.
In this light, we aim to continue to work took to manage intensive price pressure We will have achieved that by striving in partnership with our customers mean that Geest is in good shape.
to improve still further the quality both and suppliers and continue to set high of our product and our service: and standards of practice in the communities As we announced on 8 March 2005, by a policy of constant innovation in which we operate.
your Board has recommended that in response to changing consumer shareholders accept the cash offer tastes and needs.
Source: Geest Finally, the Board would like to thank from Bakkavr Group hf Bakkavr Annual Report and Accounts 1996. our people for these achievements of 655 pence per share, plus a special and, particularly, for their commitment dividend payment, valuing the issued I believe we have achieved that and in the past year, which was the most share capital of the Company at 485 the table below charts our performance challenging one we have faced.
Our experience of Bakkavr over since then.
Board has been reassured that Bakkavr the past few months has convinced the is committed to Geest employees and Board that they share our commitment to We grew our total shareholder return their values and to realising the long Geests vision and we believe that, TSR between 1 January 1996 and term potential of the business.
under their new ownership, the Geest 31 December 2004 by 345% a business will continue to thrive, compound annual growth rate of 18%.
Yours sincerely, providing high quality, fresh, nutritious In terms of TSR performance, this result food which allows busy people to eat puts us in the top 15% of companies of well, whilst saving time and effort.
the FTSE All Share Index for that period.
We also increased our enterprise value This is likely to be the last report by this by over six times.
Board to our current shareholders and, in keeping with Geests reputation for I would like to thank you, our openness and accountability, I would shareholders, for supporting the Sir John Banham like to take this opportunity to review Company with confidence.
As part Chairman % Compound annual 1996 2004 growth rate Group turnover 401.5m 830.6m 9.5% Group operating profit 15.0m 36.4m 11.7% Basic earnings per share 16.2p 34.2p 9.8% Enterprise value 87m 558m 22.9% Before exceptional costs At beginning of year HOT, COLD, SWEET, SAVOURY, HEALTHY, INDULGENT, SNACK, MAIN MEAL, ACCOMPANIMENT, SPECIAL OCCASION...
