CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT JOHN ROBINSON, CHAIRMAN THE PAST FOUR YEARS HAVE BEEN YEARS OF REMARKABLE GROWTH FOR GEORGE WIMPEY I am delighted to be able to announce yet that these actions have placed George Wimpey another year of further progress and record in a stronger position from which to respond to financial results for George Wimpey Plc.
the changing conditions we have experienced since the UK housing market started to slow The past four years have been years of during the second half of 2004.
In the UK our remarkable growth for George Wimpey, four focus on cost control and careful land buying years in which we have taken a number of will help us sustain the improvement we have important management decisions to secure the achieved over the past few years in our long term success of our business.
Our US business, Morrison Homes, has achieved an excellent growth performance in recent years and has been steadily building its position to take advantage TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN of the strong market conditions in the US.
Our scale and diversity provide us with opportunities to rebalance our business GEORGE WIMPEY PLC PEER GROUP FTSE 250 interests so we can take advantage of strengths in different markets.
This will ensure we achieve 400 the Boards key objective of delivering value for our shareholders.
300 GROUP RESULTS Despite the slower market conditions experienced in the UK during the second half 200 of the year, the Group achieved a further significant improvement in financial 100 performance and indeed delivered profits which exceeded market expectations at 0 the time of our interim results, despite the subsequent market downturn.
Although Group turnover increased by only 4% to 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 3,005.7 million, profit before tax rose by 19% to 450.7 million.
uk 5 5 In July 2003, the Board stated that it believed EXTERNAL BENCHMARK shareholders should benefit more fully from the improvement that has been achieved in the Companys performance and that it GEORGE WIMPEY HAS TOP DECILE CORPORATE therefore proposed increasing the dividend ahead of growth in earnings per share for a GOVERNANCE ASSESSMENT AND IS NEAR THE TOP period of time.
Although the strong market we have seen in the UK over the past few OF ITS SECTOR.
IT HAS POSITIVE GOVERNANCE years is unlikely to continue in 2005, the Board believes the underlying strength of the MOMENTUM, ALSO AT THE TOP END OF ITS SECTOR business gives it the confidence to continue this policy.
It is therefore proposing an increase of 28% in the final dividend to 10.8 pence per share.
This follows a 37% increase in the interim dividend announced in July.
If approved at our Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2005, this would bring the total dividend for the year to 16 pence per share, a rise of 31% on 2003, and dividend cover FROM BEYOND THE NUMBERS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN THE UK DEUTSCHE BANK FEBRUARY 2004 would remain secure at 5.1 times based on 2004 earnings per share.
The Boards proposal would mean dividends per share would have more than doubled in the past four years.
shareholders to take advantage of this service the stronger end of our expectations.
We are CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND THE BOARD where possible.
Full details are set out in the currently operating from 12% more outlets We continue to strive to act as a responsible Form of Proxy.
than at the same time last year.
Pricing has company and achieving the highest levels of been broadly stable, with the use of incentives corporate governance remains a priority for I was delighted to welcome Peter Redfern to generally below the levels seen last autumn.
the Board as an Executive Director in October.
I am therefore pleased to report Peter took over responsibility for the total UK that in a recent survey Deutsche Bank judged The outlook in the US remains strong.
Visitor George Wimpey to be in the top 10% of housing business at the beginning of this year levels and selling rates are both ahead of the and the Board has been delighted with the the FTSE 350 companies in its Corporate same period last year.
We have the land in Governance standards.
I am also very pleased way in which he has established himself in place to support continuing strong volume this demanding role.
His operational to be able to state that throughout 2004 the growth in 2005. knowledge will play a vital part in ensuring Board operated in full compliance with the Overall, the Group remains well placed Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
that the Boards broad spread of knowledge through the actions of recent years to and experience is used to best effect in During the year our Corporate Social respond to the needs of its markets in 2005.
Responsibility Committee has overseen the providing support for our businesses.
CSR activities of our companies to ensure we EMPLOYEES respond appropriately to the global challenges On behalf of the Board I would like to offer of delivering sustainable development.
sincerest thanks to all our employees in the UK and the US for their continuing hard work.
I can also report that I led a comprehensive review of the performance of the Board and It is their dedication and enthusiasm that underpin our future success and I am proud of the Board Committees during the year.
Not only does this process enable me to of their commitment to making sure our business remains a real leader in our sector.
ensure each Board member is able to bring to our Board any ideas or experiences gained OUTLOOK from other Boards but it also enables me to At the time of writing this report, after only ensure each Board member is able to seven weeks of trading, it is premature to contribute in full.
draw rm conclusions on the market outlook In line with best practice, we are introducing a in the UK, especially with a general election facility to allow shareholders to register proxy expected in the spring.
However, visitor votes electronically this year.
I would like to levels and interest in this period have been John Robinson take this opportunity to encourage encouraging and reservations have been at Chairman
