48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:17 PM Page 1 1 2 Go-Ahead is one of the UK's leading providers of passenger transport management services operating in the bus, rail, parking and aviation sectors.
Employing over 19,000 staff across the country, around 700 million passenger journeys are undertaken on its services each year and customers include Transport for London, BAA, major airlines, local authorities and the Strategic Rail Authority.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS % FOR THE YEAR 2004 2003 INCREASE Turnover including joint ventures m 1,244.0 1,102.0 12.9 Total operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill charges m 95.7 70.2 36.3 Profit before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and tax m 91.3 65.5 39.4 Adjusted earnings per share pence 110.3 78.9 39.8 Dividend per share pence 38.0 25.0 52.0 FIVE YEAR RECORD 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Turnover m Profit before tax Adjusted earnings per Dividend per share before exceptional share pence pence items and goodwill charges m 546.7 588.4 948.9 1102.0 1244.0 40.4 43.0 49.4 65.5 91.3 56.8 64.3 59.7 78.9 110.3 13 15 17 25 38 48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:17 PM Page 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 3 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Continued I am pleased to report on another very successful year for the modified depots and equipment, staff training and support.
The THE FUTURE OF RAIL MANAGEMENT AND STAFF group.
Turnover for the year to 3 July 2004, including share of London-based bus businesses are acquiring additional, substantial Go-Aheads strategy mirrors the concepts of value for money Every business is dependent for its success on the people who joint ventures, has increased by 13% to 1,244 million 2003 - depot properties across the boroughs in which they operate, and modernisation implicit in the recently published Rail Review.
Our management teams have again turned in an 1,102 million.
Profit before exceptional items, goodwill and tax and existing depots are being refurbished to improve After transforming the operations and finances of Thames Trains, excellent performance and I thank them and their staff for their charges is 91.3 million 2003 - 65.5 million.
Earnings per share maintenance facilities.
Go-Ahead is well-placed to capitalise on Go-Ahead was disappointed that another group was able to bid sterling efforts.
the continuing expansion of TfL contracted services.
These and win that franchise, principally because of its existing operation With the pending departure of Martin Ballinger, the board believes additional depot facilities will underpin the high level of quality After such a good year, it is with great regret that we approach of the complementary and competing Great Western railway.
that a further executive appointment should be made and I am and reliability achieved by Go-Ahead in London.
Other Gothe intended retirement of the chief executive, Martin Ballinger.
With the exception of Heathrow Express and some small Virgin delighted to announce the appointment of Keith Ludeman, our Ahead bus companies in the south are also investing in new and No-one, and I include even Martin, could have foreseen that operations, all services using Paddington station are now under chief executive rail, to the main board with effect from 3 refurbished depot facilities.
when a small bus company came to the market in 1994 its share the control of that one group a principal objective of the SRA.
September 2004. price would have risen more than ten times over the succeeding Commissioning 740 new trains for our Southern franchise is in However, that same policy should be very encouraging for 11 years.
His leadership has been inspirational, not least because itself a huge task, and is further complicated by the necessity to Go-Ahead in bidding for the Integrated Kent franchise.
he recognised that in the transport business success comes from rebuild train maintenance and stabling facilities, some of which PROSPECTS appointing excellent people to each of the businesses, and giving have been untouched since electrification in the 1930s.
Project Our bus services continue to reach high operating standards.
AVIATION SERVICES them real day-to-day responsibility for managing that local expenditure of almost 1 billion is being managed by Southern Our investments in infrastructure, training and management business.
To do so, accepting that there will be failures as well as through this fleet introduction, in addition to the 0.8 billion In the face of growing competition putting pressure on margins, development will enable us to stay at the top of the league.
Our successes, is the mark of an exceptional manager.
We shall miss investment being managed by Network Rail for the upgrade of airlines continue to seek to reduce unit costs.
Ground handling experience and qualifications in the rail business, and those of him, and his humour.
the power supply in the area.
Since on-train equipment is now costs are a significant element in the airlines cost structures and our partner in Govia, will ensure we continue to be a serious computer-controlled we are having to re-train staff in 21st accordingly Go-Aheads aviation services business, aviance, is Using external consultants, the nominations committee put in competitor for commuter rail franchises.
Our investment in cab simulators is a key step affected by these pressures, which has contributed to an overall place a rigorous selection process to find Martins successor.
Although we continue to experience a difficult aviation services in the training programme.
We will need to complete our depots disappointing result.
However, aviance has been successful in Chris Moyes, the group deputy chief executive, was the market, the achievements of recent months gives aviance the project and raise the experience and awareness of operating staff maintaining its revenue base by replacing lost business with new successful candidate, and we are sure that under his leadership potential for growth in the future.
before the benefits of the new trains can be fully realised.
contracts and it is also currently negotiating a further five year the group will continue to build on its record of success.
The new financial year has started well, and we have confidence contract with bmi, aviances principal customer.
The Heathrow focus Your board continues to pursue a progressive dividend policy, in the future performance of our businesses.
of this business is crucial for aviances long term development.
proposing a final dividend of 27p per share 2003 18p, QUALITY OF SERVICE As part of the acquisition of the GHI business in 1997, aviance payable on 26 November 2004 to shareholders on the register With these major projects, and ongoing renewals and acquired a 50% joint venture with Virgin Aviation of the at the close of business on 22 October 2004.
The total dividend Sir Patrick Brown maintenance of the track and signalling, service disruption is Heathrow-based cargo handler, Plane Handling Limited Plane for the year will then be 38p 2003 25p, reducing the Chairman inevitable.
Later this month, Go-Aheads Thameslink franchise will Handling.
Although principally concerned with handling Virgin dividend cover to 2.9 times adjusted earnings, in line with our lose its ability to operate any service between St Pancras main Atlantic cargo, Plane Handling is a major force at Heathrow and, stated policy of progressive convergence with the transport line and Kings Cross Thameslink stations because of work on the together with aviance, can offer an incomparable service to 2 September 2004 sector peer group average.
Channel Tunnel Rail Link CTRL.
This situation will continue for airlines using Heathrow.
The south east Airports review supports This year has again seen continued focus on our growth markets several months.
global growth forecasts in showing continued international in London and the south of England.
Contracts with the Strategic Go-Ahead believes that expenditure and disruption on the scale airfreight expansion, particularly from the Far East.
With much of Rail Authority SRA and Transport for London TfL, and the of Southern and Thameslink can be justified only on the that growth carried in the cargo holds of wide-bodied passenger upsurge in public transport use in London and the south, have all assumption that future traffic flows will be substantial.
Hence the jets, and with the freight forwarding sector clustered around contributed to improved profitability from this sector.
The aviance groups stated intention to continue to bid for rail franchises in Heathrow, aviance has long recognised Plane Handling as a key business has continued to suffer from the difficulties currently the south east.
We have long experience in operating high link in its Heathrow-based strategy.
After numerous discussions being experienced by all suppliers of services to airlines.
volume commuter services, and sharing the pain and frustration over the years, aviance is therefore pleased to announce the However despite a disappointing financial result there have been of passengers as antiquated facilities are upgraded.
That acquisition of the remaining 50% shareholding in Plane Handling some notable achievements, including progress in negotiating experience should be an asset in our bidding for further for a cash consideration of 20 million from Virgin Aviation and a longer term contractual changes with customers and employees commuter franchises where the modernisation needs are no less five year deal to continue to provide cargo handling for Virgin.
which improve the stability of the business environment.
and traffic volumes are high.
Despite these moves to improve the stability of the business, our Where flows are lower, the bus comes into its own.
Far more recent experience has led us to downgrade our forecasts to SAFETY flexible and less expensive to operate, the bus is not stranded by below the levels expected when we acquired the bmi business track and signalling problems.
Additional services can be just before September 11 2001.
As I said last year, we are guided throughout our businesses by implemented and withdrawn as the need arises, without knockthe principle that those we serve have a right to expect us to The consequence of this is recognised in the annual goodwill on effects across swathes of the network.
Bus staff training is take proper care of them and their property.
We will continue to impairment review, which has resulted in the group fully writing quicker and much less expensive.
Vehicles can be acquired with monitor, improve and audit our safety procedures, assisted by down all of the remaining aviation services goodwill, amounting short lead times.
But the bus relies on imaginative policies from external support, throughout all levels in our group.
to 67 million, in the financial statements for this year.
local authorities to ensure there is adequate bus priority, We are therefore pleased that TfL bus contracts are requiring Meanwhile, Meteor Car Parking has also experienced the preventing the bus from being mired in road congestion.
Brighton One-Person-Operated buses in place of the existing London turbulence going on in the world of air transport.
With car & Hove, Oxford, Crawley and London have all shown what can Routemaster buses.
The Routemaster, designed fifty years ago, parking contracts in principal airports, Meteor has repositioned be done by implementing imaginative bus priority schemes.
with its open platform, offers no restraint to passengers alighting itself to take advantage of the changes in the airport car parking Authorities in the Poole Bournemouth conurbation have a similar between stops or accidentally falling off, and has a current dismal business.
Particularly relevant to these changes was the groups opportunity part of the reason for our acquisition of the Wilts record of assaults on conductors.
The replacement of this acquisition of Chauffeured Parking Services at Heathrow in June and Dorset Bus Company Wilts & Dorset.
obsolete bus type will significantly improve the safety and security this year.
The service will be rolled out elsewhere in due course.
of London bus passengers and staff.
Meteor continues to work with the groups railway management THE FUTURE OF TRANSPORT Equally, on our Southern railway franchise, continuing to develop more secure and profitable car parks at Southern and replacement of the Mark 1 slam-door railway carriages by stock The recently published White Paper recognises the importance Thameslink stations.
Meteor has also become involved in revenue fitted with power operated sliding doors will be a major of the bus.
In the context of corridors that cannot support the checking and security on some Southern railway services.
Its contribution to passenger safety.
Together with the fitting of the costs of modernising and maintaining a railway, the White Paper undoubted expertise in car parking and security has resulted in Train Protection and Warning System TPWS, replacement of recognises the potential for local authority control over such rail Meteor being awarded several contracts outside its core the outmoded rolling stock is a huge, long-overdue improvement replacement services.
Elsewhere, it is clear that partnerships businesses in airport and rail.
between bus operators and authorities are the preferred options very much in line with Go-Aheads approach.
The long-term concept of road pricing accords with Go-Aheads INVESTMENT thinking it is wrong in principle for scarce capacity to be used Investment in safer types of transport is obviously a priority, but inefficiently, particularly at peak times.
it is not the end of the story.
New vehicles require new and
