GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 45 Chairmans Statement Tasty.
Derek Netherton Chairman I am pleased to report another year of good progress, based on our proven business strategy and values.
Both our brands achieved healthy like-for-like sales growth, contributing to improved operating margins, while costs were again well controlled.
This enabled the Group to deliver its thirteenth consecutive year of profit, earnings and dividend growth.
Results Dividend The 2004 financial year comprised the 53 weeks to 1 January 2005 The Board recommends a final dividend of 66.0 pence per share 2003: 52 weeks to 27 December 2003.
Together with the increased interim dividend for the period increased by 10.3 per cent to 504 million of 30.0 pence, paid in October 2004, this makes a total for the 2003: 457 million.
Adjusted to a comparable 52 week basis, year of 96.0 pence 2003: 80.0 pence, a rise of 20.0 per cent.
the total sales increase would have been 8.4 per cent.
Operating We have increased our dividends to shareholders every year profit grew by 14.0 per cent to 44.7 million 2003: 39.2 million, since the company floated in 1984, and the compound rate of with a 0.3 percentage point improvement in operating margin growth over this period has been 18 per cent per annum.
reflecting our core volume growth and effective cost management.
The Board is committed to a progressive dividend policy and, This more than offset continuing pressure from increasing wage in view of the Companys consistently strong cash generation, costs.
Because of shop holiday closures, inclusion of the 53rd week believes that it is likely that dividends will grow faster than had a small negative impact on operating profit.
earnings over the next few years.
After increased net interest receivable of 2.0 million 2003: Subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting, the final 1.3 million, pre-tax profit rose by 15.3 per cent to 46.7 dividend will be paid on 27 May 2005 to shareholders on the million 2003: 40.5 million.
Basic earnings per share grew by register at 29 April 2005.
Net cash in the balance sheet at the year end was 62.6 million, compared with 36.4 million at the end of 2003.
Sometimes its nice to indulge in pure pleasure and we are proud to have harnessed best practice from across our regional divisions to create the ultimate doughnut.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 67 Chairmans Statement continued Sweet.
Business highlights People Our sustained success in the bakery-related takeaway food market The business depends on all our people working together to deliver reflects our clear, specialist focus and further improvements in our great products and excellent customer service each day.
Our good products, shops and service.
These have been complemented by results testify once more to the strength of their individual commitment successful, national brand marketing initiatives which are helping us and the effectiveness of their teamwork.
On behalf of the Board, to achieve growing customer awareness of our consistent quality and I would like to express our thanks for all that they have achieved value.
We also benefited from more favourable weather patterns during the year.
Mike Darrington provides a more detailed Prospects commentary on these and other trading and business development issues in his Managing Directors Report on pages 9 - 15.
During 2005 we plan to accelerate both the opening of new shops and the refurbishment of established outlets.
We will be supporting The Board this retail development with substantial investment in our manufacturing Julie Baddeley, 53, joined the Board as an additional Independent facilities, including the construction of a new savouries plant in Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2005, and has also become Newcastle upon Tyne.
As a result, capital expenditure is budgeted a member of the Boards Audit, Remuneration and Nominations to rise to nearly 50 million for the year.
Julie is a non-executive director of Yorkshire Building Trading in the current year has started satisfactorily, with like-for-like Society, Computerland UK and the Pension Client Group within the sales in the year to date increasing by 5.2 per cent.
Selling price Governments Department of Work and Pensions.
She previously inflation, which was 2.4 per cent at the end of 2004, is expected to held senior executive roles at Accenture, Sema Consulting and trend upwards as we seek to recover further substantial increases in Woolwich plc, where she was a main board director responsible for wage costs.
We also face a significant rise in energy costs in the second Information Technology and Human Resources.
Her extensive half, following the end of our current long-term supply agreement.
experience in these areas complements the existing strengths and Despite these pressures, I believe that the Group is well equipped to skills of the Board, and is expected to enable her to make a valuable make further progress during the year.
Derek Netherton Chairman 14 March 2005 At Greggs we aim to source the very best ingredients to ensure our customers enjoy the highest quality products.
