Ralph Bernard CBE Executive Chairman Executive Chairmans statement This year GWR has produced excellent results.
Our hard work to implement structural changes and Our hard work has systems improvements during the difficult times of the advertising recession is paying off as the market begun to pay off as the recovers, and GWR has outperformed the industry.
UK Revenues are up by 8.8% to 125.6 million and market recovers and profit before tax and amortisation has virtually doubled to 17.1 million.
Our balance sheet is GWR has outperformed markedly stronger too.
Following the disposal of our remaining overseas interests and the sale in May 2004 of our stake in Radio Investments Limited, the industry our debt is now at its lowest level for 5 years.
This strong progress makes it possible for the Board to recommend an increased dividend of 6.3p per Profit before tax has share, an increase of 8.6%.
virtually doubled We can look forward to the future with confidence, because the strength of our brands in analogue radio is matched by our leading position in digital radio.
Among other achievements during the year, we have formed a powerful relationship with BT Wholesale, announcing in May 2004 that we would work together to develop the Livetime datacasting operation pioneered by GWR.
With sales of digital radios now well past 500,000 units, the value of the Groups first mover advantage is now becoming clear.
Financial Results UK revenues improved, up by 8.8% compared to last year, from 115.5 million to 125.6 million.
Following the sale of our remaining overseas operations, 98% of our revenues this year came from the UK.
The Groups total revenues for the year were 128.7 million 2003: 127.1 million.
Underlying operating profits were up by 24% to 20.7 million 2002 03: 16.7 million.
The underlying operating profit margin, excluding digital investment, improved from 19.7% to 22.3%.
Profits before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were up 99.5% to 17.1 million 2003: 8.6 million.
Exceptional items produced a profit of 4.1 million, mainly from sale of Vibe Radio Services Limited.
03 GWR Group plc Executive Chairmans statement Annual report and accounts 2004 Our improved profitability owes much to the restructuring of the Local Radio Group LRG management into functional streams, separating programming and content Creation from sales Opus.
This change enhanced our ability to react quickly to changing market conditions.
We also benefited from the decision to concentrate resources on the six LRG stations most demanded by advertisers.
The focus on improving breakfast audiences the key revenue earning segment saw LRGs breakfast audience improve by 3.9% Executive Chairmans in the most recent RAJAR Radio Joint Audience Research Limited audience figures, for the January statement to March quarter of 2004.
Industry awards have also confirmed the improved quality of GWRs programme content, with a Gold and Silver continued Award at the 2004 Sony Radio Academy Awards.
LRG contributed 69.3% of the Groups revenues during 2003 04.
During the year, our debt reduced by 35 million Classic FM has seen strong growth in advertising to 64.6 million, resulting in a saving to the Groups sales and sponsorship during the second half of the interest charge of 1.9 million, mainly by the sales of year.
This revenue was up by 16% year on year in the our investments in various overseas and non-core UK six months to 31 March 2004, with a rise of 2.3% for assets.
Since the year end, the disposal of our stake the year overall.
The principal reason for this was the in Radio Investments Limited has reduced debt to return to the market of strong brand names from 54 million.
the retail, motor and finance sectors.
Encouragingly, Classic FM audience growth has also been strong, Headline earnings per share for the year were with its national market share rising quarter on up 67% to 8.0p 2003: 4.8p.
During the advertising quarter from 4.3% to 4.5% in the RAJAR quarter 1 downturn the Boards policy was to maintain the 2004 figures.
The station overtook Kiss FM and Magic level of the Companys dividend, consistent with to reach the third largest commercial audience in its confidence in GWRs future.
This year, as the London, giving it a London market share of 5.4%.
advertising market has begun to recover and GWRs performance has confirmed its resilience, Classic FM has also won a number of awards for the the Directors have decided to recommend a final quality of its programming during 2003 04, including dividend of 4p, giving an increased total dividend a Silver Sony Award, and was named Media Brand for the year of 6.3p.
of the Year by Marketing Week.
It is increasingly successful across other media as well as radio, UK Analogue Radio with Classic FM TV now attracting a significant In a generally improved advertising market, our audience and the CD and publishing operations analogue business has performed strongly, delivering well supported.
Classic FM contributed 21.9% of the an advertising revenue increase of 8.4%, ahead of Groups revenues during 2003 04. the 7.8% achieved by the radio industry as a whole.
National radio revenues which account for 51% Digital Radio of our total revenues rose by 8.7%, while local radio The last year has seen an acceleration in the revenues increased by 7.9% year-on-year.
These development of digital radio.
The number of digital results reflect the operation of our new inventory receivers in use reached 500,000, and the Digital control systems, which moved airtime into the more Radio Development Bureau forecast that figure to profitable national revenue sector through the reach 1,000,000 by December 2004.
There are now year, and our new dynamic pricing system which more than 25 manufacturers selling over 75 models improved yields.
of DAB Digital Audio Broadcasting receivers.
Listener numbers were sufficiently large to be included for the first time in RAJAR results, with Planet Rock achieving a weekly reach of 242,000.
We are now generating advertising revenue from our digital channels for the first time.
Our digital businesses generated revenue of 8.1 million this year 2002 03: 6.5 million, an increase of 24.1%.
04 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Reflecting the strategic importance we see in digital The Board radio, our overall net investment in digital radio in Over the past year the Board has been considerably 2003 4 including Livetime was 5.5 million 2002 03: strengthened by the addition of two experienced 4.7 million.
Excluding Livetime, our investment in non-executives.
In November, Alastair Ross Goobey digital radio fell by 0.4 million to 3 million, as a CBE joined as Senior Independent Non-Executive result of the growth in our multiplex profits exceeding Director and Deputy Chairman Designate.
the increase in our broadcast investment.
As Chairman of the International Corporate Governance Network and a past Chief Executive After the end of the reporting year, GWR and BT of Hermes Pension Fund Management Limited, Wholesale announced that they would work Alastair brings a considerable understanding of together to launch the digital datacasting system corporate governance to the Board.
developed by GWR as the Livetime project.
GWR has licensed its datacasting activities to BT Wholesale In January, Patricia Hodgson DBE was appointed to and is investing a further 2.75 million over 18 months the Board.
With a career spanning senior positions in in exchange for a share of revenues over 30 million the BBC, the Monopolies and Mergers Commission per annum.
This caps GWRs datacasting investment.
and the Competition Commission, and most recently The first revenue share is expected in the year as Chief Executive of the Independent Television ending March 2007, with a projected pre-tax Commission, she brings an in-depth knowledge of revenue share in excess of 5 million by the year broadcasting, government and regulation to GWR.
ending March 2008 if the business plan expectations are met.
These additions to the Board, and a number of improvements we have made to the manner in The new venture will source and deliver multi-media which the Board operates have brought us much content to mobile phones and similar devices using closer to the standards expected of companies by the data carrying capacity provided by the Digital the new Combined Code.
We are committed to One national digital radio spectrum.
Datacasting further progress during the current year.
should also speed up significantly the growth in the number of devices capable of receiving digital Outlook radio broadcasts.
GWR, as the holder of the prime GWR is now a streamlined and efficient business.
assets in digital radio, will derive the most benefit Forward bookings are stronger than last year, and from this.
in April UK advertising revenues were up 10.5%.
May revenues are forecast to be up 2.5%, in line with our Regulation expectations.
The Board expects the Group to show In December we welcomed our new converged continued improvement in its revenue and profit regulator, Ofcom.
Ofcom has begun its work by performance over the coming year.
consulting extensively on many aspects of its principles and operations, and GWR has responded constructively and in detail.
We hope that Ofcom Ralph Bernard CBE will promote the economic efficiency of our Executive Chairman industry by operating with a light touch and encouraging self-regulation, as was promised 26 May 2004 when it was established.
The Communications Act relaxed the ownership restrictions for radio stations, introduced the 2 BBC local ownership rule, and allowed one company to own more than one national commercial radio service.
This simple and effective regime was unfortunately complicated by the introduction late in the legislative process of a plurality test.
In addition, as we reported in the last Annual Report, in April 2003 GWR was prevented from owning Galaxy 101 in the west of England by a ruling from the Competition Commission.
These developments have cast some uncertainty over the prospects for consolidation in the industry, and we look forward to clarification of the regulatory position.
Underlying results exclude goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
This presentation is used to provide a normalised picture of the Groups earnings, making year on year comparisons more valid.
Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with the definition by the UK Society of Investment Professionals in their Statement of Investment Practice number 1 see note 10 to the financial statements.
The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance came into effect in July 2003 and applies to UK listed companies for reporting years commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
05 GWR Group plc Executive Chairmans statement Annual report and accounts 2004
