HALMA Chairmans Statement... no shortage of ideas, determination or actions... Geoff Unwin, Chairman In my first year as Chairman of Halma, I am delighted to announce record profit before tax of 50.3 million.
Observations from a new Chairman However, before turning to more of the headline numbers, I thought it might be useful, as a new boy to the Group, to share some of my initial observations, and to glimpse behind the scenes at some of the issues we have been tackling.
 one of the top performing stocks on the London Stock Exchange over 20 years, its management style and the robustness of demand for its products even under difficult market conditions.
My induction into the Group, guided by DavidBarber, wasexemplary.
, askwhatever I wished, yet was always available to discuss, debate and question what I had observed.
Over the first few months I visited operations accounting for about half our profits.
I saw companies both large and small: some fighting in tough markets, many successful the picture became clearer.
The strengths were evident: demand related to health and safety provided a driver or at least support to demand.
high market shares gave some protection to pricing.
autonomously run companies gave clarity of responsibility and ownership of performance.
high returns on sales and capital.
a track record of which to be proud.
many truly excellent and dedicated people.
see Financial Highlights 4 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Chairmans Statement continued HALMA However, over the last few years, performance as measured by our high historic standards had not moved ahead as we would have wished.
This was undoubtedly due, to a certain extent, to the tough economic conditions we have seen recently, but had other factors crept in that were holding us back?
Our Response This was the question that was posed to the Board and senior management.
Extremely thoughtful answers came in followed by very lively debates no factor remained unexamined, no cow, sacred or otherwise, undisturbed.
Work was accelerated on a number of potential bottlenecks: management: much strengthening from both within and outside and training programmes increased.
knowledgetransfer: without destroying the foundations of autonomy.
reducedspanofcontrol: remarkably, senior management felt they could be more effective if they had fewer companies to manage and could therefore implement necessary change faster.
sales: for tackling new markets across the Group.
innovation: to get improved or new products to market, faster.
resource allocation: the beginnings more to come of a more rigorous allocation of resources capital and management to higher growth areas.
This year we have made three non-core disposals.
Have the actions on these issues had some effect on performance?
However, what is undeniable is that the results from these actions are due to the hard work and single-mindedness of the management team together with the dedication from all our employees towards our customers.
The Results Profitbeforetax , alsoarecord, increased by10%to9.44p.
Returnoncapital was52.4%andnetcashattheyear end was 22 million.
Turnover grew by 9% to a record 292.6 million.
During the year we disposed of three businesses deemed to be non-core, and shortly after the year end acquired Diba Industries, Inc. strengthening our position in the life sciences market, and Ocean Optics, Inc. extending our optical technology.
see Financial Highlights Halma p. l. c. 2004 5 Chairmans Statement continued HALMA Prospects There is no shortage of ideas, determination or actions and these should show through next year, as they have this year, in our results.
We continue to focus on those areas that are clearly under our control or influence, notwithstanding that there is still little evidence of any significant uplift in our markets.
