02 Alliance UniChem Plc Chairmans statement We accelerated our rate as the year progressed Overview and financial results This excellent financial performance has Board and organisational changes The Group performed strongly throughout been largely achieved through organic At the beginning of December, Ian 2004, accelerating our rate of earnings growth, an ongoing focus on margin Meakins joined the Group and Board as growth as the year progressed.
management, cost control, interest rate Chief Executive, having previously been Profit before tax, amortisation of management and working capital President, European Major Markets intangible assets and exceptional items efficiency, and the profitable reinvestment and Global Supply for Diageo plc, the increased year on year by 20.1% to of free cash flow to expand the Group.
worlds largest premium drinks business.
252.0 million b371.7 million, extending Ian succeeded Stefano Pessina, who Our wholesale division performed well, our track record of delivering record returned to his previous role as Executive both Northern and Southern European results, year after year.
Our key profit Deputy Chairman with operational regions reporting higher operating measure, diluted earnings per share before responsibility for strategic development, margins and operating profits, despite amortisation of intangible assets and including acquisitions, a position he held regulatory changes in a number of exceptional items, increased by 17.0% prior to becoming Chief Executive.
Trading performance in our retail to 48.2 pence 26.3% after amortisation of division was excellent, with a significant I shall retire from the Board at the intangible assets and exceptional gains, increase in sales, operating margins and conclusion of the Annual General Meeting the fastest annual rate of growth since the profits.
The performance of our associates in April 2005, but will continue to oversee Company floated on the London Stock particularly benefited from the inclusion the Groups interests in ANZAG, our Exchange in 1990.
Cash generation from of Andreae-Noris Zahn AG ANZAG German associate.
I am delighted operating activities was again strong, in Germany, an associate since late that Paolo Scaroni, an independent particularly in the second half of the year.
January 2004. non-executive Director since December Working capital efficiency gains totalled 2002, has agreed to succeed me as approximately 39 million over the course Dividend Chairman and I wish him every success of the year.
The Board is recommending a final in his new role.
dividend of 12.25 pence per share, making a total dividend for the year of 18.50 pence Geoff Cooper, Deputy Chief Executive, per share.
The proposed final dividend is resigned from the Board in July, when the 11.4% higher than the 2003 final dividend, decision to appoint Ian Meakins was the total dividend for the year being up finalised and he left the Company at the 10.8%.
The proposed final dividend will be end of the year.
I would like to thank paid on 10 May 2005 to shareholders on Geoff for his significant contribution to the the register at the close of business on development of the Group.
The Board will, as in previous years, offer shareholders a share alternative.
03 Alliance UniChem Plc Jeff Harris Chairman 24 February 2005 of earnings growth Our people Since the year end, we have taken a Outlook The key to our success is the skills and number of significant steps to develop Our 2004 results demonstrate that we have expertise of the people working the Group.
been able to step up our profit growth.
I continue to be The regulatory outlook for 2005 appears In February 2005, we announced that we impressed by their commitment, providing stable, although we forecast market are to expand our Spanish wholesale our customers with consistently high levels growth overall to be slightly lower than business through the acquisition of of service, while at the same time in 2004 as a result of the UK price cuts Farmacen, a regional wholesaler with launching new commercial initiatives, announced in November.
Current business strong market positions in the Madrid and increasing productivity and improving performance, together with the steps that Seville regions.
Farmacen had sales in 2003 working capital efficiency.
I take this we continue to take to improve and of around 184 million b272 million opportunity to thank them all, on develop the Group organically and by way and is being acquired at a cost of around behalf of shareholders, for their work of acquisition, make us confident about 33 million b48 million, including debt during 2004. our commercial and financial prospects assumed as part of the acquisition.
Strategy and corporate development The transaction, which is conditional The overall strategy of the Group remains upon receiving various regulatory unchanged, the success of which is approvals, is expected to be completed demonstrated by our long established by the end of April.
track record of delivering strong earnings Also in February we announced that we per share growth, which has accelerated are to restructure our relationship with during 2004.
Galenica, our 25.5% owned Swiss associate, In late January 2004, the Group purchased to create greater focus on our respective 19% of the equity of ANZAG, the third areas of expertise.
As a result, the Group largest wholesaler in Germany, for a will increase its direct ownership in consideration of 41.7 million b60.5 million, Alloga, one of Europes leading specialist taking our shareholding to 29.99%.
healthcare logistics and prewholesaling During the year, we disposed of a number providers, from 20% to 100%, with the of small businesses in the UK which were exception of the Swiss part of the business not part of our core wholesale activities which will be fully acquired by Galenica.
Ownership of Alloga gives us an enhanced platform to accelerate the provision of In our retail division we added a net 90 services to healthcare manufacturers across pharmacies to our portfolio, of which six Europe.
In addition, we are to sell our 50% were in associates, bringing our retail direct interest in the GaleniCare Swiss portfolio to 1,182 pharmacies at the year pharmacy chain to our partner, Galenica.
end, including 107 operated by associates.
This reflects our lessening involvement in GaleniCares Swiss-based management, as the business has become fully established.
This transaction, which is conditional upon receiving various regulatory approvals, is expected to be completed by the end of April and result in a net cash inflow of around 20 million b29 million.
