Chairmans statement These results reflect the continued The premium wine brands also performed Others have also recognised our progress transformation of Allied Domecq into strongly with profits up 13% in spite of in this area: for example, we continue a business that can drive sustained brand the challenges facing the wine industry to lead the beverages sector in the growth and improving earnings.
This has in some markets around the world.
We Business in the Community Corporate been achieved against a background continue to benefit from the diversity that Responsibility Index.
of challenging economies and adverse our broad geographic portfolio brings and It has also been an excellent year for foreign exchange movements.
Reported from the strength of our brands and our our Quick Service Restaurants business, earnings per share grew by 7% but on sales and marketing capabilities.
The key drivers have constant currencies, earnings per share portfolio has also benefited from innovation been strong like-for-like growth through were up 16%.
This is the fifth year of with the introduction of new brands and innovation and new store openings.
Same earnings growth since the sale of the brand extensions.
We are confident that the store sales growth at Dunkin Donuts UK pub business in 1999.
Over this time, business remains firmly on track to meet has continued to outpace the industry, earnings per share have grown by almost our return on investment targets.
supported by its successful innovation 60% and this has been achieved after We own some of the worlds best known programme around new coffee offerings absorbing over 100m of adverse foreign spirits and wine brands, as well as leading such as latte, cappuccino and espresso.
This reflects quick service restaurant brands.
More We have also continued to extend the the consistent underlying strength of importantly, we recognise that we have presence of the brands across the US the business.
a duty to market our products responsibly and internationally.
The Spirits & Wine business was a key and to encourage our consumers to drink Allied Domecq today is a very different driver of these results with profits up responsibly.
At Allied Domecq, we aim to business from that of five years ago, with 9% at constant currencies.
We saw the go beyond compliance and have developed a stronger portfolio of brands and improved strongest performances in the US and a code of marketing practices that is being access to key growth markets.
This good in Europe, supported by excellent growth applied worldwide.
It goes beyond existing progress reflects the strength of the from the core spirits brands with volumes legislation or voluntary codes and sets management team led by Philip Bowman up 8%.
The strength of the core brand a standard if there is neither.
In support, and the valuable contribution made by all performance is a reflection of the sustained we have a marketing review board, with the employees at Allied Domecq.
investment in brand building over the past independent experts to ensure compliance few years.
In addition, we have continued with the code.
We have also been rolling to revitalise the portfolio through innovation.
out responsible drinking messages as For example, we launched the new Malibu part of our advertising.
Further information flavours, mango and pineapple, which on these activities and other areas was have delivered encouraging early results.
published this year in our first social report.
Sir Gerry Robinson We have also introduced premium brand Chairman extensions such as Ballantines Black, Stolichnaya Elit and Imperial 17 year old.
