10 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans Statement It is pleasing to report that the turnover and profitability The continual focus on working achieved by the group during 2004 represents another record performance.
with suppliers to deliver our Turnover from the groups activities was 464.8 million, an increase of 12.7% on last year, and profit before tax customers needs through the increased by 17.6% to 38.3 million.
latest floorcovering products Earnings and dividend Adjusted earnings per share increased by 17.2% from 27.3p to 32.0p.
The board is recommending a final dividend leaves us well placed to achieve of 12.25p per share, an increase of 19.5% on last year.
This increases the total dividend for the year by 17.3% another successful year.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 4 July 2005 to shareholders on the register at 10 June 2005.
Operations We have continued with our strategy of businesses operating autonomously to maximise market presence.
We now have 47 businesses operating from 21 distribution centres in the UK and whilst enjoying this individuality, all the businesses operate to a clearly defined strategy and comply with precise reporting procedures.
The Year in Review 11 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 These businesses have clearly focused market objectives and the three businesses in Continental Europe are the key across a broad range of floorcovering products and are to the success and future of the group.
We thank all our supported by comprehensive stockholdings.
This ensures employees for their endeavour and support.
that we have strong long-term relationships with the leading floorcovering manufacturers and most importantly, offer the Outlook independent floorcovering retailer and contractor a huge The first 10 weeks of 2005 have shown a positive trend breadth of product, including the latest trends and throughout our business operations in the UK and innovations.
During the year, the group invested 8.5 million on the The continual focus on working with suppliers to deliver our construction of a new purpose built freehold distribution customers needs through the latest floorcovering products centre in Tamworth and extensions to two existing centres leaves us well placed to achieve another successful year.
These projects will complete during 2005 at a further cost of 6.1 million.
The groups policy of continued investment, provides additional capacity and improvement in operating efficiency enabling our businesses to develop and expand their services from cost effective facilities.
Employees Trevor Larman, Chairman The key feature of our autonomous structure is the experience and floorcovering knowledge of the managers of the individual business activities.
They along with the loyal staff in the 21 distribution centres throughout the UK 12 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 During 2004 we invested 14.1m improving the infrastructure of our operations, increasing efficiency and capacity The Year in Review 13 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Extensive warehousing and order processing enables us to respond with speed and efficiency
