02 Chairmans statement A strong operating performance from all of our key markets underpins yet another set of excellent results.
Sir John Egan Chairman A strong operating performance from all of our key markets underpins yet another set of excellent results.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items see note 1b Headline profit before tax m rose 25.1% in the year, and has risen by an average 23.4% per 2004 172.0 annum since 2000, our first full year as a purely international automotive services group.
2003 135.8 Operating cash flow in the year was 177.2m representing some 105.2% of subsidiaries operating profit before goodwill 172.0m amortisation and exceptional items.
Cash generation is a key m 2004 2003 performance indicator for the Group and operating cash flow Profit before tax 155.3 168.3 has averaged over 150.0m per year in the period 2000 to 2004.
VAT exceptional income 6.0 37.5 Operationally we have again performed very well retaining Goodwill impairment 9.4 market leadership in Hong Kong, Singapore and Greece with Toyota.
Other exceptional items 7.8 0.5 In Australia, Subaru achieved year on year growth in volumes for Goodwill amortisation 5.5 5.5 the ninth consecutive year.
In the UK our Retail business has Headline profit before tax 172.0 135.8 significantly increased its operating margin in what was a more difficult market than 2003.
Acquisitions and disposals In the UK, dealer consolidation is continuing and there are many quality businesses that would fit well within our portfolio.
We continue to balance strategic fit, price, value and timing in our discussions with vendors.
In 2004 we acquired five Mercedes-Benz dealerships in the East Midlands, which adjoin our existing Mercedes-Benz market area.
This combination has created the largest independent Mercedes-Benz territory in the country.
We have also increased our Toyota and Volkswagen representation in the year.
Outside the UK we are expanding our footprint in the fast Profit before tax of 155.3m was impacted by: the VAT exceptional income of 6.0m, the 9.4m goodwill impairment charge and other growing markets of Eastern Europe.
In Estonia we acquired two Mazda dealerships and as a result we are now the exclusive net exceptional losses of 7.8m.
These exceptional losses mainly related to the sale of our MCL and AGL shareholdings and the exit Importer and Retailer for Mazda in this city state market.
Over 1,260 Mazda vehicles were sold in Estonia in 2004 and the brand achieved from the Ferrari Maserati distribution businesses in the UK and Belgium.
These were partially offset by the release of litigation a market share of 7.7%.
We are also investing in new start up businesses and during the year entered the Polish market, where provisions relating to non-motors disposals.
Net cash movement in the year was 74.7m including 37.0m we set up BMW MINI dealerships in Warsaw and Wroclaw.
Total spend on acquisitions was 25.1m of which 20.5m in relation to the VAT recovery.
As a result the year end net cash position improved to 153.8m.
Cash inflow in relation to disposals totalled 23.7m of which 19.3m related to the sale of two 40.0% Balance sheet strength associates: MCL Group Limited MCL and Automotive Group Our businesses have consistently generated high levels of free cash Limited AGL.
These associates were not core businesses.
flows enabling us to continue the investment in our core markets.
This has helped drive the strong earnings growth, which has been Financial performance Turnover of 4.2bn was up by 8.2% over 2003.
Operating profit delivered in recent years.
It has also enabled increasing returns to be given to shareholders.
Dividends have more than doubled before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 176.2m, which is 25.1% higher than 2003.
After adjusting for the VAT over the last five years and with a 45.0m share buy back being completed in 2001, over 160.0m has been returned to shareholders recovery, which was 13.5m higher in 2003 than 2004, and goodwill, including the 9.4m impairment charge relating to since mid 1999.
A large amount of cash is generated in our international markets.
Inchcape Automotive, total operating profit was 163.1m.
This has resulted in a mismatch between cash held in those markets and debt in the UK, due to the difficulty of repatriating the cash in Headline profit before tax was up 26.7% on 2003 at 172.0m despite an adverse currency effect of c. 9.0m.
The increase a fiscally efficient manner.
This had an adverse effect on the Groups interest charge due to interest rate differentials.
During late 2004 on 2003 would have been 33.3% at constant exchange rates.
Headline earnings per share rose by 21.9% to 161.4p.
we permanently repatriated cash of c. 135.0m to the UK and created the ability to repatriate further amounts over the coming years.
The associated tax cost is not material but the impact on the interest charge is positive and significant.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 03 The cash position has also been strengthened this year by the Both Trevor and Simon will be missed.
However I am very pleased that sale of two UK associates and the VAT recovery of some 37.0m.
they have been replaced by people of the quality of Will and David.
In 2005 our cash flow has also benefited from the 6.0m VAT claim We also announced today that I intend to step down from recognised in 2004. the Inchcape Board by the AGM in May 2006 and it is planned that As a result of all of this, we are extremely well placed to fund our Peter Johnson will succeed me as Non-executive Chairman.
These remain broadly based and encompass The Board believes that this is the right decision for all our further expansion in UK Retail as we aim to represent between 5.0% stakeholders and, indeed as part of our planning process, we consulted to 10.0% of our chosen partners national sales volumes.
with a number of our largest institutional shareholders and Eastern Europe is also a major area of focus as we look to take manufacturer partners, and they were all supportive.
The search for advantage of fast growth rates in these developing markets.
Peters successor has now commenced and we will announce the Discussions continue with several manufacturers regarding further appointment at the appropriate time.
investments in a number of countries in the region.
Our experience Current trading prospects in the Balkans illustrates the benefits of establishing an early footprint The UK market is forecast to be slightly lower than 2004 but still in those markets where we can invest in retail in the key capital cities.
We also have plans for further expansion of our Retail activities In UK Retail, however, the focus is as much on margin as in Greece and Australia and remain committed to keeping a watching volumes.
Whilst there was margin pressure in mid to late 2004, brief on markets such as China.
due to over supply, UK Retail still managed to improve margins Given the strength of our cash position, which has benefited over 2003.
In 2005 we are targeting further improvements in both from the VAT recoveries and the disposal of UK associates, we have margins and volumes.
Inchcape Fleet Solutions should continue to identified that we have funds available, which are not required for grow its profitability whilst Inchcape Automotive will recover from investment purposes.
We therefore intend to return the approximate its poor year in 2004. value of these one offs, 65.0m, to our shareholders through a In Greece and Belgium the markets are expected to be similar share buy back programme, which may include buying shares into to last year.
Better product availability and a slightly broader product treasury.
The Board has the powers to purchase up to 10.0% of the range should help our performance in both markets.
The Balkans is Companys capital and we intend to renew that authority at the expected to continue showing strong growth.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
In Australia the car market is expected to be similar in size to This return of surplus capital will still leave us with substantial 2004, as is Subarus market share.
Retail operations in Melbourne financial capacity, which will enable us to deliver our stated strategy.
should see continued growth and there will be a significant profit Any additional return of capital would only arise if further funds recovery in Sydney Retail.
became available, which are not required for investment purposes.
The Hong Kong market is again expected to grow as it recovers Dividend from 2003, which was the worst car market in over twenty years.
The Board recommends the payment of a final ordinary dividend This should result in improved profitability.
This gives a total dividend for In Singapore it is expected that the market will be strong the year of 50.0p, which is some 31.6% above the 2003 dividend again in 2005, albeit some 10.0% lower than the exceptional 2004. of 38.0p.
This substantial increase means that the dividend has Aftersales revenues and profits will continue to benefit from the risen by 127.3% since 2000, a clear demonstration of the Boards expanding Toyota car parc.
The interest charge will reflect the cash repatriation that However, our record of significant dividend growth has not took place in 2004 and the fact that more funds should be remitted resulted in low levels of dividend cover.
This years cover is 3.2 during 2005.
The effect on the charge will be positive and times Headline earnings per share 2003 3.5 times, a more significant, and will only be partially offset by the impact of the than comfortable level, which leaves us well placed to continue share buy back programme.
The 2005 results will be reported under International Financial Reporting Standards.
Whilst work is still continuing on some Inchcape management and employees aspects of how the standards will be interpreted, we currently The continued success of the Group, whether measured by expect that the effect on earnings will be broadly neutral provided financial or operational criteria, is testament to the quality and efforts we achieve hedge effectiveness for our foreign exchange of all our colleagues around the world.
Their hard work, dedication transactions.
If we do not, IAS 39 will introduce some volatility into and commitment to delivering excellent customer satisfaction are our profit and loss account.
However the underlying economics of critical to the success of the Group.
On behalf of the Board I thank the business and the cash flows will not change.
Net assets, them for their contribution.
however, will be reduced mainly due to the inclusion of the net Board changes pension deficit on the balance sheet.
I am delighted to welcome Will Samuel and David Scotland to the The Group has again performed at a very high level in 2004.
Will, who joined the Board on 26 January 2005, having worked Our underlying performance will be strengthened as we invest for Schroders for over twenty years, brings a wealth of city experience further by taking advantage of the significant opportunities available with him.
David, who is Executive Director and President World Wines to us.
In 2005 we are well placed to continue with our record of of Allied Domecq PLC, has broad international experience, which profit growth and strong cash generation.
includes managing operations in Eastern Europe.
David joined the Board on 24 February 2005.
Trevor Taylor retired from the Board at the end of 2004.
Trevor has made an enormous contribution to Inchcape since he joined the Group in 1987 as Deputy Managing Director of Toyota GB.
Simon Robertson will be retiring from the Board at our AGM Sir John Egan Chairman in May 2005.
Simon has added immense value to the Group since 28 February 2005 joining the Board in May 1996.
During his time on the Board the Group has undergone significant change and Simons wise counsel during that process has been invaluable.
