CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2004 WAS A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR FOR YOUR COMPANY WHICH SAW ITS BUSINESS RESTRUCTURED TO CREATE A PLATFORM FOR IMMEDIATE AND MORE VISIBLE EARNINGS AND CASH FLOW GROWTH.
THE KEY TASKS FOR 2005 ARE THE INTEGRATION AND CONSOLIDATION OF OUR ACQUISITIONS WITHIN THE EXISTING PORTFOLIO WHILST ENSURING WE DELIVER ON OUR COMMITMENTS TO SHAREHOLDERS.
2004 was a transformational year for A more detailed review of our regional your Company which saw its business business is set out in our Chief restructured to create a platform for Executives report.
immediate and more visible earnings and In my statement last year, I said that cash flow growth, resulting in the Board although we were actively reviewing announcing its intention to commence growth opportunities, the key priority paying a dividend.
for 2004 was the restructuring of the The strengthened platform for the non-recourse debt facility for our US Group was primarily created through merchant plant.
We achieved this with a the acquisitions of the international limited cash contribution from the parent generation portfolio of Edison Mission, company providing financial stability for and of Turbogs in Portugal, underpinned the US assets until the expected market by a successful Rights Issue that raised recovery.
With this restructuring behind 286 million in September 2004. us, we were able to convert selected Importantly, we also successfully growth opportunities into real restructured the financing of the shareholder value by acquiring in non-recourse project debt of ANP, November a majority interest in Turbogs our US subsidiary company.
a 990 MW gas fired power station in Portugal and in December, in a 70:30 In addition to these important strategic partnership with Mitsui & Co of Japan, moves, the Companys existing assets the Edison Mission international portfolio performed well to produce earnings at which increased our generating capacity the top end of our EPS guidance for by a further 3,202 MW.
We delivered an EPS excluding acquired assets represent an excellent exceptional items of 8.3p as compared regional fit with our existing portfolio and to 9.1p last year both adjusted for the increase the percentage of our output Rights Issue, down as we predicted sold under good long-term contracts, because of continued weak markets in providing increased stability and visibility the US, namely in Texas and New England.
to our cash flow and earnings.
We had anticipated that our US markets would remain subdued, but we remain These acquisitions would not have confident that our modern, efficient been possible without two very US portfolio will benefit from market important contributions.
One was from recovery in the medium-term when the the employees of the Group, led by the oversupply position has corrected.
new executive management team put in place by Philip Cox, Chief Executive Our regional portfolios in Europe, the Officer, at the start of 2004.
The team all Middle East, Australia and Asia all had a put in a tremendous amount of work to good year, demonstrating the strength implement successfully the refinancing of our regional spread and our mix of and the acquisitions, whilst still ensuring long-term contracted and merchant output.
2 good operational performance of the This year we report against the new existing assets.
I am very grateful for Combined Code for the first time, and, the enthusiasm, commitment and in the few instances where we do not professionalism of all our employees in comply fully with these requirements, the last year.
The other very significant we explain why this is the case.
We contribution was the financial support are also required to comply with the provided by our shareholders in funding US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, due to our the Rights Issue to ensure we could listing in New York.
The success In 2004 we welcomed Struan Robertson of the Rights Issue demonstrated the to our Board as a new Non-Executive confidence that the shareholders have Director.
Struans appointment was made in our management team and in the following a recruitment exercise carried transactions we announced I would like out by external consultants.
Along with to thank our shareholders for their support.
his engineering background, Struan also Having reviewed the impact of these brings excellent international business acquisitions on our earnings and cash experience gained at a senior level flow, the Board now feels it is appropriate within the energy sector at BP.
for the Company to start paying dividends The key tasks for 2005 are the integration to shareholders.
Subject to approval at and consolidation of our acquisitions within the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the existing portfolio whilst ensuring that AGM, the Board proposes to pay a we deliver on the commitments we have dividend of 2.5p a share for 2004 given to shareholders, both on earnings payable in the summer of 2005. and on dividends.
It continues to be a In future the Board will propose an annual time of major restructuring in our dividend at the time of our preliminary industry, and we will also continue to results, taking into account the outlook for review carefully and selectively growth future earnings, free cash flow generation opportunities if they meet our strategic and the investment opportunities available and financial criteria and clearly add to to the Group to deliver further growth shareholder value.
We have achieved a lot and shareholder value.
to reposition your Group in 2004, and we intend to deliver in 2005.
For 2005 the Board expects to maintain a dividend pay-out ratio similar to the 30% level provided for the 2004 dividend.
We expect then to move progressively towards a pay-out ratio of 40% in the medium-term.
