Chairmans statement Results summary Corporate social responsibility Board Employees, customers and investors Outlook Chairmans statement Our key markets are no longer in decline.
We are successfully managing down legacy Our Group has, potentially, a much liabilities.
Our Group has, potentially, a much brighter future: our focus now must be brighter future: our focus now must be to build on this new stability to ensure that to build on this new stability to ensure each business continues to show steady that each business continues to show improvement.
Rick Haythornthwaite will provide more detail on our structure steady improvement.
and individual businesses in his Chief Executives review.
Dear Shareholder, The past 12 months have been dominated by Results summary change.
Even as recently as January this year, Group sales were down 22% at 3,891 million Invensys faced an uncertain future: but what 2003: 5,018 million, mainly due to the a difference a few months and a lot of hard sale of non-core businesses that last year work have made in stabilising the Group.
had sales of 1,362 million current year 306 million.
Similarly, these disposals The 2.7 billion refinancing announced in meant that Group operating profit defined February 2004 was successfully completed in in all cases as before exceptional items, Martin Jay, Chairman March.
Net of issuance costs, the refinancing goodwill amortisation and goodwill comprised 447 million of new equity and impairment fell by 24% to 217 million 587 million from the issue of euro and US 2003: 285 million.
Operating profit dollar denominated senior notes, due in for continuing businesses rose 32% to 2011.
In addition, 1.65 billion of new credit 204 million.
Corporate and operating facilities were made available to the Group, exceptional items including restructuring, the majority of which will not mature until transition and refinancing costs of 2009 and of which 899 million remained 188 million, goodwill amortisation and undrawn at the year end.
impairments of 78 million, fixed asset impairment of 48 million and a loss on disposal of operations of 96 million have The refinancing provides Invensys resulted in the Group recording a loss of with sufficient flexibility to develop 328 million for the year 2003: loss of its businesses over the long term.
Basic loss per share was 9.0p 2003: loss of 39.4p.
The underlying earnings Whilst imposing certain financial covenants, per share were 1.2p 2003: 2.6p.
Free cash the refinancing provides Invensys with flow excluding legacy payments was an sufficient flexibility to develop its businesses outflow of 40 million and net debt at over the long term and enabled the the year end was down to 986 million Group to allocate funds to deal with its 2003: 1,556 million.
The Board is recommending that no dividend be paid for the year 2003: 1.0p.
02 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Chairmans statement Results summary Corporate social responsibility Board Employees, customers and investors Outlook Your Board believes that the refinancing Employees, customers and investors will prove to be a defining point for our I thank all our employees for their Group and one which will set us on a continued perseverance, professionalism course for a more certain path to and hard work in a difficult year, and our profitable growth.
customers, suppliers and business partners for supporting Invensys.
I would also like to thank you, our investors, for keeping faith Corporate social responsibility Board through financial and organisational issues, Invensys aims to increase the efficiency and Following the Annual General Meeting and in the face of considerable doubt and safety of our customers businesses.
We also in July 2003, I took over as Chairman from speculation.
Your Board believes that the seek actively to manage our own Lord Marshall, who had held the role since refinancing will prove to be a defining point environmental, health and safety issues, and the formation of Invensys in 1999.
On behalf for our Group and one which will set us to do this we benchmark our performance of the Board, I would like to thank Lord on a course for a more certain path to using the annual Business in the Marshall for his commitment in what was profitable growth.
Environment Index of Corporate a very difficult period for the Group.
This year, Outlook Invensys was rated 71st from 177 responses, In December 2003, Rolf Brjesson stepped After a challenging year, Invensys has with our average score reduced by 8% to down from his position as non-executive emerged as a stronger Group.
This reduction mainly reflects the director.
I would like to thank Rolf for his more stable and its liabilities are reducing.
impact of the organisational changes during contribution to Invensys over the last five Whilst there are signs of rising customer the year: we will be addressing any areas years.
His experience and knowledge have confidence, our assumptions for market that were shown to have deteriorated.
added considerably to the strength of the conditions remain conservative, due to Board and we wish him well for the future.
Our full Invensys also repeated its participation in Jean-Claude Guez has replaced Rolf as focus is on driving operating performance the Business in the Community Corporate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
to achieve steady progress and margin Responsibility Index in 2004, improving our improvement.
Further information I would also like to welcome Ulf Henriksson, on these and other corporate responsibility who joins Invensys in May as Chief issues can be found on the Invensys website Operating Officer COO from Eaton www.
At the time of the refinancing, we undertook to recruit a COO to help ensure delivery of our planned performance improvements.
Ulf brings with him extensive turnaround Martin Jay, Chairman experience of our industry from his time at 19 May 2004 Eaton Corporation and Honeywell Inc. More information can be found in the Board of directors section: it will be proposed to shareholders that Ulf join the Board at the Annual General Meeting in July 2004.
03 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
