Chairmans statement A world leader in technical services and project management At the end of my first full financial year in the post of AMEC chairman, I am pleased to report solid progress across all of our three business segments, together with signs of stronger growth coming through in future years.
This was a significant year for AMEC not because of any noticeable changes, for indeed this was a year in which we did not make any major acquisitions or substantial changes to our business.
But it was significant because it marked the successful end of a period of strategic change and, more importantly, the recognition and first fruits of that strategy.
We are beginning to see our strategy translate into real financial benefit 24 AMEC plc annual report 2004 At the end of 2004, we were re-classified In January 2005, our placing of new ordinary as a Support Services company.
This shares was extremely well received raising change of stock market sector reflected net proceeds of 88 million to support our the success of our strategy, pursued in increased programme of investments.
previous years, of migrating AMEC away I am delighted to welcome to the board from traditional construction.
And we are Peter Byrom and Tim Faithfull, who were beginning to see that strategy translate appointed as non-executive directors in into real financial benefit.
Their wealth of international Another significant change that came at knowledge and business experience, the end of 2004 was the re-segmentation particularly in business development of our business, which highlights the and the oil and gas market, will make a important and often unrecognised fact that valuable contribution as AMEC continues Oil and Gas now generates one third of to build its portfolio of project management AMECs total operating profit.
This business and services activities.
is a strong companion to the solid and We are in good shape and, as we move predictable Engineering and Technical through 2005, feel comfortable with the Services business our largest area outlook for our three businesses.
confident that AMECs highly skilled and The new segmentation also revealed more dedicated people will grasp the opportunity clearly the strength of our Project Solutions to build on our strengths, expand our business.
Project work often has a bad service, deepen our client relationships name but if you choose carefully, as we and create value for all our stakeholders.
always seek to do, you can build a portfolio that will release excellent value over time.
Today, our Project Solutions activities which include our investments in PPP, Developments and Wind Energy, are coming into their own and are poised to deliver growth well into the future.
Jock Green-Armytage Chairman So, overall, it was a year in which AMEC 10 March 2005 did not make any large acquisitions or other strategic changes.
We stuck to our three main areas of activity, enhancing our Engineering and Technical Services and Oil and Gas businesses with modest acquisitions.
I am pleased to report a record pre-tax profit of 118.1 million, up 5.0 per cent, and in line with our expectations.
Proposed dividends for the year are increased by 4.8 per cent to 11.0 pence 2003: 10.5 pence and the outlook for 2005 remains in line with our earlier expectations.
