02 ITV plc Annual report 04 Chairmans statement Business development practice and we are very pleased We are concentrating on two areas in to have won the Best for Corporate developing ITV: Governance in 2004 Award from Legal Week magazine.
First to improve our current business We have been able to use our unique This has been very much the focus for regional presence for the benefit 2004.
Our actions have been based on of both the local communities in achieving a number of the goals that we which we operate and for national identied in our report at the beginning campaigns such as Britain on the of 2004.
We have published a separate efficiency, reducing regulatory costs Corporate Responsibility report which and placing news at the centre of ITVs is also available on our website at public service programming.
com The past year has been an historic We will continue to lead and grow the and busy one for ITV.
In January the UK TV advertising market, promoting People shareholders of Carlton and Granada the power of the medium to advertisers.
Etienne fide Villiers retired from the approved the merger of their two Board during the year and I thank companies to create ITV plc: and since Secondly to build new businesses him for his contribution to ITV.
then the senior team has been shaping for the future I am delighted to welcome to the and developing the business for the Whilst continuing to improve the Board two new non-executive future.
Charles Allen, in his Chief current business, our focus is on directors who were appointed in Executives review, gives more detail creating new businesses and new February 2005.
Baroness Usha on that activity, and I focus on some of revenue streams for the future.
Prashar CBE and Sir Robert Phillis the major achievements and strategic We have been active already, building both have significant relevant media initiatives in which we are involved.
interactive revenue streams around experience that will be invaluable to our programmes and developing a us as we plan ITVs future.
2004 Results package of new channels like ITV2, During my first year as Chairman The combination of rising turnover and ITV3 and ITV News Channel.
I have visited a number of ITVs sites rapidly reducing costs following the We continue to work on: around the country and have been merger has contributed to sharply developing our production business impressed by the enthusiasm and increased profits.
to be Europes leading commercial professionalism of my colleagues at Your Board is proposing a final content provider and creating new all levels.
They understand the need dividend of 1.3 pence per share.
content for new distribution media: to improve efficiency and to drive ITV This reects the improving profits and forward as a single unied business.
increasing our channel line-up and strong cash ow and results in a full On behalf of my fellow Board members, seeking revenues from additional year dividend of 2.4 pence per I thank all of our management and sources: ordinary share, an increase of 20% employees for their hard work and on the dividend paid by Granada plc building our non-advertising continuing commitment.
I look forward for the equivalent 12 month period revenues.
to meeting the challenges of 2005 last year.
and beyond in the knowledge that Corporate Governance and CR we have the best people to take the Our detailed processes for maintaining business forward successfully in a compliance with the Combined Code period of rapid change.
on Corporate Governance are set out in the Governance section of this report.
As a new company we have been able to adopt processes reecting current best Sir Peter Burt Chairman... a year of solid progress.
