Chairmans statement and operating review After a good first half to the financial year six months to 25 January 2004, sales in the second half of the year slowed, which affected profits.
For the year as a whole, sales increased by 56.2 million to 787.1 million, a rise of 8%.
Operating margins were 9.9%, compared with 10.3% last year, mainly as a result of higher labour and other pub costs.
Operating profit increased by 4% to 77.6 million, and profit before tax before exceptional items reduced by 4% to 54.1 million.
Profit before tax after exceptional items was 46.3 million 2003: 52.5 million.
Earnings per share before exceptional items increased by 4% to 17.7p, due to the benefit of share buybacks, with earnings per share after exceptional items being 14.6p 2003: 15.9p.
Cash outflow in respect of capital investment was The company recorded an exceptional loss in the year of 74.6 million, and net gearing at the year end was 117% 7.8 million before taxation.
This included the sale of 20 2003: 97%.
This increase was due to the ongoing share pubs, together with provisions against the disposal of buyback programme.
Net interest was covered 3.3 times further properties.
Free cash flow, after payments of tax, interest and capital investment of We opened 28 pubs during the year, compared with 45 in 20.6 million in existing pubs, decreased by 10% to the previous year.
The total number of pubs now operated 75.0 million, resulting in free cash flow per share of by the company is 643.
As in previous years, the new pubs 37.5p, more than double earnings per share.
Free cash opened are bigger than the average of our estate and have flow decreased, primarily as a result of both a higher cash helped average sales per pub to rise by 6% in the year tax charge and capital reinvestment in existing pubs rising under review.
Like-for-like sales increased by 3.4%, from 2.2% of turnover to 2.6% of turnover.
although like-for-like profits declined by 1%, principally as a result of higher costs for labour and repairs.
DIVIDENDS.. cash flow per share of The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, to pay a final dividend of 2.56p per share on 26 November 37.5p, more than double 2004 to those shareholders on the register on 29 October 2004, bringing the total dividend for the year to 3.89p earnings per share per share, a 10% increase on the previous year.
FINANCE The company had 74.7 million 2003: 103.1 million Economic profit, calculated by adding back depreciation of unutilised banking facilities and cash balances as at the to profit before tax before exceptional items and balance sheet date, with total facilities of 412 million subtracting capital expenditure on existing pubs and cash 2003: 412 million.
The years capital expenditure on tax, decreased by 8% to 64.3 million.
As with cash flow, new pub developments was more than covered by free economic profits were affected by a higher tax charge and cash flow.
As a result of reductions in our planned new an increased level of capital reinvestment.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW opening programme we, anticipate that, in the current business, 25 years ago, off-trade sales accounted for financial year, the company is expected to generate a cash about 20% of beer, wine and spirit consumption.
surplus after capital expenditure and dividends which will Estimates suggest that off-sales rose to a record 40% of be available for debt reduction or share buybacks or both.
overall sales during Euro 2004 and that present trends indicate that off-sales could rise to about 50% by 2010.
RETURN OF CAPITAL During the year, 19,010,000 shares representing This situation has put pressure on Wetherspoons prices approximately 9% of the issued share capital were and margin, as well as on the pub trade generally, and we purchased by the company for cancellation, at a cost of are today launching a new marketing campaign, 51.1 million, representing an average cost per share of emphasising a new traditional ale range, featuring 269p.
48.6 million of the cost was a cash outflow in the Marstons Burton Bitter at 1.29 per pint and Marstons year under review.
REGULATION AND TAXATION From 4 to 17 October 2004, we are holding our As we have indicated in previous years, pubs pay biggest-ever beer festival, featuring traditional ales from approximately 40% of their turnover in tax, equivalent to British and Irish regional and micro breweries.
These a contribution to public finances by Wetherspoon and its festivals have been very successful in the past, but we are employees of approximately 315 million.
This level of tax doubling the duration to two weeks this year and hope to is about nine times our profit after tax before exceptional sell one million pints of traditional ale during the items and, like many businesses, we are very concerned fortnight, five times as much as the excellent CAMRA about continuing increases in taxation of one type or Great British Beer Festival held at Olympia annually.
In particular, the government has increased excise duty by considerable amounts in the last two years, We are also reducing the price of our biggest-selling collectively costing Wetherspoon approximately 7 million.
standard-strength lager, Carling, to 1.49 per pint.
Since the public is free to import alcohol from abroad at Following the recommendation of the Glasgow Licensing low or negligible rates of duty, the competitiveness of Board, we have stopped all 2-for-1 offers and have pubs and restaurants, important parts of the British stopped offering financial incentives to customers to economy, is being reduced.
buy double measures of spirits instead of singles.
This has resulted in an increase in the number of single THE TRADING ENVIRONMENT 25ml equivalent to 1 unit of alcohol measures of Like-for-like sales declined from 4.8% in the first half to spirits, although it has reduced our sales and profits 1.9% in the second half of the financial year.
Food sales to some extent.
growth remained strong, but bar sales came under increasing pressure, even leaving aside the impact of the BINGE DRINKING Euro 2004 football tournament.
We believe that this There has been a lot of media attention over the issue of pressure is due to several factors, including greater binge drinking and there can be no doubt that attitudes competition from supermarkets, themselves responding, to drinking need to change in some sections of society, as in part, to a growth in imports from the continent, leading has successfully been achieved in the area of drink driving.
to off-trade prices remaining at approximately the levels of However, it is doubtful whether binge drinking is a new 1997.
Pub prices have continued to increase since 1997 phenomenon or uniquely applicable to young people or at, or above, the level of inflation, so that a greater pubs.
Approximately forty per cent of our sales now relate percentage of beer, wine and spirit consumption now to food and soft drinks, a percentage which is increasing.
When Wetherspoon started We believe that our strong training ethos, recently ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW winning the British Institute of Innkeeping Supreme deemed to be operating a monopoly and pushing up the Training Award for the second year in a row, combined price of a pint, beyond the level of inflation, which was with an average of six managers per pub, helps to create seen to be against the public interest.
It would be ironic if a safe and controlled environment.
In addition, our efforts to bring down the price of a pint were reversed by non-music policy and relatively low pricing attract an older individual licensing authorities, often following consultation clientele, as well as young people, creating a more with local publicans, imposing their own views on the convivial atmosphere for the consumption of alcohol.
The prices which customers should pay.
The likely long-term introduction of family areas in our pubs, so that families winners of price-fixing will be the supermarkets: this may can dine until the early evening, has also contributed to a result in more alcohol consumption in circumstances where better pub environment.
there is less control and supervision.
We do not believe that competitive prices in our pubs PEOPLE lead to lower standards of behaviour.
Companies like I would like to thank, again, our employees, partners and Wetherspoon and brewers such as Samuel Smith and suppliers for their dedicated work in creating another year Joseph Holt, as well as working mens clubs, have of progress for the company.
lower-than-average bar prices, but are not generally associated with rowdy behaviour in town centres on Friday CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK and Saturday nights.
We have tried to lead the way in Like-for-like sales in August were flat, and total company areas such as the prohibition of selling-up, through the sales increased by 3%.
Sales per pub in the last financial removal of financial incentives to do so, and have also year recorded another increase to their highest level ever, been proactive in the marketing of food and soft drinks, although the rate of growth slowed over the summer alongside alcoholic products.
In addition to our investment months.
Together with the initial impact of our in management training, we participate actively, wherever competitive pricing initiatives and anticipated cost we can, with bodies such as the police and local increases, this slowdown in sales will affect our profits authorities, to improve matters in this difficult area.
although it is certainly too early in the current financial year to predict the probable outcome.
MINIMUM PRICING Several licensing authorities in Scotland and England, Reflecting uncertainties in sales, the approach of licensing combined with the police and local publicans, are authorities and continued cost and taxation increases, we introducing minimum-pricing schemes in an effort to are reducing further the number of pubs we plan to open control anti-social behaviour.
We believe that it would be to about 15 in the current financial year, to maintain a better to introduce a broad range of measures, such as cash flow surplus after all capital investment.
those relating to selling-up, training, making food available all day in pubs and so on.
Minimum-pricing schemes for The competitive and political climate for pubs is pubs will, in our opinion, dramatically improve the challenging at the current time, but our track record over competitive position of supermarkets and will encourage 25 years and our committed and experienced people to drink at home and elsewhere, which is unlikely management team, combined with our strong cash flow, to result in an improvement in behaviour.
It will also give confidence for our future prospects.
penalise those on a low income, including senior citizens and students, who are important customer groups.
The pub industry has been repeatedly investigated during Tim Martin 19601980s, culminating in the beer orders in the late Chairman 1980s forcing brewers to divest their pubs.
Brewers were 3 September 2004 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
