01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:48 pm Page 3 Chairmans statement shareholders in February 2004.
The Group retains the authority to repurchase Results further shares, which it will consider in light of the cash requirements of the I am satisfied with the trading results achieved during the 52 weeks ended 25 business, and will seek to review this authority at the forthcoming Annual January 2004, when these are viewed against the strong competitive trading General Meeting.
conditions within the UK retail clothing market.
We achieved our principal target which was to regain the levels of gross margin in the second half of the Personnel year which had been lost in the comparative period last year.
Whilst turnover On behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the in our clothing category was lower than the previous year, increased levels of Groups employees for their hard work during the year.
The success of our turnover were achieved in our other product categories where demand business is due to the talent and commitment of our winning team of remained strong.
employees and we remain committed to ensuring that they continue to benefit from this success.
Operating profits within our Leisure Division have increased by 80 per cent to 9.1 million before the allocation of Head Office Distribution Centre costs : Current trading and strategy I believe that our emphasis on the expansion of this concept over the coming I believe that the retail clothing market will continue to be very competitive years will make a significant contribution to the success of the Group.
during the current accounting period as deflationary pressures impact upon prices.
We will however continue to focus our attention on the challenges Abortive management buy-out within the retail clothing market and believe that we retain an edge over our In March 2003, I announced that I was giving consideration to making an offer competitors through our strong relationships with the key brands of Nike, for those shares in JJB which were not already held by my family and myself.
adidas and Reebok, supported by ranges from a number of other sports Although I was able to secure financing that would have enabled me to pursue brands including our own brands.
I believe that our other product categories an offer up to 220 pence per ordinary share, the Independent Directors, who are more resilient and that we can continue our successful trading in these had been advised by UBS Ltd, had received feedback from JJBs institutional areas.
In particular, excellent sales opportunities will be presented in the shareholders and had concluded that they could not recommend this price to current accounting period as a result of the Euro 2004 football competition.
shareholders: I therefore decided not to proceed with an offer.
I however confirmed my commitment to maintaining my holding of a substantial part of I believe that our strategy for the expansion of our Leisure Division which JJBs share capital.
comprises the unique and successful combined health club superstore format, combined with the continuing transition of our store portfolio from TJ Hughes small retail stores to superstores, will add sustainable value to the Group and Part of the feedback which the Independent Directors received from I therefore look forward to the future with confidence.
institutional shareholders of JJBs shares, was a wish to see the management concentrate on its core business and after the Board carried out a strategic D. Whelan review of the Groups activities, it was decided to seek the sale of TJ Hughes, Chairman which was regarded as being a non-core activity.
14 May 2004 On 14 November 2003, we sold TJ Hughes Limited for a cash consideration of 49 million including a 2 million dividend in respect of the accounting period ended 31 January 2003.
The disposal led to the resignation from JJBs Board of George Foster, who was the Chief Executive of TJ Hughes.
I would like to thank George, the management and employees of TJ Hughes for their contribution to JJB and wish them every success in the future.
Cash generation Another part of the feedback which the Independent Directors received from institutional shareholders was for shareholders to receive a greater share of the strong cash flow, regularly generated by the Group: it was suggested that this be in the form of increased dividends or share buy-backs.
We have taken note of these suggestions and consequently paid or proposed an increase in the total dividend for the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2004 of 38 per cent and have conducted a successful tender offer, which returned 20m to 3 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:48 pm Page 4 The gross margin earned in the 26 weeks ended 25 January 2004 was 49.2 per cent compared to 46.4 per cent earned in the corresponding period.
