Our 243 titles are printed in 13 regional print centres.
Along with our centralised management support services and continued investment in technology, this allows us to benefit from significant economies of scale.
Regional printing centres The vast majority of Johnston Press appropriate centre thereby maximising 1 titles are now printed in house at one colour revenue potential and the 2 of 13 regional centres that are utilisation of the Groups total printing 3 managed centrally by the Groups capacity.
In addition, the operation 5 4 8 Printing Division.
This centralised of a relatively small number of larger 6 7 9 10 management control increases the scale printing centres provides the efficiency of the Groups printing basis for tight cost control and 12 11 operations as it ensures that specific excellent operational efficiency.
titles are produced at the most 13 1 Falkirk 8 Scarborough 2 Sunderland 9 Wakefield 3 Hartlepool 10 Sheffield 4 Leeds 11 Northampton 5 Isle of Man 12 Peterborough 6 Preston external 13 Portsmouth 7 Halifax Improved efficiency, capacity and value Johnston Press continues to invest Johnston Press also continues to Other Capital Projects heavily in further enhancing its printing invest significantly in the development capability and in part this investment of Group-wide IT systems in order to m has focused on the deployment of consolidate what was once a disparate 2004 greater revenue generating colour range of company-specific systems.
Colour towers at Leeds capacity.
The 60 million investment As well as improving levels of and Sunderland 6.7 in the development of a brand new customer care, this investment also Computer-to-plate technology 1.8 facility near Sheffield and the proposal helps drive business efficiency and Computer systems 5.1 to spend more than 45 million on productivity.
In addition, the a similar plant in Portsmouth will introduction of common systems Planned 2005 improve the overall efficiency of the facilitates the offer of extended title Replacement mailrooms Groups printing operations.
packages to advertisers and this at Leeds and Peterborough 11.8 Computer systems 6.2 in turn will drive revenue growth in the future.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200409 Johnston Press plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement Continued progress Roger Parry Chairman 2004 was a year of organic growth and continued Dividend progress for Johnston Press.
The Group achieved The Board proposes a final dividend of 4.8p per share, record results in terms of sales, margins, profits, making a total of 7.2p per share for the year compared to earnings per share, dividends and cash generation.
The continuing success of Johnston Press stems from a single-minded focus on providing local communities Organic Growth with news, information and entertainment.
The staff In recent years, Johnston Press has made a number of of Johnston Press have, once again, shown themselves significant acquisitions.
In 2004 we did not and all the growth to be amongst the best in the business and, on behalf has come from organic developments.
Within our existing of the Board and shareholders, I would like to market areas, we have launched a number of new publications congratulate them.
including free newspapers, advertising-only publications and lifestyle magazines.
We have launched a number of locally Results focused websites, upgraded our online classified platforms Revenues grew in excess of 5% which was more than we and invested heavily in new colour printing capacity and IT had expected, in part reflecting the success of new products systems.
During the year, we announced our commitment to launched during the year.
Tight cost control and some invest more than 60 million in a new print facility in Sheffield continuing efficiencies from past acquisitions drove margins and, in February 2005, we announced a similar initiative and profits but the positive impact of recent investment in costing more than 45 million at Portsmouth.
printing and IT systems also helped.
We have a clear focus on using investment to improve the Operating profit for 2004 was 177.2 million, up 10%.
economics of our existing business.
Headline earnings per share were 37.96p, up 17%.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200411
