The results for the year were very satisfactory and reect three main factors: Outperformance, increased turnover and efficiency gains for UK water activities.
The sale of our 46% interest in Waste Recycling Group WRG.
The continuing management and performance advantages of our water industry focus.
JOHN NAPIER Chairman 2 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 actively with the company.
It was also helped by our continuing investment Group profit before tax benefited from the net in advancing telemetry and business systems.
The company won the exceptional gain of 14.6 million made from the sale National Customer Service Awards for the best use of technology in of our WRG interests.
If you disregard exceptional gains, customer services.
profit before taxation of 191.6 million is 9.4% ahead The other UK operations had mixed results.
Contract operations won one of last year.
The main drivers of profit increase were of the largest contracts awarded in recent times: the contract with the increased UK turnover, continuing improvement from Ministry of Defence MoD will earn revenues of 1 billion over the next 25 operations and reduced interest costs.
These benefits years for supplying water services to MoD sites in the Midlands, Wales and were partially offset by a reduced US contribution due South West region.
This complements previous wins in Scotland.
The MoD contract is performing on plan to date.
KeyLand had an on plan year.
to the translation of the weaker US dollar.
In total there The business support services operation Loop performed below last year due was an increase in EPS excluding exceptional gains to unrecovered costs on a third party contract upon which Loop has given and deferred tax to 46.2p, 9% up on the prior year.
notice to terminate since the year end.
The sale of our WRG interests, and cessation of our Timco timber The performance of the US operations remains satisfactory.
They have operations in the US and subsequent sale of its assets, completed our successfully completed the integration of the New England operations disposal programme supporting our water and waste water focus strategy.
of American Water Works acquired in April 2002.
However for the second The smaller non-regulated service operations in the US, KeyLand property, successive year the business experienced unusual supply and demand Loop business process services and contract operations in the UK now conditions.
Last year sales were down due to water restrictions because leverage from, support and are sustained by our core businesses.
The of drought, and in this year sales were down due to excess rainfall and proceeds of the WRG sale of 142.7 million were applied to reducing debt well below average temperatures, which reduced demand.
and a share buyback programme, which was completed prior to year end.
A new Aquarion Chief Executive, Chuck Firlotte has been appointed, as part Yorkshire Water Services YWS went from strength to strength.
It improved of a planned succession, having completed a three year period as director overall service levels and had outstanding operational performance achieving of UK water operations.
The objective will be to accelerate the management, three band A ratings in the regulators January 2004 assessment of water operational and cultural integration of the US business which is currently in and waste water activities.
It has continued to outperform expectations its rate review cycle.
The regulatory base of price determination in the US is in operational and capital efficiencies.
Within the period of the current price an expected rate of return on assets.
Aquarion is involved in the process in determination to date it has led UK operational performance in achieving its major regions.
It is complex, as it involves a number of different regulatory a 12% reduction in costs in real terms over a four year period.
At the same regional bodies.
time it has continued to drive forward and improve service standards, water quality and compliance obligations.
The waste water activity continues to develop with a successful start up and above planned performance of Aquarions first major waste water The performance of YWS in the year is particularly commendable as it was contract, awarded in Bridgeport in April 2003.
The challenge of successful achieved against the background of a challenge of severe water shortages.
growth by revenue improvement and the organic growth of water service Supplies were maintained without restriction or special drought orders.
This and waste water operations is being actively progressed.
was achieved by a combination of a regional supply network, active water resource management and measurement and close liaison and co-operation In the wider field of corporate performance the company continues to with regulatory agencies, especially the Environment Agency, who work progress in environmental, social and corporate compliance areas.
All 3 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chairmans statement continued activities of the company have an environmental purpose.
Apart from the and Kelda prospects for the period 2005 10.
To date that process has been direct provision of drinking water and waste water services the related transparent and there has been clear identification of the investment needs actions of improving drinking and river water qualities, improved waste water required to support environmental improvements.
This investment treatment standards and enhanced recreational and bathing water and remains significant.
beach standards, constitute major environmental improvements.
The company also has extensive environmental interaction with national bodies In an incentive based regulatory regime we are well placed due to our and local communities on the best methods of enhancing and protecting excellent service and operational records.
The macro factors support an significant natural assets, especially moorlands, water catchment and reservoir increasing rate regime and the importance of sound and sustainable low areas.
At the same time it seeks to meet the challenge of affording the risk capital structures to keep borrowing costs to a minimum.
All this is known maximum recreational use of these facilities.
It is also active in encouraging to regulator, government, industry and to capital providers, shareholders tenant farmers to adopt agri-environmental best practice approaches.
It is not expected, and would be a major disappointment and damaging to the prospects of the industry, if a more arbitrary price In the social spheres we have led developments to supply cool drinking water approach were now to be applied.
to primary schools to deal with the issues of dehydration and acknowledge issues of improving diet and health.
The company also works actively with Generally the industry has been very successful in meeting service, drinking Business in the Community focusing on the Right to Read and other schemes water quality, waste water, river quality and other environmental standards.
These involved up to 25% of our staff working It has required and will continue to require the confidence and support on a voluntary basis.
There are also active community schemes and of capital providers.
It is fundamentally an efficient provider of relatively programmes in the US focused on community support, education, deprived low cost, high consumer value, essential water and environmental services.
groups and enhanced environmental behaviours.
We expect the future of the industry to be maintained if not encouraged in the next determination.
The board has been further strengthened over the last year.
On the nonexecutive front the appointment of Christopher Fisher brought significant The process of transforming Kelda has been an interesting and exciting banking experience, whilst the continuation of Richard Schmidt, after programme which could not have been carried through without the active retirement as Chief Executive Officer in the US, allowed for maximum support of the board and management.
Equally importantly the programme continuity and an easy transition in management.
The requirements has gained the support of employees and their representatives at all levels, of the revised combined code have also meant a higher proportion of nondespite some difficult issues having had to be addressed.
There will executives, to avoid too much duplication in the membership of committees.
undoubtedly be future challenges ahead, but this report is an opportunity On the executive side the new Finance Director, Martin Towers, appointed to thank all employees on behalf of the shareholders for the progress the in March 2003 has settled in well and formed a strong team with your company has achieved to date.
Chief Executive, Kevin Whiteman, who has produced his first full year results following his appointment to that post in September 2002.
The board conducted its first full formal evaluation process in the year and will continue to review its own and the companys effectiveness.
The immediate outlook for 2004 05 is reasonably predictable and improvement is expected.
The year however will be dominated by the publication of the first draft response by the regulator as part of the price determination process.
This will largely determine the UK water industry JOHN NAPIER Chairman Kelda Group plc 4 4 KELD KELDA GR A GROUP PL OUP PLC Annual R C Annual Re ep po orrt and A t and Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 04 4
