chairmans statement Sir Ian Robinson Chairman The Board, supported by a strong Hilton Group enjoyed one of its best management team will work hard in the year ahead to grow your company and performances in recent years and the on behalf of all of them I wish to thank Board is pleased to present a strong our staff throughout the Group for their unstinting support.
They are the catalysts set of financial results with earnings per of our success.
The final dividend I am very proud of the brands we own for the year will be 6.0 pence, up 8.7% and in the year ahead we will build further on their strengths.
on last year, giving a full year total Overview of Results dividend of 9.6 pence: an increase Group profit before taxation, goodwill of 7.6%.
amortisation and exceptional items rose 41% to 383.1 million.
The increasing profitability of Ladbrokes, Following the tragic Tsunami events in the up 28%, is just reward for its innovative and Far East at the end of 2004, Hilton hotels Betting and Gaming gross win increased professional approach to the betting and were fortunate to escape largely unscathed by 16% to 877.1 million with growth in all gaming business: it is worthy of its pole and the five properties we operate in the channels.
With operating costs increasing position in the sector.
by 11%, mainly due to increased opening Sadly, in October, our resort hotel in Taba, hours in the expanding UK and Irish shop The hotel division has seen signs of recovery Egypt, suffered at the hands of terrorists and estate and transactional growth in and increased its profitability by 17% in 2004. we lost 31 guests and staff.
My colleagues our eGaming and Telephone betting The recent appointment of Ian Carter as and I wish to convey our sympathy to all of businesses, operating profit increased Chief Executive of Hilton International opens those who suffered.
Despite these events, by 28% to a record 273.4 million.
a new chapter in the development of this the Group remains fully committed to business.
His international experience working in these places and believes that The hotel division saw operating profit rise of marketing quality brands will help our support in helping to achieve economic by 17% to 171.3 million as the steady consolidate and grow our market leading recovery through tourism is, perhaps, our recovery in overall trading continued, driven position.
I am also pleased to welcome most important contribution.
mainly by an encouraging performance in him on to the Group Board.
London and, in the second half, Europe.
As a company we remain committed to the Underlying profit, after adjusting for My Board colleagues and I are grateful to highest standards of Corporate Governance property changes, one off charges and David Michels, Brian Wallace and their reflected in the fact that we are now fully exchange movements, increased by 20%.
senior management team for coping with compliant with the requirements of the new the extra hotel workload they took on over Combined Code.
The importance of the last two years following the untimely Corporate Social Responsibility is also death of Anthony Harris in 2003. acknowledged.
Good progress was made in the last year and we will continue to take these matters seriously and contribute, wherever possible, to a better society.
com The Group is currently progressing the Dividend disposal of 11 UK hotels, which without The Board has recommended a final considerable capital investment, would dividend of 6.0 pence per share payable not have met Hilton brand standards.
on 1 June 2005 to shareholders on the Additionally, the Group is examining the register on 4 March 2005.
This final possibility of further asset disposals during dividend, together with the interim dividend the next 12 months either through outright of 3.6 pence, gives a total dividend of 9.6 sales or through sale and manage pence and represents an increase of 7.6% arrangements.
Should these disposals be on last years dividend.
achieved, it is envisaged that the related proceeds from all asset sales would total Outlook 300 million to 400 million.
It is currently The Group has had a satisfactory start to the Groups intention to return a substantial 2005.
Hotel trading is improving in most part of these proceeds to shareholders parts of the world and the acceleration although the mechanism of this return of development at Ladbrokes will further of capital has yet to be determined.
reinforce our leading position in the UK betting sector.
Further asset disposals will be considered in subsequent periods, subject to market conditions.
The Board Ian Carter was appointed Chief Executive Sir Ian Robinson of Hilton International and a director of Chairman Hilton Group plc on 1 February 2005.
24 February 2005 Ian was formerly an officer and President of Black and Decker Corporation, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia and has broad international management and marketing experience gained through 11 years with General Electric and Low & Bonar plc.
On 1 June 2004 Pippa Wicks was appointed as a non-executive director of Hilton Group plc.
Pippa was appointed a Managing Director of AlixPartners Ltd, London, the specialist performance improvement and turnaround firm in 2003.
She previously held senior positions with Pearson plc and was Group Finance Director at Courtaulds Textiles plc between 1993 and 1999. www.
