Chairmans statement of the Group to higher growth serving our customers are critical to markets.
Group profits for 2004, what makes Laird a successful and before exceptional items, goodwill growing Group, and I would like to amortisation and tax, were 47.1 take this opportunity to thank them all.
million, 26% up on the 37.4 million Being a Good Corporate Citizen reported in 2003 and 37% up at All companies today exist in a climate constant exchange rates.
Earnings demanding high standards of per share on a similar basis were corporate responsibility, 25.9 pence, up 20% on the 21.6 pence encompassing good governance and in 2003 and 30% up at constant careful management.
companies must demonstrate excellence and commitment in these Continuing Dividend Growth constantly evolving areas.
In light of the strong results for 2004 Considerable work has been your Board is recommending a final undertaken to ensure that the Group dividend of 6.05 pence per share.
The Group is will provide a total dividend for the also in compliance with all aspects of year of 9.2 pence per share, compared the new Combined Code which with 8.6 pence per share for 2003 and became effective in 2004.
This is represents an increase of 7%.
expanded upon in the Corporate Governance section later in this Board Development Report.
We have continued to engage Mark Smith, Deputy Chairman and Strategy our shareholders in full and open senior independent Non-Executive Laird is a leader in the global dialogue through an active investor Director, retired from the Board at the electronics and security systems relations programme.
Annual General Meeting in May 2004, markets.
With the successful disposal after ten years as a Director.
He was of Laird Plastics in October 2004 the We believe that it is important for us succeeded as senior independent Group is now focused on its two core to be good corporate citizens in the Non-Executive Director by David divisions, Laird Technologies and Laird many different locations and Morton.
David will himself retire from Security Systems.
Our aim is to deliver environments in which we work.
This the Board at the Annual General profitable growth by the development is reinforced through our Group Meeting in May 2005, after seven and strengthening of these two policies on Ethics, on Health, Safety years as a Director, and will be businesses, building a competitive and the Environment and on succeeded as senior independent edge through innovation and technical Employment, and through an ongoing Non-Executive Director by expertise, customer service and low commitment at the local level.
This is John McDowall CBE.
I would like to cost manufacturing.
We focus on evidenced by the majority of our main thank Mark and David for their specialist markets providing manufacturing facilities being ISO valuable service and extensive opportunities for growth and where 9001 or ISO 9000 certied, with their contribution to the development of the our global reach and financial strength demanding standards of quality and Group.
In September 2004 the Board give us considerable advantages over safety.
In 2004, 16 of our facilities were was strengthened with the our competitors.
Our growing accredited to the ISO 14001 standard, appointments of Anthony Reading and presence in Asia and Central Europe with its additional environmental Andrew Robb as Non-Executive provides proximity to our customers in requirements, and all of our main Directors.
Anthony Reading, who was those regions as well as a lower cost manufacturing facilities will be until recently an Executive Director of supply base.
The Laird strategy is one certied to this standard during the Tomkins plc and Chairman and CEO course of this year.
Further details of driven by the overriding objective of of Tomkins Corporation USA, will our activities in all of these areas are creating and enhancing shareholder become Chairman of the given later in this Report.
value, today and for the future.
2004 Remuneration Committee in marked further progress in the May 2005.
Andrew Robb was until Maintaining the Momentum successful implementation of this recently an Executive Director of 2004 was another year of significant strategy, with the refocusing of the Pilkington plc, having previously been progress, marked by the further Group to higher growth markets and Finance Director, and on his successful strategic repositioning of the delivery of another year of strong appointment to the Board became the Group, the continued growth.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
strengthening and development of our In January 2005 the Board was two market-leading businesses, and Delivering Strong profits and Earnings strengthened further with the the delivery of another year of strong Growth appointment of Martin Rapp, President profits and earnings growth.
The In 2004, we again delivered strong and CEO of Laird Technologies, as an strategy we have in place, the strength profits and earnings growth, with both Executive Director.
of our businesses and the actions we of our divisions, Laird Technologies continue to take leave us well and Laird Security Systems, once Our Employees positioned to maintain the momentum more increasing their turnover and Laird employs some 8,500 people of and leadership position we have operating profits.
We achieved this great diversity, with many different achieved for the Group and we look despite the adverse translation effects nationalities and cultures worldwide.
forward to making further progress of exchange rate movements.
We also The progress that we have in 2005. successfully completed the demonstrated during the year has divestment of Laird Plastics and this, been made possible through their together with the acquisition of dedication and efforts and the Nigel Keen Centurion Wireless Technologies in successes they have achieved.
Their Chairman particular, continued our repositioning energy and their commitment to 05
