Chairmans statement LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 2 Chairmans statement With a good pipeline, we expect to further strengthen the order book in the first quarter Chairmans statement 3 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 The market environment for IT services in 2004 As a result, our share price closed the year Outlook was generally one of gradual recovery.
The down some 25 per cent, although we tracked In IT services we entered 2005 against the major European economies performed better, sector indices fairly closely through the second backdrop of a strong book-to-bill ratio for 2004 but few organisations loosened their tight half.
Our share price performance over the two as a whole and a return to organic growth controls on capital expenditure.
In this climate, years since the merger has been in line with the during the second half.
With a good pipeline, we LogicaCMGs strong position in the public sector as a whole.
expect to further strengthen the order book in sector continued to be a major contributor to the first quarter.
Helped by gradually improving the performance.
Similarly, the continued focus The full-year results overall were in line with markets, our UK and Benelux businesses on cost control and process efficiencies meant expectations, delivering adjusted earnings per should continue to perform well.
France remains that growth opportunities were concentrated in share of 9.0p.
The board has therefore declared challenging but initiatives are underway to the outsourcing arena where LogicaCMG a final dividend of 3.5p, making 5.8p for the year.
Germany continues to continues to make solid progress.
make good progress and the restructuring Governance and the board programme has established a sound basis for The IT services businesses performed generally The structure of the board and its associated further improvement this year.
as expected with the exception of Germany committees remains largely in line with current where we significantly strengthened the best practice.
We continue to broaden the In wireless networks we began 2005 with a management team, reduced the operating costs disclosure provided in this report on significantly lower cost base, an improved mix of and addressed continued revenue decline.
governance matters and have applied the business and a solid revenue stream from longlatest rules and guidelines.
With demand for new The financial markets continued to value technology offerings gradually increasing, we our services business in line with our peers, As announced in my last statement, Ian Taylor expect to improve the profitability of this recognising the profits delivered by our retired from the board and the company at the business in 2005 as a whole.
major countries and indicating their end of June.
I would like to take this opportunity confidence in our ability to address areas to thank Ian for his contribution to the business Overall, we expect to make significant progress of underperformance elsewhere.
both during his distinguished career at CMG in 2005, benefiting from the initiatives we have and through the integration process following put in place during 2004.
At the beginning of 2004, there was the merger with Logica.
During the summer, considerable optimism in the financial Richard North indicated that he would retire community that new mobile messaging markets from his non-executive directorship as soon as a would gain momentum.
This was reflected in replacement could be found.
We owe Richard a our share price rising above the 3.00 mark in considerable debt of gratitude for his work and mid-February at the time of the 3GSM World wise counsel through the merger process.
Unfortunately, the transition to new very pleased that we were able to appoint technologies is complex and short-term Roger Payne, finance director of the FTSE 100- Cor Stutterheim revenues could not match that expectation.
listed Rentokil Initial plc, as Richards Chairman While a loss was posted in the first half for replacement.
Roger brings broad service culture wireless networks, better revenue performance experience to the board.
in the second, coupled with actions to reduce costs, enabled us to deliver a small profit for the year as a whole.
