02 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT approach to come through, I am The Company is now starting to come confident that we are moving in the through what has been a difficult right direction.
The Companys sector has been experiencing a downturn, primarily In the Operating and Financial Review due to excessive development of on page 10, Andrew Burns our Financial capacity including a significant level Director, explains the robust financial of poor quality product introduced by competitors, which is now trading position of the Company EBITDA for the badly and is affecting performance year amounted to 111m compared throughout the sector.
with 114m in the previous year and free cash flow before dividends Our management team have stabilised amounted to 46m including disposal and reorganised the business and proceeds of 9m.
The cash generation developed a clear and appropriate has been primarily used to reduce strategy for building value and reducing debt which has further strengthened volatility.
Luminar has outperformed the Companys balance sheet.
These its competition, produced a strong cash strong financial attributes give the performance and delivered results in Company the resources to implement line with expectations.
The profit, before goodwill amortisation, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY exceptional items and taxation was The Companys activities are principally 62m compared with 67m in the in the late night sector, with the sale previous year.
of alcoholic drink being a significant ancillary activity.
We therefore have In the Chief Executives Statement to manage issues associated with the on pages 6 to 9 Stephen Thomas sets welfare of our customers and staff out the strategy which the Company and the communities in which we will be following focusing on branded work.
We have set out our policies entertainment venues to achieve high on these and related issues on pages and predictable returns.
The Company has the most will take time for the benefits of this experienced operational management LUMINAR HAS OUTPERFORMED ITS COMPETITION, PRODUCED A STRONG CASH PERFORMANCE AND DELIVERED RESULTS IN LINE WITH EXPECTATIONS.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 03 During the year, Martin Gatto Interim been demanding circumstances.
in our sector, who are dedicated to the Finance Director of British Energy Whilst recovery will take time we are safety of our customers and staff and Richard Brooke former Finance pursuing a clear and correct strategy, Director for BskyB plc joined the which will enable us to achieve high REMUNERATION Board as Non-Executive Directors.
We face the The Remuneration report is set out We have also subsequently announced future with increasing confidence.
Following extensive the appointment of David Longbottom consultations with shareholders, they approved a long-term incentive plan a Director of Dixons Group plc.
based on deferral and matching at KEITH HAMILL an EGM on 24 February 2004.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK CHAIRMAN Market conditions have remained 20 MAY 2004 As noted on page 31 of this Report, difficult.
Like-for-like sales have and as requested by some shareholders, continued the same trend -3% Stephen Thomas and the Company as the second half of the financial year, have agreed to amend his contract to but the impact has been compensated reduce the notice period to 12 months.
by net margins performing better than expected.
Performance is in line BOARD with expectations.
The Non-Executive team has been changing significantly.
During the year DIVIDEND Bob Wickham and Mike Payne both In light of the Boards confidence in retired from the Board.
In addition the future benefits of the strategy John Williams and Alan Goldman being followed, it is recommending will retire from the Board at the a final dividend of 8.87p, giving a total AGM in June.
All four Non-Executive dividend of 12.54p, which represents Directors have provided many years an increase of 10% of invaluable service to the Company which they have seen grow at SUMMARY a remarkable speed into the leader in I would like to thank the management its sector.
I would like to thank them and staff for their substantial for their invaluable contribution and and successful efforts to produce wish them good luck for the future.
satisfactory results in what have RIGHT: Aspen ski lodge, Oceana FAR RIGHT: Parisian Boudoir, Oceana
