7878v03 PH Rp FC-p27 020305. qxp 4 3 05 2:04 am Page 02 02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 CHAIRMANS QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS Q.
While the financial performance for 2004 was good, at the traditional hard skills, but the board has identified do you feel that enough was done to strengthen the people issues as a strategic priority and we are now fundamentals of the business?
definitely moving in the right direction.
Our earnings were strong but this was not purely a function of commodity prices.
What do you see as the non-financial highlights of 2004?
the value adding nature of the acquisitions made over the A. I would highlight four.
First, Anglo became a signatory to the last four years especially Minera Sur Andes, Syktyvkar, UN Global Compact the ten principles of which we fully Cerrejn and the fide Beers transaction.
These have produced support and made all the preparations to become a party a stronger and more balanced portfolio.
Who, in the past, to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
would have predicted the pre-eminence of Latin America Secondly, our work on HIV AIDS continued to progress, in our 2004 earnings?
Nor, in a year of plenty, have we with some 2,200 employees now on anti-retrovirals and rested on our laurels.
We have realised a further $554 million an improved uptake of voluntary counselling and testing.
Through the merger with Ashanti Goldfields, Thirdly, our innovative Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox AngloGolds resource base and growth prospects have been process had an enthusiastic take-up at site level, with some strengthened.
Reorganisations within Anglo Platinum and 30 assessments already under way.
Fourthly, we reorganised Paper and Packaging have been carried out.
We launched a how we bring the strands of sustainable development drive to encourage innovation and greater entrepreneurialism.
together and instituted a project to improve our calibration The fundamentals of the business are stronger than they of sustainable development risk.
The benefits of these were 12 months ago.
changes will come through during 2005.
Many of the opportunities which Anglo is examining are Q.
You are closely identified with sustainable development in new geographies.
Do you think you are properly and corporate responsibility how would you answer equipped to manage the risks involved?
those who say it is a peripheral issue or, as in the A.
Actually, we have a strong project pipeline in very familiar recent article, that business should just regions southern Africa, South America, eastern Europe concentrate on profits for shareholders?
We are also looking at new geographies, A.
Sustainable development is absolutely central to the future chiefly China, Russia and India, since each has the potential acceptability of our business and to its ongoing success and to be a major growth market as well as a significant profitability.
Our businesses have high environmental and commodities producer.
Our approach has been to become social impacts, many deplete a non-renewable albeit generally involved, initially in a relatively limited way, while we seek recyclable resource, and global concerns like climate change to better understand the risks of doing business in each.
and HIV AIDS are highly relevant to us.
These issues The board is very supportive of this and believes it is one reflect upon our licence to operate, our sustainability as an of Anglos strengths.
When I went to China, for example, investment, our ability to attract the most talented recruits I visited small Anglo businesses in quarrying and drilling and our acceptability to governments and communities.
equipment and was briefed on three other potential Moreover, our ability to understand and address societal opportunities.
Similarly, we held a stake in Syktyvkar in concerns is fundamental to our good name and the value Russia for five years before taking control.
This gradualist of that reputation.
approach gives us a better feel for the operating environment in new countries.
Are you concerned that other stakeholders, like governments and more assertive communities, Q.
There was a controversy about Anglos judgement of want to increase their share of the profits from political risk in South Africa where do things now your operations?
Every enterprise faces tensions around how rewards are A.
The problem was never our perception of political risk but shared investors, employees, suppliers and customers all those of some people in the international capital markets.
In the natural resources business These concerns are largely the legacy of the leaking of an there are more parties to the process.
For much of the last early draft of the Mining Empowerment Charter in 2002.
30 years mining has been a value destroyer for investors.
Confidence has been returning as this memory has receded Governments tend to overlook the lean times when and this will be given momentum by the successful proposing new or higher taxes in years like this.
During conversion of old order mineral rights.
We remain committed 2005, Chile and South Africa are both planning to decide to South Africa and are strongly supportive of the agreed upon a royalty regime.
Such taxes have implications for scorecard approach in the Mining Act and the need to deliver competitiveness, investment and employment.
Some on it hence our big continuing investment programme.
communities feel they get a raw deal when fiscal benefits To an extent I can share the frustration of the South African are often only felt at a national level.
We seek to improve government.
It has pursued exemplary macro-economic the local development effects of our businesses but it is policies and deserves to have been rewarded with more important too for national governments to ensure that a foreign direct investment.
proportion of tax revenues is shared with local people.
Q. Anglo is used to thinking about physical assets, finance Q.
Were there any major disappointments in 2004 and technology.
Are you as good at nurturing talent?
if so, how do you intend to rectify them?
A. I would like to thank our employees for their commitment in A.
The increase in fatalities at our managed operations from 2004.
During my site visits and at the centre I have been 44 to 49 was of course a major disappointment.
There was impressed by the calibre of Anglos people.
I like the fact a welcome further improvement in the lost time injury that we typically entrust most senior operational posts to frequency rate of 23%, but we are not prepared to be locally recruited managers.
We have become much more philosophical about the death of any employee or contractor.
strategic and proactive in creating a performance-driven There is already an emphasis on improving safety at all sites, culture, career and talent management, addressing but it is evidently not enough.
Thus, we must continue to shortcomings in our engagement with employees and in emphasise visible felt leadership in the field of safety, focus moving to a more diverse workforce.
We have been better on safety for contractors who made up over half the 2004 Economist
