com Chairmans message LUC VANDEVELDE We have delivered financial performance which I would describe details of our Marks & Start programme that we think sets a new as solid but clearly we are not satisfied with our saIes progress.
standard of effective, measurable The market share gains that we had hoped to achieve were not social involvement.
delivered and Roger, in his summary opposite, will update you on Regarding my own role, the the actions we are taking to improve our performance.
However, it unexpected death last year of my very would be easy to lose sight of the fact that we are building this next close friend Paul Louis Halley has stage on secure foundations, which we have put in place over the meant that I must honour, earlier than last three years.
anticipated, a personal commitment to the Halley family.
This will require me to play a significant role in During this time we have changed our All these changes have contributed representing their interests and, as business fundamentally by: to a strong recovery in the operating a result, I have reluctantly informed profit of our core UK retailing the Board of my wish to leave the continuing to improve our business.
This has enabled us to Companys Board of Directors.
I will management team: deliver a 24.7 pence earnings per remain in post for as long as necessary developing our supply chain, share this year, more than double to establish my successor.
which will deliver further efficiency the level of 2001.
Combined with the and reduce costs: this is only I have said previously that we can restructuring of our balance sheet possible because of the painful but never claim to have made it and that and capital return in 2002, we have necessary shift to overseas we must always be looking for ways to delivered a current return on equity, sourcing.
In 1998, we sourced just improve our business.
Looking back adjusted for exceptional items, that 20% of our clothing overseas and on my time at Marks & Spencer, I feel is ahead of that achieved in 1998, the 1 today that gure is 90%: immense pride that we have year of peak Group profitability.
exiting loss-making operations in accomplished a considerable amount.
Group operating profit increased by Europe and the UK: I do, however, recognise that there is 12% to 866 million and Group profit ensuring that the balance sheet is still much more to do.
I have greatly before tax by 6% to 805 million, all more efficient, with the return of enjoyed this role and would like to on a 53-week basis.
Group operating 2 billion to shareholders in 2002: extend my appreciation and thanks for cash ow is 1,066.5 million before a delivering impactful but low-cost the support shown to me by pension contribution of 400 million.
improvements to our stores colleagues, shareholders and A final dividend of 7.1 pence per throughout the chain: and suppliers.
share shows an increase of 9.2% making our special foods more making the total dividend for the year accessible to more customers 11.5 pence compared to 10.5 pence through the roll-out of the Simply last year.
Although we planned for better sales More specically, in the past year gures overall, we have made weve seen progress in creating new Luc Vandevelde progress in Menswear, Lingerie and sources of growth.
In our Food Chairman womens casualwear.
These sales business, weve further extended our gures should not obscure the hard reach with the opening of more work throughout the business to Simply Food and Food only stores.
ensure better choice and value, In Financial Services, now re-branded more appealing stores and greater Marks & Spencer Money, weve efficiencies, all of which will translate introduced the &more credit and into shareholder value over the loyalty card.
And weve opened the longer term.
first stand-alone Marks & Spencer Lifestore as a major step towards You can read how were doing in becoming one of the UK leaders corporate social responsibility CSR in home retail.
in our second CSR publication, now available on our website.
