Chairmans statement 02 02 Chairmans statement David Thompson These good results reflect the quality of our business and our focus on the successful organic development of our high quality pub estates and beer brands.
The strong and consistent performance of the Group is being delivered from a sound base of excellent, freehold community pubs and from our position as a leading brewer and distributor of popular ale brands.
We are well positioned to continue our successful development.
Pitcher & Piano Richmond 04 W&DB 2004 Annual report The Hope & Anchor The Mitre Oak Ross on Wye Hartlebury On 3 December 2004 we announced commensurate with the 10.0% increase many of which were introduced as a that we had reached agreement on the in underlying earnings per share.
The result of recommendations made in terms of recommended cash offers for Company has increased dividends by response to our annual employee Burtonwood PLC.
Burtonwood has an an average of over 10% per annum feedback survey.
We have met the excellent estate of 460 pubs which are for a period of at least 30 years, and Investor in People standards continuously a good geographical fit with our existing remains consistent in adopting a since 1995, and aim to continue to be a 1,675 pubs.
Combining these estates progressive dividend policy.
business attracting and retaining the represents an attractive opportunity to best people.
generate value by strengthening our The final dividend, if approved, will position as a leading operator of high be paid on 31 January 2005 to those Prospects quality pubs.
Full details of these shareholders on the register at the close The sector faces pressure from regulation offers are contained in a separate of business on 31 December 2004. which will have an impact on the announcement released on 3 way we do business.
Property revaluation with health, drinking behaviour or Our accounting policy requires us to smoking, regulation places clear Results value our property assets every five responsibilities upon us, and we take Strong growth in like-for-like sales on years.
This year, 75% of our pubs fell those responsibilities seriously.
At the a comparable 52-week basis and the into this category and were independently recent industry Responsible Drinks acquisition of Wizard Inns on 14 June re-valued.
The resulting uplift of 169.5m Retailing Awards, The Union Pub 2004 contributed to a 4.7% increase in has been adopted in the balance sheet, Company won the national award turnover to 513.7m 2003: 490.5m.
and represents an average uplift of 25% for Most Responsible Pub Company.
on pub values since these pubs were Underlying operating margin of 22.0% last re-valued in 1999.
Next year, the In recent years, our industry has 2003: 22.1% was maintained as remaining 25% will be re-valued in line experienced significant cost increases planned by increasing gross margins with our accounting policy.
By value, as a consequence of regulation and in all divisions, reducing controllable 96% of our property assets are freehold other factors beyond our control, and costs and further improving efficiencies.
or long leaseholds at peppercorn rents.
it is likely that such costs will continue These positive actions offset increases to rise.
in pension and regulatory costs.
Following the acquisition of Wizard Underlying operating profit and Inns, that estate was independently Notwithstanding the regulatory and operating margins were increased in valued at 85.8m.
Goodwill of 9.1m cost environments, there are good all three of our business divisions.
has been accounted for, and is being opportunities to develop the business, amortised over 20 years.
as demonstrated by these results.
Underlying profit before taxation increased by 6.3% to 77.7m after Employees The first eight weeks of the new financial goodwill and exceptional items up17.8% The strong performance of the Group is year have started well, with total liketo 70.2m, and underlying earnings a reflection of the diligence and creativity for-like sales in Pathfinder Pubs 3.2% per share increased by 10% to 75.8 of our employees.
We benefit significantly ahead of last year, and in The Union pence per share 2003: 68.9 pence.
from having a blend of those who have Pub Company 4.2% ahead.
In WDB been with the Group for many years, Brands, volumes of our own brewed ale Dividend proving adaptable in different economic brands were 4.7% ahead of last year.
The Board proposes a final dividend of climates, and more recent recruits 23.32 pence per share, which brings the including those from Wizard Inns.
I total net dividend for the year to 35.32 thank all of them for their contributions.
pence per share 2003: 32.1 pence per share.
The year-on-year increase in Over the last 24 months the Group has David Thompson Chairman dividend per share is 10.0%, introduced new benefits for employees, 05 W&DB 2004 Annual report
