Chairmans Statement The last year was a difficult one for the Group and the results produced are deeply disappointing.
However, I believe that the building blocks for a recovery are in place.
The Boards confidence in the future prospects of the business, Lee Cooper and Wolsey supported by its strong cashflow generation, is reflected in its Lee Cooper experienced difficult trading conditions within the proposal to maintain the final dividend for the period at last French wholesale market, which affected sales.
A restructuring years level of 5.4p per share.
This will mean total dividends for charge of 3.0m resulted in Lee Cooper reporting a 0.2m loss the period of 8.1p per share 2003: 8.1p per share, which are for the year compared with a 2.2m profit for last year, on sales covered 1.3 times 2003: 2.6 times by earnings.
of 56.8m unchanged on a year ago.
A new management team has now been appointed in France.
Wolsey had a good year as Matalan Retail the new management team introduced a year ago started to improve performance, and profit contribution rose from 0.5m The financial performance of the Group is principally determined to 0.9m on sales of 9.2m, up 0.5m a year ago.
by the retail business, in which the key impact on profitability has been the under-performance in sales and the consequent need to aggressively mark down stocks to ensure sell through.
Board Total sales in the period increased by 2.6% with like for like David Shipley, who joined the Board in July 2001, is retiring as sales down by 6.5%.
This like for like sales performance is the a director at the close of the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
The main contributor to operating profit falling from 115.6m a year Board thanks him for his contribution over the last three years.
Included in this number is a one off charge of 2.0m for termination payments to former directors.
It is intended that, as soon as practicable, the composition of the Board and its committees comply in all respects with the The investment in Matalans store opening programme provisions of the new Combined Code of Corporate Governance continued.
At the end of the period, Matalan traded from 178 relating to the number of independent non-executive directors.
stores, having opened 15 stores during the period and resited or extended 5 stores.
In total, 0.6 million square feet was added Outlook to the estate in the period, increasing trading space by 13% to The over-riding objective for Matalan is to re-establish its value 5.1 million square feet.
This will be achieved through a combination of There was substantial investment in new systems, essential to improved product ranges at lower prices, consistent value led ensuring the long term efficiency of the business, during the marketing and improved execution of basic retailing skills.
A new warehousing system has now been implemented.
A cost reduction programme has resulted in annualised savings of 5.0m, and management will continue to focus on managing John Hargreaves its cost base aggressively.
