Keith Lovelock, Chairman and Chief Executive Chairmans Statement business and activity was relatively quiet over the autumn I am very pleased to report another year period and into the New Year.
For the half year to the end of of record results.
February 2004 we achieved 780 unit sales compared to a very strong trading performance in the preceding financial The highlights are: half-year which produced 831 unit sales.
However, at that stage we projected a stronger second-half and, in the event, Achieved 2,055 unit sales 1,948, an increase of 5% we traded well through the spring and early summer Profit before taxation was 147.8m 116m, an increase of 27% securing a healthy level of reservations in the second halfBasic earnings per share were 99.2p 76.5p, an increase of 30% year, from which we delivered a second half increase of 14% in unit sales to give us 2,055 unit sales for the year 1,948.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 12.5p 9.8p which, with an interim dividend of 4.8p 3.9p makes a total for the We had another good year for land acquisition and achieved year of 17.3p 13.7p, an increase of 26% a record number of planning consents, although, despite the Barker Review, the planning process has not improved.
Cash balances for the year end amounted to 57.2m 82.5m after redeeming 22.2m Preference and 10m Ordinary share Indeed, it was principally planning factors that caused us to buy-back fall a little short on our projected construction starts and imposed constraints on our construction programmes during The Groups pre-tax return on capital on the basis of the year.
Nonetheless, we delivered a substantial number of Shareholders funds at the year end was 41% units to finished stock and ended the year with an 11% unit Over the last five years the Group has achieved a compound increase in finished stock and work in progress.
increase in earnings per share of 31%, profit before tax of 30% and dividends of 22% Staff, Customer Care and Suppliers For the second year running McCarthy & Stone was voted We have broken through the 2,000 unit level and pushed Best National Builder in the Daily Express British profits substantially ahead.
On behalf of the Board I would Housebuilder Awards like to thank all our staff for their enormous contribution.
Howard Phillips to become Chief Executive at the end of the We could not have achieved these results without their current financial year.
outstanding efforts, energy and enthusiasm.
Once again these highly satisfactory results have generated Results overview substantial bonuses and profit sharing arrangements for our The Group has achieved a good performance for the year staff.
We have introduced a Group-wide share matching with pre-tax profits increasing by 27%.
This is particularly arrangement for staff who invest under our Share Incentive pleasing given the comparatively slow start to the period Plan and we have very healthy levels of participation in our when there was a fairly low level of brought forward SAYE scheme.
4 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Cwrt Beaufort, West Cross, Swansea Our employee and management surveys continue to show the Combined Code it believes that it will ensure a smooth high levels of staff satisfaction.
As numbers grow, we are handover of executive responsibilities in the best interests of able to offer more opportunity for promotion and career the Company as a whole.
We have low levels of staff turnover for the Prospects industry and, at senior management levels, continue to enjoy The Group continues to maintain a clear focus on its niche very high levels of staff retention.
business of private retirement housing.
We have delivered We have continued to emphasise the importance of our outstanding earnings per share growth over the past decade Customer Care programme which is heavily dependent by diligent attention to the detail of maximising returns from upon the quality of the work and service provided by our our business.
We have moved prices forward wherever sub-contractors, consultants and suppliers.
Once again I possible and increased margins by raising the performance of thank them for their support.
Our annual awards scheme our regional operations.
Our mature regions have delivered continues to reflect the importance we attach to this area.
significant levels of profit and cash generation and our newer I am pleased that our staff also have shared in the regions are now helping to move volumes forward.
The fundamentals of our market remain attractive.
We serve a The Board growing sector and we continue to maintain a market share comfortably over 60%.
Currently there are some 20 million In my statement to shareholders last year I reported that, people over the age of 50 and it is estimated that by 2031 the following the approach on behalf of the McCarthy family and number will be close to 27 million.
This age group has become John McCarthys subsequent resignation as Non-Executive wealthier and the number of homeowners coming through into Chairman and Director of the Company, I had, at the request retirement increases each year.
These factors should continue of the Board, become Chairman in addition to my role as to support our performance in the years ahead.
I indicated then that I intended to relinquish my role as Chief Executive in due course.
Over the last two years a higher level of sales per active site has been achieved than has traditionally been the norm.
It gives me great pleasure to announce that as from the end However, the five interest rate increases since November 2003 of the current financial year, Howard Phillips will be taking and the cautionary statements from the Governor of the Bank over as Chief Executive.
Howard, aged 44, joined the Board of England have had the effect of returning the housing in October 2000 as Operations Director for the northern market to more normal conditions.
While housing demand regions and has had 16 years experience with McCarthy & continues to be supported by a deficit in housing supply, high Stone.
Following his appointment I will continue to act as levels of employment and low levels of inflation, the market Executive Chairman with a view to relinquishing my conditions have clearly changed.
executive role in due course.
Whilst the Board recognises that this is not in accordance with the recommendations of 5 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc Chairmans Statement The Group started the current year with a forward level of The Group has maintained a very strong cash position and, reservations comfortably ahead of last year.
In September over the year, has redeemed 22.2m of Preference shares and trading across the Group, with the exception of developments repurchased 10m of Ordinary shares.
These share in areas closer to London, remained sound but in October it repurchases will enhance earnings per share and return on became harder to secure reservations, with extended property capital.
Following the sale of the McCarthy family interests of chains developing and lengthening periods between approximately 13.4 million shares 13% in May 2004, the reservation and completion.
There is evidence that liquidity in market float and liquidity has increased.
The Group intends the second-hand market is slowing.
However, at the end of to make further purchases of the Companys shares when October our forward sales are still ahead of last year.
Prices in suitable opportunities arise.
general remain steady for the time being.
The Board looks forward to McCarthy & Stone demonstrating Having entered the current year with a higher level of finished its capabilities in what are likely to be more testing trading stock, we aim to deliver improved volumes in the first half and conditions in the year ahead.
we are looking to increase our work in progress to deliver further finished stock in the second half of the year.
Actual volume will to some extent be dictated by market conditions generally.
We are conscious that with rising land and build costs coming through to cost of sales and, with advances in selling prices likely to be restricted in a less buoyant market, Keith Lovelock margins are likely to ease slightly.
Chairman & Chief Executive Denehurst Court, Church Stretton 6 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc
