AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 3 Chairmans statement While we extend market positions, acquire capabilities and accelerate routes to market through acquisition, we continually seek to grow our existing business by investing in people, technologies and facilities.
During 2011, Meggitt enjoyed exceptional growth.
Total orders PacSci rose by 26% and total revenues by 25% compared to 2010.
The PacSci acquisition brought a team of 2,400 employees 1 Organic revenue grew by a healthy 12% before the effect of the with extensive capabilities in aircraft electrical power, fire Pacific Scientific Aerospace PacSci acquisition, which completed suppression and low cost manufacturing, with centres in Mexico in April 2011.
Underlying earnings per share were up 15% to and Vietnam.
Integration is progressing very well and will be 31.9 pence.
Net cash generation excluding the cost of acquisitions largely complete in 2013.
We have raised our synergy target by was 141.5 million 2010: 137.1 million.
Net debt increased 25% to a $22.5million run-rate by the end of 2014, reflecting a modestly to 788.4 million 2010: 721.4 million following the  fit with existing Meggitt businesses.
acquisition of PacSci but net debt to EBITDA reduced to 1.7 times 2010: 1.9 times.
In consequence, the Board is proposing an increase to the full-year dividend of 14% to 10.50 pence.
Board of directors In June, Brenda Reichelderfer joined the Board as a nonInvesting for growth executive director bringing experience in engineering and manufacturing across different commercial markets.
Until her While we extend market positions, acquire capabilities and retirement from ITT Industries in 2008, Brenda was Senior Vice accelerate routes to market through acquisition, we continually President, Director of Engineering and Chief Technology Officer.
seek to grow our existing business by investing in people, technologies and facilities.
Our people We are investing in long-term aircraft programmes: and we are extending existing technology into new products such as tyre May I take this opportunity to thank all Meggitt employees for their pressure monitoring.
We spent 7.6% of revenues, or 110.5 tenacious efforts as they continue to transform our group, integrate million 2010: 84.2 million on R&D in the year.
We also invested businesses and seize growth opportunities at the same time.
33.2million 2010: 28.4million on supplying equipment free of charge to new aircraft and programme participation contributions.
Group outlook This grows our base of installed equipment and secures future aftermarket revenues.
We will continue to focus on organic growth.
Our energy markets are buoyant, with sensing and monitoring, fluid control and heat Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other exchangers seeing increasing demand.
Sales of new civil aircraft intangible assets increased to 52.1million 2010: 27.7million.
Air traffic growth continues to rise as the economic We have invested in new capital equipment in our aircraft braking recovery continues, boosting demand for aftermarket products and systems and polymers and composites facilities in the USA: we services.
R&D is meeting the requirements of new aircraft are doubling the capacity of our innovative heat exchanger programmes and replenishing aftermarket revenue streams.
business in Poole, UK: we are co-locating our North American sensing businesses onto one campus in California: we continue to Defence budget deliberations continue to cause uncertainty, implement common ERP systems.
These combined investments particularly in the USA.
However, given the depth and breadth of have yielded notable programme successes, including thermal our military offering, we expect to achieve modest growth in this management products for Hamilton Sundstrand on Pratt & market.
Our balanced portfolio, with its lack of dependence on Whitneys geared turbofan engines: cooling systems for the any one sector, platform or customer, continues to show its worth.
Boeing 787: sensor packages for CFM International and General We look forward to further good progress in 2012.
Electrics Leap-X engine: braking systems for Bombardiers Global 7000 and 8000 business aircraft: and contracts from oil and gas customers for printed circuit heat exchangers for floating liquefied natural gas installations.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman 1 Organic growth numbers exclude foreign exchange movements and M&A.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
