6 Report of the Directors Chairmans review In the year under review I am pleased to report that the Group has further expanded its royalty Operational highlights portfolio and continues to realise Record royalty income and cash flow per share profits from the sale of non-core Expansion of royalty portfolio mining interests despite difficult 4 producing royalties, following El Valle-Boinas Carles commencing market conditions.
production Increased dividends to shareholders With the Group reporting record Strong cash position royalty revenues and a substantial liquidity position, the Board will again be recommending an increased final dividend.
A year in review During the first half of 2011, two natural disasters affected the short term outlook for certain commodities to which the Group is exposed.
The extensive flooding in Queensland, Australia, during the first quarter of the year caused substantial disruption to coal deliveries from the Groups Kestrel and Crinum coal interests.
This reduction in output at both mines was more than compensated for by higher coking coal prices in the first half of the year resulting in increased royalty cash flows for the Group.
The Fukushima earthquake in March 2011 caused severe disruption in economic activity in Japan and elsewhere.
The subsequent nuclear disaster affected the prospects for the nuclear power industry and the near term outlook for the uranium market.
In the second half of 2011, both mining markets and commodities prices were further impacted by fears of recession in Europe and a slackening of demand from China.
Despite these headwinds, the Group was able to realise substantial gains from its strategic mining interests and has maintained a resilient, ungeared balance sheet in the face of increasing recessive forces.
The Group continues to report substantial earnings and record royalty cash flows, whilst benefiting from its royalty income based on top line sales revenue at a time when the mining industry is subject to significant operating cost inflation, as well as fluctuating demand.
The Groups strategy remains focused on securing new royalties, both by acquisition and through investment in its mining interests, thereby generating consistent cash flows and supporting increasing dividends to shareholders.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors 7 Chairmans review During 2011, the Group acquired an iron ore and a chromite royalty and completed the purchase of Royalties an option to acquire a substantial Australian Coal Royalty Valuation nickel royalty.
175.1m -1.1% Total Value of Other Royalties Royalty portfolio Acquisitions 93.1m 32.8% The announcement of an agreement to acquire an additional iron ore royalty in February 2012, will, following its completion, increase the total royalties in the Groups portfolio to 20, of which four are currently in production.
The new royalties announced during the year and after the period end were: On January 12, 2011, the Group completed the previously announced Royalty Option Agreement with Horizonte Minerals PLC Horizonte for the Group to purchase a net smelter return royalty on all revenues from the advanced exploration stage Araguaia and Lontra Nickel Projects Araguaia Project in Brazil.
The Group paid Horizonte the sum of US$0.5 million in exchange for the six year option to acquire a 1.5% net smelter return royalty from the Araguaia Project for US$12.5 million.
On August 2, 2011, the Group announced the purchase of an existing 1% net smelter return royalty over the Black Label, Black Thor and Big Daddy chromite deposits in Ontario, Canada, from KWG Resources Inc KWG.
These projects are operated by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc Cliffs and form part of Cliffs growth plans in the Ring of Fire area in northern Ontario.
The consideration for the acquisition was US$18 million.
On August 3, 2011, the Group announced its agreement to provide a non-interest bearing advance of US$30 million to London Mining PLC London Mining in exchange for a 1% gross revenue royalty over the Isua iron ore project in Greenland.
The agreement contains a number of milestones.
In the event of these not being met, the Group retains the right to be repaid in cash or, at London Minings discretion, in shares at the market price at the time.
On November 17, 2011, the Group announced that it had signed a letter of intent with Cardero Resource Corp. Cardero relating to a proposal to develop the Trefi coal project in British Columbia, Canada.
On March 6, 2012, Cardero informed the Group of their withdrawal from this proposal.
On February 6, 2012, the Group announced its agreement to acquire 50% of the Mount Ida 1.5% gross revenue iron ore royalty, in Western Australia, from Red Rock Resources PLC for a total consideration of US$14 million.
The consideration will be paid in three instalments depending on certain milestones being achieved, with the initial payment of US$6 million on completion of the transaction.
These acquisitions have broadened and diversified the Groups portfolio of royalties, both by commodity and geographically.
The Group will continue to focus its efforts on commodities leveraged to the Asian growth story.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8 Report of the Directors Chairmans review The Groups portfolio of producing royalties continues its strong performance with record growth Royalties in royalty income when compared Royalty Income with 2010.
This demonstrates 35.1m 16.6% the strength of both the Groups Royalty Cash Flow per Share 33.11p 15.6% business model and strategy.
Producing royalties Kestrel Rio Tinto Limited reported coal sales from Kestrel for 2011 of 3.8 million tonnes, a reduction compared to 4.4 million tonnes in 2010, and largely due to adverse weather in Queensland during the first half of the year.
The lower export levels from Australia combined with record global steel production supported the strength of coking coal prices throughout the year with sale prices for hard coking coal ranging between US$328 and US$235 per tonne.
The higher prices for hard coking coal resulted in Kestrel coal royalties for the year ended December 31, 2011 of 26.5 million A$41.2 million compared to 21.9 million A$37.0 million received in 2010.
Crinum As the Crinum longwall leaves the Groups private royalty ground, the royalties for the year ended December 31, 2011 reduced to 6.0 million A$9.1 million compared to 8.0 million A$7.6 million received in 2010.
In the Groups coal royalty valuation, future production from Crinum continues to be difficult to evaluate and as a result is ascribed no value.
Amap Royalty receipts for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 2.7 million 2010: 0.2 million.
This is the first year the Group has received a full year of cash flow from Amap.
El Valle The El Valle Boinas Carles gold and copper mines were commissioned during the second quarter of 2011, with production to September 30, 2011 of 9,336 ounces of gold, 1.05 million pounds of copper and 28,456 ounces of silver.
During the year, maiden receipts of 0.3 million arising from the Groups net smelter return royalty were received and applied against the debenture instrument.
Engenho Royalty payments for the year ended December 31, 2011 were 0.3 million.
Delays in permitting the adjacent Crista deposit and other operational matters have resulted in the Engenho operations being put on care and maintenance.
On December 20, 2011, Mundo Minerals Limiteds Brazilian subsidiary was put into the Brazilian equivalent of the US Chapter 11 process and the Group does not expect any royalty receipts during 2012.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors 9 Chairmans review Equity interests During the year, the Group continued its strategy of taking equity stakes in strategic opportunities with the prospect of potential royalties.
This allows the Group to develop a detailed understanding of project risks and form working relationships with management.
Where royalties cease to be a financing option, the Group will seek to dispose of the particular equity investment in a manner that is profitable to the Group, while minimising disruption to the investee company.
This approach has again proved successful with the Group Assets realising significant gains for shareholders during 2011 while generating a number of royalty opportunities.
However, difficult market conditions and a confused outlook for uranium affected valuations at the year end.
Total Assets Board and personnel developments 380.2m -8.5% On September 23, 2011, Mr. Matthew Tack resigned as Finance Director.
He joined the Group in 2004 and was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is leaving the Group at the end of March Total Mining and Exploration 2012 to return to Australia after ten years working in the United Kingdom.
Tack has been Interests an integral part of the development of the Group during the past seven years and we are grateful for the contribution he has made.
The Group has recruited a Chief Financial Officer, 64.6m Mr Kevin Flynn, who commenced duties in January 2012.
Outlook Cash and Receivables With recent signs of recovery in the US economy and much better bank liquidity within the troubled Eurozone, mining markets and commodity prices have improved sharply in the last 44.5m 19.9% two months.
This has resulted in a significant increase in the value of the Groups equity interests since the year end.
Furthermore, with this improving background, the raising of mining finance from conventional lenders or equity issues has become less of a challenge for larger mining companies.
However, in the junior mining sector access to finance still remains challenging.
In this environment, the Group continues to identify royalty opportunities and receive numerous enquiries for mining finance.
The Group will continue to make the acquisition of new royalties its principal strategic focus, leveraging off its cash resources, strong royalty revenues and pro-active management.
Finally, I would like to thank my Board colleagues and staff for their application and hard work in achieving another good years results.
P. M. Boycott Chairman March 9, 2012 Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
