We are delighted to have him.
Stephen continues his responsibilities and will ensure a smooth Chairmans statement transition to Andrew is completed.
We are grateful for his dedication and professionalism.
Strengths We recently announced that Charles-Henri Dumon had left the plc board.
His responsibilities have Before joining the Michael Page Group, as anyone should before joining a company, I did a thorough been assumed by the Regional Managing Directors responsible for Continental Europe and the Americas, who will now report directly to Steve Ingham, our CEO.
I would like to thank Charles-Henri assessment.
Very quickly I was able to identify the business has a powerful set of strengths: A focused strategy of organic growth rolling out Michael Page and Page Personnel into country for his many successes over 27 years of service.
after country, city after city, discipline after discipline: Hubert Reid, our Senior Independent Director SID, is stepping down at the AGM after nine years An expanding presence in many growth markets, including Asia and Latin America: on the Board.
Hubert has been the ideal SID.
I shall miss his wise counsel.
Ruby McGregor-Smith, Powerful global brands recognised everywhere: Chairman of our Audit Committee, has kindly agreed to step into the role.
A search for a new One of the strongest make it happen cultures I have come across in forty years: Non-Executive Director is underway.
A work hard play hard go anywhere management group: and Lastly, but by no means least, our Chairman for ten years, Sir Adrian Montague, left the Board on A small and effective Board whose members are a real team and great colleagues.
I am very grateful to Adrian for his thoughtful advice and for the way he handled We are free of the constraints that hold back countless businesses.
The Board and the Company have been particularly fortunate to have had him leading the Board since 2002.
He has left the Company looking very different than when he started We have: No debt to speak of: more global, more diversified and substantially larger.
No unfunded pension scheme: Governance No acquisition integration problems: There are three elements of our governance that are particularly important.
The Board debates and No layers of bureaucracy: and decides on strategy, holding the Executive team accountable for its execution.
We ensure that we No burdensome fixed costs.
have and will have the most talented leadership, both within the Executive and on the Board.
Performance We always ask, what is the right thing to do?
so that everyone involved with the Michael Page Group can continue to be proud of us.
My job is to make sure these three things happen.
Further In a difficult worldwide economy MPI has continued to grow, with gross profit up 23% on the year.
This has been driven not only by our Asian and Latin American businesses, but also by Germany details of how the Company is governed and how the Board is run are given elsewhere in this report.
Looking Ahead Further detail on our performance is in the Business Review on page 12.
Our priorities for 2012 are clear.
We will continue executing on our organic growth strategy: we will continue the investment in and implementation of new systems to support our candidates, clients and Dividend consultants: and we will build an even more global business, organisation and culture.
The Board will We are committed to increasing the dividend over the course of the economic cycle in line with concentrate on supporting and challenging our management team to ensure this happens.
That way, we can maintain a sustainable level of dividend payment during downturns, as well as during more prosperous times.
In respect of the 2011 financial year, As a so-called cyclical growth company, we are exposed to the ups and downs of the global economy.
We cannot affect that, but the Group will respond to it nimbly, as it always has done.
we intend to pay a final dividend of 6.75p, bringing the full year dividend to 10.0p 2010 9.0p.
We have every reason to be very grateful to the people of the Michael Page Group who make The Board that happen.
Our board is undergoing considerable change.
Last year it was announced that Stephen Puckett, our Group Finance Director, was leaving, but would stay until his successor had been found.
Andrew Bracey in January agreed to join us as Chief Financial Officer.
Robin Buchanan Chairman 6 March 2012 3 Overview % 25 20% 59m GRowTH In GRoSS PRofIT GRowTH In oPERATInG of CASH PAID In DIvIDEnDS AnD RAPID PRofIT RECovERY PRofIT unDERLYInG AnD SHARE REPuRCHASES 11% 18% 58m InCREASE on fuLL GRowTH In of nET CASH YEAR 2010 DIvIDEnD HEADCounT AT EnD of 2011 Before non-recurring items.
4 Headcount BuSInESS PERfoRMAnCE In 2011: Recovery in our profits, strong cash position and continued confidence in the future Reported revenue for the year was just over 1billion, up 22% on 2010 and up 20% in constant Gross profit from permanent placements grew at 28%, with temporary placements growing currency.
This was our first ever year with revenue in excess of 1billion.
As a consequence, the ratio of our gross profit for the year was 79% from permanent 25% at 554m, which in constant currency is 23% ahead of 2010.
Operating profit was 86m, placements and 21% from temporary placements.
Profit before tax was 86.1m, which was lower than the 101m in 2010 Cash flow for the year was strong, with just over 103m of cash generated from operations.
due to 28.5m of income related to a refund of VAT recorded in 2010.
Basic earnings per share Taxation paid was 37m and net capital expenditure was 29m, which includes our continued were 18.7p, up 23.8% on the 2010 basic EPS before non recurring items.
expenditure on systems and the investment in the opening of a number of offices in markets We propose to increase the final dividend by 10.3% to 6.75p per share and this will be paid on where we are growing quickly.
Dividends paid in the year were 28.5m and the already 6th June.
This would make the full year dividend 10p per share, which is 11.1% up on 2010 and mentioned share repurchases of 30m, resulted in a net cash outflow of 20m.
Our net cash in line with our policy of setting a level of dividend we believe is sustainable throughout cycles.
position remains strong at just under 60m.
In the first half, we also returned 30m to shareholders, repurchasing and cancelling 5.7m shares.
We believe we have that, with over 2,400 years of Michael Page Director experience now spread over 34 countries.
This ensures we meet the needs of global or international clients and candidates who have increased geographic mobility, with a consistent quality, culture and set of values worldwide.
With a meritocratically, home-grown, management team it creates a high level of trust, retains our entrepreneurs, as we are constantly launching new businesses, and makes lines of communication clear and simple.
As we go through cycles, we protect the platforms and in downturns invest modestly, increasing the rate in upturns.
Last year, our headcount grew by nearly 800, as we grew existing offices and countries and launched three new ones, Qatar, Malaysia and India.
In the first two months of 2012, we have opened in two new countries, Colombia and Morocco.
THE EXPANDING PLATFORM 32 29 28 16 265 230 4 216 16 years 12 years 77 6 years 1 14 Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative 1 profit before tax profit before tax profit before tax 1 5 17 391m 25m 511m 92 165 356 186 227 2,260 3,549 KEY: Countries 4,4988 Country Disciplines 5,286 Directors Headcount 1976 1991 2003 2009 2010 2011 6 we have continued to pursue a strategy of organic growth, diversification and positioning the Group in markets with low levels of competition.
Positioned for growth Our growth is organic, but strategically, as well as growing existing business, our objective is to expand into less developed recruitment markets where, as a result, competition is far more limited.
Many of these markets are emerging economies and are 2011 2011 growing far faster than established ones, such as the UK.
Only 11 Gross Profit 554m Growth years ago 58% of our gross profit came from the most developed Rest of EMEA 32% 10% and competitive Australian and UK markets, whereas only 9% was from the least developed and least competitive markets.
54% Asia 11% Our ability to grow fastest is naturally where markets have the 47% 1794 58% 41% Latin America potential to develop and where competition is weakest.
At the end 10% of 2011, we have 47%, or to be precise 1,794, of our fee earners Canada, Germany, 31% 16% Italy, New Zealand, 2000 in these higher potential markets and that figure is growing fast.
Gross Profit 240m Spain Our track record of growth in this underdeveloped category is 9% 196 over 40% compound annual growth rate of gross profit.
France, Holland 21% 21% 805 and USA 33% 501 Numerous opportunities for long-term growth so Australia and UK 11% 32% 1198 we will continue to invest.
58% 960 Almost 50% of fee earners now in markets where PROPORTION OF RECRUITMENT THAT IS OUTSOURCED KEY: 30% 30-70% 70% Fee Earners competition is low.
7 OveRview DEvELoPInG LATIn AMERICA: Market leading business representing over 10% of Group gross profit Right place, right time Latin America We are very proud of what we have achieved in what we regard as the areas of biggest Mexico opportunities for future growth for the Group.
These markets, not withstanding language, City culture and security issues, are very different from where Michael Page started.
While launching and growing businesses is never easy, the challenge only increases with these additional issues and complexities to master.
Eleven years ago we made that call in Latin America, with our first office of five people in So Paulo.
There are very few shortcuts: you have to have the right management, the right proposition, the right vision, the right support and a long-term Bogota 2012 commitment.
The management team were Patrick Hollard and Olivier Lemaitre, two members of todays Executive Board.
Four years later we opened office number two, in Rio fide Janeiro.
By this time we had Brazilian managers, Roberto Machado and Paulo Pontes, who joined the Group at the start of Recife our Latin American journey in So Paulo and were growing rapidly and capable of taking on more responsibility.
Three years later in 2007, we had expanded our Brazilian business to five offices and launched Belo Horizonte Page Personnel.
In addition, we had opened in Mexico City.
One advantage of also being the Campinas Rio fide Janeiro market leader in Southern Europe is that we have linguists who are attracted by the Latin culture So Paulo who we can use in the short or medium-term to supplement the local management team and Curitiba accelerate our investment.
In 2007, Roberto moved from Brazil to launch Michael Page Argentina, Porto Alegre with an office in Buenos Aires.
Headcount in the region was by then up to 261.
Santiago By 2011, with the management team growing and our continued investment, the business has Buenos Aires boomed.
We opened in Santiago, Chile, in 2010 also under Roberto and this grew throughout 2011 to over 30 in headcount.
Argentina and Mexico continued to expand, with a total headcount of over 150.
Offices continued to open, with a second in Mexico and three new offices in Brazil, including Porto Alegre.
This year our investment continues, with the new country launch of Colombia with our first office in Bogota.
Patrick runs Latin America, Roberto Argentina, Chile and Colombia and Paulo, Brazil.
The long-term future looks very positive, with lots more to do and build on.
8 DEvELoPInG ASIA: Strength of management to succeed in high potential, challenging markets Right place, right time Asia In Asia, its a similar story to Latin America, with different challenges, languages, cultures and economies.
At the same time we launched in Brazil, we were just two offices in Asia Singapore and Hong Kong at that time, the two most obvious locations to have offices.
Beijing One year later we had opened in Japan, with management transferred from Hong Kong, as well as our first office in mainland China, in Shanghai in 2003.
The language and cultural challenges Tokyo we found were greater to overcome than Latin America, but gradually we were growing our own management expertise.
Shanghai New Delhi As a result, we found it easier to open larger offices in existing locations than to open more offices.
Pudong Suzhou In the following four years we grew headcount by 137% to 211, with only one new office opened.
Chaoyan By now our team, supplemented by other experienced Michael Page management who were Hong Kong excited by the region, was strong enough to accelerate our growth.
Shatin Shenzhen Guangzhou In the last four years, taking us up to the start of 2012, we have opened eleven new offices, Mumbai Admiralty Nariman Point opened several new countries, including India and Malaysia, increased our headcount by over 300 Pacific Place Bandra to 520 and launched Page Personnel into Singapore and Hong Kong.
Our business in India, in its first year, has grown to 50 people across 3 offices and the early signs are very promising.
We have committed to a further twenty-five new joiners, hired through the Kuala Lumpur MBA campus programme and, with limited competition, we believe, with the right investment Singapore Jurong our prospects are good.
Raffles Place In the first few months of 2012, we have opened another office in China, in Suzhou and will soon open in Taipei, Taiwan.
Asia for us is typically a permanent recruitment market that, compared to the rest of Michael Page, has our highest conversion rates.
Today, we have a very solid foundation on which to build and we now understand how to continue to accelerate the growth.
9 OveRview EXPAnDInG ouR REACH: Organic career moves enable a consistent global model Weve always believed that the only way to grow is organically and this airline style map shows how our organic development has moved Directors around the world, with some of the most recent highlighted.
In addition, many more managers and consultants are transferred around in a similar way, helping with their career development and retention.
This movement of talent has continued so that we could exploit new markets, such as India, and where we needed to strengthen management teams, such as Holland.
We believe this strength and depth of Michael Page management experience in each of the regions in which we operate is the key factor that has enabled us to achieve what we have and it gives us the confidence that we can achieve a lot more.
At the start of 2012, we also opened in two new countries, Colombia and Morocco and expect to open in Taipei in Taiwan at the end of the first quarter of 2012.
10 Colombia Morocco Taiwan We started our new business in the capital, Bogota, with the Finance & We launched our new business in Casablanca with the Finance & Accounting, We are due to launch our new business in Taipei, at the end of Q1 2012, initially Accounting, Sales & Marketing, Engineering & Manufacturing and Supply Chain Sales & Marketing, Engineering & Manufacturing and Supply Chain & Procurement with Finance & Accounting.
Taiwan has a dynamic, capitalist, export-driven & Procurement disciplines.
Morocco is a stable, constitutional monarchy of 31 million people, economy.
The trade surplus is substantial and foreign reserves are the worlds fifth and has produced sustained economic growth of 4.5% on average over the last largest.
In 2010, economic growth reached c. 11%, the highest rate in almost 30 Colombia has the second largest population of any Spanish-speaking country in eight years.
years, international trade jumped more than 39% and the job market rose with the world, and is an important hub for companies operating in the northern part most businesses looking to recruit.
There are also strong flows of candidates in of South America.
It is also the only country in South America to have coasts on The country is fast becoming an important regional hub for companies operating in and out of Taiwan, with many heading for Asian cities.
both the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.
The country is famous for the production of North Africa, Western France and Central Africa.
It has free trade agreements with coffee, flowers, emeralds, coal and oil.
the EU and the USA, and is a large recipient of investment from the Middle East.
Chris Preston runs the new team in Taipei, transferring from Shanghai where he learned much about recruitment in China.
His career with us started in London Roberto Machado, who also runs both our Argentinean and Chilean businesses, Boualem Kadi, who has worked within our African desk for Michael Page for six with Michael Page Sales.
is Managing Director of Michael Page Colombia and Beltrn Benjumea, who has years, is Director of Michael Page Morocco.
Basil Le Roux been with Michael Page for ten years, runs the Bogota office.
London - Birmingham - Leeds - Manchester - Tokyo James Mayo London - Toronto - San Francisco Moscow Leeds Manchester Warsaw Emily Le Roux Birmingham London Manchester - Tokyo Brussels Sam Lee-Bapty Paris Luxembourg London - Hong Kong - Toronto Shanghai - Beijing Chicago Istanbul New York Madrid Beijing Lisbon Tokyo John Mayes San Francisco Shanghai London - New Delhi - Singapore New Delhi Dubai Hong Kong Mexico Abu Dhabi Beltrn Benjumea Rmy fide Cazalet Madrid - Bogota Mumbai Madrid - Lisbon - Istanbul - Mexico City Bogota Kuala Lumpar Jrme Bouin Singapore Paris - Brussels - Luxembourg - Singapore Rio fide Janeiro So Paulo Johannesburg Brisbane Santiago Gary James Sydney Buenos Aires Auckland London - New York - Sydney Melbourne Roberto Machado So Paulo - Rio fide Janeiro - Buenos Aires - Santiago 11
