Executive Chairmans statement The year ended 30 April 2011 was a disappointing year for Micro Adjusted EBITDA declined by 8.4% to $158.7 million Focus with the fi financial performance being signifi cantly below the 2010: $173.3 million.
This reduction is due to cost increases in expectations of both the management and the fi financial markets.
anticipation of revenue growth that did not materialize together with the impact of foreign exchange loss.
The net exceptional For shareholders this has meant a signifi cant decline in share price and charges of $14.5 million are within the range of $14 million to for senior management and most employees there were no bonus $18 million announced on 15 February 2011 and comprise the cost payments for the year.
Failure to meet expectations led to two profi t of restructuring of $22.1 million offset by net releases of onerous warnings during the year and on 15 April 2011 we announced the lease provisions in the year of $7.6 million.
The additional departure with immediate effect of our Chief Executive Offi cer, restructuring costs arose from reducing headcount further than Nigel Clifford, and my appointment as Executive Chairman.
Adjusted EBITDA after these net exceptional costs is $144.2 million which is within the range of $141 million to Since IPO the profi le of the Group has changed dramatically through $153 million given on 15 February 2011.
Cash generated from seven acquisitions which have maintained the Groups leadership operations totalled 126.4% of Adjusted EBITDA less exceptional position in COBOL Development CD, opened up new opportunities costs and after adjusting for the $19.2 million of accrued restructuring in Modernization and Migration MM, and created access to adjacent costs at 30 April 2011 cash conversion would be 113.1%.
This strong markets for Testing and our Niche product set together formerly cash generation has resulted in a signifi cant improvement in the net AMQ.
In the year to 30 April 2005 the Group reported Revenues of debt position at 30 April 2011 to $14.9 million 2010: $68.2 million.
$150.6 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $48.7 million, a margin of 32.3%.
In the year to 30 April 2011, the Group has delivered revenues Pursuant to the existing authority granted at our Annual General of $436.1 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $158.7 million at a margin Meeting in September 2010, and following consultation with our of 36.4%.
The Adjusted EBITDA generated by the Group has larger shareholders and fi financial advisors and brokers, the Company produced strong cash fl ow with $182.3 million being generated from commenced a share buy-back programme at the end of March operations, compared to only $46.4 million back in 2005.
2011 which resulted in a total of 8,223,092 ordinary shares being purchased into treasury prior to the commencement of the offer Overview and corporate developments period at a total cost of $42.0 million and an average price of 315 The fi financial performance in the last year is disappointing when pence per share.
The share buy-back programme was a refl ection compared to the prior year.
Revenue of $436.1 million is broadly fl at of the boards confi dence in the robust fi financial position of the on last years reported fi gure of $432.6 million.
Once a pro-forma Group and the relative valuation of the Companys shares.
In the adjustment is made to refl ect our estimate of the full year effect of absence of this programme the Company could have seen a net the Borland and Compuware acquisitions, like for like constant reduction in debt during the year of $95.3 million.
currency revenues have declined by 6.0%.
CDMM revenues are broadly fl at at $293.5 million 2010: $294.1 million.
After taking Refl ecting our confi dence in the Company, the board is proposing account of the impact of the credit note of $2.1 million issued in to maintain the fi final dividend for the year at 16.2 cents per share relation to our former Brazilian distributor, which was highlighted at 2010: 16.2 cents per share giving a total dividend for the year of the Interim Results CDMM would have shown only 1% growth.
For 23.4 cents per share 2010: 21.8 cents an overall increase of 7.3%.
AMQ, formed through the acquisitions of Borland and Compuwares ASQ assets, the revenue story is more disappointing with reported Operations, re-organisation and future developments revenues of $142.6 million 2010: $137.1 million compared to I was delighted to take up the role of Executive Chairman and I pro-forma constant currency revenues of $169.9 million, a decline of believe that the problems we have faced this year are predominantly 16.1%.
Revenues for AMQ in the second half of the year were better related to issues around execution.
Since my appointment, we have than in the fi first half, achieving the target set at the interims for made a number of changes to the organisation and it is likely that stabilization of that revenue stream.
further changes will be made as we seek to address the issues that have led to the disappointing performance this year.
We have set a Micro Focus International plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information clear vision for the Group and provided clarity on what we are as a changes to the Executive Committee bringing more knowledge Group.
Micro Focus is a software product group.
We make software of our products into the team from people who have extensive products and we sell software products.
Everything within the experience of our Group together with more sales representation.
organisation must be focused on either making or selling our We have also focused the team at our Newbury headquarters so software products.
Our vision is that Micro Focus will be at the heart that the cycle of decision making can be shortened.
These changes of the worlds business applications modernize, virtualize, mobilize.
have resulted in the departure of our Chief Marketing Offi cer and our Head of Development.
Micro Focus has now grouped its software product lines into four areas: COBOL Development CD, Modernizaton and Migration Product Management now reports directly into me and we are MM, Test and Niche together formerly AMQ.
The CD portfolio looking to make rapid changes to the way in which our products delivers products that enable programmers to develop and deploy are priced and packaged.
Again we have promoted people who have applications written in COBOL across distributed platforms an in-depth knowledge of our products and markets.
We have great including Windows, UNIX and Linux.
MM provides IBM mainframe technology which should be valued by our customers but we have to compatibility on distributed platforms allowing mainframe be bold and imaginative in the ways in which we offer our products applications to be developed and maintained on the Windows to our customers.
platform, and then moved back to the mainframe for deployment, or as a migration project deployed on alternative distributed systems.
The Group uses a number of channels to market.
One area that has Our Test portfolio comprises our Testing, Requirements, Source not yet been utilised is direct sales via the web.
This is particularly and Change Management products.
These are tools used by important for the high volume segment of our business, which has programmers to support and manage the process of software the largest share of our licence sales and is an area where we need development from beginning to end to accelerate delivery and to make it easy for our customers to do business with us.
Finally, the Niche portfolio contains technologies past year we have improved our Inside Sales activities, but the web that relate to application development but across a broader set channel implementation will form an important part of our plans of niche markets.
to stabilize and improve the high volume licence sales.
Each of these areas has different revenue characteristics.
Maintaining Sales productivity has been below industry norm during the year, our leadership position in CD is at the core of our value proposition particularly in North America.
This led to changes in our Sales and it will provide a stable base for the Group.
MM had seen strong organisation structure at the end of the fi financial year.
We need to growth rates in the period up to 30 April 2010 but saw a decline in ensure that we provide our Sales people with the right tools and overall revenues in the year ended 30 April 2011 with a signifi cant assistance to be as productive as possible whilst ensuring that they decline in licence fee revenue.
There was too much sales emphasis are focused on selling what is available now and that we are capable during the year on large accounts and large deals and a move away of delivering.
This is linked to the improvements needed in Product from the smaller migrations.
The large accounts and large deals have Management.
longer sales cycles and are less predictable, however, with proper targeting and execution MM should return to growth in the future.
The changes above together with the already announced product Test has a large addressable market but experienced signifi cant sales portfolio review gave rise to restructuring charges of $22.1 million execution issues during the year.
We now need to continue the in the fi final quarter of the year offset by $7.6 million of releases progress made in the second half.
Our Niche products are in varying from onerous lease provisions.
These restructuring charges align degrees of decline but provide good margins and strong cash fl ow.
the cost base of the business with its anticipated revenues.
Operationally, the key areas for improvement in the business are As we look to the future development of the Group it is imperative centred around Product Management and Sales execution.
To that Micro Focus maintains its leadership position in CD, by increase visibility and accountability in these areas, I have made continuing to innovate products as is evidenced by COBOL Visual The strong cash generation of the Group has resulted in an improvement in the net debt position at 30 April 2011 to $14.9m 2010: $68.2m Micro Focus International plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Executive Chairmans statement continued Studio which now incorporates Java Virtual Machine.
This will include I have been impressed by the passion and commitment of our people working with our independent software vendors to ensure that they especially after the restructuring exercise undertaken in the fi final can reap the benefi ts of this new development environment.
Group headcount following completion of the need to reverse the decline in MM revenues by leveraging our partner restructuring was 1,206 which compared with 1,418 at the beginning relationships and ensuring that our direct sales force targets the right of the fi financial year and 1,441 at 31 January 2011.
I would like to size of opportunity.
We believe that by integrating Test into the three thank our staff for their dedication and commitment during this geographic regions there may be more opportunities for the wider period of change.
portfolio of products to be sold to our customers.
For investors, the separate identifi cation of the Niche product set will give greater Outlook transparency regarding the underlying dynamics of the business.
There are a number of challenges ahead for the Group to address the issues that have been identifi ed.
In order to achieve a similar level As we enter the new fi financial year, we are seeking to delegate of revenue in the year to 30 April 2012 we will need to grow like for responsibility and authority into the geographic regions so that the like licence fee revenue against a backdrop of a 15.2% decline this regional vice presidents are able to take ownership of issues that year, in order to offset the anticipated decline in maintenance fee impact their local markets and their performance can be judged revenue, and maintain consultancy fee revenue at the same level.
against Adjusted EBITDA targets as well as revenue, whereas in the Consultancy has been a loss making revenue stream during 2011 past it was focused purely on revenue.
This should improve the and our aim is to avoid taking on those type of projects in future discipline in consultancy engagements by making the local team which may lead to a reduction in the consultancy revenue stream.
take more responsibility for local profi tability.
In the near term, it is therefore likely that overall sales will decline.
In this context, we are taking the necessary steps to protect our Potential offers margins through a clear focus on profi tability throughout the Group.
On 20 May 2011, we announced that the Company had received a number of preliminary, non-binding approaches which we had There can be no certainty that the current discussions will lead to an chosen to explore.
Since that time, discussions have continued with acceptable offer being made for the Group.
Regardless of that outcome, a number of potential offerors in relation to a variety of possible the board remains focused on delivering value for shareholders.
described 2011 as a lost year for Micro Focus and we need to ensure that during the year to 30 April 2012 we address the issues we have There can be no certainty that any offer for the Company will be identifi ed in order that the Group is in a more robust position by the forthcoming nor as to the price at which any offer might be made.
As a board, we continue to evaluate all available options to deliver value.
Pending the outcome of the ongoing discussions, therefore, we remain focused on delivering operational improvements to address the execution issues that we have faced over the last year.
These issues will take time to address but they are clearly fi xable.
We should then be able to demonstrate either that the Group has future growth potential or we can adopt an alternative approach to deliver shareholder value.
Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman 22 June 2011 I have been impressed by the passion and commitment of our people especially after the restructuring exercise undertaken in the fi final quarter of the year.
Micro Focus International plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
