Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation :KINTURUM GTJ OTTU GZOUT Driving innovation Improving quality and service levels In addition, we are building out a set This year has been a turning point This year, we launched a major quality of shared applications starting with as many of our new solutions hit the initiative to improve customer service Teller, Loan Origination and Islamic marketplace and gained significant levels and new code quality for all our Banking to extend the functionality traction.
We saw a big increase in new solutions.
As part of the programme, of BankFusion UB, as well as other licence orders from our new solutions we are introducing new, improved Misys and third party banking systems.
which contributed 41% of our total service level agreements to give We plan to make the BankFusion licence revenues.
We are pleased to customers greater certainty over when Platform available to banks to extend see that our hard work and commitment they can expect problems to be resolved.
their own banking systems, utilising to BankFusion is starting to pay off.
We are also committing resources to pre-congured common banking drive down customer defect backlogs services and shared applications Our development teams are using the thus ensuring that when customers raise from Misys as well as in-house and BankFusion architecture to unlock the problems, they are dealt with quickly.
This is a depth and breadth of financial services Finally, we are strengthening our testing completely new approach that enables functionality that we have embedded practices to improve the quality of our banks to maximise the value of their within our different products and make new code releases.
it available to all our customers.
With are increasing the coverage of our test BankFusion we can build a component cases, introducing continuous integration Maximising functionality, or application once and re-use it many and automated testing.
We are also using minimising disruption times for example, enabling the treasury customer test cases in our own testing: Many banks need to add new capabilities capabilities within our Opics solution this not only improves the coverage of to their core banking systems without the to be made available within BankFusion our testing processes but it means that disruption of a major system replacement.
This makes our customers can shorten their own testing BankFusion banking solutions meet this development processes more efficient cycles.
requirement by enabling clients to extend and effective but, more importantly, it the life of their existing systems.
Since its enables us to deliver more comprehensive, Delivering the next generation of general release in September 2010, the integrated solutions to our customers banking systems rapid take-up of BankFusion Equation and accelerate time to market.
We are delivering much needed has demonstrated the demand for innovation in the core banking systems a new approach within our own client With clear development principles rmly space with our BankFusion solutions, the base.
We will also extend this capability in place, we have been able to construct foundation of which is the BankFusion to non-Misys customers who can use the building blocks for our new solutions Platform a process-centric graphical BankFusion to incorporate new and foster innovation within the financial development environment that enables functionality into their in-house or services technology sector.
business processes to be created or legacy core banking systems.
We used the BankFusion Platform to build BankFusion Universal Banking UB a completely new retail banking solution.
For more information on our Banking business, please go to page 30 16 Annual Report 2011 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation KRO KXOTM GR[K :NK 4OY Y 0TZKRRKIZ[GR 7XUVKXZ 7XUMXGSSK Innovative ideas from our employees help to create new solutions that enable our customers to achieve competitive advantage and position Misys as an industry leader.
Our inventors work tirelessly to ensure that their ideas will succeed.
In 2010, of orders came from new solutions we launched our Intellectual Property Programme to help encourage and protect the value of our innovation.
We led our first patent application in the US for BankFusion in 2010.
This was Patents are core assets that uniquely followed by two further applications in 2011, secure company innovation and will a second for BankFusion and another for play a key role in realising the long mobile banking.
We expect to le additional term business goals of Misys.
We will patent applications in the coming year continue to encourage our innovators relating to additional BankFusion features, and work to develop our Intellectual new Misys Open Source offerings and new Property Programme even further.
Robin Crewe, Chief Technology officer Harnessing the power of the portal Responding to market requirements Technology trends Our customers are shifting from highlyThe fast pace of change in the capital While much of our development effort geared lending to fee-earning activities.
markets means that our solutions must is focused on delivering solutions that Misys is providing integrated transaction be kept up-to-date with market and meet banks short-to-medium term banking services to banks who seek regulatory changes as well as local requirements, we actively track trends to improve and expand these services requirements.
Our teams are constantly to determine the future development of for their corporate clients.
Our portal working with clients to ensure that we our solutions.
We are seeing increased technology means that banks can run deliver the capabilities they need to run demand for our hosted services across trade finance and cash management their businesses.
many of our solutions and, in the longer applications on the same platform, term, we believe cloud computing benefit from more efficient systems Risk management represents a significant opportunity to management and reduced cost of We have a wealth of risk management deliver our solutions on a self-service, ownership, and leverage a exible capabilities within our solutions that pay-as-you-go basis.
We are working platform to expand into new address the needs of the Capital Markets actively with Microsoft and other partners geographies and banking services.
sector, even more so with the addition to ensure our solutions are ready for the of Misys Sophis.
Our intention is to cloud when customer demand emerges.
Unlocking the value of our capital consolidate the best of breed components markets solutions from the Misys Sophis Risk Management Pioneers in Open Source Our BankFusion service-oriented Solution, Misys Eagleye, Misys Risk Vision Misys Open Source Solutions, architecture SOA strategy is also being and Misys Opics Risk Plus into a global dedicated to the development and implemented across our capital markets enterprise risk management solution that distribution of open source solutions, solutions to make it easier for financial will be available on a single platform.
is growing into a major player in the institutions to implement, consume and rapidly emerging carbon and healthcare scale our solutions according to their Phase 1 of this project will create a markets.
Our pioneering healthcare specic business requirements.
Our comprehensive market risk solution so information exchanges and carbon componentisation project will extend that clients can monitor and measure registry systems have attracted the to the recently acquired Misys Sophis the full range of market risks, including VAR attention of government and voluntary solutions to provide even greater calculations Value at Risk and implement agencies and major corporations cross-asset class coverage, portfolio stress testing scenarios direct from their worldwide.
management and risk management front ofce application.
Phase 2 will extend capabilities to both sell-side and the solution to include credit risk.
For more information on our Capital Markets business, please go to U] JU ]K RUUQ OT & 3 pages 26 to 29 Annual Report 2011 17
