Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Executive Chairmans statement I am delighted to have been appointed We welcome Doug Evans to the Board, where Executive Chairman of your Company.
I have I am sure he will play a key role in developing long regarded Mitchells & Butlers as the best the Company in the future.
restaurant and pub company in the country and I hope to be able to develop your business The economic conditions continue to be successfully in the future.
challenging and we continue to work through a prolonged economic downturn whilst also My experience of over 30 years in the industry dealing with high levels of cost inflation.
has been focused on managing large, food-led Within this context, we are focusing on the restaurant and pub sites.
In addition to this I delivery of our strategy of growing food sales, have been Chairman of a number of successful focusing on operating margins and rolling out businesses in the leisure sector.
My key initial our brands whilst ensuring good returns on Bob Ivell priorities are to appoint a high quality Chief capital.
I am encouraged by the work completed Executive Chairman Executive to lead the implementation of the so far although we still have much to do, and existing strategy and to strengthen the Board we are therefore implementing a number of with additional Non-Executive Directors.
business initiatives to accelerate our strategy.
There have been a number of changes on the Success in a difficult economic environment Board over the last few years and what Mitchells requires unrelenting focus on our customers & Butlers requires now is a sustained period needs and ensuring that our staff have the tools of stability in management and business focus.
they need to provide an exceptional quality Business highlights I believe that my background and experience of service.
We are therefore implementing a will enable me to keep the long-term support of new initiative that will deliver a more effective 1 Retained Estate the Board and shareholders, ensuring stability organisational structure, reduce the burden T otal sales up 4.9% including food sales for the business to grow.
on front line staff and deliver an enhanced up 7.8% customer experience.
I would like to record L ike-for-like sales up 2.6% I would like to recognise the contribution during my thanks to the 40,000 employees who O perating profit up 1.1% the year from both John Lovering and Simon continue to show immense dedication to their Burke as Chairman as well as from Adam Fowle customers, colleagues and to Mitchells & for his significant service to the Company over Butlers.
Our performance is rooted in their Group a number of years.
Mike Balfour and Jeremy talent and enthusiasm.
E BITDA returns of 21% achieved on Blood have also stepped down from the Board expansionary capex invested over the and I would like to express my thanks for their Bob Ivell last two years service, particularly to Jeremy for his leadership Executive Chairman N et debt reduced by over 400m during the period when he assumed the role of Estate valuation up 2% Interim Chief Executive.
Financial highlights Group Retained Estate 1 Adjusted profit before tax down 7.7% Revenue up 4.9% Operating profit up 1.1% m m m 200 2,000 400 150 1,500 300 100 1,000 200 50 500 100 0 0 0 FY 10 FY 11 FY 10 FY 11 FY 10 FY 11 2 Over the last 18 months, the business has made a Adjusted earnings per share down 5.7% EBITDA up 1.8% number of major disposals including 333 non-core pubs, p m Hollywood Bowl and lodges.
As such, it is useful to show the performance of the Retained Estate, which excludes 40 500 these businesses as well as SCPD, exceptional items and other adjustments.
30 375 20 250 1 Adjusted profit before tax is stated before exceptional 10 125 items and other adjustments.
0 0 2 Adjusted earnings per share is profit after tax before exceptional items and other adjustments, divided by the FY 10 FY 11 FY 10 FY 11 weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 01
