Previous Page View Contents Next Page 10 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett Chairman Results and strategic progress Dividend The solid progress we have made since the credit crunch has Having reviewed the cash required by the business and the continued.
2011 was a good year for the Group as adjusted performance of the Group, the Company paid an interim revenue increased by 20% from 148.9m to 178.5m and dividend of 1.5p per ordinary share on 16 September 2011.
This adjusted EBITDA increased by 21% from 41.0m to 49.5m.
represented an increase of 15% on the interim dividend paid in 2010 and is consistent with the Companys progressive dividend Our largest verticals, Money and Insurance, delivered significant policy.
In addition, the Company paid a special dividend on the growth during the year with revenue in the Money vertical same date of 3.93p per ordinary share reflecting the Boards increasing by 19% from 44.0m to 52.6m and revenue in the confidence in the ability of the business to generate cash on an Insurance vertical increasing by 21% from 84.5m to 102.7m.
Together with the significant growth achieved in our Home During the year, the business continued to generate cash, and we Services vertical, these results demonstrate the continuing ended the year with cash balances of 35.0m.
With the business strength and diversity of our business model and helped to offset growing, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.03p the decline experienced in our Travel vertical, which continued to per ordinary share, representing an increase of 20% on the final suffer in line with the rest of the travel market.
dividend in 2010 and again consistent with the Companys progressive dividend policy.
If approved by shareholders at the The 2011 results reflect effective execution of the Groups strategy forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will bring the total outlined in early 2010.
Having realigned the cost base, the focus in dividend for the year to 8.46p per ordinary share and will be paid on 2011 has been on growing the business.
27 April 2012 to all shareholders on the register at 30 March 2012.
We made significant further investment in our marketing strategy Outlook through our sponsorship of Britains Got Talent and the launch of The new year has begun well and, whilst we remain alert to the our new Youre So MoneySupermarket TV advertising campaign, continuing uncertainty in the wider economic environment, we are both of which helped to drive visitor growth to the Groups confident that we will continue to grow in 2012.
We have continued the Youre So MoneySupermarket strong market positions, experienced people and scale are the theme in 2012 with the launch of our latest TV advertising basis on which our business is built and will remain key strengths campaign demonstrating the number of ways we can help our in the coming year.
customers save money on their household bills.
Governance and the Board Since the Group listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2007, our Board and executive governance structures have continually developed and improved.
We believe that good governance reduces risk and adds value to the business.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 11 Annual Report 2011 The 2011 results reflect effective execution of the Groups strategy outlined in early 2010.
Having realigned the cost base, the focus in 2011 has been on growing the business As such, the Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in The UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council Code.
The Corporate Governance Report together with the Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 42 describe how the principles of the Code are applied by the Group and reports on the Groups compliance with the Codes provisions.
Following the appointment to the Board in April 2010 of Bruce Carnegie-Brown as an additional Non-Executive Director, the Board has remained stable and focused on growing the business.
I am confident that the Board has the right mix of experience, skills, structure and balance required for its next phase of growth.
As with last year and in accordance with the Code, all of our Directors will retire at this years Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Employees Our results this year demonstrate the quality of our people which continues to be a core strength of the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Peter Plumb, his management team and all the employees for their skill and hard work during the year and for the results they have achieved.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday 18 April 2012 at Doubletree by Hilton Chester Hotel, Warrington Road, Hoole, Chester, CH2 3PD and I look forward to seeing you there.
