Overview Business review Governance Financial statements chAiRMAns stAteMent Overview A stronger global economy and a disciplined approach to making reality of our strategy delivered sales growth of over 8% at 1,101.0 million compared to 1,017.1 million in 2010.
Underlying operating profit was 141.5 million compared to 101.6 million in 2010, and underlying diluted earnings per share was 28.6 pence 2010: 17.8 pence.
net debt was reduced from 236.2 million to 215.4 million, meaning that the net debt to eBitdA ratio improved to 1.2 times, compared to 1.7 times at december 2010.
A particular success in the year has been the positive results achieved from the integration of the thermal ceramics and technical ceramics businesses in 2010. the anticipated benefits have been successfully delivered: more Tim Stevenson Chairman Tim Stevenson Chairman important, it is clear that the relative strengths of each Business complement each other in a way that can be used to improve the performance of both.
A record year for Morgan crucible: Dividend per share the strongest performance in 155 years Pence of history tribute to a sound and 20% well-implemented strategy and a skilled and dedicated team of employees.
A result which puts us well on track to achieving our three published goals for 2013: doubling of underlying PBt to circa 150 million: mid-teen operating profit margins and an Operating ROce of 35%.
Dividend Against this background the Board is recommending a 20% increase in the final dividend to 6.0 pence per Ordinary share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 9.25 pence.
20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 2007 6.75 2008 7.0 2009 7.0 2010 7.7 2011 9.25 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Board and Governance Outlook we pay close attention to the need for our it is impossible in current circumstances to Board to add substantial value to the work of be other than cautious about the outlook the executive by ensuring that non-executives for business in 2012.
Yet after a record year have a real understanding of the business: of revenue and operating profit in 2011 and that they know its senior people and that with healthy order books as we go into the the culture of the Board is conducive to new year, we are confident that absent a straightforward debate and challenge on serious exogenous shock most obviously a the right issues at the right level of discussion.
euro-led crisis we can successfully continue the setting of agendas is carefully managed with implementation of what is now a through the year to ensure that all key areas well-proven strategy for growth in our of strategy are covered and that the Board businesses.
even if there is a major economic has the maximum possible exposure to problem, we are well-placed to manage senior employees from across the Group.
through it, both because of the underlying this is achieved also by ensuring regular visits strength of all our businesses and because to Group locations and attendance at Group management, having amply demonstrated executive meetings.
appropriate agility through the last recession, will be well-prepared for taking the right steps, with seven members the Board is small early, to see our way through another.
enough to enable full discussion and the characteristics of the non-executive cadre Morgan crucible is a well-managed Group provide a valuable variety of approach in with a sound culture which elicits strong loyalty discussion of major issues.
the current and commitment from all of its employees.
effectiveness of the Board was confirmed by the success that we have had in 2011 and a thorough external review conducted during our firm foundations for the future is very the year by dr tracy long.
dr longs review much their success.
As always, the Board made suggestions for ways in which the Boards thanks them for their effort, enthusiasm performance could be further improved: and commitment.
these are dealt with in more detail later in the Governance section of this Report.
Most Tim Stevenson important is the need to ensure that as existing chairman non-executive directors retire there is an appropriate, managed process of renewal.
An important part of this will be to ensure that so far as possible there is useful diversity of skill and experience.
By diversity we imply by no means just the gender issue although that is important but the requirement to have non-executives with a variety of different backgrounds to enable the most appropriate stretch and challenge for the executive.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 21
