Chairmans statement We will continue to expand our International business with our excellent existing franchise partners and with new franchisees joining the system.
However, we want the Company to have an ownership interest in some of our overseas markets and, to this end, we have entered into joint ventures in India and China, and have acquired a strategic shareholding in the Mothercare business in Australia.
We envisage more such relationships in the future.
We have a world-class sourcing and supply This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the team in China, Hong Kong and India which To meet the needs founding of Mothercare by Selim Zilkha in underpin all of our global retail operations, and aspirations of September 1961.
Since 2002, when Ben Gordon and no longer design products only for the parents for their and I joined the Group, your board and UK market but also design specifically for management have made considerable progress our overseas customers.
Most of our product children, worldwide.
in transforming Mothercare from a UK business now goes from manufacturer to a warehouse into a globally recognised parenting company overseas and does not physically visit the UK: with brands that resonate with the consumer.
in 2002 virtually all our product was routed via the UK.
We have acquired and integrated the Early Learning Centre as a complementary brand, Wholesale remains a big opportunity for future Ian Peacock we have taken steps to adapt the UK business growth, and sales more than trebled this year.
Chairman to the changing needs and preferences of our Our sourcing operation allows us to leverage customers, and we have transformed our supply our scale and expertise, and wholesale chain capability.
Our online offer, which is so opportunities exist globally using the Mothercare, successful in the UK, is now being rolled out Early Learning Centre and own label brands.
All of these changes are One example of this is the mini club clothing consistent with our founders vision of Everything range which we have launched with Boots UK.
for mother and her baby under one roof.
For the next year, we anticipate that cost Our heritage is in the UK, and we are developing pressures will demand attention and we do not new and exciting store and online formats to foresee any significant decrease in input cost meet the needs of our customers.
We see the trends, particularly with the impressive growth UK market as a whole, and continue to amend in demand from countries such as China and the size and shape of our UK retail business to India impacting raw material prices.
In the UK reflect changes in customer behaviour and the consumer pressures remain and we will continue retail environment a multi-channel approach.
to innovate and meet our customers demands.
We believe we are well placed to provide I do not expect 2011 12 to be easy, but we have distinctive products and services to our customers laid the foundation for success, and, as a result through the current retail trading environment.
of our strategy, are far stronger than we were Our brand recognition scores are impressive with to deal with the current business challenges a very high percentage of mothers considering in the UK and to capitalise on the enormous Mothercare for their parenting and baby needs.
The process We began to reduce our exposure to the UK is not complete but our mission to meet the retail property market some time ago and were, needs and aspirations of parents for their we believe, correct to do so.
children, worldwide remains at the heart of what we do.
The International business continues to grow apace franchisee sales rose by over Finally, on behalf of the board, I should like 15% last year and, for the first time in its history, to thank Karren Brady, who retired after seven the Company had a first half in which retail sales years as a director, for her great contribution to in its international business exceeded retail sales Mothercare her wisdom and advice have been in its UK business.
Coupled with 166 new store enormously valuable to us and to welcome openings in the international business, it is Amanda Mackenzie who joined the board on clear that there has been a seismic shift in 1 January 2011 and brings great experience the Companys outlook since 2002. to our group.
4 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 An international business for nearly 30 years The International business now represents approximately 50 per cent of group network sales.
Mothercare, Carousel Store, Turkey Mothercare and Early Learning Table top art centre by Mothercare, Warsaw Sadyba Light and sound farm tractor by Centre, BTC Store, Slovenia Early Learning Centre Store, Poland Early Learning Centre Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 5
