Chairmans Statement Measuring our achievements I am pleased to report that the group has continued to make good progress in the 52 weeks to 26 February 2011.
This has been achieved against a challenging economic backdrop by focussing on our core business whilst investing in our recent acquisitions and international expansion.
Financial Results create state-of-the-art online functionality, Total group revenues increased by 4.2% and working capital, principally due to an to 718.8m and by 1.3% on a like-for-like accelerated intake of stock.
Net finance basis, excluding the sales from our recent costs have remained flat at 4.4m, acquisitions, High & Mighty and Figleaves.
covered 23 times by operating profits.
Revenue growth has been restricted by Gearing has fallen from 53% to 50% the more conservative credit policies we on net assets which have risen by 13.0% adopted for higher value items but this has to 360.4m.
We have renegotiated a been a major contributor to the improved 200m securitisation facility for five years net bad debt charge to sales ratio which with HSBC a year ahead of schedule has fallen from 9.0% to 7.4%.
This in turn in order to avoid the risk of any turmoil in is the main reason why we have managed financial markets at a later date, albeit at to achieve a gross margin rate of 53.8%, a higher interest margin than we were up by 1.3% from last years rate of 52.5%.
Operating profit is up by 5.1% to 102.6m giving an operating margin of 14.3% 2010, 14.1%.
Profit before taxation is up 10.3% to 94.5m, or by 5.5% to 98.2m, after excluding fair value adjustments to financial instruments.
Adjusted earnings per share are up by 9.1% to 27.02p.
The board has a medium term target for full year dividend cover of twice earnings per share and to this end it is proposing a final dividend of 7.37p, up by 15.0%.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 12.41p, up by 15.0% and covered 2.2 times.
Net borrowings at 26 February 2011 were 180.9m, an increase of 10.8m from a year earlier.
The principal reasons for the increase were the acquisition of Figleaves for 10.3m, higher levels of capital expenditure, predominantly to 8 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Trading Highlights We are doing everything we can to cushion this period, despite a 9% rise in cost During the year the highlights have been: our customers from these rising costs prices and a higher rate of VAT.
We but inevitably, in line with the entire believe that a combination of a strong Continued improvement in our clothing retail sector, there will have to be focus on our chosen customer and targeted brand portfolio, with notable increases in selling prices.
Furthermore we product groups, coupled with growing performances from Marisota, Jacamo anticipate an increased level of targeted our online penetration, enhancing our and House of Bath.
promotional campaigns may be needed recent acquisitions and building Simply to stimulate sales activity at various times Be in international markets will continue Growth across all of our major product during the year.
to put N Brown amongst the leading categories as we expand the ranges clothing retailers, and leave us well both online and in the catalogues.
In our core home shopping business we positioned for when the market improves.
Both menswear and footwear did continue to see the development of our especially well, with sales up 25% online activities as the key to growth, since The group has, yet again, performed well and 10% respectively.
this enables us to have a wider product in difficult economic conditions, which is range and greater flexibility to change a testimony to the efforts of everyone who A 19% increase to 324m in our promotional focus cost effectively.
works in the business and the support e-commerce sales, which now We will also be exploring the benefits of from our suppliers and trade union.
account for 45% of total revenue.
full multi-channel capability by trialling I would like to thank them all for their three concept stores during the year for excellent contribution.
Growing the Simply Be brand our Simply Be brand.
Success will be domestically and internationally determined by whether the cost is justified with the launch in the USA in August by the incremental customers and revenue 2010 to complement the growing generated across all channels.
We expect further improvements in the The acquisition of Figleaves and trading performances of our two most Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE development of High & Mighty.
recent acquisitions, Figleaves and High & Mighty, where we have been investing in Corporate Social Responsibility systems and store openings respectively, Activities demonstrating our corporate as well as product development.
social responsibility are at an all time high.
International expansion of our Simply We are now ranked in the top quartile of Be brand is an important element of the retailers for our environmental behaviour, groups growth strategy.
We have been and continue to reduce our carbon encouraged by the first few months footprint.
The scale of charitable activities trading in the USA and are planning to undertaken by our employees, both in double our planned marketing spend donations and participation, is at record this year to accelerate the rate of growth.
We continue to strengthen our Sales from Simply Be in Germany were ethical sourcing policies and procedures.
up by 41% although returns rates remain higher than we would like.
Outlook The UK consumer is facing rising costs Sales for the 10 weeks to 7 May 2011 are and falling incomes in 2011, but we 4.8% up on last year or up by 1.5% on anticipate a slow but steady rising trend in a like-for-like basis.
This includes the disposable income thereafter.
The cost of distorting effects of the late Easter, goods from the Far East has risen sharply the Royal Wedding and the warm April as a result of increases in labour costs weather.
We have also managed to and commodities, such as cotton.
maintain the rate of gross margin during N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 9
