Overview 2 Chairmans letter John Devaney Dear shareholder, I am delighted to report that, in 2011, National Express has delivered another successful year of business turnaround and improvement.
I am delighted to report that in 2011 of the growth opportunities in our current We remain committed to these core National Express has delivered another markets: and to identify and develop policies, which provide shareholders with successful year of business turnaround exciting new market potential.
It will be a suitable balance of long-term growing and improvement.
We have now delivered by a management team that returns whilst retaining sufficient resource completed the process of recreating a has proven credentials in every area of in the Group to explore opportunities to high quality business, building on the our operations and we will strengthen the grow shareholder value.
Following foundations that we put in place in 2010 team further to ensure that we have the payment of our interim 2011 dividend and delivering both improved profitability skills to deliver each aspect of our strategy.
of 3 pence per share in September, I am and strong revenue growth.
National Our vision for the Group is to put our pleased to announce a recommended final Express is now the best performing private customers first, to a level that will clearly dividend for 2011 of 6.5 pence per share, provider of mass transportation in many differentiate National Express in the mass an increase of 8.3%, taking the full year of the markets in which it operates.
payment to 9.5 pence per share.
This will be paid from the 20.3 pence of non-rail During the first half of 2011, the Board 2011 has been a record year for Group earnings per share EPS delivered in 2011 took steps to further enhance its skills statutory profit before tax and amortisation.
and the 84.4 million of free cash flow we and experience, particularly recognising Back in 2009, when I joined as Chairman, generated in the year, both of which we the Groups future growth plans for North the Group was struggling for its business expect to grow in future years.
However, we reduced our debt, very pleased to welcome Chris Muntwyler, During 2011, our employees have resolved the losses in our East Coast rail Joaqun Ayuso and Lee Sander to the continued to play a major part in the franchise, maintained our independence Board, each with credentials in our target implementation of our strategy, adopting and, with strong shareholder support, put markets.
Since their appointment, our vision and values, with particular in place an appropriate capital structure.
they have given valuable insight into focus on improvements to customer Since his arrival in February 2010, Dean these growth areas, as well as helping service and in the promotion of a culture Finch has created a new leadership team to manage the risks and opportunities of safety across the Group.
On behalf of which has turned the business around, in our existing markets.
the Board, I would like to thank them for delivering effective operational control, the commitment and enthusiasm that they driving out excess cost and helping to In recognition of the Groups sound have shown, as we move into the next refinance the Groups debt.
2011 has financial footing and improved earnings, phase of our development.
seen further margin improvement, organic we restored the dividend last year with growth supported by acquisition, and the a final payment for 2010 of 6 pence identification of future growth opportunities.
We set out a policy that the 2012 is likely to present difficult economic Board considers both sustainable and challenges but we have created a platform progressive in this prolonged period of from which to grow, both organically and economic uncertainty we will aim for our through acquisition, highlighted by our dividend to be at least two times covered decision to acquire Petermann Partners by non-rail earnings and fully funded by our John Devaney Inc, which is due to complete during the free cash flow, across the medium term.
Chairman first half of the year.
At the same time, we reiterated our debt 29 February 2012 policy, to target a gearing ratio of between With our turnaround complete, we are two and two and a half times earnings now implementing the next stage of our before interest, tax, depreciation and strategy: to continue to improve margin in amortisation EBITDA.
our existing businesses: to take advantage For more information on Corporate Governance and our Board of Directors, please go to nationalexpressgroup.
