06 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Chairmans Statement Mike Salamon Executive Chairman of the Board Final approval of Dbiesko project in June with ground breaking in December 2011 Quarterly pricing for coking coal aligned our pricing with international trends Early investment in underground mining equipment helped to mitigate geological challenges Continued containment of input cost inflation Further improvements in our safety record Reincorporation in the United Kingdom and inclusion in FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Mining indices Strong long-term fundamentals of the region and attractiveness of our business model 07 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information The most significant single event for NWR during 2011 was the final approval for the development of the Dbiesko Mine, a 190 million tonnes hard coal deposit in southern Poland.
We have assembled an international team to deliver the project and I am pleased to report that we have broken ground and commenced excavating works on site.
Review of 2011 Development Coal With an EBITDA of EUR 454 million, During the year NWR continued to Concerns about global economic growth NWR delivered one of its best financial benefit from the considerable investment in the second half of the year affected the performances ever in a period that has we have made in underground mining year end environment for our customers.
been characterised by severe challenges equipment over previous years, The slackening in actual demand for steel in the global economy.
NWR reported enabling us to mitigate the geological was significantly compounded by fears consolidated profit for the period of complexities of our operations and of a weak macroeconomic environment EUR 130 million, 44 per cent lower than deliver another solid set of results.
This came after strong coking for 2010.
Excluding the one-off EUR The fact that we are mining at around coal prices for much of the year, with car 82 million gain on the sale of the energy 1,000 metres below the surface is production in the region performing well.
business and one-off EUR 23 million unusual in the global coal mining industry The long-term case for a strong steel tax refund in the previous year, the today and clearly this poses particular sector in the Central and Eastern Europe consolidated underlying profit for the challenges in terms of both safety and remains intact.
period increased 1 per cent from EUR production targets.
Hitting our production 128 million in 2010. targets and improving our safety record, For thermal coal we saw very strong in the context of such complex geological regional demand in 2011.
The outlook for Our containment of input cost inflation conditions, underlines the commitment thermal coal continues to be positive.
was a significant achievement in difficult of our disciplined workforce and supports With renewed investments in coalcircumstances with the rise in NWRs our intensive capital investment in fired power plants in countries such mining unit costs limited to just equipment.
as Germany, thermal coal seems well 12 per cent excluding the impact of positioned to play an ever-increasing foreign exchange.
This was particularly The most significant milestone for NWR role in the regional energy mix.
In the creditable in the context of double digit during the year was the final approval longer term there are increasingly strong price increases for energy and more than for the development of the Dbiesko indications of growing demand for coal 20 per cent increases in European steel Mine.
This is a 190 million tonnes hard fired power generation capabilities long product prices.
As a result of coal deposit 7 8 coking coal and 1 8 compared to other forms of electricity year-on-year improved pricing in 2011 thermal coal in southern Poland over generation in our markets, due in part to and our efforts to mitigate input cost which a Polish subsidiary of NWR has Germanys decision to close all its nuclear inflation we improved our profitability yet a 50-year mining license.
We have power plants following the Japanese further in 2011 with our EBITDA margin assembled an international team to earthquake, which led to damage at the reaching 28 per cent.
deliver the project and I am pleased to Fukushima nuclear power plant.
report that we have broken ground and Despite the difficult macroeconomic commenced excavation works on site.
In As a result we are optimistic about the environment and the progressive 2012, we will invest around EUR 4050 role NWR will play in the long-term future deterioration in business confidence million as we work towards bringing the of both our coking and thermal coal driven by increasing uncertainty in the mine to production in 2017. markets.
Eurozone during the second half of 2011, the fundamentals of the regional coal Looking further into new production Coke industry remained strong.
Car production opportunities, we announced our Our coke production was in line with in the region, one of the key drivers of intention to explore the 1.5 billion tonnes our expectations for the year at 770 kilo local steel production, grew at a rapid hard coal resource at the Frentt Mine tonnes.
pace in 2011 up 12 per cent in the Czech in the Czech Republic.
Republic and 13 per cent in Slovakia, Our coke sales suffered due to lower which reinforces our belief in the Reincorporation in the United Kingdom capacity utilisation by our steel long-term prospects of the steel sector The reincorporation of NWR in the customers.
Our much improved flexibility in the CEE.
In parallel thermal coal United Kingdom and subsequent to increase the proportion of more continued to play an increasing role in the inclusion in the FTSE 250 and FTSE demand-stable foundry coke in our sales regional energy mix.
350 Mining indices has increased our mix, combined with the reduced cost visibility amongst the international profile of the new single site operation, We remain well positioned to serve an investment community, to whom NWR helped us mitigate the impact of the weak increasing demand for our products in represents an opportunity to gain merchant coke markets in the second a region where competitor coal production exposure to both the global as well as half of the year.
Despite this, our coke continues to decline.
regional hard coal growth phenomena.
business made an overall loss for the year.
08 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Chairmans Statement Safety Strategy Our customers remain cautious due to Safety is a key priority in NWR.
The main Our strategy is focused on maintaining the uncertain economic environment measure of overall safety performance, operational excellence while pursuing and ongoing issues in the Eurozone.
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate, has opportunities for growth in order to However, despite the current uncertainty, improved by 8 per cent to 7.9 lost-time serve a growing demand for our products car production in the region, one of the injuries per million hours worked.
As in a region where our competitors key drivers of local steel production, expected, the rate of improvement is coal production continues to decline.
is increasing, and hence we expect to now slower compared to the dramatic The development and extension of our continue to see strong demand for our reduction of the past few years but we existing operations together with the coking coal.
continue to set a long-term positive identification and exploitation of new trend.
Whilst we are now aligned with reserves will continue, as demonstrated At the same time, our move to quarterly incident rates comparable to global best by our investment at Dbiesko and our pricing has allowed us to align ourselves performance in deep level coal mines, intention to further explore the hard with global pricing trends and while the particular challenges of mining the coal deposit at the Frentt mine site in prices have dropped during the second regions underground reserves will always the Czech Republic.
This aim is further half of 2011, as well as in early 2012, we be a significant threat, which makes our strengthened by our focus on advanced believe that ongoing steel demand in the commitment to training, discipline and mining techniques and a commitment developing world will ultimately help to best in class equipment critical.
to good corporate citizenship in its support prices.
Despite this, the tragic loss of five We have reviewed our longer-term employees at our mining operations Given our operations are at the hub of plans and we now expect to increase during 2011 reminds us of the severity the CEE regions manufacturing base, we the proportion of our coking coal in our of the hazards stemming from our continue to see significant value potential external sales mix above 50% over the geological and mining environment, in the business model of NWR.
Our strategy medium term 23 years.
Any further and hence we continue to place a strong is based upon ensuring sustainable coal increase towards our historical levels is focus on ways to limit the human impact production to serve a growing demand for dependent on the outcome of our ongoing of these.
our products in a region where competitor underground development works as well coal production continues to decline.
Longer Sustainability Poland produced around 76 million tonnes term, the additional production from Strict adherence to best practice of hard coal last year, 10 million tonnes Debiensko is expected to further increase sustainable development forms an less than three years ago and only half of the proportion of coking coal in the overall integral part of our business strategy and what it produced back in 1990. coal mix.
helps us to secure the license to operate our coal mining and coke production We continue to believe in the rationale for Coke markets remain volatile, as businesses.
consolidation in the region over the nervousness amongst our customers is longer-term and hence we closely monitor leading them to rely more on their own We realise that our long-term success the market for potential opportunities.
supplies of coke, and we expect this trend depends on broad community support of to continue in the short term.
Our focus is two fold: The listing of our Polish peers is a positive of our competitors have exited the market to ensure the sustainable and responsible development for both NWR and the sector which, combined with our investment in management of natural resources, mining as a whole.
Greater visibility for the coal the new coking battery, and the associated and processing: and secondly, to minimise sector in general has further highlighted fall in our conversion costs, leaves us in the impact of our activities on the the potential for those producers such a strong postion to cope with the current environment when planning, running and as NWR, who can sustain production and market conditions.
manage costs within those parts of Europe where coal is in strong demand.
We have Demand for thermal coal, which is already invested heavily in our operations to a certain extent unaffected by the to help manage costs and operating risk.
macro environment, has been growing and we expect this trend to continue.
1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate represents the Outlook We are seeing renewed investment in number of reportable injuries causing at least In the short-term we expect the market electricity plants in our region and we three days of absence per million hours worked.
environment to continue to be challenging.
expect Germany to need more coal from 09 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information neighbouring countries in the future to meet its demand.
Therefore the share of coal in the energy mix in our region looks set to continue to increase and we are positive about thermal coal volumes and prices going forward.
Dividend NWR has performed well against a backdrop of the recent macroeconomic uncertainty and both our business model and our long-term growth strategy remain intact.
Therefore, in line with NWRs stated dividend policy of distributing 50 per cent of the Mining Divisions consolidated annual net income over the course of the business cycle, I am pleased to propose a final dividend of EUR 0.07 per share, which, if approved by the Annual General Meeting in April, will bring the total dividend for FY 2011 to EUR 0.23 per share.
Mike Salamon Executive Chairman of the Board
