Chairmans statement Despite the economic downturn the Group has retained a strong, market leading position in both the UK and Spain, and has delivered earnings growth in line with the Boards expectations.
Underlying cash generation in 2011 was 99m leaving net debt at 530m, which we expect to fall further in 2012.
This, combined with the debt renancing completed during the year, leaves the Group with an appropriate and robust capital structure.
We now have a strong management A number of significant initiatives have team in Spain and are developing our commenced during the year, which include: team in the UK by a mixture of internal Improving the operational efficiency and promotion and external recruitment where productivity of our 53 workshops: necessary.
This has stabilised the business.
Driver logistics management planning Management in both countries are now and control of the collection and delivery working effectively to maximise returns.
We used to employ delivery drivers and additional In the past few years sales have grown agency drivers to deliver vehicles all over as a result of chasing volume at lower prices.
the country, however a customer will Bob Mackenzie We have ceased this practice and as a now receive a vehicle from the nearest Chairman result we have lost some customers.
We are depot with availability: seeking to replace this business with sales Simplifying and reducing the costs of Against a background of continuing to customers who are attracted to our internal administration and finance economic uncertainty in the countries in exible renting model.
through centralisation to be completed which we operate, I am pleased to report In both the UK and Spain our market is early in the 2012 calendar year: that the Group has made further progress the exible renting of vehicles.
As we get Improved sales and operational with the restructuring of our UK and improved data we will be better able to planning, reducing vehicle holding costs Spanish operations that commenced in judge the size of the opportunity that exists and increasing sales opportunities: summer 2010. for future expansion.
Restructuring our commercial sales The focus of the Group will be to maintain organisation to improve both our utilisation in excess of 90%, improve UK national and SME sales with a nationally operating efficiency to reduce costs managed sales force: and 11 Our underlying operating margin and concentrate on increasing the return Increasing staff training and development increased to 22.0% in the year, compared on capital employed ROCE above across the whole organisation.
to 18.0% in 2010 and utilisation rates have levels previously achieved.
Against all remained in line with targeted levels at 90% This fundamental reorganisation of the of these measures we have delivered 8 2010 90%.
The increase in operating UK business, together with the enhanced improvements in the past year.
margin has been achieved through information about our activities, will enable The Groups financial results for the year our actions aimed at improving operating us to make sensible informed decisions ended 30 April 2011 are summarised efficiency, increasing hire rates and the about pricing and availability thus improving as follows: continued strength in the residual prices our offering to customers and increasing 2 Underlying profit before tax increased for used vehicles.
by 47% to 53.8m 2010 36.5m : During the year, the model of 20 separate In addition to the 10m annualised cost 3 Underlying basic earnings per share companies with their own brands and savings targeted by April 2011, the above of 29.0p 2010 26.8p, based on management structure was initially replaced plans will result in a further annualised shares of 133 million 2010 105 with 12 business areas operating under one improvement to operating profit of over million : Northgate Vehicle Hire brand.
Of these additional 4 Net debt reduced by 68.4m to original plans, the 12 areas were further 5m annualised cost savings, we will incur 529.9m: reduced to seven regions in May 2011 total implementation costs of c. 3m in 7 ROCE 11.9% 2010 8.4% : and providing the platform for a consistent the year ending 30 April 2012.
Statutory profit before tax increased and improved customer service and to 26.5m 2010 9.6m.
Spain The successful renancing in April 2011 The rebranding exercise was completed Our Spanish business continues to operate was another milestone in the Groups successfully providing the UK with a in an extremely difficult and uncertain progress as it was able to access new nationally recognised single brand.
This is particularly the case in capital and secures its financial base for development will continue to ensure that the construction sector.
One of the major the medium term.
At 30 April 2011 we we are recognised as the market leader in challenges our business has faced in Spain is had 225m headroom on our committed light commercial vehicle hire in the UK.
the reliance on this sector, and I am pleased 9 debt facilities of 781m.
Net debt to Our main rebranding focus has been vehicle to report that we have reduced our reliance 6 EBITDA has come down to 1.7x 2010 livery on our own eet, with c. 15,000 on the construction sector from 55% in 2.0x and all covenant measures improved vehicles now liveried in the Northgate 2010 to 37% in 2011, which was mainly over the year as a result of 99m of Vehicle Hire branding.
achieved through compensating increases 10 underlying cash generation.
Net debt in the wholesale and retail distribution, was reduced by 68m during the year, I am pleased to report that the new and electrical, plumbing and equipment as the Group continued to strengthen IT system has nally been successfully maintenance service sectors.
its balance sheet and position itself implemented across the UK.
As envisaged for any sustained improvement in this is already providing enhanced market conditions.
information about the profitability of our activities, processes and services.
2 Chairmans statement Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 12 Our underlying operating margin increased Renancing Current trading and outlook to 18.0% in the year 2010 12.7%.
In During the year the Group initiated Despite the economic downturn the Spain, we have signicantly lower margins discussions with all its lenders and private Group has retained a strong, market compared to the UK, as we incur c. 14m placement noteholders leading to leading position in both the UK and Spain, of vehicle insurance costs, which are borne a successful renegotiation of its and has delivered earnings growth in line by the company and not the customer.
Underlying the longer term, hire rates will need to 10 cash generation in 2011 was 99m improve to recover these costs.
As previously announced the renancing 4 leaving net debt at 530m, which we comprises three elements: In times of uncertainty the importance expect to fall further in 2012.
This, A new eight year 100m term loan of strong eet management becomes combined with the debt renancing facility provided by M&G UK Companies imperative and for the first time under completed during the year, leaves the Financing Fund M&G loan, repayable our ownership the Spanish business has Group with an appropriate and robust in three equal instalments in October achieved average utilisation for the year of capital structure.
Ongoing investment A committed bank facility with an We enter the new financial year with made in our used vehicle disposal capability extended maturity of September 2014, a clear programme for operational has enabled the Spanish business to initially 468m in size: and improvement.
Our focus will remain on dispose of 19,000 vehicles at increasing The Groups existing loan notes currently improving returns and further progress residual values.
amounting to 170m equivalent at xed is planned in the coming year through Debtor management continues to be an exchange rates will remain invested until hire rate improvement, efficient eet area of focus, specically large construction their original maturity dates, which are management, further cost reductions debtors as government investment between November 2012 and December and cash generation.
In the 2016, and at their existing coupon rates.
The Group has begun the new financial year ended 30 April 2011 the bad debt These facilities contribute to total committed year in line with the Boards expectations, charge at 4m was 6m less than in the year facilities of the Group of 781m providing and the Board is confident the Group is to 30 April 2010.
9 headroom of 225m at 30 April 2011. well placed to continue to deliver From 1 January 2011, the Spanish business significant value to shareholders.
was merged, with the former Fualsa and Employees Record businesses trading under the Bob Mackenzie The Groups employees experienced a Northgate brand.
It has been a complex Chairman year of considerable change as a result task as there was much overlap between of the need to reorganise both the UK and the two brands at very different prices.
Our ongoing recovery This has strengthened our position with continues to be as a result of their customers and provides annualised benets dedication, hard work and loyalty through of approximately 4m from January 2011. this time of upheaval and economic One-off cash costs associated with this uncertainty.
I would like to thank them merger totalling 3m were incurred in the on behalf of the Board.
Further non-cash write downs of non-current assets of 15m have also been Dividend recognised in the current year.
These comprise 7m write down of certain The Board has again given careful intangible assets recognised on acquisition consideration to paying a dividend and, and 8m of property write downs.
on balance, has decided that it is not yet prudent to pay a dividend.
The re-introduction of a dividend will continue to be reviewed going forward.
Board Changes On 19 May 2011 Chris Muir was appointed Group Finance Director.
His appointment was made following an extensive search process involving internal and external candidates.
He has an extensive working knowledge of the business and has worked for Northgate in a wide range of finance positions demonstrating that he has the capability to be an outstanding finance director.
For footnote references see page 17.
3 Chairmans statement Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
