04 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Chairmans statement This was the first year of the five year regulatory cycle 2010-2015.
We have made a good start, delivering value for shareholders and customers.
Equally important, we have established plans and taken actions to ensure we can deliver over the whole period and beyond.
05 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk The new regulatory cycle introduces new performance Our focus remains on our customers and the trust they standards for the period and, in this report, we indicate put in us to deliver for them each and every day and the substantial progress we are already making.
Ofwat has introduced the Service Profit has improved, as is needed to ensure we can Incentive Mechanism SIM in this five year period and attract the funding required to deliver our ambitious in the two year trial period we have improved our score investment programme.
Our aim is to improve much further.
We monitor the companys performance closely and, in This was also the first year with Heidi Mottram as our this report, show the balanced scorecard we have Chief Executive Officer CEO.
Heidis review of the year introduced to do that.
It is also the base against which the is in pages 6 to 9 of this report.
It gives a sense of the remuneration of all senior management will be assessed.
energy and determination she has brought to the Group.
Our strategy has been reviewed and our values Our long term commitment to service to customers, reset.
All our employees have been engaged in the and to achieving efficiency and environmental targets, work.
The result is not a change in our direction.
Rather, requires long term investment.
The extension of it is a change in the pace and scale of improvements Abberton reservoir is a perfect example and there is a sought and in our ambition against benchmarks.
case study of the project on page 43.
It will help secure the long term supply of water to our customers in We are building on strengths developed over many Essex.
Also worthy of note is the commencement of years but we recognise that the future will pose new work on our second advanced anaerobic digestion challenges and uncertainties, often outside our control.
plant, at Howdon, on north Tyneside.
This follows the An example is the weather and its impact on our successful operation of the plant at Bran Sands, on environment.
Another is possible reform to the Teesside.
Together they will significantly increase our regulatory regime although, in that case, we are seeking use of renewable energy.
to influence change to ensure the company can deliver its, and the Governments, objectives efficiently and The work of our people during the winter was effectively.
The Board reviews all identified strategic exceptional.
Their unstinting efforts throughout the year risks regularly: they are detailed on pages 50 and 51 of are always evident and are the basis of our successes.
We seek to judge and to manage the impact We thank them for all they do and we seek to ensure of risk on the business, financially and operationally.
they have the right environment and personal development opportunities.
We were listed as a The strong financial performance, delivered in difficult company to watch in the Sunday Times Best and uncertain economic conditions, has enabled the Companies to work for survey.
This was a significant Board to recommend a dividend for the year in line result as it was the first time we had taken part.
with the objective we established in 2005.
Annual real However, this was not a surprise as our employee increases of 3.0% have consistently been provided survey showed that levels of satisfaction are high.
The economic climate remains uncertain although we were pleased to note the agreement by Our employees are active in our Just an hour Sahaviriya Steel Industries SSI to take over the Corus volunteering scheme, working in the communities we plant on Teesside and Hitachis decision to build its serve.
These communities are important to us and we high speed train assembly plant in Durham.
These, have developed significant partnerships to ensure that and other developments, should help us to stabilise we support and help to sustain them.
That work is part our demand in the future.
of a corporate responsibility programme covering all aspects of our business and seeking to embed Yet again, the weather had a huge impact on our sustainability at all levels.
The worst winter in over 100 years posed many challenges for us.
Due to the I must thank my fellow directors for their support extraordinary work of teams across the company, during the year.
I would particularly like to thank Claude supplies to our customers were not affected.
I must Lamoureux, who leaves the Board after this years pay tribute to those who worked in exceptionally hard Annual General Meeting AGM, for his five years on conditions to guarantee supplies and to deal with the the Board.
He has provided us with wisdom and an inevitably increased leakage quickly, although, in these international dimension.
Anita Frew and Alastair Balls circumstances, it was not possible to achieve our both left the NWL board after nine years of dedicated leakage target in the north.
We have welcomed Paul Rew to the Board since last years AGM as well A number of reviews of our regulators are under as Simon Lyster, who has been a member of the NWL consideration.
We also expect a White Paper for Water.
The board has considerable This does create uncertainty for the industry.
We believe strength, drawn in part from the diverse backgrounds that, overall, the model for the industry has worked well.
and experience of the directors.
Much of the necessary change can be made by the industry in association with Government and regulators without potentially disruptive change.
Regulatory change must not undermine the confidence of Sir Derek Wanless our investors.
