com 03 Chairmans letter Corporate governance lord grade of yarmouth the board has a wide range of responsibilities.
there are three Chairman that are particularly important for the success of the business, first, to debate, determine and oversee the execution of our strategy: second, to ensure that we have the most talented dear shareholder team to execute this strategy and that we plan effectively for succession: and third, to ensure effective governance.
Overview securing the right balance of skills, experience and perspectives we are now in our second year as a public listed company on the board is a key responsibility to ensure that the board and i am pleased to report that the business continues to works effectively as a team towards shared goals with the right see significant sales growth and improvements in operational mix of enquiry and support of the executive directors from the profitability.
the nomination Committee report on pages 36 to 37 describes this work.
we always seek to run during the year the group invested heavily and continues to our business in a responsible way, and we have a very strong do so, in the development of its second Customer fulfilment team which is mindful of its responsibilities not just in helping to Centre at dordon, warwickshire.
this major development will deliver the strategy but also in overseeing financial controls and ensure Ocado is in a prime position to take full advantage of the risk management.
rapid growth expected in the online grocery business over the coming years.
Our governance reporting obligations are set out in the uK Corporate governance Code.
the appointment of the three People new non-executive directors moves the board closer to the i am greatly inspired and hugely impressed by the level of boards desired full compliance with the 2010 Code in respect service and quality of offering that our people deliver.
a detailed statement of corporate impressive record in achieving awards for innovation and quality governance can be found on pages 30 to 45 of this annual of service continued during the year and is testament to the report.
efforts and talent of our workforce.
i wish to thank all members of the Ocado family for their continued support.
i am also mindful of my responsibility as Chairman to lead the board and ensure that it is working effectively.
this year a board Board changes evaluation was carried out with the frCs guidance on board andrew bracey has resigned as Chief financial Officer from the effectiveness in mind.
i am encouraged, as reinforced by our board, and a process is underway to find a new Chief financial boards performance review, that our board operates effectively Officer.
andrew is expected to leave after the publication of this and is properly engaged.
david young, who joined the board in 2000, has also expressed his intention to resign as non-executive director Corporate social responsibility at the agm.
i would like to pay thanks to andrew and david Operating our business in a responsible way is fundamental both for their valuable contribution to the success of Ocado and wish to the way we operate and to delivering sustainable profits and them every success for the future.
long-term value for our shareholders.
we welcomed mark richardson to the board in the newly we have continued to explore methods of reducing our impact created role of Operations director.
since 2001, as head on the environment, including the use of anaerobic digestion to of technology, mark had led the Ocado technology team in produce electricity from our food waste, use of electric vans in developing our website, mobile applications and warehouse it our london spokes and continuing our closed-loop carrier bag system.
we have also supported the Japan appeal and macmillan Cancer support among other important causes.
the existing board members Jason gissing and neill abrams also corporate social responsibility report found on pages 24 to 27 had changes to their roles during the period.
Jason has taken on describes our responsibilities here.
the new board position of Commercial director and neill has assumed responsibility for human resources in addition to his Looking forward current role as legal and business affairs director.
i am excited about Ocados future and i look forward to the continued expansion of our business.
as a board, we remain we also welcomed three new non-executive directors onto confident that our strategy and business plan will allow Ocado the board in douglas mcCallum, wendy becker and alex to grow and deliver our commitment to create value for our mahon.
douglas high-level experience in e-commerce and it, shareholders.
wendys wealth of experience in retail, technology and customer service and alexs experience in media, strategy and corporate development will complement the skill set of the existing board.
wendy will chair the remuneration Committee upon the retirement of david young.
Lord Grade of Yarmouth Chairman Ocado group plc 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 Chairmans letter Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
