Petrofac 06 Annual report and accounts 2011 Chairmans statement 2011 was another good year for Petrofac.
Ourrevenue rose by 33% to US$5,801 million, 1 and net profits increased by 25% to US$539.4 million.
The diversity of experience within our Board enriches our business Marketplace and this has been further complemented by these recent additions.
These results were achieved against the backdrop of continuing AndyInglis industry experience and technical expertise informs our uncertainty within the global economic and political environment.
strategy for IES: the knowledge and insight Roxanne Decyk gained Despite this uncertainty, oil prices remained robust at more than as Shells Head of Global Government Affairs helps us as we 2 US$100 per barrel for most of the year.
This reects continuing consider our approach to new geographies, and Tim Wellers growth in international energy demand, driven particularly by experience from other sectors and companies further expands China, and the challenge faced by the industry of growing supply.
Suchanenvironment remains one in which our customers are continuing to invest, and demand for our services remains strong.
A strong leadership team Quite rightly, stakeholders emphasise the importance, not just of Dividends individual talent, but also of a strong and cohesive leadership team.
Reecting our strong performance, the Company proposes a final I have been pleased to nd that Petrofac has a very constructive dividend of 37.20 cents per share for the year ended 31 December boardroom culture.
Debate on a range of issues, from our new 2011 2010: 30.00 cents, which, if approved, will be paid to strategy and risk management to compliance with our Code shareholders on 18 May 2012 provided they were on the register ofBusiness Conduct, has been informed, intelligent and on 20 April 2012.
Shareholders who have not elected before wide-ranging.
Board members freely challenge each others 2March 2012 to receive dividends in US dollars will receive views, while laying differences of opinion aside and assuming full a sterling equivalent of 23.39 pence per share.
cabinet responsibility when decisions are reached.
The Board is agenuine team, not just a collection of talented individuals and, Together with the interim dividend of 17.40 cents per share assuch, noone person or group dominates the boardroom.
2010: 13.80 cents, equivalent to 10.54 pence, this gives a total dividend for the year of 54.60 cents per share 2010: 43.80 cents, The behaviour, cohesiveness and effectiveness of the Board anincrease of 25%, in line with the increase in net profit.
is reinforced by the international site visits that form part of our calendar.
In2011, we visited the Asab oil eld, where Petrofac is Our growth journey upgrading production capacity for the Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil Operations.
Visiting our operations is a practical and To align our whole business behind our strategic goals, in 2011, useful way to get to know both colleagues and the business.
wereshaped Petrofac into two divisions: Engineering, Construction, Comprehensive induction programmes, including visits to Operations & Maintenance ECOM and Integrated Energy Services Grouplocations, also help new Board members get practical IES.
We believe these changes will enable us to generate more understanding of the business.
value from our capabilities, grow earnings and deliver higher returns.
We will report the results of these two divisions ECOM Doing the right thing for stakeholders andIES under four reporting segments: Onshore Engineering &Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & The strength of our Board, and business, is rooted in Petrofacs Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services.
This is demonstrated by ourfull compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Petrofac has been developing its oil & gas capabilities for many Iampleased to report that the Petrofac Board abides with the years, both through organic development and small spirit, as well as the letter, of the code and is focused on doing complementary acquisitions.
Our new structure will enable the right thing by all our stakeholders.
us todeliver even stronger, integrated support to our customers.
Again this year, the Board evaluated Petrofacs major processes Our Board, like our strategy, also brings together proven experience and procedures to ensure they are t for purpose.
Risk was and new insights.
In 2011, several new members joined the team.
a particular emphasis: we spent significant time reviewing the Andy Inglis, Chief Executive of IES, Roxanne Decyk, Non-executive Groups risk management framework, including the interface Director, and I joined in March and Tim Weller succeeded between the Audit and Board Risk Committees.
No business can Keith Roberts as Chief Financial officer in October.
ever befree of risk and working, as we do, in a complex industry, ondemanding projects, in challenging environments, risk is integraltoour job.
We will continue to strive to ensure that as 1 the Company and the size of ourcontracts grow, we will continue Excluding the gain from the EnQuest demerger in April 2010. to safeguard investor value.
2 Brent, a benchmark crude oil, averaged US$111 per barrel for 2011 2010:US$80 per barrel.
Performance highlights Petrofac Our services and business model Annual report and accounts 2011 07 Chairmans statement Interview with the Group Chief Executive Leadership team Vision and values Creating sustainable growth Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance Integrated Energy Services 22 41 50 65 107 153 Petrofac draws enormous benefit from the diversity of its people.
The Petrofac difference We actively encourage such diversity, and this, coupled with our The theme of this years annual report is the Petrofac difference: commitment to recruiting and developing local workforces has this difference is evident in how the Company does business, ledto us employing more than 80 nationalities across the Group.
Since joining Petrofac, I have been struck TheCompany realises, however, that throughout the business and by its distinctive culture, one characterised by inspired leadership, at Board level we could improve our gender balance.
We therefore entrepreneurial air, exceptional capabilities, an innovative mindset support Lord Davies Report on Women on Boards and aspire and strong customer relationships.
It also has outstanding people: to have 25% female Board representation by 2015. having travelled this year to Petrofac operations in the UK, Middle While striving to achieve this target, on selecting people for the East and Asia, I have been impressed by employees can-do Board, as elsewhere, we will always put the calibre of candidates attitude and their unbridled passion for and pride in the Company.
In 2011, having assessed a wide range Ihope to meet many more of our people in the coming year and of talented men and women, we made two new appointments would like to thank them all for their contribution to Petrofacs to theBoard: Ren Mdori and Marwan Chedid.
Ren has been continuing success.
FinanceDirector of Anglo American PLC since 2005 and is also a Non-executive Director of SSE PLC and Anglo Platinum Limited.
Outlook Marwan recently became Chief Executive of our Engineering, Petrofac has set a clear target for the medium term aiming Construction, Operations & Maintenance ECOM division, having to more than double 2010 recurring Group earnings by 2015. joined Petrofac in 1992.
Both Ren and Marwan have a wealth of Asallsigns point toour customers continuing to invest in oil & gas experience, which I am certain will further strengthen and infrastructure anddevelopments, I am confident that Petrofac enhanceour Board.
with its able leadership team, clear strategy, deep capability and As mentioned earlier, Keith Roberts left Petrofac at the end of 2011, strong, integrated offering will achieve this target.
Keith helped transform Petrofac from a modest-sized, privately owned company to the US$8 billion, FTSE100 business it is today.
We have much to thank him for andwish him well for the future.
Norman Murray Chairman Overview ReRi view off operattions i Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
