Chairmans Statement Peter Hambro A Billion Dollar Year Dear fellow shareholder, The learning process involved a comprehensive review of Results operations followed by the This year we more than doubled development of a new planning our total revenue to US$1.3 billion and scheduling regime as well as in 2011.
Our EBITDA of US$0.6 better operating practices which billion was three times greater than have borne fruit.
Following last years and our fully diluted implementation of the programme, earnings per share increased to the daily volumes of mining works US$1.23, some 11 times more than at Pioneer increased by 20% and the previous year.
The operating we managed to increase volumes cash flow at US$0.3 billion is seven of total material mined by 61% times higher than 2010. year-on-year.
Indeed, we have now caught up with all the waste stripping that fell behind schedule In order to achieve this we moved record volumes of material, in 2010.
The operating crews and processed record amounts of their management deserve our ore and sold record amounts of thanks for their enthusiasm for the gold at record prices.
At the same new regime and I hope that this can time we managed to maintain be replicated throughout the Group control of operating costs: with and carried on in future years.
total cash costs for hard rock gold A tighter hold on operational production at US$586 oz rising by 7%, which is less than input cost expenditure, staff numbers and inflation of approximately 20%.
wage levels was also a major This is the first Annual Report in Total cash costs, including alluvial contributor to our success.
production, which is more Having said that, our hardworking which we can measure our financial dependent on energy, rose by 9% and loyal employees are still well success in billions of dollars.
This cost control is rewarded when compared with all the more remarkable because it other operations in the Amur Peter Hambro was achieved in spite of a 22% region.
All senior management decrease in average grades also participate in our long-term Chairman processed at Pokrovskiy and incentive scheme which is tightly Malomir RIPs.
At Pokrovskiy connected to Key Performance our maturing mine in addition Indicators based on our strategy.
to a decrease in grades we had a 75% increase in the stripping Most importantly, tight cost control and high gold price coefficient but the cost per tonne of ore produced declined by 2% during the year have yielded record due to reduced overheads.
operating cash flows which, together with the credit lines Our success can be explained in available to us, allow us to complete part by economies of scale, since our expansion programme.
we are now using much bigger equipment at Pioneer our flagship operation but I believe that a far more significant explanation is the fact that we are continuing to optimise the way we use such large-scale equipment.
3 US$ billion 04 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information demands from our exceptional The result of this work both To complement this background growth abate, I hope that we will metallurgical and geological was of operating success, we added a be able to be among those at the the choice of pressure oxidation further 1.5Moz to our JORC Mineral forefront of dividend payment in as the most effective method of Resources in spite of a depletion of our sector.
In the meantime, I am releasing and recovering the large 0.65Moz and we commissioned glad that we have been able to amounts of gold contained in our one new mine and two new increase the total dividend for the refractory deposits.
These in year by 20% to 0.12 per share.
themselves are remarkable I am conscious though that this It is worth noting that pressure achievements and as usual were does not match the exceptional oxidation technology is not new.
accomplished in-house, with growth in our after-tax earnings After all, it is what Mother Nature minimal external assistance.
as much of our cash flow is still does all the time: the main being ploughed back into the difference being that we must do From this operating base we Groups development.
in a few hours what she does in a expect to produce 680,000oz few million years.
The move to the pressure itself, which is also not new to the oxidation process industry, having been utilised by I am sure that you will be as grateful In spite of our success this year, other gold companies for more as I am to management and staff we still need to take account of than 50 years, as well as being for making this possible.
the changes occurring in the used in the base metal industry mining environment that are likely in the former Soviet Union, Share price performance to affect us and to look to our future is straightforward.
The goldand dividend based on these observations.
bearing ore is heated to 225 It both saddens and perplexes degrees centigrade in a pressure Most notable of these changes is me that the price at which the the decline in the number of new vessel containing pure oxygen Companys shares change hands discoveries of gold of significant at 35 times normal atmospheric on the Stock Exchange reflects quality and, in particular, the pressure: the heat coming from neither the achievements set out reduction in the number of new, the oxidation of the sulphur to above nor the great potential that easy to treat, oxide as opposed which the gold particles are bound.
the Group has to continue to to refractory deposits that are develop and grow its business.
The prospect of doing so much being found.
Nowhere is this more extra work might seem daunting true than in Russia and this fact is I must assume that the market is something of which we have been but, by using a simple flotation placing a far higher discount on aware for some time.
concentration process, we can mining assets in Russia than I, separate a high proportion of after about 30 years of involvement For this reason, we invested gold-bearing material from the with Russia, deem necessary.
substantially in the scientific waste and by use of this method I also think that there are lasting evaluation of alternative methods we only need to pressure oxidise impressions of the difficulties we a very small fraction of the ore. of treating the harder-to-recover encountered in 2010 that are hard refractory gold that is much more Accordingly, there is a cost to improve and that only plentiful in Russia.
At the same time saving compared to normal successive years of successful we continued, within our total ore processing, where all the operations can achieve.
exploration effort, the evaluation ore is treated.
This counteracts, of the refractory gold occurrences to some extent, the expense It is my belief that people who that we had in our own portfolio of pressure oxidation itself.
invest in gold mining companies on In contrast with comparable of gold reserves and resources.
the basis of their net present value processing methods, pressure do so on a mistaken assumption, oxidation has a low impact on unless they get to share in the cash the environment.
For this reason I have always been a strong advocate of a progressive dividend policy and, as soon as the capital expenditure 05 Chairman s Stat ement Peter Hambro continued Our two main sources of refractory New projects Management Visokoe gold are Malomir and Pioneer and The shift to refractory processing Exploration work in 2011 proved Dr Pavel Maslovskiy, we decided that the most effective is, I am pleased to say, not the only 1.2Moz non-refractory gold our Chief Executive Officer, way to recover this was to do the thing in our future.
The ores at our reserves at Visokoe, our most our founder and my business concentration at site and to bring recently opened mine at Albyn are advanced asset in the Krasnoyarsk partner became a Senator and the highly-charged product to a easy to process and we are already region.
In addition, we have two Member of the Federation Council processing hub at Pokrovskiy.
building the second stage of the of Russia the Upper House of the other promising early stage Here we have the existing processing facility there.
For this licences on Yenisey Ridge, also in accommodation facilities, skilled reason he has retired from his the Krasnoyarsk region, which has labour, laboratories, smelting and Elginskoye been the number one gold executive role with the Group but storage facilities, a power supply Some 15km away from Albyn, producing region in Russia for remains as our unpaid Honorary and other logistical advantages.
we have had some promising more than a decade and hosts President and we are grateful for In addition, Pokrovskiy is located intersections from a new gold Polyus Olimpiada.
the continuing advice and support close to an excellent source of lime, discovery at Elginskoye.
Although that he will give us.
which is needed to neutralise the not sufficiently explored to be With a favourable geological sulphuric acid that is a by-product classed as reserves or resources, Sergey Ermolenko, who has setting and numerous indications of the process.
this deposit is generating of extensive gold mineralisation been at Pavels right hand since considerable interest amongst found within this area we have high the Group was founded in 1994, A further advantage of the our exploration teams who expectations of good results from has kindly agreed to take over the Pokrovskiy hub site is its proximity believe it has the potential to bring exploration work planned for 2012.
Chief Executive Officer role and to the Trans-Siberian Railway.
transformational changes I welcome him as a Director of This is important for the mediumto the Albyn project.
term future because, by building Exploration is key to our business facilities capable of producing Nimanskaya Brian Egan, our Chief Financial and this year our success in flotation concentrate at the many In June 2011, the Group won the Officer, has decided to return to his increasing our total reserves Soviet-era gold mines along the auction for an exploration and and resources from 23.1Moz native Ireland and thus to leave us 2 route of the westbound line, extraction licence for the 308km to 24.6Moz notwithstanding shortly after the publication of the we would have access to Nimanskaya licence area, located 650,000oz depletion, is testament Annual Report.
Brian has done an in the Khabarovsk region, some otherwise unprocessed reserves to the good work that the excellent job both at Aricom and left over from previous operations.
The area is with Petropavlovsk and we will exploration teams have done.
well-known for having produced miss his input.
From an economic point of view, Pressure oxidation is, in our view, more than 4 million oz from alluvial it is good to know that so many the way forward for the gold mining gold mining since 1874, with 80% Andrey Maruta, who has of the new ounces are within industry both in Russia and of the historical production coming production distance of our previously served as Finance 2 worldwide, and we are very proud from a 168km area covered by existing plants, are mostly Director, Russia, has kindly agreed of our achievements.
Work completed by non-refractory and are of higher to replace Brian Egan as Chief our predecessors between now complemented by our grade than the average life-of-mine Financial Officer.
Before the merger association with Outotec Finland 19941998, identified with Aricom plc in 2009, Andrey grades nearby.
Oy, a leading established global mineralisation along 8km strike served as Chief Financial Officer of provider of process solutions for and up to 5km width, with grades Peter Hambro Mining Plc.
IRC the mining industry, with whom ranging from 0.20.3g t to 20g t. Good progress has been achieved we have signed contracts for the Our predecessors specialists by our iron ore subsidiary, IRC: Non-Executive Directors development and implementation envisaged potential for a 2Moz a maiden operating profit Dr David Humphreys joined us of our pressure oxidation plans.
4Moz resource at an 1.02.0g t something that they should be in August 2011 as a Non-Executive It is expected that the first gold average grade.
rightfully proud of and success Director to replace Peter Hill-Wood from pressure oxidation will come who retired in May 2011.
David has in undertaking the development from the Pokrovskiy hub in 2014. already made a valuable of Kimkanskoye and Sutarskoye contribution to the Board with his which, I believe, will bring us extensive relevant experience in significant value in a major new supplier of one of the raw materials the global mining industry through most needed in China.
his work for mining companies and as a consultant and academic.
06 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Rachel English joins the Board Our capital expenditure programme with effect from 28 March 2012 has been, and remains, extensive: and will bring a wealth of and encompasses pressure knowledge and experience she oxidation, construction of the first has amassed in the global energy processing line at Albyn and the sector, in particular her first-hand bringing forward of the second experience of developing projects in processing line at Albyn, the fourth challenging business environments line at Pioneer and the flotation plant into profitable enterprises, should at Malomir.
For this reason, the level be invaluable.
I believe that her of our net debt is relatively high, appointment will bring a new which to an extent is opportunistic perspective to the Board as the in order to take advantage of Group moves into the next phase the current high price of gold.
Managing our treasury and the leveraged exposure to the gold Challenges price is another major challenge.
The year end, and the consequent publication of the Annual Report, The road ahead is a waypoint in the course that 2012 has started well for the Group I and the Board must navigate for and the prospects for the US Dollar the benefit of the shareholders, price of gold, in my opinion remain the staff and other stakeholders.
I say this because I believe Economic uncertainties, inflation, that there is little sign of a lasting gold price volatility, the prospect of solution to the financial turmoil sovereign default, threats of war, that marked the previous year.
political unpredictability and many other turbulent events combined I remain confident that we will this year to make navigation a have another year of continued challenging task.
The impact of production growth.
external pressures on our business in 2011 shows, once again, Finally, I should like to thank you, the importance of having a clear as shareholders, for the course to steer and, at the same confidence that you place in our time, planning both to take management and, above all, to advantage of the opportunities thank our executives and staff for presented and to take precautions the truly magnificent contribution against the unexpected buffetings they have made.
and inclement weather along the way.
I am glad to note that we have reached this years waypoint with record results but I do not foresee any diminution in the challenges that beset us last year.
Peter Hambro Chairman Full delivery of the pressure oxidation process remains a major implementation challenge but I believe that the extensive scientific research work that has already been carried out and our involvement with Outotec do much to manage risks involved with the project.
