Chairmans Statement Ronald G. Hanna, Chairman The general economic environment continued to be challenging throughout the year and so against this background I am delighted to report continued strong performance across the business.
Profit before tax increased by 13.3% on the prior year to That these results were achieved while important changes 31.6m and within that each element performed well.
In turn, in operations tested us is a tribute to the hard work and underlying earnings per share increased by 14.9% to 61.2p.
commitment of the team throughout all areas of the business.
In recent years we have stepped up investment in Board Changes brands, people and operations and continue to do so.
James Espey stood down from the board on 31 January Returns from this strategy contributed significantly to 2011.
James had been a non-executive director on our our performance in 2010 11. board for eleven years and contributed significantly to the development of the business over that time.
In September In sales, growth of 10.4% was achieved versus 7% in the U. K. 2010 I was pleased to announce that Martin Griffiths had soft drinks market, while assiduous and continuing efforts joined our board as an independent non-executive director.
to offset cost pressures resulted in maintained margins.
Martin brings a wealth of experience, which will complement the balance of the board and he has settled in quickly, The main operational changes were at Cumbernauld, adding immediate value to the business.
where the current phase of investment in production capacity is nearing completion, and at Mansfield where Future the site closure is also largely complete and its sale is Our strategy remains to build, for the long term, consumer agreed.
In addition the move during the year to outsourcing brands that have wide appeal and to do this in a sustainable primary distribution was implemented and is going well.
We plan to make further investments aimed at developing our portfolio, strengthening our executional capabilities and driving further increased efficiency into our asset base.
4 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The actions to extend the distribution of our core brands, Dividend especially in the north of England, have been successful and The board is pleased to recommend a final dividend will receive continuing investment and management focus.
of 18.66p to give a total dividend for the year of 25.41p This, together with other initiatives, will extend our reach per share, an increase of 10% on the prior year.
across an expanding geographical area and into different communities, primarily in the U. K. Prospects Our balance sheet is robust, with net debt reduced to 16.6m and the business continues to generate strong free Ronald G. Hanna cash flow.
This provides a platform for future investment.
Chairman The new financial year will undoubtedly bring both challenges and opportunities.
We will continue to develop proactively growth opportunities while managing risk.
The challenges of cost inflation which almost all manufacturers are facing are creating headwinds, however we remain positive on both our immediate and longer term prospects.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 The A. G. BARR Value Chain Being in control of every aspect of our brands, from the composition of our product portfolio, through product development, manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing, allows us to build long term shareholder value across our entire business.
We seek efficiency in all our operations Owning our Brands As a brand owner we retain the complete control of the development of our brands and their ongoing management, as we build brand equity and long term value.
We add value though innovation Product Innovation Our team keep our brands fresh and relevant by ensuring that we are responding to market trends and preferences and are constantly evolving new formats and flavours to keep us positioned as the consumers soft drinks brands of choice.
6 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Head Ofce 01 Cumbernauld Regional Ofce 05 Middlebrook 10 Wembley Sales Branch 2 04 Newcastle 1 06 Moston 07 Shefeld 3 08 Wednesbury 4 11 Walthamstow Factory 01 Cumbernauld 02 Forfar 5 03 Pitcox 6 09 Tredegar 7 Distribution Depot 01 Cumbernauld 12 Third party warehouse 8 12 9 11 10 Production efficiency Our production facilities are state of the art and run to exacting standards of efficiency and quality.
By consolidating our manufacturing infrastructure, we have been able to deliver significant efficiency and cost saving benets.
We focus on varied routes to market 5.
We drive sales growth Ensuring Availability Sales and Marketing We aim to drive availability of our products across Targeted marketing actively allows us to maintain strong all channels using multiple routes to market.
performance in our core markets, as well as assisting our move into potential high growth geographies.
The combination of executional focus, strong trade partnerships and increasing brand awareness helps Our focus on point of purchase execution helps us drive sales drive this objective.
across all channels and in all geographies.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Business Review Breaking through Gaining Ground Our sponsorship of rugby league is building brand The IRN-BRU brand increased awareness and helping drive sales in the north of England.
its revenue by 4% in the period.
This was achieved by maintaining its leading position in core markets and by increasing levels of distribution especially in Northern England.
This was supported by increased levels of marketing activity at both a consumer and trade level across the U. K.
