60 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement ARMs Board and Executive Committee recognise that continued success has been achieved through the strength and depth of our .
The corporate governance framework and processeswe have in place enable us to manage Doug Dunn Chairman theGroup effectively and to demonstrate transparent, consistent and effective governance so that we remain accountable to our shareholders, employees, Partners, suppliers and the local communities we interact with.
Awards received during 2011: Introduction to be affected by uncertainties in the global economy throughout 2012.
PwC Building Public Trust Award for I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Excellence in Reporting in the FTSE 100: Governance Report for 2011.
It explains our In 2011, our customers reported that they City AMs Business of the Year: and approach to corporate governance, describes deployed the Groups processor designs in 7.9 how the Board and its committees work IR Societys Best Communication billion chips, across an ever increasing range ofStrategy, Performance and KPIs andour approach to risk management of products.
This further demonstrates that in an Annual Report.
Trends, risks and ARM is a leader not only in processor designs opportunities are also covered on pages 56 for mobile computers and smartphones, to 58.
The main function of the Board as a butalso in consumer electronics and a wide whole is the direction and oversight of the range of embedded devices.
Group on behalf of the shareholders.
Within this, the Board actively considers long term Directors and succession strategy, monitors and supports the work of planning the Executive Committee and is responsible As part of our planned and continuing for Board and executive management evolution of the Board, there were a number succession.
My role as Chairman is to seek of changes in 2011 and there are some to ensure high quality decisionmaking further changes scheduled for 2012. inallareas of strategy, performance, Wewere very pleased to welcome Janice responsibility and accountability.
Roberts and Larry Hirst as independent ARM again performed strongly in 2011, nonexecutive directors on 25 January 2011 reflecting market share gains and successful followed by Andy Green on 25 February execution of our business plan.
The Nomination Committee worked maintained our outperformance of the with external advisers in connection with semiconductor industry and we are well these three appointments.
positioned to continue to do so in 2012.
Jeremy Scudamore retired from the Board However, we are mindful of the general on 31 January 2011 for health reasons and it expectation that the industry will continue Overview 11 61 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 TheBoard played an important role in was with much sadness that we learned Corporate governance successfully guiding ARM through the ofhis untimely death in August 2011. framework and role of the Board challenging economic environment in The Groups corporate governance John Scarisbrick retired from the Board at 2011, providing clear strategic direction framework is built around three pillars: the Annual General Meeting in May 2011, andensuring that the Groups performance having served for more than nine years.
and standards of conduct remained at organisation and structure: expected levels.
Following this refreshment of the non the internal control framework: and executive representation on the Board, The roles of the current members of the independent assurance.
wetook the opportunity to review and Board are set out in the biographies section reorganise the membership of the Audit on pages 63 to 65.
ARM has its primary listing on the London andRemuneration Committees.
Stock Exchange and is also listed on Thecurrent composition of the various Diversity theNASDAQ Stock Market in the US.
committees is covered in more detail in After the changes referred to above, the Throughout 2011, the Group complied fully theCorporate Governance Report below.
Board will comprise ten men 83% and two with the UK Corporate Governance Code women 17% which mirrors the gender 2010 with the minor exception noted on We announced at the 2011 AGM that I diversity of ARMs workforce as a whole.
page 66 and also with the SarbanesOxley intend to retire from the Board immediately The gender split of engineering graduates Act2002 US.
The Board values corporate following the 2012 AGM.
The search for a inthe UK in 2011 was 90% men and governance highly and this is reflected new Chairman has been conducted by the 10%women.
inour governance principles, policies Nomination Committee, led by the Senior andpractices and our everyday working Independent Director.
External advisers Gender split Board and workforce processes.
This approach is backed by have assisted with the identification of continuous improvement based on suitable candidates.
An announcement will Men 83% Women 17% measurement against internal objectives, be made as soon as the process is concluded.
external audits and benchmarking and Also, as previously announced, Tudor arigorous approach to risk management.
Brown wishes to retire from the Board and The Boards core activities include: therefore he will not be seeking reelection at the 2012 AGM.
There are no current plans providing leadership for the Group: to appoint an additional executive director.
The Board noted the publication of Lord Tudor is one of the founders of ARM and active engagement in developing the Davies Review into Women on Boards in has played a very important role in the Groups longterm strategy: February 2011.
We believe that diversity creation and successful development of the should be considered more broadly than monitoring executive actions, standards Group over the past 21 years.
He has made justfocusing on gender.
It is more important ofconduct, performance against business an immense contribution in a broad range to achieve the correct balance of skills, plans and budgets and ensuring that the of positions and the Board will miss his knowledge andexperience on the Board.
necessary financial and human resources incisive and thoughtful contributions.
The Board was mindful of this in making are in place for it to meet its objectives: Wethank him and wish him well.
the new appointments referred to above andis committed to continuing to increase obtaining assurance that material risks to The Board reflects a balance between theproportion of women on the Board.
the Group are identified and appropriate financial, sector specific and general systems of risk management and control business skills, with a highly experienced exist to mitigate such risks and defining international team leading the business in the Groups appetite for risk: and both executive and nonexecutive roles.
Board and executive management succession.
62 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Board has a formal schedule of matters allemployees worldwide understand the Between 2009 and 2011 we achieved a 4% specifically reserved for its decision, which requirements of the Bribery Act and its reduction in tons of CO2 emission per includes the approval of major business global reach.
employee across ARMs four largest offices issues, policies, operating budgets and Cambridge, Bangalore, Austin and San capital expenditure.
This schedule was Jose which represent 71% of our property Remuneration reviewed and updated by the Board during portfolio.
We have a range of measures in ARM maintained its conservative approach 2011.
The Board is also responsible for place to reduce energy use in our buildings to base pay in 2011 and 2012, in line with sanctioning unusual commercial and improvements in data collection put in market uncertainty around the timing arrangements such as atypical licence place in 2011 will enable us to report more andscope of the world economic recovery.
agreements and investments above a meaningfully on this next year.
We continued to be able to retain and specified amount.
recruit the talented people who are critical ARM continued its support for the to the continued success of our business.
Key senior executives attend Board communities in which we operate.
We have meetingsthroughout the year which four particular areas of focus: Despite the tough market conditions, the givesthe nonexecutive directors greater minimum targets, established three years STEM education Science, Technology, visibility of executive talent and ago under both the Long Term Incentive Engineering and Mathematics : management succession.
Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Information and Communication were exceeded and our teams have been Authority is delegated to various Technology for Development: rewarded for their performance.
The Board committees that are constituted within is not proposing any new remuneration written terms of reference and chaired by Environment: and schemes or any changes to these plans in independent nonexecutive directors where 2012.
Full details of executive remuneration required by the UK Corporate Governance Local Communities.
are set out in the Remuneration report.
The Chairman has primary Employee involvement is encouraged responsibility for running the Board and through providing paid volunteer time, a Corporate responsibility theChief Executive Officer has executive Matching Gift Donation programme and a responsibility for the operations and results In 2011, ARM was again recognised for global teambuilding and fundraising group.
of the Group and for making proposals to itscommitment to environmental, social the Board in relation to the strategic andgovernance issues through inclusion More details about our approach to development of the Group.
Thereare clear inthe FTSE4Good Index, designed to corporate responsibility are set out in Our and documented divisions ofaccountability measure the performance of companies commitment on page 44 and in the full and responsibility for theroles of Chairman thatmeet globallyrecognised corporate Corporate Responsibility Report which can and Chief ExecutiveOfficer.
ARM demonstrated leadership in corporate Finally, it has been a pleasure and a privilege Approximate allocation of board responsibility by joining 50 other companies agenda time in 2011 to serve as a member of the ARM Board in a new initiative, UN LEAD, which was since 1998 and as Chairman since 2006.
Strategy and risk 43% setup by the United Nations Global Iam delighted that the Group has Business updates Compact UNGC.
UN LEAD is a performed so well in recent years and financial reporting 31% Governance 15% platform through which each participant amconfident that we have a strong Division and ischallenged to implement the Blueprint andveryable Board in place.
function updates 11% forCorporate Sustainability Leadership andshare lessons learned with other UNGCcompanies.
ARMs Corporate Doug Dunn, Ethics and values Responsibility Report contains details of Chairman All directors and employees are required how we have incorporated the Blueprint toact fairly, honestly and with integrity and into our reporting and communications.
they are required to demonstrate that they have read and understand ARMs Code ARMs technology is inherently lowpower ofBusiness Conduct and Ethics, a copy and enables smarter, more energyefficient ofwhich is published on the corporate products to be created.
ARM is continuously website at www.
seeking to improve its own low carbon business operation and during 2010 we set During 2011, the Board reviewed and goals of: approved updates to the Code to reflect the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
30% emission reduction in tons of CO2 ARM remains committed to the highest emission per employee by 2020: and standards of business conduct and ethics 15% energy use reduction measured and has implemented a communication inKWhours per employee by 2020. andtraining programme to ensure that
