Business review Chairmans statement A year of achievement We now have a stronger and more I have become Chairman of experienced Board, with half of the Polymetal International at an Directors, excluding the Chairman, extremely exciting point in the being independent non-executives.
We A careful and disciplined selection are entering a new era, and process has enabled us to attract Board members with extensive I have every confidence that international experience in the mining Polymetal is well positioned industry.
The new Board has a to build and sustain a strong greater role in strategic decisionfuture for all our stakeholders.
making, conducts in-depth reviews of the Companys performance and is better positioned to maintain a constructive dialogue with our expanded stakeholder base.
The Boards Audit and Risk, Nomination A year of achievement Corporate governance and Remuneration Committees 2011 was a tremendous year for We have historically operated are also now chaired by and are Polymetal, both operationally and according to high standards of composed of independent nonin terms of corporate development.
During the year we executives and the Board Chairman.
have paid particular attention to Not only did we deliver record levels ensuring that our practices are We have also implemented a range of production, we also achieved further developed to reflect the of policies and procedures that cover a Premium Listing on the London change in our status, and that internal control, financial reporting, Stock Exchange in November we achieve compliance with the risk management and disclosure, a month later gaining entry to the majority of the requirements of the enabling us to fulfil all the obligations FTSE 100 index.
As a result, we UK Corporate Governance Code.
required of a UK Premium Listed have raised our international profile, Our aim is to deliver progressively company.
The Directors and I are increased our transparency, more effective stewardship and strongly committed to maintaining broadened our shareholder base accountability to all our stakeholders the highest standards of corporate and significantly improved our through an ongoing process of governance and best practice.
Improved internal control systems and a Our people We have also maintained a strong renewed Board are the key changes I would like to extend my sincere focus on investment, both in new that we have implemented in 2011. thanks to my fellow Directors for their and existing processing facilities wise counsel and hard work in what and exploration.
As a result, we have has been a momentous year for made significant progress across Polymetal.
This years good all our key investment projects.
performance is the result of a collaborative effort on the part of all our people.
I am, therefore, extremely grateful to all our employees whose talents and commitment have contributed to our success to date.
8 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Summary Share and dividend policy adjusted EBITDA is less than 1.75.
Successful Premium Listing Over 83% of JSC Polymetal on the London Stock shareholders converted their shares Outlook Exchange to Polymetal International through the Polymetal is entering a new era.
Institutional Share Swap Facility Our strategy of improving efficiencies Improved governance ISSF.
A Mandatory Tender Offer in existing mines, creating centralised MTO for the remaining shareholders processing hubs to benefit from systems and practices was launched in November, and economies of scale, and investing on completion in February 2012 we in exploration has given us the Stronger, more experienced had achieved 99.48% ownership of foundations to deliver long-term Board JSC Polymetal, while JSC Polymetal growth.
delisted its global depositary receipts Talented people throughout from the London Stock Exchange.
Despite continuing economic uncertainty across global markets, the business When moving to the London Stock we believe we have a robust Exchange, we carefully considered business model and a clear strategy New dividend policy our approach to dividend payment.
that will enable us to prosper in the As a result, a new dividend policy years ahead.
We remain firmly Strong outlook for was adopted in 2011, reflecting our focused on delivering the sustainable sustainable value commitment to meet shareholder value that will establish Polymetal as expectations in an environment a world class mining company.
characterised on the one hand by high commodity prices, and tight financial markets on the other.
A dividend of US$0.20 per share is proposed by the Board for payment Bobby Godsell for 2011.
From 2012, we intend to Chairman of the Board of Directors pay annual dividends of 20% of net 24 April 2012 income, provided that net debt Board of Directors and committees Effective leadership l Member of the Board Audit and Risk Committee For more information on our of Directors Remuneration Committee corporate governance Bobby Godsell Nomination Committee Vitaly Nesis Go to page 72 l Jonathan Best Marina Grnberg Leonard Homeniuk l Russell Skirrow Konstantin Yanakov Jean-Pascal Duvieusart l Charles Balfour Chairman Executive director Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 9 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
