Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 Chairmans Statement In 2011 we saw the worlds economies emerge from the next1,000 day strategy.
Consequently Premier Farnell has depths of recession.
For Premier Farnell, having already been at the forefront of the high service distribution industry 2011 was a year where returned to delivering year-on-year growth in November of the throughout 2011, a subject Harriet Green discusses in more prior financial year, 2011 was a year where the business went detail on pages 4 to 9. the business went from from strength to strength in delivering significant profitable The Groups full year performance has delivered significant growth.
Group sales grew 21.4% year-on-year, while sales profitable growth and, together with the continued execution strength to strength in from our distribution businesses this year grew 11.6% when of the strategy, this underpins the Boards recommendation to compared with our full year sales of two years ago.
This is a increase the final dividend by 15.4%, to 6.0 pence per share.
clear reflection of the business focus on returning to the level delivering significant This brings the proposed full year dividend to 10.4 pence, up of sales performance it was delivering prior to entering the 1.0 pence from last year, a clear representation of the Boards downturn.
It is this focus, the strength of our strategy and profitable growth.
confidence in the future of the Group.
continued execution which has driven the Groups full year return on sales to 11.3%, just 0.7 percentage points outside Our financial position remains robust, with good liquidity our target range of 12%15%.
This years performance has andstrong free cash flow.
At 30 January 2011 our headroom undoubtedly delivered increased shareholder value, as on bank borrowings was 74 million under the Groups reflected in the equity markets, where Premier Farnells share bankfacilities.
In addition, we also have US$45 million of price ended the financial year as the 31st best performer in unusedfacilities as part of the Groups US Private Placement the FTSE 250.
At year end the Companys balance sheet was strong and subsequent to the end of 2011 the The Groups performance this year is a consequence of its business balance sheet has become even stronger with the clear strategy and strong execution.
Over the last 12 months proceeds from the sale of TPC Wire & Cable.
The shape ofthe we have continued to focus on our core strategic pillars Groups balance sheet provides a stable and long term funding oftheElectronic Design Engineering sector EDE, the web, platform for the business as we start the newfinancial year.
internationalisation and profitable Maintenance, Repair andOperations MRO market segments, while enhancing At the beginning of the year we updated the Groups Key ourproposition by executing new strategic programmes.
Performance Indicators KPIs, based on how we envisage the Theseprogrammes, which we launched this year, included shape of the business will change over the next 1,000 days.
ourservices beyond product initiative which is aimed at Communicating these updated KPIs with transparency and developing new services and proposition enhancements consistency ensures all of our stakeholders are able to track likethose outlined in the case study on page 21 of this report.
the Groups achievements exactly as we do internally.
To this The implementation of clear incentive programmes aligned end, the KPIs and our performance against them is set out tothe strategic progression of the Company has helped onpages 14 and 15 of this report.
Having achieved Platinum toprovide the organisation with clarity and focus.
This, Status in the Business in the Community BiTC corporate combined with effective governance and strong leadership responsibility index at the beginning of 2011, this year we set has led to the entire organisation embracing the Groups ourselves a new target.
Through embracing our environmental Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 It is our goal to be awarded Platinum Plus inthe BiTC corporate responsibility index.
see page 56 for more detail responsibilities and embedding sustainability right across our exposure to those managers and further develop the Searches for successors to my role and Marks are in business it is our goal to be awarded Platinum Plus in the Directors understanding of the business and also to enable progress and we will continue with our efforts to ensure BiTC corporate responsibility index within the period of our managers to take advantage of the Board members thatthe Board reflects the wide range of backgrounds 1,000 day strategy.
For further details, turn to page 56 for our extensive experience.
andexperience relevant to our business.
summarised Sustainability Report, or view our comprehensive We have seen a number of changes to the Board this year, The results for the year just ended are a reflection of the Sustainability Report, which can be accessed online at with more anticipated in the year ahead.
Following the highperformance culture which is embraced by all 4,500 http: annualreport2011.
retirement of William Korb at our AGM in June 2010 we began employees at Premier Farnell.
For the Group, the coming year This is the last year when we will report on compliance with our search to recruit a new Non-Executive Director and, in is about building on the momentum we have generated the Combined Code.
As for all UK listed companies, our October, we were pleased to announce the appointment of throughout the last 12 months.
Recent events in the Middle annual report in 2012 will reflect the provisions of the new Thomas Reddin.
Thomas was formally Vice President of East, North Africa and Japan are a salutary reminder that UKCorporate Governance Code and we are cognisant of our Consumer Marketing at Coca-Cola USA and more recently nobody can predict what lays in wait for world economies responsibilities under the new regime.
At our Annual General CEO of LendingTree LLC, a leader inweb-based lending.
in2012 as they strive to deliver sustained growth.
However, Meeting AGM in June all of our Directors will stand for Thomas experience in marketing, branding, innovation and Iam positive that the investments we continue to make in re-election in accordance with the new Code and we have the web are extremely valuable tothe Group as it continues ourown business, combined with strong leadership and already commenced the process of external facilitation of itsstrategic transformation to become a web-based business.
committed employees, position us well to capitalise on the theBoards consideration of its performance with a view to I would like to welcome Thomas as one of Premier Farnells growth opportunities within the high service distribution ensuring that the Board remains fully effective in discharging Non-Executive Directors and chairman of the Groups Web industry.
The Board remains confident that, with a proven its responsibilities.
As announced in March of this calendar year, global strategy, continued strong execution, remuneration Mark Whiteling, theGroups Chief Financial Officer, is leaving andincentive arrangements clearly aligned to the strategy and As Chairman, it is my role to lead the Board and ensure its the Company inAugust of this year to pursue another career.
further differentiation through its 1,000 day programmes, the effectiveness.
The key actions of the Board in 2011, detailed On behalf ofPremier Farnell I would like to thank Mark for the Group will deliver strong profitable growth in the coming year.
on page 67, demonstrate the breadth of the Boards valuable guidance and contribution he has made in driving leadership and its commitment to the long term success of theexecution of our strategy and consequently the business Sir Peter Gershon the Company.
In conjunction with Harriet Green and with the financial performance.
Chairman assistance of the Company Secretary, I ensure that Board members have timely access to full information and that the In February of this year the Group announced that I will also Board meeting agendas allow enough time for open and frank retire from the Board with effect from the Companys AGM discussions.
The Company encourages extensive contact inJune 2011, by which time I will have been Chairman of the and communication between Board members and senior Premier Farnell Board for over six years.
I would like to take management.
Senior management make regular and frequent this opportunity to thank all of the employees of Premier presentations to the Board and normally at least one Board Farnell for making my tenure such a great experience.
I wish meeting a year is held overseas.
This year the Board visited the Group the very best success in the coming years as it our operations in Singapore.
In addition, the Company has continues its strategic transformation under the guidance established mentoring relationships between key senior anddynamic leadership of Harriet Green.
managers and Board members to extend the Boards Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4 transformation: the next Innovation First in the industry to combine online commerce and community The Ben Heck Show on element14 hasbeen viewed over one million times initsfirst season Formation of a revolutionary Web AdvisoryBoard 1, 000 days THE wORlD in wHiCH wE livE anD wORK iSCHanGinG The second was to transform the business to become a web The focus of the new initiatives is to support customers even aT PaCE, DRivEn By THE RaTE OF innOvaTiOn, THE leader with an advanced proposition to meet the growing needs moreeffectively and drive our web and EDE offering in all markets GROwTH OF THE wEB, THE COnSTanTly EvOlvinG ofour customers in this area and provide new and differentiating through a wider range of innovative services beyond product, TECHnOlOGiCal lanDSCaPE, THE nEEDS OF levels of support.
The third, to internationalise the business theexpansion of the unique online community, element14, and the CuSTOMERS anD THE DRivE TO BuilD a SuSTainaBlE modeltoembrace the opportunities in the high-growth emerging strengthening of the customer proposition and business model FuTuRE.
markets, particularly those in Greater China, India and Eastern around the web.
Ina unique fusion of community and commerce Europe, and finally to strengthen the core MRO offering to improve thebusiness in Asia Pacific rebranded to become element14 this Premier Farnell began its journey of business transformation in profitability and customer support.
Premier Farnells global year and the other core electronics businesses will follow suit 2006 with the appointment ofHarriet Green as Chief Executive supplier base play a key part in the delivery ofour strategy to during the next 1,000 days building a stronger global presence and the development of a strategy for profitable growth.
Astrategy customers as the business seeds their new products and leading and offering customers a new way of working.
cognisant of the world in which Premier Farnell operates, one that edge technologies to millions of design engineering customers looks to the future whilst giving clarity, direction and focus to the Through listening to, and anticipating the needs ofits customers globally.
and suppliers Premier Farnell continues to transform the business The first three year phase of the transformation hasbeen a to offer a differentiated customer experience, demonstrating At the heart of Premier Farnells strategy are four central success, despite the economic climate, seeing growth and structural growth by taking market share in its chosen markets and elements.
The first is focused on the fast growing electronic progress in all areas of the strategy whilst at the same time segments, and shaping its business for maximum effectiveness design engineering market globally, customers reliant on quality building a high performance culture of trust in the business.
data and information, available instantly, backed up by round Aculture focused on employee development, customer service theclock technical support, the opportunity to collaborate and excellence, strong partnerships and inspirational leadership.
share, and access to the very latest products, technologies, Asthe business entered the next 1,000 days of its transformation, design tools, software and up to the minute environmental data.
just a year ago, the strategy evolved into new areas.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 To learn more of the progress and future plans, The web 48 websites globally receiving approximately we asked Harriet 32.5million page views per month Over half of Group sales now come via the web Green, CEO about and other e-channels element14 community received over 1.5million progress across customer visits in 2011 the Group Internationalisation The Group has operations in 35 countries and Plan page 6 33local language websites globally Innovate page 7 Entered the emerging markets of Taiwan, Thailand and South Korea in 2011 Lead page 8 Over 78% of Group sales come from outside the Deliver page 9 United Kingdom EDE Added 72,500 new EDE products in 2011, 14,700 of which were new-to-market products First in the provision of 24 5 enhanced technical support, CAD tools and a rapid prototyping service Over 200 engineers and technical employees now employed globally See Harriets video online: http: annualreport2011.
com Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 6 plan We have a robust plan that will allow us to achieve our strategic goals Focus on global EDE customer segment Drive business via the web Internationalise the Group Develop a profitable MRO business Q. iS yOuR STRaTEGy aS RElEvanT TO THE MaRKET Underpinning everything we do is an absolute commitment Our international expansion has also continued as weve nOw aS wHEn yOu BEGan yOuR BuSinESS toservice excellence, as a high service distributor it is what expanded into the new markets of Thailand, Taiwan, South Korea TRanSFORMaTiOn?
ourcustomers value and expect from us.
and Turkey each bringing new opportunities for growth.
Our international markets accounted for 22.0% of our total business Absolutely, as I believe our business results clearly show.
Business During 2010 we have further enhanced our strategy, as you this year and customer numbers are growing all of the time.
cannot exist in a vacuum and from the outset we have listened willread later in the report, as we build our business around the closely to feedback from customers, suppliers, industry experts weband meeting the needs of our design engineering customers Business results and market trends continue to demonstrate and technologists to understand the needs and future direction of through constant innovation.
As part of our next 1,000 day thestrength in our core strategy and our focus for the year our industry.
As renowned Harvard strategist Michael Porter says, focuswe have expanded our services beyond product aheadwill see us driving to deliver greater benefit in all areas Strategy is the area in which a company seeks to be unique.
programmes to offer engineers a wider offering of software forour key stakeholder groups.
Realdifferentiation for our customers and suppliers was central andservices, including the creation of a virtual workspace and toour thinking as we built a plan to transform our business.
Our theaddition of leading and niche suppliers whose products strategy was created in full consideration of these macro trends, andtechnologies offer a unique opportunity to design engineers.
and we continue to innovate to offer our customers the information, Ourdrive in the area of green technology is yielding considerable technology, products, and services they need to be successful.
opportunity for growth and is complemented by our industry Wewant to be more than just a supplier to our customers.
leading environmental design portal on the element14 community Wewant to be a partner in their business, supporting their for design engineers now approaching its second anniversary newproduct development, providing fast, easy access tothe with over 500,000 visitors and 1.4 million page views quarterly.
information they need whenever they need it, being easy to New forums and special interest groups are growing all the time dobusiness with and meeting our commitments to them again as the community powerfully connects engineers to each other andagain.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 innovate We constantly innovate, creating differentiation element14 on campus EDE ecosystem and ultimately leadership Virtual workspace Q. wHaT ROlE DOES innOvaTiOn Play inTHE OnGOinG element14, the community and brand, is the embodiment of This service can be accessed directly from within an EDEs DEvElOPMEnT OF PREMiERFaRnEll?
innovation at Premier Farnell and what our strategy is delivering.
Computer Aided Design CAD environment or on the element14 The vibrancy of the element14 community continues to grow, as community itself.
Innovation is the lifeblood of our industry new technologies more and more EDEs interact and commune within the site to help emerging constantly and electronic design engineers globally We are also innovating in the service elements of our business, breathe life into their new ideas and solve their design challenges.
creating new and amazing products to enhance our lives in growing the range of services we offer such as 24 5 customer This year we have seen the online television show, The Ben Heck somany respects medical, leisure, automotive, sensory the service availability in our new element14 businesses across Show, air on element14 before going on to attract in excess of listisendless.
AsiaPacific, adding eProcurement tools to improve the buying 1million views.
The academia site within element14, element14 on experience and new, environmentally friendly packaging to campus, has been adopted as a leading research tool for students We must innovate to keep pace with their growing needs and enhance our supply chain value to customers, which has won a at two universities in Xian, China a city that is at the heart of ensure our proposition grows and evolves accordingly.
Innovation number of innovation awards.
We cannot and will not stand still electronics education in China and that has an estimated 220,000 differentiates us and we will continue to deliver significant to do so would be to fall behind and lose the momentum that we students graduating from its universities each year.
enhancements to customers through our drive to anticipate what are building.
the industry will need in the future.
Nowhere is the rate of change However, building a lively and interactive community is only part of more evident than on the web affording access to information and Innovation is vital to our future and an intrinsic part of our culture the journey for us.
Increasingly element14 is becoming the zenith tools in unprecedented ways, as the need for mobility and freedom asemployees actively participate in the generation and evaluation of how we go to market.
This year we have already embraced the to access information on the move, anywhere, anytime grows.
of new ideas, through our online innovation lab, live innovation concept of merging commerce and community and, as we look Knowledge and innovation are vital to our continued web leadership summits, graduate interns and full company sessions.
Our forward our work to form a complete online virtual workspace, and this year we formed our own Web Advisory Board, comprising leadership team have been coached by innovation thought leader, willtake our online transformation to a new level.
This workspace 14 experts each with a specific set of skills and knowledge.
Their Ken Robinson in the leadership of our innovation approach to will seamlessly combine design orientated rooms on element14 role is to keep myself and the Premier Farnell Board appraised ensure we actively garner inputs and encourage new ideas to that are tailored to specific stages of the electronics design cycle, ofthe very latest trends and cutting edge developments in the improve all aspects of Premier Farnells operation whether ultimately creating a holistic EDE ecosystem that meets all the technology space to ensure our leadership.
Innovation is a living refininginternal processes, enhancing the customer experience design engineers needs.
In the fourth quarter, as part of our process and one of our core values as a business.
There are many new enhancements services beyond product programme, we took the first exciting already under way and I can confidently say that innovation will step in building our EDE ecosystem, with the initial launch of a beeven bigger and more relevant in the year ahead than it has rapid printed circuit board prototyping service.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8 lead We lead our industry in this new digital age 70% of sales via eCommerce in Europe 3% increase in employee engagement External recognition of our Trust Agenda Q.
HOw DOES yOuR lEaDERSHiP FOCuS DiFFEREnTiaTE Each year since our journey we have undertaken aglobal, allemployee promise and we will continue to invest in training and THE BuSinESS?
employee survey and listened carefully to what our people tell development and help each person to find their element, their cause, us, developing robust action plans to ensure we continue to grow here at Premier Farnell.
Leading our sector through our web functionality, breadth and range andimprove able to retain and attract the best talent to join us.
of services, access to technology and customer satisfaction are all People and planet have come to matter as much as price in our new Thisyears survey achieved a 93.1% response rate overall and keytoa strong sustainable future for the business, ensuring powerful world.
External recognition of this fact and the power of our Trust delivered year-on-year improvement in all of the key areas, with an benefits for all who partner with and invest in us.
Recently this was evidenced through the overall engagement score increase year-on-year of 3%.
Our strong release of an important case study centred around our very own Trust engagement performance combined, with powerful business Our quest for web leadership continues and shortly after the close Agenda.
The piece was prepared by a thought leadership strategist performance, saw us accepted in the high performance norm group ofthe year our most advanced online business, in Europe, reached and widely published business writer, who has written multiple articles ofcompanies for North America, a group containing leading Fortune thesignificant milestone of taking over 70% of its business via for the Harvard Business Review.
companies that we have historically benchmarked ourselves against.
With eCommerce now our customers channel Our employees show great hope and optimism for the future with of choice in all regions our drive in this area will continue unabated.
Building a diverse business, one that truly represents the world in 65%believing the business will improve for the better and 74% which we live and work will ensure a workforce that understands As a high service intermediary the quality of our execution and believing the pace of change is about right or could even be faster.
theneeds and demands of our customer base and helps to create customer experience lies in the hands of our global teams, and part Sharing our vision and purpose with our employees scored highly asustainable business for the future.
At Premier Farnell the key ofour transformation has been to put people at the heart of our aswe aim to take them along with us and communicate transparently tosuccess is in your performance, your integrity and your attitude, business, building a high performance culture where each person and openly at all times.
Over 2,600 people took the time to make regardless of age, sex, colour, creed, sexuality or physical ability.
finds something of themselves reflected in our values.
A culture of individual inputs to me, in multiple languages about their experience integrity and trust with transparency in all we do whether openly The pride our people feel about the journey we are taking together and ideas to build up on the success we are already creating.
I read sharing our service metrics internally and externally or communicating motivates our leadership team every day and encourages me that every one.
Anumber of our team share their experiences through information regularly and openly.
ourbusiness and our customers are in very safe hands.
casestudies later in this report and their passion is plain to see.
Key to our employees experience is the quality of our leadership andwe continue to invest in our leaders across the business, providing clear objectives and rigorous objective setting.
Transparency of objectives, open communication and trust remain central to our Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 deliver We ensure and deliver business consistency 99.6% of orders shipped same day or next day Distribution businesses underlying return on salesat 12.5% Premier Farnell is capable of delivering beyond the expectations of all its stakeholders Q.
HOw iS DElivERinG yOuR COMMiTMEnTS DRivinG enhanced element14 service proposition in Asia we improved yOuR BuSinESS FORwaRD?
ourSingapore warehouse with a state of the art warehouse management system and best in class handling, and doubled our Keeping our commitments lies at the heart of who we are and what locally held inventory.
Thats the importance we put on delivering we do, central to our Trust Agenda is that all of those who need to product and solutions to our customers.
Totally Reliable is one of our core business values and that simply means doing what we say well do each and every As we drive for profitable growth and improved performance time.
Delivering to customers on time, same or next day, is central inallareas of our business the results delivered so far provide a to the role of a high performance distributor and a service our strong foundation for continued investment, notably our industry customers value.
With 99.6% of orders shipped same day or differentiating gross margin performance, up at 41.1% for the year, nextday, our constant vigilance to measure, monitor and improve with an underlying return on sales of 12.5% for our distribution all aspects of our supply chain is critical.
We invite customer businesses for the year and 13.1% for the fourth quarter.
Our feedbackopenly and analyse carefully the response to ensure commitment to deliver strong profitable growth, take market active and continuous improvement.
Working closely with our shareand further improve our efficiency as we shape ourbusiness service providers there are very few parts of the world where we around the web in the year ahead isresolute.
Building a business are unable to meet a next day delivery commitment from inventory for the future, capable of delivering beyond expectations held in region, including 130 Chinese cities.
Our investment in forcustomers, suppliers, employees and shareholders alike.
locally held inventory and regional distribution centres ensures ourhigh quality products are close to the customer handled and shipped at pace to reach their destination.
