PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement A clear focus on the strategy of selected markets, leading brands, a world class supply chain and a great team of people has enabled the Group to deliver a 7% increase in pre-tax profits and almost 9% growth in earnings per share.
This has been achieved despite difficult trading conditions in a number of markets and significant increases in raw material costs.
Last year we completed a number of Having completed my first year as major capital projects.
This year we have Chairman, and having visited all the made further investment of 62.5m businesses within the Group, I can say that 9% in the St Tropez brand which, along our prospects remain very exciting despite with Charles Worthington and The the tough macroeconomic conditions The Group delivered Sanctuary, has enabled us to form the being faced in a number of our territories.
close to a 9% increase Beauty Division specialising in higher in earnings per share value products.
We have retained a I would like to take this opportunity to thank strong net funds position of 51.8m.
all of the Groups staff for their continued hard work and dedication.
Your skill and Other strategic initiatives, such as the commitment will be essential in maintaining new joint venture in Nigeria with Wilmar our progress and is highly appreciated International, are laying broader foundations by myself and the Board of Directors.
Our balance sheet remains strong and we have the Richard Harvey appetite to pursue further investment Non-executive Chairman opportunities which fit our strategic aims.
26 July 2011 Initiatives are under way to counter the impact of higher raw material prices and, with the spending power of consumers under increasing pressure in a number of our markets, new product and pricing strategies are being tailored accordingly.
The positive growth rates seen in the second half of the year in a number of our key businesses have continued into the new financial year, giving cause for confidence as we look ahead.
