Business review Chairmans statement Mark Elliott Chairman deeply engaged in the self-help plan that we are implementing.
Dear shareholder Our teams embody a strong ethos of public service, which provides I write this report having completed my first full year as Chairman a vital bond with our customers in delivery of their priorities.
I am pleased to report that, against a backdrop of May I take this opportunity to extend my thanks to our employees challenging markets, QinetiQs performance in the last financial who have played such a vital role in our progress during the year.
These results were delivered in significant part because we took The Board charge of our destiny and implemented a 24 month self-help Just as our business is evolving so is the shape of the Board.
During programme to restore the business to strength and build value the course of the year, Nick Luff and David Langstaff both left the for the future.
Our markets on both sides of the Atlantic were Board due to growing executive management commitments outside under significant budgetary pressures as our customers responded of the Group.
I thank them for their service to the Company and to their need to reduce national deficits.
Given, however, the wish them both well for the future.
In October 2010, Paul Murray increased global risks and threats, our key markets of defence joined as a Non-executive Director, bringing a broad range of and security remain a priority for governments.
We have made experience in finance and corporate governance from a cross rapid progress in reshaping our business.
This, together, with the section of industries.
I would like to welcome Paul to the Board reduction and refinancing of our debt contributed to a more and, on behalf of my Board colleagues, look forward to working agile and competitive QinetiQ.
Admiral Ed Giambastiani will step down as a Nonexecutive Director at this years Annual General Meeting.
I would Results like to thank him for his contribution to QinetiQ over the past three Group revenues were 1,702.6m 2010: 1,625.4m and underlying years.
We will continue to review the structure of the Board as operating profit increased to 145.4m 2010: 120.3m, up 21%, QinetiQ transitions and adapts to changing markets.
resulting in an underlying profit before tax for the Group of 114.6m, up 34% on the previous year 2010: 85.7m.
The rigorous Outlook Group-wide focus on debt reduction resulted in a strong underlying We are making significant progress in restoring QinetiQ to strength.
operating cash conversion of 183% 2010: 145% as underlying Our reshaping of the businesses, together with the reduction cash flow from operations increased to 265.8m 2010: 174.3m.
and refinancing of the debt, all contribute to a leaner and more Closing net debt at 31 March 2011 was 260.9m 2010: 457.4m, agile Group.
With a stronger balance sheet, we are now able to an improvement of 196.5m.
Full year underlying earnings per fund future growth and reinstate the dividend for shareholders.
Internally, we have made significant changes which we will embed and extend this year, to ensure that over the medium term we Dividend maximise value from both QinetiQs inherent capabilities and In May 2010, the Board recommended a suspension of dividend emerging opportunities.
Externally, by working closely with its US payments during the first 12 months of the Groups programme and UK government customers, QinetiQ will be able to align its to restore QinetiQ to strength.
In line with its commitment at that unique expertise with their priorities to achieve greater value and time, the Board is recommending a return to the dividend list.
We are unlikely to see a repetition of last years level of The Board is also recommending the reinstatement of a progressive Q-NET sales, but the Board believes that the programme underway dividend policy, which takes into account the profitability of to increase competitiveness will enable the Group to perform in line QinetiQs businesses and underlying growth, as well as its capital with its expectations for the current financial year in what are likely requirements and cash flows, while maintaining an appropriate to remain challenging market conditions.
The final dividend will normally represent approximately two-thirds of the full year dividend in future periods.
The proposed final dividend is 1.60p per share for the year ended 31 March 2011, which will be paid on 2 September 2011 to shareholders on the register at 5 August 2011.
Our people Mark Elliott QinetiQs success rests on the skills and dedication of its people as Chairman we adapt to changing market conditions.
They have played an active 27 May 2011 role in the Groups progress during the year and we know they are Definitions of underlying measures of performance are in the glossary on page 107.
2 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
