Chairmans Statement Over the past 16 years, Randgold has built one of the worlds most successful integrated gold companies, and as 2011s record results show, it is not only reaping the rewards of past efforts but continues aggressively to pursue sustainable growth in production and profits.
The companys success is largely based on its early recognition of the critical importance of sustainability and its implementation of clear, consistent, long term strategies to achieve this in all its operations and activities.
The most obvious manifestation of these strategies has been Randgolds ability, year after year, to create real value for all its stakeholders through the discovery of multi-million ounce gold deposits and their development into profitable mines.
They are also evident, however, in every other aspect of the business, from the health and safety of its workers through the welfare of the communities which host its mines to its respect for the environment.
Randgold operates in countries where poverty, the lack of skills and inadequate infrastructures present a risk to its business.
Commercial considerations aside, these conditions also present a moral challenge to the company to contribute to the economic development of these countries and quality-of-life improvements in its communities where it is active.
It has not sought to impose solutions upon these countries and communities but has developed them in partnership with local authorities and interests.
Underlining the importance the company attaches to these matters, a detailed Sustainability Report has been included in this years Annual Report.
The report details the significant progress Randgold has made but it also points to the work that still has to be done to make the business a model of sustainable gold mining.
Over the next five years, Randgold will therefore continue to work in a robust and systematic manner towards the achievement of its priority goals: raising the standard of living in all the communities where it operates, continuing the fight against malaria and HIV AIDS, running mines which are free of serious injuries and fatalities, meeting its targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and limiting its environmental footprint through the efficient use of natural resources, recycling waste and contributing to the conservation of biodiversity.
Randgolds growth has brought with it corporate as well as operational challenges.
Central to these is the question of how best to manage a dynamic and increasingly complex corporation with multiple businesses in different countries.
Equally important is the need to protect the distinctive corporate culture on which Randgolds success has been built.
Many once successful companies have failed because as they 2 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 RANDGOLD SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE AND GOLD PRICE expanded they lost their way, becoming bloated, complacent and In line with this, Randgold also continues to look at the composition arrogant.
Randgold is gearing its human capital, structures and and renewal of the board to ensure that it represents the optimal systems to the demands of its continuing operational development, balance of high-level international management experience and but in doing so it remains uncompromisingly dedicated to the an understanding of Africa.
In line with the companys phased preservation of its characteristic qualities: energy, enterprise and succession plan, Bob Israel has indicated he will retire and not stand tenacity, as well as a long term vision and the ability to make for re-election as a non-executive director at our annual general decisions and take actions swiftly.
meeting in April this year.
I should like to express my gratitude and that of my fellow directors on the board for the sharp intellect, As the company grows, so does the need for the effective counsel and wisdom he has offered during his 15 years of service evaluation and management of risk.
Its re-entry into the Cte to the company.
During the year, the board was strengthened by dIvoire and expansion into the Democratic Republic of Congo the appointment as a non-executive director of Andy Quinn who have again demonstrated a high level of competence in this field.
retired from CIBC, where he headed its mining investment banking activities in Europe and Africa.
A mining engineer by training, he The two examples I have cited were both socio-political, which worked in various management and technical positions in South is what people usually mean when they talk about the risk of Africa and Australia before entering the financial services industry.
investing or operating in Africa.
In Randgolds view, however, the He brings to the board an ideal combination of African experience, real challenge is not the chance of instability and corruption or technical knowledge and expertise in corporate finance.
the lack of skills and infrastructure.
It is to structure a business model and assemble a management team capable of dealing with While independent, the Randgold board is fully engaged with the dynamics of an emerging region, and delivering returns to all the company.
All directors, for example, visit the companys stakeholders, including the government and the people of the host operations and projects at least once a year.
The big global corporations style of business cannot recently been to Kibali for the second time, and was very be successfully exported to Africa: it is simply not appropriate.
impressed by the progress that is being made at what will be Randgold realised this 16 years ago when the company was the biggest development in Randgolds history.
I would like to founded, and the Africa-focused strategies and policies it thank my colleagues on the board for the time and attention they developed then have elevated it into the front ranks of the gold devote to the companys strategic direction and for the intellectual mining industry.
capacity they contribute to our deliberations.
I also want to take this opportunity of congratulating Mark Bristow and his team on Its people and partnerships philosophy has been a key a year of records and a superlative set of results.
Thanks to the component of this approach.
In an industry and a continent where profit growth they achieved, the board has decided to propose that skills are scarce, Randgold is building highly competent teams, the annual dividend should be doubled to 40 US cents per share.
equipped and encouraged to self-motivate and self-manage.
The Shareholders will be invited to approve this dividend at the annual overwhelming majority of its people are drawn from the population general meeting on 30 April 2012. of its host countries and, wherever possible, from the communities around its operations.
The mutually beneficial relationships it has fostered with the governments of these countries as well as business partners have also proved invaluable.
While Randgolds operations are in Africa, it is listed in London and New York, and it has to comply not only with the rules but also recognise investor sentiment in these jurisdictions.
Incidentally, Randgold was ranked in the Nasdaq 100 this year and has been a member of the FTSE 100 since 2008.
The demand for ever higher standards of corporate governance is taken very seriously by the board.
Better governance should not require more regulation, however, but rather a demonstrable commitment to transparency and accountability which goes beyond mere box-ticking.
Here, too, sustainability is the crucial factor, and we have made it a prime consideration in developing our structures and controls.
Philippe Litard Chairman Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 3
