Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 6 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 7 Chairmans statement Redrow has demonstrated that despite the challenging conditions we have been able to grow the business substantially.
With a much reduced interest charge following the 2009 Rights Issue, we delivered a pre-tax profit of 25.3m compared to 0.7m in 2010, and earnings per share of 4.4p 2010: 0.2p.
Our balance sheet remains strong, with net debt of 75.4m giving gearing of 16% 2010: 11%.
No dividend is being declared for the year in line with the Board's strategy of only paying a dividend once the Group has an appropriate level of earnings cover and taking into account the need to invest in land for our future development.
Structure We have made two major changes to the structure of the Group in 2011.
Steve Morgan Firstly, we set up a Division focused on prime London locations.
Chairman London is a strong market with considerable international as well as domestic demand.
In the first year of operating, we have secured five sites with a total of 342 plots and a gross development value of approximately 200m.
Secondly, in April we announced our intention to withdraw from the Introduction Scottish market in which we were a relatively small player in order In spite of the difficulties facing the home building industry Redrow to increase our investment and management focus on the rest of has delivered a robust performance with pre-tax profits improving the business and the South East in particular.
The disposal was from 0.7m to 25.3m.
The principal constraint was, once again, the completed at the end of June with the sale of the business at book availability of mortgages, particularly for first time buyers.
Although value to Springfield plc.
Redrow has returned to its traditional position of a middle market home builder, our customers in turn are dependent on the stimulus Market and New Heritage first time buyers give to the market.
The housing market, which was particularly challenging in the first half of the financial year, improved in the second half with a Financial Results stronger spring summer season.
Sales rate per outlet increased from Group revenue increased by 14% in the year to 30 June 2011.
This 0.47 per week in the first half to 0.60 per week in the second half was largely due to a 10.4% increase in our average selling price from and the value of private reservations for the same periods increased 149,300 to 164,800, together with a 1.5% increase in legal from 172m to 244m.
Overall underlying selling prices remained completions from 2,587 to 2,626.
The average selling price of private stable throughout the financial year.
This was the first full financial year since the launch of our New Heritage Collection in February 2010 and its positive impact is clear Gross margin rose from 10.5% in 2010 to 14.2% primarily as a from the results.
The Collection accounted for 36% of our private result of the change in product mix, tight control of build costs and turnover in 2011.
In the second half, it accounted for 41% of private the growing proportion of newer land at more normal margins.
turnover and over 50% of private reservations by value.
The average selling price of a New Heritage home increased by 11% to 201,000 Operating profit increased 146% to 31.2m, generating an as we continue to focus on delivering what Redrow has built its operating margin of 6.9% 2010: 3.2%, in spite of the significant reputation on good value, traditional family homes.
Homes from investment and additional overhead of our new London Division, the New Heritage Collection are achieving an average selling price which was set up at the beginning of the financial year.
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 8 around 7% higher than the equivalent size home in the old average family homes.
Accordingly, the nature and average plot cost Signature range.
of our land acquisitions has changed to suit this strategy.
We have sold virtually all of the remaining plots in our Debut and In During the year we added 2,367 plots which, after legal the City ranges and have now exited these product lines.
completions, the disposal of the Scottish business, land sales and replans has resulted in a land bank of 11,190 plots at the end of A key priority remains the opening of new sales outlets.
This equates to approximately 4.5 years supply like basis, excluding Scotland, we have increased the number of compared to 5 years in June 2010 and our target of c. 4 years.
The outlets by 8 to 74 and our end of year private order book increased average plot cost has increased from 34,000 to 49,000 to reflect by 17% to 114m.
our focus in the marketplace and our investment during the year in prime London locations.
Mortgages Our cancellation rate for 2011 was 18%, similar to that of 2010.
Yet The Groups forward land bank contributed only 200 plots to again, the overwhelming cause of cancellations was mortgage current land in the year, as planning on many sites stalled due to issues, particularly the poor availability of high loan to value LTV Local Authorities delaying decisions awaiting new planning guidance mortgages at competitive rates.
Whilst the number of high LTV from the Government.
Now that this guidance is emerging we are mortgage products on offer has increased during the year, it is still hopeful that significant progress will be made in the current year.
well below historic levels and the stringency of the credit scoring by The forward land bank stands at just over 22,000 plots, little the lenders, combined with the high interest rates being charged, changed from last year.
make them unattainable for all but the more affluent of first time buyers.
The Government published the draft National Planning Policy Framework NPPF on 25 July for consultation containing 'a Going forward it is essential to find a balance between the presumption in favour of sustainable development' as the golden regulatory risk weighting of higher LTV mortgages and the thread running through the policy.
We warmly welcome the aspirations of first time buyers FTB who simply don't have the objectives of the draft NPPF and fully support its general direction current average deposit requirement of 25% to purchase their first of travel in its attempt to strike a balance into the planning system.
Historically, this gap was filled by the lender transferring the Hopefully the NPPF will result in a boost to the number of planning top 15-20% credit risk on its loans to a Mortgage Indemnity permissions being granted for housing at a time when current Guarantee MIG provided by a Local Government or insurance permissions are at worryingly low levels.
Generations of home buyers throughout the 20th Century benefited from this policy, with 90-95% mortgages being People the norm.
Redrow has made tremendous progress in the last 12 months despite the market conditions, which is a testament to the efforts of Now that risk assessment and management are rightly back at the the whole Redrow team.
I would like to thank all of them for their forefront of lending, the reintroduction of up to date MIG policies support as we continue our goal of re-establishing Redrow as the would ensure a better market balance between affordability for first leading premier homebuilder in the UK.
time buyers and the risk taken by the lenders.
Unless initiatives such as MIGs are reintroduced, the current low levels of turnover in the Current Trading housing market are set to stay for some time.
The market remains uncertain, with sales rates broadly similar to last year at just over 0.5 sales per outlet per week.
We do, however, During the 1930s and the post-war years, the significant home have 4 more outlets than this time last year, excluding Scotland, building activity of the time not only provided desperately needed which has resulted in reservations in the first nine weeks of the new homes, it also provided a huge stimulus to the UK GDP during current year being 8% above last years levels.
Terms have been what were difficult economic periods.
With five new jobs being agreed on a number of new significant land opportunities, which in created for every new home built, it is strongly in our countrys time will result in further increases in our average selling price.
interest to resolve the FTB mortgage issue, which would once again enable the housing industry to provide urgently needed new homes Outlook and a major stimulus to the economy.
The outlook for the industry remains challenging, with the lack of mortgage supply and general economic incertitude affecting what is Land and Planning undoubtedly a huge demand for new housing.
The under-supply of Redrow is well on the way to re-establishing itself as a premium mid housing in the UK is reaching chronic proportions as many recent market quality home builder with high specification, larger than reports have testified.
The ongoing stability of house prices despite
