Our new centres are performing well and achieving I am pleased to report that Regus has their target return-on-investment hurdles.
We remain produced a strong set of results in line confident in our growth strategy, however we are mindful with the Boards expectations.
of the continued global economic uncertainty and the management team carefully monitors key metrics, Group sales grew 11.8% to 1,162.6m 2010: 1040.4m, remaining ready to adapt our growth plans accordingly.
operating profits more than doubled to 50.6m 2010: 23.9m excluding exceptional items, and on the same basis t Third Place new avenues for growth earnings per share increased from 1.9p to 4.0p largely as a The business has been exploring a number of new result of the increased EBIT in the year.
It was also pleasing growth opportunities, especially related to expanding our to witness our 2010 openings move into profitability in the network into third places.
These are locations from which second half of the year.
people are increasingly likely to work when on the move.
Railway stations and motorway service stations are On a like-for-like basis our Mature business increased examples, and the Group is also exploring a wide variety its operating profit by 65.7% to 107.7m 2010: 65.0m : of other potential third place locations.
Whilst early in its gross margins to 26.6% 2010: 22.3% : and sales increased development, this is an exciting opportunity and has by 3.8% to 1,035.1m 2010: 997m.
Additionally, it remains significant potential.
We anticipate that the investment highly cash generative, with a free cash ow after notional required and returns generated will be comparable with tax, finance costs and maintenance capital expenditure of our existing businesses.
A strong management team focussed on delivery Over the year we invested 86.4m in growth 2010: 79.0m, Our management team is strong and many of our leaders opening 139 new locations and entering nine new markets.
have more than 20 years industry experience including This assured progress gives the Board the confidence to managing through challenging macro-economic conditions.
increase the final dividend by 14% to 2.0p making a total They have directed our business during the current economic increase for the year of 12% to 2.9p 2010: 2.6p.
challenges with vigour, increasing returns from our mature Our business business whilst executing controlled, yet aggressive growth There are three parts to our business Mature, New and and exploring exciting new opportunities.
They are closely interlinked, contribute to each progress was made in key business areas, including the others success and can be accessed by every one of our strengthening of our management team both centrally and million strong members.
at the country level: business development and product innovation: improving our revenue mix and diversication: t Mature our first thousand locations operational efficiencies: and people management.
A well established and consistently high performing Delivery in these areas contributed signicantly to our business.
Cash generation is strong and continues to improved performance.
It is actively managed to deliver high occupancy and usage Strategy and support stronger pricing which, when coupled with Following the execution of a range of strategic initiatives, lower overheads, results in improved margins.
Regus strategy is clear: to serve and profit from the move toward exible work by being the platform of choice from t New the next thousand locations which business operates.
The larger our network, globally and nationally, the more compelling a proposition we become to our customers To deliver this, we will: from the very largest corporates to lone entrepreneurs.
t Continue to broaden our appeal through accelerated We remain committed to achieving a global network of product and service innovation 2,000 locations by 2014 and by end of February 2012 had already opened a further 19 locations since the year 4 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
