Governance The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 will be laid before shareholders at our Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2012.
The board is always mindful of its obligations to act in the best Governance interests of shareholders and acts collectively with that paramount The board has three primary functions: the provision of aim in mind.
I believe that decisions are taken on good quality clear strategic leadership, the appointment and oversight of information and advice and only after a good level of discussion management and other issues of stewardship and to represent and debate and our board performance evaluation supports and listen to the views of shareholders.
The highest standards of this view.
governance are critical to the boards objectivity and effectiveness I am pleased that we have been successful in attracting Angela in addressing these three pillars of its role.
The board is also Seymour-Jackson to join the board and I am sure that her service committed to operating the business in a responsible and industry experience, most recently as the chief executive of the sustainable manner.
Our governance framework is integral to RAC, will bring a welcome added dimension to the existing skills delivering our responsibilities to shareholders and to our colleagues and experience of the board.
as well as to those who come into contact with our activities.
For both executive and non-executive directors, it is my The principal change to governance processes arising from the new responsibility that the board maintains the best possible balance of UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was our move to give skills and therefore the process of achieving the optimum level shareholders the opportunity to re-elect directors annually.
We of diversity will be carried out in that context.
adopted this principle at last years annual general meeting ahead I hope that the information contained in this corporate of the Code taking effect.
Another governance development is governance report and elsewhere in the annual report is helpful to the introduction of the UK Bribery Act in connection with which shareholders understanding of the challenges facing the company we have taken the opportunity to update our anti-corruption and of the way in which the company is managed and governed arrangements including a wide ranging programme of training to meet these challenges.
This is in addition to the introduction in 2010 of an updated code of conduct which articulates our fundamental business principles.
John McAdam Chairman It is clear to me that the non-executive directors as a group and individually constructively challenge the executive team both at board and committee meetings as well as during the many exchanges which occur between formal meetings.
Our board evaluation process gives me assurance that all non-executive members of the board retain their independence of judgement which underpins the culture of constructive challenge in the boardroom.
In addition to constructive challenge the non-executive directors are also effective in bringing their wide experience to the boardroom for the benefit of the execution of business strategy.
22 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
