4 Rexam annual report 2011 overview chairmans statement A major challenge as we move forward is the fragile global economy in which we have to operate.
That said, Rexam is well positioned to anticipate and react swiftly to changing circumstances and adverse conditions.
It is important that as a board we are fully cognisant of our responsibilities to all our stakeholders: to our shareholders, who have experienced good returns in 2011: to our customers and suppliers with whom we have continued to build mutually beneficial relationships: to our people, in whom we continue to invest: and to the environment, where we have again reduced our carbon footprint.
The way the Group manages risk is also vital for our future prosperity.
It was therefore encouraging that, in our review of board Rexams record results for 2011 extended the strong progress we effectiveness, the management of risk was acknowledged as an made in 2010.
We continued to focus on our strategic priorities area where we perform particularly effectively.
Also coming out controlling costs, optimising cash and improving our return on ofthis review were indications that even more needs to be done capital employed to deliver another set of excellent results and inthe areas of strategy, people development and succession.
further strengthen our balance sheet.
The board is proposing an While more time is spent on these areas than ever before, we increased final dividend of 9.7p per share, making a total dividend rightly concluded that in such a turbulent and competitive world of 14.4p for the year.
Against a background of increasingly tough these issues will continue to be given a strong focus.
economic conditions, this performance bears witness to the underlying strength of the business.
We have seen a number of board changes.
Under Grahams leadership, the executive team and all our people Leo Oosterveer joined the board as a non executive director in have continued to manage those levers over which we have September.
He leads the global food service division of Unilever control.
We are driving operational excellence, through relentless and has a proven track record in marketing, sales and strategy cost control and improved asset utilisation.
We are strengthening development gained both in Europe and Asia.
His global our customer and supplier relationships, with our focus on quality, management experience will be a great asset to the board service, value and innovation.
We are building a winning andtoRexam.
organisation, fostering a culture which enables our people to Carl Symon retired from the board in November, having played achieve great results.
We are expanding in emerging markets, with animportant part in Rexams success as senior independent director disciplined investment plans announced in Brazil and India, which and chairman of the remuneration committee.
I thank him for his will develop and extend our existing geographic footprint.
And we hard work over the past eight years.
are managing our portfolio of businesses, ensuring all the constituent parts add value to the whole.
As part of our focus on improving our returns across the Group, we sold our beverage and specialty Closures businesses in 2011 and have recently started the process to market the Personal Care business for divestment.
dividend 4.7p 9.7p In 2009, the board agreed a policy to establish dividend cover in the 22.5 times underlying earnings range in the medium term, and we are delivering on that policy for 2011.
The board recommends a 2011 final dividend of 9.7p per share 2010: 8p, amounting to a total dividend for the year of 14.4p per share 2010: 12p.
Subject to shareholder 14.4p approval at Rexams AGM on 3May 2012, the final dividend will be paid on 7 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 11 May 2012.
5 During 2011, I announced my retirement and so this is my last statement as chairman of Rexam.
I am delighted that Stuart Chambers is taking over from me as chairman.
His extensive business experience, including his senior executive business to business experience and his broad global expertise, will be of tremendous benefit to the boards future deliberations and to the success of the Company.
I am proud of what, together, we have achieved since I joined the board.
Rexam is in a strong position and well prepared to tackle the challenges ahead.
We have clear objectives, strong management and talented people.
It just remains for me to express my appreciation to my fellow boardmembers for their contribution and support, not just during Stuart Chambers this year but since I have been chairman, and to say how grateful I am really pleased to be taking over from Sir Peter.
Iam for the confidence of our shareholders, customers and He leaves the Company in a strong position which is suppliers.
ButIshould like to save my final words for our people.
a testament to his significant achievements.
Rexam is Inthe challenging global economic climate of recent years confident of its direction and is well placed to develop everyone within Rexam has shown resilience and dedication, further.
I look forward very much to working with andthere is so much enthusiasm and commitment for what we do Graham and his team to achieve our ambitions for that it is impossible not to be inspired.
I have enjoyed greatly my theCompany.
time at Rexam, and wish the Company and all its people every success in the future.
Stuart Chambers chairman designate 22 February 2012 Sir Peter Ellwood chairman 22 February 2012 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
