chairmans statement Chris Cole Chairman Returning to growth Thus we are excited by the opportunities available to us to build I am pleased to be able to report that Ashtead returned to growth organically on the nationwide store network we created in the US with in the past year with underlying Group pre-tax profits up from 5m in the NationsRent acquisition and which we have worked hard to preserve 2010 to 31m and underlying earnings per share of 4.0p 2010: 0.2p.
We believe we have the opportunity to This recovery is not, as yet, being driven by an improvement in end add broadly 25% to current fleet size at existing stores in coming years, as construction markets which remained weak all year in both the US and well as having a proven new store opening model to which we can return UK.
Instead, as we had always expected would be the case at this point selectively as end markets recover.
in the cycle, we saw an increase in the demand for our services in the Continued balance sheet strength US driven by increased rental penetration and also by the gains we made Not only are we larger now than in 2003 4, but our financial position in market share.
Our rental fleet is not as old and our funding position The biggest driver of our profit growth was the rise in US rental revenue is healthy.
We recently announced that we had renewed the Groups which increased 10% in the year as we grew average fleet on rent by asset-based senior secured loan facility in the amount of $1.4bn and 5% and our achieved yield or rate by 3%.
This growth in rental revenue, extended its maturity to March 2016 at an interest margin 1% lower than coupled with continued control over operating costs, saw Sunbelts the 2013 commitments we replaced.
Over the 2008 to 2010 period the underlying operating profits rise 39% to $162m 2010: $117m.
In the UK, Group reduced outstanding debt by almost 400m at current exchange despite difficult end markets and already high rental penetration, A-Plant rates or about one-third, principally from organic cash generation.
Given again performed well relative to its peers.
However, absolute UK returns this reduction, just before year end, we redeemed $250m of our junior were still low with an operating profit of 3m 2010: 2m.
debt early which has further lowered future interest costs whilst still giving us the funding we need to finance growth.
We believe that the Looking forward, we are cautiously optimistic about end construction Group has now reached a size and scale where cash generation should markets in the US with leading indicators predicting that we will see an largely fund organic growth and hence, before any acquisitions, net debt end to the declines in 2011, with strengthening growth in 2012 and 2013. can be held broadly to its current level over the next phase of the cycle.
We also expect that the twin benefits of the ongoing structural shift in the US market to rental combined with gains in our market share, which Our 776m total net debt now comprises $796m drawn under our senior helped drive our performance in the past year, will continue into this year loan facility together with the $550m 2016 senior secured note issue, and beyond.
In the UK, it is likely that end markets will remain tough for and was committed for 5.1 years on average at year end.
The $479m some time but this will, we think, help bring about a reduction in both availability on the senior loan facility provides us with the balance sheet fleet size and the number of participants in what has been an over flexibility and strength required to enable our businesses to succeed and supplied market.
We expect there to be consequent positive implications prosper in the years ahead.
for returns when end markets recover.
Acquisitions Stronger as we enter the upturn Given the organic growth opportunities available to us both within At Ashtead we have long recognised that we operate in a cyclical market the existing store network and through green-field openings, our growth and that, in dealing with the challenges of recession, equally we need to plans do not require acquisitions.
Nonetheless, we believe there will prepare for recovery.
be attractive opportunities to enhance the Group through further diversification into specialist markets and non-construction activities.
This cycle, despite the depth of the decline in US end construction markets since 2008, we believe we are much better positioned than we Thus, in January 2011, we acquired Empire, a specialist provider of scaffold were when the US last came out of recession post 2001 2.
We now have rental, erection and dismantlement services principally to the Gulf Coast a far larger national US business with the opportunity to capitalise on petrochemical industry.
We paid approximately $39m with a $1.5m renewed growth wherever it first arises regionally.
And whilst we cut costs earn-out depending on Empires profits in the year to 31 August 2011. dramatically in 2009, we did so in a way which still today leaves us with This acquisition has enabled us to expand our specialty scaffolding services the store network and geographical reach required to participate in almost from the US eastern seaboard into new markets along the Gulf Coast.
It all the markets we served at the last peak in 2008.
We also start the has also brought with it a largely industrial customer base into which we recovery with stronger US EBITDA margins than we earned back in expect, in time, to build out our general tool product offering.
2003 4, 32% versus 28%, and believe we have not yet seen the full profit potential from our acquisition of NationsRent in 2006.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 5 We have returned to growth in the past year with underlying group pre-tax profits up from 5m in 2010 to 31m What about the UK?
Dividend This is a question we are often asked.
The Board believes that A-Plant Consistent with our policy of offering a progressive dividend having continues to offer the potential for attractive returns in the future.
regard to the availability of both profits and cash whilst keeping to a level However, we also recognise that the UK end construction market is which is sustainable through the cycle, the Board is recommending an challenging and is likely to remain so for some time as public investment increased final dividend of 2.07p per share 2010: 2.0p per share making is curtailed.
If the proposed final dividend is approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, it will be paid on 9 September In this environment, after three years of low fleet investment and 2011 to shareholders on the register on 19 August 2011. material cash generation from A-Plant, our strategy is now to invest prudently in the business.
We aim to ensure the quality of our offering and Our people to continually re-emphasise to our customers the need for rates to be at We always say that our people are our most important asset and that a level necessary to support this investment.
In our view, the UK rental has never been truer than through the recent difficult years when the market retains too many marginal participants which has perpetuated dedication and loyalty of our staff have been sorely tested.
Perversely, the extended period of weak end markets which I thank them for their commitment to making Ashtead the best in the we believe lies ahead may prove to be the catalyst for change as weaker equipment rental business regardless of the difficult market conditions participants may find it challenging to survive.
We have already seen that we faced.
As we begin the return to growth, we hope they, alongside one former top five UK market participant close its business at the end our shareholders, will see further rewards for their continued support.
This of 2010. year we have expanded our reporting on employee matters and you can read more about the initiatives we have in place in our extended corporate We retain the possibility of accelerating the market consolidation we responsibility report on pages 34 to 39. believe is necessary through acquisition but we would only do so at a price which offers our shareholders an appropriate return on investment.
Current trading and outlook The past year saw us make a public approach with our Belgian partners, The momentum we established throughout the past year has carried TVH, for Lavendon under which we would have acquired Lavendons UK forward into May with encouraging levels of fleet on rent and yield growth.
Because we and TVH had a firm view on Looking forward we remain cautious over the outlook for end construction value, we withdrew our approach once it became clear that our view of markets in the short term, particularly in the UK.
However, we continue the challenges ahead was not, at the time, shared by a sufficiently large to benefit from the structural shift to rental, market share gains and the proportion of Lavendons shareholders for our approach to succeed.
improvements we have established in all key areas of our business.
Therefore, whilst we remain alert to the portfolio opportunities which Together with our balance sheet strength and strong market positions, our financial strength offers within the UK market, it is important to this makes us confident of another year of good progress.
emphasise that our central strategy for the UK of prudent selective investment coupled with focusing on the value of the service we provide remains appropriate.
It will, the Board believes, offer attractive returns once the cyclical UK construction market recovers.
Changes to the Board As I explained in last years statement Gary Iceton stood down from the Board at the September 2010 AGM on the expiry of two full terms Chris Cole as a non-executive director.
We were delighted last September to 15 June 2011 announce the appointment of Ian Sutcliffe to replace Gary.
Ian has had a wide and varied career in marketing and general management, latterly in the house-building and commercial property investment sectors.
His experience, including his knowledge of these markets, complements the Board.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
