3 Business review Chairmans statement is being made.
One good example is the Boeing 787 Dreamliner that Rolls-Royce has a highly-skilled and entered service in September 2011.
This extraordinary aeroplane is motivated team proud of its heritage designed to be 20 per cent more fuel efficient than the earlier generation of aircraft it replaces, thanks largely to advances in aero-engine and ambitious for its future.
Our marine business has advanced hull designs, engines, and integrated propulsion systems that are reducing emissions dramatically.
In our energy business we have continued to make good progress Sir Simon Robertson developing the scope of our civil nuclear capabilities.
Chairman I would like to thank my fellow directors for their great support and hard February 8, 2012 work in the past year.
I would also like particularly to express my gratitude to Andrew Shilston, who retired from the Board at the year end.
Andrew served Rolls-Royce as Finance Director for nine years and has done an outstanding job.
I wish him well in his future endeavours.
My congratulations go to Mark Morris, who succeeds Andrew and was appointed to the Board in January 2012.
Mark joined Rolls-Royce as a graduate 25 years ago.
Sir John Rose, who had been with the Group for 27 years and was Chief Executive for 15 years, retired at the end of March and was succeeded by John Rishton.
I have paid tribute to John Rose on a number of occasions including in last years Annual report.
Suffice it for me to say, we owe John a huge amount for what he achieved.
I am very pleased to report that John Rishton has made a tremendous start as our new Chief Executive.
Sir Peter Gregson has expressed his wish to retire as a non-executive director of Rolls-Royce at this years Annual General Meeting AGM and therefore will not be seeking re-election.
Peter has made a valuable contribution during the past five years and I would like to thank him for his commitment.
I am delighted to welcome both Lewis Booth and Sir Frank Chapman onto the Board as non-executive directors.
Lewis Booth, who chairs the audit committee, is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ford Motor Company and one of the most senior leaders within the auto industry.
Sir Frank has been Chief Executive at BG Group for the past 11 years.
He brings an additional deep technical understanding and knowledge of advanced engineering to the Board.
He has agreed to chair a new safety committee that will be formed in 2012.
We are fortunate to benefit from the advice of an International Advisory Board IAB, comprised of some of the worlds most distinguished business and political leaders.
The IAB, whose membership is detailed later, provides invaluable strategic advice about the global markets in which we operate under the able guidance of Lord Powell of Bayswater.
I would like to thank its members for their time and wisdom.
Through the disciplined application of a long-term strategy, Rolls-Royce has doubled its revenues in the past decade and we are confident of doubling them again in the coming ten years.
Rolls-Royce has a strong balance sheet and we intend to run our business so that we maintain a single A credit rating.
In all parts of our business we see opportunities for profitable growth, building on the firm foundations I have described above.
At the heart of our business lie our people.
Our past, current and future success rests entirely with them.
I believe Rolls-Royce has a highly-skilled and motivated team which is proud of its heritage and ambitious for its future.
The strength of our order book demonstrates the confidence our customers have placed in us.
We are focused on delivering these commitments for the long-term good of the families and communities who depend upon us and for the benefit of our customers and of our shareholders.
