CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report another year of strong growth for Rotork, with our order intake, revenue and profit all at record levels.
During the year we completed six acquisitions and announced the formation of a new division, Rotork Instruments.
Rotork Instruments will provide a platform for our expansion into the wider flow control market.
While economic uncertainty affected activity levels in some countries in which we operate, the continued broadening of our geographic spread and end-market exposure limited the overall impact on the Group.
In addition to our increased spend on FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS acquisitions, which amounted to 64.2m Revenue of 447.8m was 17.7% higher in the year, we continued to invest in our than the previous year, with organic growth facilities and people in the locations and on a constant currency basis of 15.9%.
sectors where we see growth opportunities.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by Investment in product development was also 17.0% to 116.5m resulting in a return higher in the year at 5.8m, an increase of on sales on this basis of 26.0%, similar to 35% on 2010.
This investment will result in the prior year.
In aggregate, acquisitions an increased number of product launches reported a lower return on sales than the in 2012, including the next generation of Group average, so when taken with a our IQ actuator range.
We aim to extend our modest currency headwind, return on sales industry leadership position and consolidate restated on an organic constant currency Rotorks reputation for world-class basis was 26.3%, slightly above 2010. innovation.
Cash generation from operations was good and after returning 49.5m to shareholders Roger Lockwood Chairman The Rotork brand continues to strengthen in dividends and spending 64.2m on and customers who demand high quality acquisitions, we finished the year with products and services recognise that net cash of 48.5m.
Rotork provides a superior solution to their Rotork Instruments automation needs, improving the reliability BOARD COMPOSITION and operation of their plant.
The Board supports Lord Davies recent will provide a report regarding Women on Boards and Our continued success is due to the has a stated aim that 25% of its nonplatform for our dedication of our people, whether in executive directors will be women by the customer facing, operational or support end of 2012.
We have always believed that expansion into the roles.
Their hard work has allowed Rotork good corporate governance stems from to capitalise on the available opportunities a quality Board which has a wide range wider flow control and continue to provide excellent customer of experience and skills.
recruiting a suitable member of the Board market using our established formal appointment process.
of 22.75p per share which, taken together with the 2011 interim dividend, gives a to invest in our BOARD PERFORMANCE payment of 37.25p per share 2010: facilities and For a number of years we have appointed 32.50p, representing a 14.6% increase.
external consultants to conduct This dividend will be payable on 21 May people an independent appraisal of Board 2012 to shareholders on the register on effectiveness and this year we repeated 13 April 2012. the process.
Overall, the feedback from the review was positive and, having OUTLOOK been discussed by the Board, this Rotork is well positioned in growth markets has led to a number of changes.
The and the execution of our long-term strategy primary changes are: increasing the of expanding into the wider flow control membership of the Management Board market will provide further opportunities for to cover Human Resources and Business growth.
This year will see the introduction Development roles: altering the format of several new products and we will also of Board meetings to allow more time continue to look for suitable acquisition for debate and discussion: and providing targets.
greater opportunities for non-executive directors to participate in discussion of We continue to invest in our infrastructure, the Groups strategic direction.
It is clear product development and sales coverage that the breadth of experience and skills to support the growth projections of the represented on the Board is an important business.
Whilst mindful of the uncertain factor in the Boards effectiveness.
The economic environment, the indications open and inclusive discussions we enjoy we are receiving from our customers ensure consideration is given to all points are positive.
The markets that we serve, of view.
Overall, I remain satisfied that the combined with our extensive product composition of the Board enables it to portfolio, international presence and fulfill its expected role.
The non-executive end-market exposure, provide the Board directors also reviewed my performance as with confidence of achieving further Chairman and provided feedback via the progress in the coming year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board sets the tone for the way in which Rotork operates and we remain committed to running the business in a responsible way.
The Board considers current performance, strategy and Roger Lockwood Chairman acquisitions, risk management, the internal 27 February 2012 control framework and the other aspects of References to adjusted profit throughout this document corporate governance throughout the year.
are defined as the IFRS profit, whether profit before tax Some of the discussions involve the wider n TOTAL SHAREHOLDER or operating profit, with the amortisation of acquired Rotork Management Board.
The executive intangibles added back.
RETURN management are then able to disseminate the values and standards of the Board 271 280 throughout the Group and ensure these are 248 embedded at all levels.
240 200 In response to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, all directors 156 160 stood for re-election at the last Annual 119 120 General Meeting and we intend to 101 continue this practice in the future.
80 40 0 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Rotork p. l. c. FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector Rebased to 100 at 1 January 2007 ROTORK P. L. C. 05 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Pioneering Innovation Rotork is at the forefront of creating the latest innovative applications for its customers and fully committed to delivering the best in flow control solutions.
Innovation is embedded in Rotorks culture and all employees are encouraged to bring new ideas, both in terms of product and service offering to the customer.
Any innovation adopted goes through rigorous testing: some are tested for thousands of hours before they are available to customers.
ROTORK P. L. C. 06 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
