6 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans statement A very strong performance for the year Meyer Kahn Chairman While focusing relentlessly on our financial results, were also pursuing our vision of being the most admired company in the global beer industry.
Dear Shareholder, After the completion of a number of key capacity expansion projects, capital expenditure was lower SABMillers financial performance for the year was than in the prior year at US$1,315 million.
very strong, benefiting from a sustained focus on our strategic priorities right across our business.
Net debt decreased by US$1,307 million to Brand equities and sales execution drove profitable US$7,091 million, mainly as a result of the robust volume growth and, while we maintained focus cash inflows.
The balance sheet was further oncost management, we continued to increase strengthened as the gearing ratio fell from 40.8% investment behind our local and global brand inthe prior year to 31.2%.
The board has recommended a final dividend of Results and dividend 61.5 US cents per share to be paid to shareholders Total beverage volumes of 270 million hectolitres on 12 August 2011.
This brings the total dividend for were 3% ahead of the prior year on an organic the year to 81 US cents, an increase of 13 cents basis, with lager volumes up 2%.
Volume growth 19% over the prior year.
was also accompanied by share gains in a number of markets.
Group revenue grew by 7% 5% on an Operational highlights organic, constant currency basis after stripping out While economic conditions improved across currency benefits, driven by a favourable brand mix LatinAmerica and Africa, consumer demand and price increases in the current and prior year.
remained under pressure in Europe and the USA.
Nevertheless, each of our businesses improved its Reported earnings before interest, tax and financial performance and delivered higher EBITA amortisation EBITA grew by 15% 12% on an than in the prior year.
A pleasing feature was the 120 basis points bps growth in Latin America produced EBITA growth of 17% EBITA margin to 17.8%, benefiting from our revenue 11% on an organic, constant currency basis.
growth and a small reduction in raw material costs.
Thiswas despite lager volumes remaining level Profit before tax was up 24%.
withthe prior year on an organic basis.
EBITA growth resulted from selective price increases, Adjusted earnings were 20% higher as a result of mostly in the second half of the prior year, along the increase in EBITA, lower finance costs and an with lower raw material costs and an ongoing effective tax rate of 28.2%.
Adjusted earnings per focuson reducing fixed costs.
In Europe, EBITA increased by 2% 4% on a The group generated US$2,488 million of free cash constant currency basis, despite lager volumes flow, an increase of US$460 million over the prior falling by 3% amid difficult economic and industry year.
At US$66 million, cash inflows from working conditions including competitor discounting.
capital continued the positive trend of the previous Theincrease in profitability was driven by cost year, albeit at a slower rate.
efficiencies and lower raw material costs.
indd 6 07 06 2011 10:07 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 7 Castle Lager First brewed in 1895 by founder brewer, Charles Glass, Castle Lager enjoys wide recognition as the beer that brings friends together.
Castle Lager is brewed using the fi nest quality ingredients to provide an engaging taste.
Origin: South Africa First brewed: 1895 www.
co. za Share price performance from 1 April 2008 to 18 May 2011 sterling 25 SABMiller 100.9% 20 15 International Brewers Index 56.7% 10 FTSE 100 1.2% 5 0 Apr Nov Jul Feb Oct May 2008 2008 2009 2010 2010 2011 Source: Factset and Datastream as at 18 May 2011 In North America, EBITA grew by 20% both for the To succeed in this ambition, we need to increase segment and for MillerCoors.
MillerCoors sales our revenues at a faster rate than our competitors volumes to wholesalers and retailers were both while maintaining or improving our margins.
Unemployment remained high among key we have the advantage of a broad geographic beer consumer groups and the US market continued footprint with signifi cant exposure to emerging 270m hl to bechallenging.
Nevertheless, EBITA benefi ted from markets where beer volumes are growing strongly.
revenue growth resulting from price increases and a 270 million hl total beverage volumes favourable sales mix, complemented by the ongoing Our presence in these markets continues to sold during the year realisation of merger synergies and other cost savings.
This year we made a move into thefastgrowing premium segment of the beer market in Lager volumes in Africa grew by 13% on an Argentina with thepurchase of the countrys third organic basis and by 9% excluding Zimbabwe.
Our Chinese associate, CR Snow, EBITA was up by 15% 20% on an organic, constant has acquired further breweries in Heilongjiang, currency basis, benefi ting from higher volumes and Jiangsu and Henan.
We are also delighted that prices, partially offset by greater investment in sales Delta in Zimbabwe has been re-incorporated into and marketing and the impact on commodity costs our groupaccounts.
After many years in which its of weaker local currencies relative to the US dollar.
performance was depressed by hyperinfl ation andeconomic stagnation, Delta is slowly 17.8% In Asia, lager volumes increased by 10% on an returningto normality and lager sales volumes organic basis, driven by growth mainly in China but arereturning to their previous highs.
17.8% EBITA margin up 120 basis also in India.
EBITA was up 31% on a reported basis points 33% on an organic, constant currency basis.
As we develop our geographic portfolio, were also expanding our production capacity to meet In South Africa, lager volumes saw growth of 2%, consumer demand.
As well as acquiring assets, benefi ting from greater consumer confi dence and CRSnow completed new breweries in Shandong the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
EBITA grew by 21% on a and Shanxi and began a number of projects to reported basis 11% on a constant currency basis.
increase capacity at existing breweries.
In Africa, Improvements in volumes and prices and lower raw too, we continue to invest where we see material costs were partially offset by continued opportunities forgood returns.
Were currently investment in sales and marketing.
constructing agreenfi eld brewery in Onitsha in Nigeria and doubling the size of the brewery at Juba Achieving our vision in Southern Sudan.
Were also in the process of While focusing relentlessly on improving our fi financial commissioning a maltings plant in Uganda.
The results, we know were expected to do much more breweries commissioned in the previous year in ifwe want to achieve our group vision ofbeing the Angola, Mozambique and Tanzania are all now in most admired company in the global beer industry.
full production and performing well.
This is an ambitious and far-reaching objective and we carefully monitor our progress against those Along with leading positions in growing markets, attributes for which we wish to beadmired.
we benefi t from having over 200 local brands with strong consumer appeal and brand equity.
These First, we want to be the best company in our sector provide the components for assembling attractive, for long-term value growth.
differentiated brand portfolios, tailored to the needs of local consumers and capable of winning in each of our markets.
indd 7 07 06 2011 10:07 8 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans statement Continued With these advantages, we believe were well cases assisting them to make the transition from placed for long-term value growth.
The markets subsistence to commercial farming with significant apparently agree, with SABMiller outperforming benefits for them and the local economy.
theFTSE 100 and the International Brewers Index over the last three years.
Within our supply chain, were also helping large numbers of small distributors and retailers to Secondly, we want to be admired for local value establish and develop their own businesses.
Outside the beer sector, our numerous projects to help young, would-be entrepreneurs in Africa and Despite the consolidation of our industry in the last Latin America contribute further to the economic 10 years, beer remains a distinctly local business, health of society.
steeped in culture and tradition.
Given the strong 29,542 local roots of most beer brands, winning in the While the vast majority of consumers enjoy market requires deep local knowledge and ourproducts responsibly, a small minority of 29,542 retailer shareholders created consumer insight skills we can justly claim irresponsible drinkers can cause problems and by BBBEE transaction in South Africa asthemost local of the global brewers.
were working with a range of partners to address this issue.
We have strict internal systems to make It follows that our success is inextricably linked to sure we market our products responsibly.
We also that of our local partners the many distributors, provide balanced information on the use and effects retailers and bar and tavern owners on whom our of alcohol, and we support numerous programmes business depends.
To win, we must create value to prevent alcohol abuse.
not just for ourselves but for them as well.
Our aspiration to be a positive force in society finds This requires the skills, flexibility and innovation expression in our 10 sustainable development tomeet their very different needs.
These are detailed on pages 44 to 47 8,400m ofdistributors, for example, our owner-driver ofthis report along with the progress weve made programmes in countries such as Tanzania, Zambia against each.
US$8,400 million total taxes and South Africa provide valuable support to local borne and collected by the group businesses while ensuring efficient distribution to The fourth attribute for which we want to be customers in remote areas.
We must also provide admired is the quality of our product.
superb service to our retailers, be they large, sophisticated supermarket chains in the USA or Brewers at heart, we believe our passion for our small mom and pop stores in Latin America and product forms an integral part of our company Africa.
One development were particularly proud culture.
For all our focus on efficiency, we refuse ofin this respect is the recent Broad-Based Black to compromise on the quality of our brands.
Economic Empowerment BBBEE transaction in Committed to using the finest ingredients and South Africa under which 29,542 local retailers are thebest technologies and processes, we seek now shareholders in our business and able to constantly to improve our beers and our brewing participate directly in our success.
has also rewarded our local employees and established a charitable foundation to benefit the Our quality has been endorsed by further industry wider South African community.
awards for beers from all our regions from bodies such as the Brewing Industry International Awards, Thirdly, we want to be admired for the benefits the International Taste & Quality Institute, Monde webring to local communities.
Selection, the World Beer Cup and the Great American Beer Festival.
We believe that the greatest contribution we can maketo the economies in which we operate is to run Finally, we want to be admired for the calibre of successful, profitable businesses that create jobs, pay our people.
This means hiring the very best, giving taxes and stimulate local enterprise.
And we need to them clear accountabilities and helping them to fulfil do so in a way that earns the trust of our stakeholders their potential.
Not being a command and control and reinforces our social and environmental organisation, we can only win by harnessing the credentials.
Indeed the more successful we are ability of local people to address and solve local commercially, the more we can contribute to society.
To this end, we seek to instil an open, Total taxes borne and collected by the group communicative culture in which good ideas can amounted to US$8,400 million, an increase of flourish.
We also provide excellent training and US$1,400 million on the prior year.
career advancement opportunities with a strong focus on developing the leaders of tomorrow.
As part of our contribution, we continue to develop our supply chains so as to make maximum use of I believe we have great talent and would like to local raw materials and small-scale suppliers.
express my gratitude for the skills and dedication of Across Africa, India and Latin America, were now all our people across the business in the past year.
working with over 28,000 smallholders, in many 50518 TEXT pgs6-21.
indd 8 07 06 2011 10:07 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 9 guila Light A lighter version of guila, the classic Colombian beer, guila Light has become a new option for the consumer looking to experience a lighter taste.
Origin: Colombia First brewed: 2002 www.
com Corporate governance Also in May 2011, we announced the planned Being the most admired company in the sector retirement of Malcolm Wyman as chief financial naturally requires the highest standards of officer and the appointment of JamieWilson as transparency, ethics and corporate governance.
Malcolm is a veryspecial individual The directors are committed to maintaining these and has played a pivotal rolein SABMillers standards while also providing the leadership, transformation from a small regional business into a controls and strategic oversight to ensure we leading global brewer andshareholders will have an delivervalue to all the companys shareholders.
opportunity to express their gratitude at this years Each director brings independence of character annual generalmeeting.
We wish Malcolm and his and judgement to the role.
Board and committee wifealong and happy retirement.
meetings are characterised by robust, constructive debate based on high-quality reporting from Previously the Finance Director of our business management, and the board keeps its performance inEurope, Jamie brings outstanding talent and and core governance principles under regular considerable industry experience in both financial review.
I am most grateful to my board colleagues, and general management to the role of chief not only for maintaining these principles but for their financial officer.
Hisappointment will further wise oversight of the business and the guidance enhance the commercial focus of the finance and support they have given me during the year.
The boardunanimously recommends hiselection as adirector following his appointment After extensive consultation, the Financial Reporting in succession to Malcolm.
Council FRC issued a new UK Corporate Governance Code in May 2010.
We welcome the In line with our plans made at the time of the new Code and endorse the emphasis it places merger, we have announced the appointment of onthe roles and responsibilities of the board.
We Tom Long as the new chief executive officer of our believe that good corporate governance depends North America joint venture, MillerCoors, with effect principally on high-calibre individuals with deep from 1 June 2011.
Tom brings extensive industry experience of our company and industry, a clear experience, having served previously as chief understanding of their role and responsibilities executive officer and marketing officer of Miller andthe tools necessary to discharge their Brewing Company.
responsibilities, rather than on prescriptive, box-ticking requirements about committee Tom takes over from Leo Kiely, who has composition or length of service.
successfully guided the integration and start-up of MillerCoors.
We extend our thanks to Leo for The board has continued to evaluate the balance his enormous contribution and wish him well in ofskills, knowledge and experience among its hisretirement.
members and is committed to progressive renewalthrough orderly succession.
Through Barry Smith, President SABMiller Latin America, thenomination committee, we have appropriate retired in December 2010.
Barry made an succession plans for our non-executive directors, exceptional contribution to the group and left executive directors and senior management with withour very best wishes.
due regard to the need for diversity.
At SABMiller we have one of the most internationally diverse Further details of the directors approach to boards in the FTSE 100 index and five of the last corporate governance can be found in the seven independent non-executive directors corporate governance report which appears appointed by the board have been women.
Given that two of these directors, Maria Ramos Outlook andLiz Doherty, were subsequently appointed to While consumer demand is likely to continue senior roles in other companies and had to resign growing in most developing markets, there are from the board of SABMiller plc, we were delighted uncertainties in the outlook for inflation and the to announce the appointment of two new nonpace of recovery in Europe and North America.
executive directors, Lesley Knox and Helen Weir, in Pricing will be considered selectively, country by May 2011.
Both bring a wealth of strategic, financial country, taking account of an expected moderate and international experience and we are extremely increase in our raw material input costs, the fortunate to have secured their services.
competitive context and our intention to achieve growth through affordability in some markets.
One third of the companys independent nonIn line with our established strategic priorities, executive directors arewomen and the company is we plan to drive growth by further strengthening well placed as to the future balance of the board.
and extending our brand portfolios and channel Both of our new directors will be members of the management capabilities while maintaining our audit committee and Lesley Knox will also be a focus on cost control and productivity.
member of the remuneration committee.
