Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Chairmans letter Full year proposed dividend per share of 9.75p 2010: 7.80p These good results reflect the strong fundamentals of Sages enhanced, including the proportion of women in our team.
business, such as our leading market positions, our large and It is of the utmost importance that we maintain a strong and loyal customer base, a culture of innovation and high cash diverse Board and management team and only the most generation.
In the past 12 months we have built on these appropriate candidates will be appointed.
foundations to reposition the business to deliver higher We remain committed to high standards of corporate revenue and profit growth in the future.
With our strong governance, with ultimate responsibility sitting with the Board.
balance sheet and cash flows and our focus upon shareholder This year the terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code value, the Board has decided to rebase the dividend, resulting 2010 applied to the Company for the first time.
You can read in a 25% increase in the year.
Going forward our policy is to more about Board activities and priorities from page 46. increase our dividend broadly in line with growth in underlying earnings per share.
This year saw the departure from the Board of Paul Stobart and Tim Ingram.
As CEO of Northern Europe, and previously During the year we announced the sale of Sage Healthcare, of our UK and Ireland business, Paul made a substantial which will enable management to focus on the considerable contribution to Sage over his fifteen years in the business.
opportunities that exist within our core US business.
The Tim served on the Board as a non-executive director for nine proceeds from this sale will be returned to shareholders years, becoming Senior Independent non-executive director in through a share buyback programme which commenced July 2007.
He brought considerable experience to the Board, in October 2011.
This Board decision reflects our policy of particularly financial and City expertise.
On behalf of the returning surplus capital to shareholders and our intention is Board, we wish both Paul and Tim every future success and to gradually reach a net debt level of 1x EBITDA over the next thank them for their contributions to Sage.
More generally, 18 months through a combination of further capital returns to I would like to thank all of our people for their continued, shareholders and targeted acquisitions.
Following the appointment of Guy Berruyer as CEO in 2010, Looking forward, the economic outlook remains uncertain.
a number of senior executive promotions followed across However, our strong business model and robust finances two regions with a consequent effect on three of our largest position us well to deal with the changeable economic countries.
These appointments were a key measure of the cycle.
We will continue to pursue our significant market success of several years of strengthening and deepening our and product opportunities whilst, as always, managing executive talent pool.
We will continue to focus on our talent, the business prudently.
to ensure that we have appropriate succession plans at all levels of our business, and have the right skills in place to support our ambitious business priorities.
I believe that a strong and diverse Board is a prerequisite for success.
Diversity is measured in many ways: for instance the different professional backgrounds of Board members.
The Board of Sage will regularly consider how the diversity and skills of the management team across the Group can be Anthony Hobson, Chairman Read the Chairmans introduction to governance on page 45
