EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder Alterian Acquisition The acquisition of Alterian plc, completed in January Summary Performance 2012, brings data analytics, campaign management and We are pleased to report a year of significant growth.
Our social media capabilities to the group.
SDL has historically progress executing our strategic vision resulted in record partnered with vendors who have these technologies.
Revenue for the year However we believe an integrated product suite that allows was 229.0m 2010: 203.5m.
Operating profit before our customers to track and analyse web and social activity taxation and amortisation of intangible assets PBTA was is a crucial component in the creation and presentation of 39.7m 2010: 35.4m.
Net cash in the business at year end content.
Providing our customers with integrated solutions amounted to 70.4m 2010: 46.6m.
that allow them to understand exactly what customers are saying and looking at, in the context of what they are Headline revenue growth of 13% includes acquisition related producing, via our content management technology is growth of 2% and a 1% decrease due to foreign exchange important and provides closed loop engagement.
movements in the period, resulting in an underlying organic growth at constant currency of 12%.
Global Information Management Vision and Strategy As the internet enters its third decade of commercialisation, Market Opportunity there is now a mountain of rich digital information With SDL solutions setting an industry standard in the available for us to consume and, because of this, the web is Global Information Management marketplace, enterprises increasingly becoming a central part of our lives.
With 2.1 are increasingly seeking strategic solutions to the growing billion people now using the internet regularly and with challenge of customer engagement in the modern world.
As the internet generation becoming the new decision makers a result of deepening relationships with clients, the crossin industry, the web will become even more important to selling of our products and services is evolving into increased global businesses as expectations from the web increase.
strategic sales across the group to leading brands such as Atlas Copco, CNH, Getty Images and Hach Company.
The cornerstone of SDLs strategy is our belief that everyone should be able to engage with the information they require Investment into the Future in the way they want, in the language, the media and We increased our Research and Development investment by moment they choose.
SDL will continue to look to the future 8% in 2011 to 14.8m 2010: 13.6m.
Focussing on market and invest in technical solutions to address the opportunities innovations and product vision through a targeted research corporations have to communicate with their clients.
In and development programme, key product launches in 2011 order to deliver the above vision we have invested in: were: SDL Tridion 2011, our market leading Web Content Language technology we believe that all Management product, rated as a leader by Forrester and communications will need to be instantly available Gartner, with new mobile, targeting and personalisation in multiple languages at a fraction of todays cost.
technology: We are investing heavily into our recent acquisition SDL Trados Studio 2011, a new version of our leading of Language Weaver, a world-leading automated desktop translation product: translation solution.
We have integrated this technology SDL LiveContent 2011, a step-change enabling product into our Web Content Management technology and our which automates the production of smart interactive freelance translation editing suites.
We will seek to help product documentation: and our partners and customers bring their content into SDL EasyTranslator, which enables text to be translated multiple markets at a fraction of the cost instantly from any document and real-time chat to Our Content Management technology which is be translated across social networking sites in 60 considered best in class by industry analysts, integrates languages.
with our translation management systems, allowing content to be translated and published fast and In 2011, we made a strategically important investment in efficiently in multiple languages Media Asset Management with the acquisition of Calamares, Personalisation and targeting technology with an enterprise solution for managing video and rich media.
the acquisition of Fredhopper, a leader in retail We consider that live and on demand video will form an personalisation and targeting.
This technology is now increasing part of web content in future.
This cloud-based integrated into our web content management products, solution supports internet television, as well as social media allowing our customers to present the right information platforms across a wide range of systems and devices, to users including mobile.
This key capability, branded SDL Media Multimedia management technology we anticipate an Manager, has been integrated with SDL Tridion 2011 and increasing amount of content on the web will be video, further integrations with other SDL products are planned graphics or pictorial, as pictures are generally more moving forward.
easily digested than text by humans.
This technology has also been integrated into our content management solutions 12 SDL OVERVIEW 1 2012 marks a significant milestone as SDL celebrates its 20th anniversary.
The Group continues to innovate and we are delighted to report another year of significant progress.
Having served as a NonData analytics, social media management and Executive Director for 10 years, John Matthews will not be campaign management through the Alterian seeking re-election at the forthcoming 2012 AGM.
John has acquisition which have brought to us the ability to delivered a wealth of experience to SDL, and will be working provide our customers with an integrated solution of as a consultant to the Board during the next year.
We believe monitoring, analysing, creating and targeting content these Board changes improve our corporate governance, to users whilst continuing to provide us with a strong and multitalented Board going forward.
By enabling global businesses to engage with their customers, we help them manage their brands and drive SDL Celebrates its 20th Anniversary their global revenues.
We do this by providing enterprise- 2012 marks a significant milestone as SDL celebrates its ready, innovative solutions and services for managing the 20th anniversary.
As these results demonstrate, the Group end-to-end customer experience.
has come a long way since its foundation in 1992 and IPO in 1999.
We believe that SDL is well positioned to take Communication has become highly sophisticated advantage of the opportunities ahead and deliver value for complexity is no longer acceptable and simplicity of the user shareholders.
SDL now operates in 38 countries, with over interface is highly valued and critical to successful customer 2,600 people, over 1,500 enterprise customers and has engagement.
Multi-channel interaction is taken for granted.
Perhaps one of We see a shift from content to experience, exemplified by the most satisfying achievements is the creation of the SDL exponential growth in video and the growing dominance of social media as the opinion former.
Synergistic re-use Foundation, our registered charity, that has helped many of content across channels and brands are key execution people in environments less fortunate than ours to start themes for global enterprises.
The acquisition of Alterian building an infrastructure for the future.
As we move into complements SDLs industry-leading strength in Web 2012 and beyond, SDLs philosophy will remain unchanged.
Content Management, ecommerce and personalisation We will continue to invest in our staff, customers and with new Campaign Management, Analytics and Social our technology which in turn provides returns to our Intelligence propositions.
With SDLs Global Information shareholders.
Management platform, SDL is now a leader in Customer Experience Management.
Outlook In 2011, our Global Information Management solutions The fundamental growth drivers of the business remain continued to evolve and we executed strongly against our unchanged.
SDL and its enterprise customer base is geared strategic objectives.
towards globalisation, the growth of the internet, and growth in digital and translated content in a multi-channel Whilst macro-economic concerns exist, particularly environment.
We have been careful to invest in key areas over the weaker Euro zone states and the future of the where these secular trends are strongest.
So whilst the European Currency Union, our pipeline remains solid.
European market remains difficult, we have exposure We are experiencing higher growth in North America and to the US, Asian, South American and other emerging our customer presence in emerging markets such as Asia markets where these trends are showing themselves to be continues to expand and diversify.
We are well positioned particularly robust.
with a broad portfolio of geographies and industry sectors, which mitigates exposure to sector or regional economic Dividend events.
We remain confident in the operational cash generation capability of the business and the board is recommending We are also entering 2012 with a broader set of products and a final dividend to the Annual General Meeting of 5.8 services and we are confident in our strategy and execution pence per ordinary share, a 5.5% increase over the maiden capability.
The business has a very strong balance sheet that dividend paid in the preceding year.
enables growth opportunities, both organic and through acquisition, to be pursued as they arise.
Board of Directors During the year a number of Board changes have been As we look forward to the future we remain confident in our made.
Matthew Knight was appointed as Chief Financial growth prospects and SDLs long term potential to deliver Officer, following John Hunters promotion from this further profitable growth and strong shareholder returns.
position to Chief Executive Officer.
Shortly after the year end, Mandy Gradden was appointed as a Non-Executive Mark Lancaster Director, strengthening the independent component of Executive Chairman the Board.
Jane Thompson will leave the SDL Board in April 2012 to focus on her own business interests, having provided a valuable contribution to SDL and been chair 13 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
