Section 3 | Our performance Chairmans Statement Last year, as I spoke of my assessment of Sercos principal strengths in my first statement as Chairman, I identified the breadth of Serco across both geography and sector: our ability to bring people together from across different parts of our business to share experience, skills and ideas: and our application of innovative thinking to derive better service outcomes.
That we have been able to achieve the quality of results of which What these new capabilities make possible is amply evidenced by Chris Hyman writes in detail in his Chief Executives Statement is Serco achieving single bidder status to operate the Anglia Support testament to these strengths against the backdrop of challenging Partnership, our first shared services proposition in the emerging conditions in our largest markets.
To have achieved good organic market for middle and back office support to the UK health sector.
revenue growth, further improvement in operating margins, and Not only does this demonstrate the strength of our BPO credentials contract awards totalling over 5bn when we have seen pressures but also our growing presence in health operations.
This is a sector in certain areas of UK Government spending, in particular in local where expertise demonstrated in one geography has enabled us government, and delays and cancellations of previously anticipated to build a presence in another, which is a key feature of the Serco work in the US, is a great credit to our management and our business model.
Our being selected to provide non-clinical support people, to whom I give my thanks on behalf of the Board for all services at the new Fiona Stanley hospital near Perth in Western their hard work and commitment.
Australia a ten-year contract with a total value of A$1.3bn drew on our proven hospital support services operations in the UK, such Our strategic drive to broaden the base of our business in order to as at the NHS Forth Valley Royal Hospital in Scotland.
In the same increase our resilience and our capability to pursue new commercial way as Forth Valley demonstrated Sercos innovation including opportunities was exemplified by our acquisition of Intelenet, pioneering the use of robots within the service infrastructure, so a leading provider of Business Process Outsourcing BPO services at Fiona Stanley Serco will demonstrate its innovation through to the private sector around the world and in the domestic Indian the integration of non-clinical services applying state-of-the-art market.
Serco has historically been predominantly a provider of technology to ensure the smooth running of the whole hospital.
frontline services on behalf of the public sector.
We have now We see strong prospects for our healthcare services to grow added the ability to service a broad range of middle and back office further in both developed and emerging economies.
requirements and a high-quality private sector customer base that provides excellent referenceability.
These will enable us both to The design of innovative solutions to public sector service provision expand our BPO activity in existing and new markets and offer is central to Sercos ability to grow profitably, particularly when full service solutions front, middle and back to our extensive governments are so focused on delivering more for less.
As a public sector customer base.
The acquisition of Intelenet was for instance, when we successfully rebid the contract to operate complemented by smaller acquisitions of The Listening Company Doncaster Prison, this was based on a new payment by results in the UK and Excelior in Australia, both leading providers of pilot a first for the UK prison sector under which 10% of Sercos outsourced contact centre services in their domestic BPO markets.
annual revenue is contractually dependent upon prisoners not In his statement Chris sets out the enormous potential to be derived reoffending in the year after their release.
from bringing together all of our BPO related skills and capabilities as a new Serco Global Services division.
20 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Again, our justice sector is an excellent example of our application the deliverability of managements plans to implement the of capabilities and track record developed in one market to build agreed strategy through the right combination of people, strong positions in other geographies.
During the year our contract processes, and systems: and the measurement of progress for Acacia Prison in Western Australia was renewed for a further five in that implementation.
years, and we signed and commenced a six-year contract at Mount Eden Corrections Facility in New Zealand to provide rehabilitation We have spent considerable time this year thinking about how and reintegration programmes for prisoners, as well as logistics and our business needs to change over the next few years to apply infrastructure management.
Pursuing this theme further, in the UK our existing proven competencies and experience in new markets, we have provided prisoner escort and custody services in London delineated both by geography and sector, and to structure and the south-east since 2004 whilst in July we started a new ourselves most effectively to meet the challenges of tighter contract to provide such services in Western Australia.
economics in our core markets whilst taking advantage of the opportunities presented by rapid growth in other parts of the world.
In the same way as the balance of our business is changing In his statement Chris outlines our plans to achieve these strategic between UK and overseas and between public and private sector, objectives.
Five years ago Serco derived revenues of 2.5bn at so too should, and is, the make-up of the Board.
During the year an operating margin of 4.8% of which 74% originated from the UK, we welcomed Paul Brooks, Angie Risley and Ralph D. Crosby Jr generating Group profit before tax of 107m.
Now close to half as new Non-Executive Directors.
Paul, Group CFO of Experian, of our revenue is derived from outside the UK whilst we achieve and Angie, Group HR Director of Lloyds Banking Group, brought an operating margin of over 6%, and are looking forward to total significant private sector experience.
Ralph has just retired as revenues of approximately double the 2006 level in 2012.
These key Chairman and CEO of EADS in North America and, therefore, metrics will all continue to develop as we implement our strategy.
brings us an in-depth understanding of the US, in particular the defence sector that represents a major part of Sercos US business.
Central to good governance is rigorous evaluation, and 2011 marked the triennial independent review of our Boards Over the ten years Paul had held the role at Experian he had played effectiveness.
It was very encouraging, against the backdrop a central part in the growth of a global business and we were deeply of a Board that was generally perceived to be performing well, saddened by his recent untimely death.
Although he had only been to see directors, established and new to the Board, executive and with us a short time he had already firmly established himself as non-executive, focusing on common areas, such as the importance a much respected and well-liked colleague whose contribution to of developing management talent for a growing complex business: boardroom debate was always relevant, clear and concise, drawing the identification of relevant key performance indicators across our on both his wide commercial experience and his technical financial diverse activities: and the provision of regular feedback to directors competence.
Whilst we are currently as to their contribution and training needs.
Equally important is seeking someone to take Pauls place, David Richardson has kindly effective management of the risks to which our Group is exposed, agreed to defer his retirement as Chair of our Audit Committee and and these are set out in detail, alongside the way in which the risks Senior Independent Director until the 2013 AGM, being the AGM are managed, later in this report.
following the ninth anniversary of his joining the Board.
Businesses do not operate in isolation: they have a material With Serco now employing over 100,000 people across 30 impact within the communities in which they operate, none countries, the attraction, retention and development of appropriate more so than a business such as Serco that delivers essential talent is high on the Boards agenda and it is of great benefit to services that matter to millions of people around the world.
have someone of Angies experience around the table.
She will This is why building trust and respect is one of our four governing succeed Leonard V. Broese van Groenou as Chair of our principles: we aim to build respect by operating in a safe, socially Remuneration Committee when Leonard completes his current term responsible, consistent and honest manner, and to integrate in May 2012.
Leonard joined the Board of Serco in April 2006 and with our communities.
A summary of our approach to corporate I should like to thank him, on behalf of my colleagues and the responsibility, and examples of the contributions we make, can Company, for his commitment and contribution to Sercos success be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report on our website.
Finally, may I thank our shareholders for their continued support Whilst Serco has a can do mentality, it is one built on the and reiterate our desire to maintain with them an active dialogue foundations of a strong management system that ensures rigorous as to our progress so that they may understand our objectives analysis of potential opportunities and their inherent risks, and both the challenges to, and our continued confidence in, followed by meticulous implementation.
Integral to such a strong their achievement.
management system is an effective Board exercising appropriate governance over the business, in particular the selection of our Alastair Lyons CBE strategic objectives: the understanding and mitigation of the Chairman risks that may prejudice the achievement of those objectives: Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 21 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
