4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement At the end of my first financial year as Chairman, Im pleased to report that we have made a good start to delivering our targets for the new AMP5 regulatory period and are realising the benets of our efficiency improvement programmes.
As expected the price reductions at the start of the five year determination have reduced profitability below prior years levels but from this base Severn Trent Water has continued to outperform.
For the year, total group turnover was up 0.4% to 1.7 billion.
The real price reduction in the first year of the new AMP has rebased underlying profitability with group profit before tax, gains losses on financial instruments and exceptional items, down 14.7% to 288.6 million, giving adjusted earnings per share, excluding deferred tax, of 105.6p, a 14% decrease on the prior year.
This is a good solid business on track to perform well and deliver total overall benets for shareholders, customers and the environment.
There remains significant opportunity for growth in both our Services business and in delivering further outperformance in Severn Trent Water.
Andrew Duff, Chairman Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 I am delighted to nd, at Severn Trent, a strong board of executives, very capably We have the talent, the innovation, the led by Tony Wray, that is committed to operational excellence and continuous systems and the resources to continue improvement.
Momentum within the company is strong and we have the to achieve profitable and sustainable ambition to be recognised as a top performer in our sector.
I am also grateful to growth for our group whilst also the management team for the wholehearted meeting the needs of our customers support that they have given to me in my first year as Chairman.
We have a solid track record of financial Andrew Duff, performance and the board is proposing a Chairman final dividend of 39.05p, to be paid on 29 July 2011.
This will give a total dividend of 65.09 pence per ordinary share.
From this Operational performance during the year Severn Trent Services had a mixed year new base, we will look to grow the dividend was impacted by the severe winter weather, with performance falling below expectations.
by 3% above RPI each year up to 2014 15. placing pressure on our leakage Although the business made good progress The single largest profit driver was the performance.
During the year the number of in reducing its costs and maintains a strong performance of Severn Trent Water, which unplanned interruptions to customers water order book, results were affected by project continued to outperform with planned supply increased.
We have decided to delays in our Middle East and North Africa operational expenditure below the level of increase the level of investment in our water region and the slowdown in the global the Final Determination.
distribution system in order to build even economic environment, impacting public greater resilience in our infrastructure to funded initiatives.
Growth and profitability This improvement in efficiency is a cope with severe weather in future years.
in our Services business remains a priority consequence of the groups ongoing change and we are well placed to make progress programme, which is resulting in significant Severe weather notwithstanding however, on this aim.
One of the most we continue to provide some of the highest momentous changes during the year was standards of customer service in the As I write this statement it seems likely that the move to our new operating centre in industry, with excellent drinking water quality there will be some regulatory change Coventry, resulting in not only a change and a year on year reduction in the number following the publication of the governments of environment for our people, but a of properties suffering from sewer ooding.
White Paper later this year.
We intend to change to new, more efficient and continue to play an active role in regulatory I am particularly pleased to see the focus innovative, working practices.
Ive yet to reform and play an inuential role in the on health and safety within the business.
meet a visitor who isnt impressed by this debate about how our industry addresses The personal safety of employees has truly modern working environment and the the challenges ahead of us in order to always been one of my priorities so I was building has created a level of energy and promote sustainable growth.
We also want pleased to nd a strong culture and focus on enthusiasm that is infectious.
to make sure that any change strikes the safety in the company.
Our recent Employee right balance between delivering value and The change programme extends beyond Engagement survey shows that 95% of our security to our customers and reliable the ofce to the groups operations and people say that health and safety is taken returns to our shareholders.
We must get processes and includes significant systems seriously at Severn Trent Water and this is this right because the investment challenge investment.
Naturally, as with many reected in the Severn Trent Water Lost over future years means that we must be programmes of this size and scale, it comes Time Incident LTI performance which able to compete for capital internationally as with its challenges.
But were confident we remains the best in the sector.
Safety is one the need for infrastructure funding globally have embarked upon a course that will allow issue but the commitment of our employees becomes more pressing.
You can read us to continue to deliver further efficiencies is vital to our groups success and so we are more about our position on page 20 of throughout the AMP period.
continuing to invest in the development and this report.
training of our employees and future leaders.
All of this will undoubtedly bring more During the year, we made good progress in challenges but I rmly believe that we have protecting our environment and dealing with the talent, the innovation, the systems and waste water whilst continuing to lead the the resources to continue to achieve industry in the production of renewable profitable and sustainable growth for our energy.
Self-generated renewables now group whilst also meeting the needs of our supply 22% of Severn Trent Waters power customers and the environment.
requirements, helping to mitigate our carbon impact.
