8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 6 6 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Chairmans review Shire leveraged its proven business model throughout the year, achieving remarkable results.
Matthew Emmens, Chairman Those of us monitoring the global economy throughout 2011 saw many forces at play.
On the one hand, recessionary headwinds, aging populations, the growing prevalence of chronic disease, and the resultant cost of funding new medicines and technologies pressured already strained healthcare budgets and payors.
On the other, the healthcare expectations of people grew, and the extraordinary innovation of scientists and researchers brought new treatments to the market, continuing to change the way disease is both diagnosed and treated.
Against this backdrop, those who develop and market medicines had important decisions to make.
What pipeline projects should be advanced?
What products will be reimbursed?
How should resources be distributed within a rapidly changing world?
What could pharmaceutical companies do for patients whose wellbeingand, indeed, sometimes their livesoften depend on effective treatment?
As Shires Chairman, I was reassured by the many ways this specialty biopharmaceutical company both recognized and addressed the global pressures.
com Review of our business 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:11 Page 7 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 7 2011 highlights Another strong year for Shire: Revenues exceed $4 billion for the first time Non GAAP diluted earnings per ADS up 26% to $5.34 Shire leveraged its proven business model throughout Kilsby, an investment banker with global expertise the year, achieving remarkable results.
It reinforced who recently joined our Board and the other members its commitment to specialist physicians and specialty of the Shire Board in the year ahead.
medicines, expanded key manufacturing capabilities, gained approvals for proven medications in new No one is expecting the dynamics playing out across countries, and maintained its focus on responsibility.
the global economy to ease soon.
Certainly there will It maintained its track record as a strategic organization be more questions than answers.
But Shires strategy that doesnt just react to the challenges of the day, and delivery of meaningful solutions will continue to differentiate the company as the future unfolds.
During the year Shire took risksmoved into new therapeutic areas, launched innovative development projects, diversified its team, and required more of itself in essential ways.
Shires ability to rise above the Matthew Emmens noise of the year and to make steady progress on Chairman behalf of patients, physicians, payors, and policymakers profoundly accelerated its position as a company willing to ask hard questions, make significant changes, and lead by example.
My association with Shire began in 2003.
I continue to be grateful for the depth of the Leadership Team and the dedication, innovation, and energy that all Shire people bring to work each day.
I am grateful as well for the considerable wisdom that Jeffrey Leiden and Patrick Langlois brought to our Board in their final year with Shire.
I now look forward to working with Susan
