Overview Chairmans statement Sir John Buchanan Chairman We are striving to build a successful, sustainable business 6 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Overview Dear shareholder, Board changes Smith & Nephew is in a transition phase.
The external environment We were very pleased to welcome our new CEO, Olivier Bohuon, is a challenge for all businesses.
With CEO succession we have taken in April 2011, following the retirement of David Illingworth.
theopportunity to review the fundamentals of whatwe do.
Davids numerous contributions, from putting the  Led by our new CEO, Olivier Bohuon, the Group is embracing a new at the heart of the business to the earnings and margin achievements, set of strategic priorities which build on established strengths, recent leave a good platform for the next stage of our journey.
I am sure you successes and emerging opportunities.
To stimulate sales growth will join the Board in thanking David for his important contribution.
we are enhancing our innovation processes in both established and Olivier, with his healthcare background, leadership skills and notable new markets.
record, is well placed to take the Group forward.
The Board is confident The Group focuses both on what we do to create long-term sustainable that we will evolve as a tter, more focused business, ready to tackle value, and on how we do it.
Matters of health, safety, environment, new opportunities and challenges.
compliance, ethics and the treatment of employees, customers, We were also delighted to welcome Ajay Piramal to the Board in suppliers and the communities in which we operate are all important January 2012.
He is one of Indias most respected businessmen.
Ajays global healthcare experience and emerging markets expertise will further strengthen the Board.
Financial & business review We are building from a strong and stable financial base, a foundation Thank you that has strengthened despite the challenges of the last three years.
With so much change there can be unsettling effects.
The Board has In 2011, we increased revenue by 4% on an underlying basis to been constantly impressed bythe passion to serve customers and the $4,270m and delivered a trading profit of $961m.
Free cash ow, a key determination to compete which our management and employees indicator of the health of any business, was good and we increased our continue to exhibit wherever they are in the world.
The Board is pleased to recommend a We recognise that change can also engender uncertainties for proposed final dividend for the year of 10.8 cents per share, shareholders.
We will continue to enhance our record of long-term up 10% on 2010. value creation and thank you for your support over recent times.
All of our businesses contributed to the revenue uplift.
In Orthopaedics I have had the opportunity to meet many of our institutional and private we led the market in knee growth amongst our major competitors, shareholders and have appreciated greatly their ideas and input.
Endoscopy generated double-digit growth in our sports medicine We are your Group, and we strive to build a sustainable, successful repair franchise and Advanced Wound Management grew at more business.
than double the market rate and exceeded $1 billion in revenue for the first time.
We dont assume that the external environment will be easier in the year ahead.
Nor do we expect competitive pressures to diminish.
We are well positioned to deal with these challenges, building upon our performance in 2011, and we continue to seek ways to further enhance our competitive positions.
Sir John Buchanan Chairman 7 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
