Chairmans statement I am pleased to report a good result for 2011, another This, together with the interim dividend of 14.8p per share paid year of record sales, profit and margin.
in November 2011, makes a total dividend of 49.0p per share.
This represents an increase of 14% on the ordinary dividends Sales increased from 589.7 million to 650.0 million, an of 43.0p per share for 2010: additionally, a special dividend of increase of over 10%.
Organic sales growth was nearly 10%, 25.0p per share in respect of 2010 was paid in July 2011.
The led by Watson-Marlow and Asia Pacific but with all segments cost of the interim and final dividends is 38.1 million, which is contributing to the strong performance: there was a very covered 2.5 times by earnings.
small contribution from favourable currency movements and acquisitions.
We continue to operate with a strong balance sheet and finished the year with net cash of 12.3 million.
Operating profit rose by 12% from 119.1 million to 134.0million, with all segments benefiting from the increased Tony Scrivin retired from the Board on 31st July 2011.
The operating profit margin improved from 20.2% extends its deep gratitude to Tony for his valuable contributions to 20.6%, the tenth consecutive year of improvement.
The to the Group over 48 years of distinguished service, most operating profit margin was 20.8% excluding the impact of the recently as Director for the Groups Europe, Middle East and manufacturing reorganisation and disposal gain in Cheltenham.
Michael Gibbin, Executive Director for Supply and North America, resigned from the Board in October 2011 Net finance income was 1.1 million compared with net finance and the Board thanks Mike for his contributions.
charges of 0.6 million in 2010, largely due to an improvement in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes.
The Groups On behalf of the Chief Executive and other members of the share of the after-tax profits of Associates reduced from Board, I wish to thank all our employees for their hard work 3.1million to 2.1 million.
and dedication in achieving the good progress in 2011.
It has been a particularly challenging time for our Cheltenham-based Pre-tax profit increased 13% from 121.6 million to 137.2 million employees as we completed the major site consolidation project, and earnings per share rose by 14% from 109.5p to 124.8p.
and the Board wishes to express its gratitude for the extra effort The statutory pre-tax profit, after charging the amortisation of that has been necessary over the past two years to accomplish acquisition-related intangible assets and acquisition and disposal this important task.
This compares with 123.5million in Corporate governance 2010, which also included an exceptional revaluation gain in Mexico The Board is responsible for the long-term sustainable growth and the impairment of acquisition-related intangibleassets.
of shareholder value, believing that this goal is closely connected The Board is recommending a 14% increase in the final dividend to good governance and the maintenance of the highest ethical to 34.2p per share payable on 18th May 2012 to shareholders standards.
The Board supports the principle of greater gender on the register at the close of business on 20th April 2012. balance and overall diversity both on the Board and amongst senior staff.
The important work of the Board Committees is set out in an expanded section in the Annual Report, together with a more comprehensive presentation of the principal risks and uncertainties of the business, all of which I hope you find helpful.
Prospects The global economy and rates of industrial production growth slowed in the second half of 2011 due in part to the underlying uncertainty created by the European debt crisis.
Market conditions for our business broadly reflect changes in global economic activity and, more particularly, movements in industrial production.
We see continued challenging market conditions broadly across Europe but opportunities in most of our emergingmarkets.
Against this backdrop, our robust business model has resilient characteristics that help to insulate the Groups performance against economic headwinds and we have continued to invest in market penetration, geographic expansion and new product development to enhance our mid and long-term growth prospects.
Our fundamental strengths give the Board confidence that the Group will make further progress this year.
Dividends were increased by 14%, extending our dividend growth record to 44 years.
Bill Whiteley Bill Whiteley BSc, FCMA Chairman Chairman Unless otherwise stated, all profit measures exclude certain non-operational items, as defined in note 2 on page 63.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 Financial statements Governance Corporate social responsibility Financial review Business review Overview
