Business review Chairmans statement I am delighted to have been appointed Chairman of Spirit Pub Company, following the demerger from Punch Taverns which was completed on 1 August 2011.
It is a very exciting time for the business as we look to build on the progress we have made over the last year or so to achieve our goal of becoming the UKs best Managed pub company.
The business has a strong and experienced executive management team in place with a clear brief to drive the strategy of the business forward and realise maximum return for our stakeholders.
The Spirit Board was appointed by Walker Boyd 1 August 2011 when I assumed the Non-executive Chairman role of Chairman with Ian Dyson as Chief Executive Officer, Mike Tye as Deputy Chief Executive Officer and We are now in great shape to Russell Margerrison as Interim Finance Director.
Tony Rice became Senior deliver sustainable growth and Independent Non-executive Director and Mark Pain and Chris Bell value for all our stakeholders.
In September 2011, we announced the appointment of Paddy Gallagher as Finance Director to replace Russell Margerrison.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Russell for his great contribution to the business, firstly leading the operational separation of the business from Punch and Details of our business secondly as Interim Finance Director.
performance in the 2011 financial year are set In October 2011, we announced that out in the Operational Chief Executive Officer, Ian Dyson, will step down from his role at the review on pages 12 to 15.
Ian Dyson will be succeeded by Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Mike Tye, who will assume the role on 16 December 2011.
com 08 Spirit Pub Company plc Annual Report 2011 I have every confidence that Spirit has a bright, vibrant future based on our leading brands and dedicated people.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Ian for his significant contribution.
He has led the business through a period of major change, leading to the successful demerger of Spirit, a significant improvement in operating performance and results and has put in place strong foundations for the separate businesses to move forward.
He will leave Spirit with a clear and exciting strategy, strong operational momentum, a high calibre executive management team and a well qualified successor in Mike Tye.
We wish Ian every success for the future.
Mike Tye has done an excellent job over the last three years to reposition the Managed business as a leading operator in the UK market.
This success, together with his previous track record in the hospitality and leisure industry, makes him the perfect candidate to succeed Ian and to lead Spirit in the next phase of its development.
Together, the Board of Directors have a wealth of experience ranging from WHSmith to Cable & Wireless and Whitbread.
This breadth of knowledge and talent gives the business robust leadership and a clear direction for the development of its future strategy.
The demerger process has been complex and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees for their hard work over the last 12 months: without their support and dedication the demerger and the turnaround in Spirits performance would not have happened.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 09 Business review
