spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Chairmans statement We are pleased to report another year of strong financial results for Spirent.
Revenue grew by 10 per cent to $528.2 million and profit before tax rose 10 per cent to $123.3 million, a significant achievement in this time of uncertain economic conditions.
Spirent, a leader in global test and measurement solutions, serves the needs created by the rapidly evolving trends in data technology.
Operating results have benefited from our broad portfolio of test solutions and geographically diverse customer base.
The highlights for 2011 were the performance of wireless, positioning and data center test, plus our growing activities in Asia.
Return on sales was maintained at 24 per cent, amongst the best in the test and measurement industry.
At the same time investment was increased in product development and in the sales channel in 2011 to support the long term growth of the business.
Basic earnings per share increased in 2011 by 20 per cent to 14.18 cents per share.
Adjusted basic earnings per share grew by 17 per cent to 13.92 cents, this is before charging share-based payment, acquired intangible asset amortisation and acquisition related costs.
The Groups free cash flow was $76.1 million in 2011 compared with $82.6 million for 2010: this is a cash conversion ratio of 85 per cent 2010 106 per cent of reported earnings before non-cash prior year taxes.
The lower free cash flow in 2011 is a consequence of the Alex Walker increased investment in the business, acquisition costs and higher tax Chairman payments.
Cash balances were $236.5 million at 31 December 2011.
Spirent has been seeking growth through organic investment and also by acquisition.
A first step was the acquisition of the Fanfare Group, Inc. for $14.5 million, announced and completed in February 2011.
Fanfare has been fully integrated into Spirents Performance Analysis division.
We will continue to pursue acquisitions where the return on investment is attractive and in line with Spirents long term strategy.
2011 Board activities 6 The Boards activities focus on strategy, governance and business performance.
overview business review governance financial statements Strategy and business performance Employees Strategy and business development is a primary focus for the Board Spirents performance in 2011 has been achieved through the talent, and is discussed at every meeting, with a dedicated strategy summit dedication and commitment of all our employees and management being held each year at which the Groups overall strategy is reviewed teams all over the world.
Our appreciation goes out to all of them for by the Board over a number of days.
We review and analyse market their contribution to the continuing success of the Company.
conditions and technology trends and openly debate issues such as risk, strategic direction and allocation of product development We are well aware that Spirents greatest resource is its employees: investment.
It is critical that as a Board we have a deep Spirents people create and drive our innovation.
As part of our understanding of, and remain close to, our businesses.
Regular process for ensuring that we have the necessary people in place to site visits are therefore arranged with the Board also taking the meet our strategic aims, at a meeting of the Board in March 2011 we opportunity to talk directly with Spirents customers.
For example, reviewed succession planning for senior positions in the Company in June 2011, the Board went to Sunnyvale in California, one of our and our organisational structure.
principal US locations and where a number of our key customers are located.
Further visits are planned for 2012.
Board We have been fortunate to have had a stable and dedicated Board Prior to the start of each financial year the Board reviews and approves throughout 2011. managements plan for the coming year, making sure that stretching but realistic targets are put in place.
The priorities for discussion are revenue The Board is mindful of the benefits of having a diverse range of growth, margins, earnings growth and cash generation, some of our members with a broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience.
key performance indicators, as well as ensuring that this one year plan In pursuit of these aims, we were delighted to announce the aligns with the long term strategy of Spirent.
As more fully explained in appointment of Sue Swenson to our Board as a non-executive the Remuneration report, these one year financial goals then form the director on 1 February 2012.
Sue brings a wealth of experience in the basis for short term executive compensation targets.
telecommunications and technology sectors further strengthening the Boards experience of our industry.
We will continue to follow a At each Board meeting the executive directors update the Board policy of ensuring that we appoint the best people for the relevant on market trends and conditions together with the Companys roles and recognise the importance and benefits of greater diversity performance against the one year plan and present revised both at board level and throughout the Group and will take this into forecasts which are again openly challenged and debated.
account when considering any particular appointment.
Corporate governance Further information on Board activities can be found in the Directors Achieving good governance is key to the long term success of the statement on corporate governance on pages 43 to 46. business.
It ensures that we remain a responsible company and underpins our culture and reputation as an organisation.
Dividend and share repurchase The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.67 cents per share The new Corporate Governance Code came into effect for this financial compared with 1.40 cents per share in 2010.
This brings the total year and as a Board we are conscious of our obligations to think dividend for 2011 to 2.93 cents per share compared with 2.50 cents deeply, thoroughly and on a continuing basis regarding our duties.
The increase in total dividend per share is 17 per cent and reflects the strong operational performance of the Group.
In sterling Spirent is fortunate to have non-executive Board members with terms this represents an increase in the distribution to our extensive experience in areas critical to the long term future success shareholders of 17 per cent.
of the Company, covering a deep understanding of our industry, technology, corporate strategy, finance and investment.
We believe During 2011 we have repurchased 17.6 million shares at a cost of that our members complement each other, delivering the appropriate $34.2 million, some of which was part of the Companys ongoing balance of skills.
policy to manage dilution attributable to its share incentive schemes.
As non-executive Board members we are not responsible for the Summary day-to-day running of Spirent, that duty is very capably in the hands The current economic climate is likely to remain with us for some time of Bill Burns and his highly experienced executive management team, and we are therefore maintaining our thoughtful approach to the but what we add is open and rigorous debate that provides a valuable management of our business.
Spirent is not immune to external external and balanced perspective to the proceedings.
factors and they may temper growth rates in parts of our business in the short term.
We believe overall that long term growth opportunities Consideration of the significant risks that affect the Company, for Spirent are very positive.
The emphasis for the Company in 2012 both internal and external, their mitigation and the effectiveness will centre on investing in areas that matter most to our customers, of internal control is another essential component of corporate bringing new solutions to market, to deliver on the long term strategy governance and these issues are deliberated by the Board at of a growing business.
