Chairmans statement I am delighted to report that the Group has continued its good The Group is well funded and its net debt has reduced during the performance.
We have achieved revenue growth in all of our year ended 30 April 2011.
This is a further tangible sign of the divisions in the UK and North America as a result of our focus on Group's success.
We are completing our review of the Group's safe, good value, high quality bus and rail travel.
capital structure and we expect to announce the conclusions of our review at or before the Group's Annual General Meeting at The Groups success is underpinned by the quality and breadth of the end of August 2011. its management team, which as well as reducing costs in responding to changing circumstances has continued to pursue Stagecoach has made a good start to the financial year ending new opportunities whether those be new, fast-growing services 30 April 2012 and current trading remains in line with our such as megabus.
com or acquisitions such as the October 2010 expectations.
purchase of the under-performing East London bus business.
At I would like to pay tribute to our former Chairman, Bob Speirs, the same time, management has maintained a focus on strong who retired from the Board on 31 December 2010 after almost operational delivery and customer satisfaction.
His insight, experience and wise advice We took forward-looking decisions during the economic have been invaluable to the business and I would like to extend downturn to continue to invest heavily in our services, and to to him the gratitude and best wishes of the Board for the future.
maintain our focus on operational performance, customer In May 2011, Will Whitehorn joined the Board as a non-executive service and offering value-for-money travel options to our director of the Company.
His background in brand development, passengers.
This has supported organic growth across our together with his wide-ranging experience across a range of transport operations as economic conditions have improved.
business sectors will bring valuable insight as we look to expand Positive trends in the first half of the year have continued and the reach of our products and services.
the Group has achieved good revenue and profit growth in the On behalf of the Board, I would like to congratulate Sir Brian full year.
Revenue for the year to 30 April 2011 was 2,389.8m Souter, the Group's Chief Executive, on being awarded a 2010: 2,164.4m.
Total operating profit before intangible knighthood in the recent Queen's Birthday honours list for his asset expenses and exceptional items was up 25.1% at 240.2m service to transport and the voluntary sector.
2010: 192.0m, reflecting increased profit in all divisions.
Political support and the environment for public transport are Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and strong, and the Group is in a good position to benefit from exceptional items were 27.3% higher at 23.8p 2010: 18.7p.
Our employees, who serve the In line with the Groups good performance, the Directors have millions of customers we welcome on board our bus and rail proposed a final dividend of 4.9p per share, giving a total services every day, are a key part of our success and are critical to dividend per share for the year up 9.2% at 7.1p 2010: 6.5p.
I would like to thank them for their strong proposed final dividend is payable to shareholders on the register contribution over the past year and I am confident the Group will at 2 September 2011 and will be paid on 5 October 2011. continue to deliver for our customers and shareholders.
Sir George Mathewson Chairman 29 June 2011 Exceptional items are defined in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on page 58 of this Annual Report Stagecoach Group plc | page 1
