Non-Executive Chairmans Statement Non-Executive Chairmans Statement Rodney Baker-Bates, Chairman This has been a year of further consolidation and solid performance for the Group despite difficult economic conditions combined with extreme winter weather.
Changing trends in consumer demand and the retailers response to that, coupled with heavy snow forcing extensive road and rail closures, presented tough challenges to the whole logistics industry.
What set the Stobart Group apart was our ability to meet these challenges and to continue to provide service when others simply could not deliver.
4 Performance The Group has taken on a significant amount of new business In May, following a successful capital raising and the Groups in the past year so we have paid particular attention to increasing focus on its Estates and Transport divisions, we were integrating these contracts without diluting our margins.
We pleased to welcome Paul Orchard-Lisle, Alan Kelsey and David have increased our ability to use freelance staff at times of peak Beever to the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
Paul has many demand, temporarily expanding the fleet by as much as 10% years of experience in the property industry, Alan was a leading on any given day in response to customer requests.
Whilst fleet equities analyst covering the transport sector, whilst David utilisation has been broadly flat year on year, it continues to be brings his considerable corporate finance experience.
Alan has amongst the highest in the industry.
We have been largely also taken on the role of Senior Independent Director.
unaffected by the fuel price increases due to fuel price escalators in over 90% of our work.
Outlook 2010 was our 40th anniversary year and it was marked by Having secured funding for the proposed investment in both some exciting developments in the Groups newest business new and existing business areas, the Group is entering an areas, Air and Biomass.
It was also recorded and brought to a exciting phase.
We will be developing the substantial property wide audience of almost 2 million people through the Trucks assets held by the Group by building them out and then leasing and Trailers TV Series, which successfully portrayed a dynamic them advantageously.
We will also continue to invest in our company and unexpectedly boosted our customers transport and distribution business, as well as in air and biomass.
understanding and appreciation of our services.
A key to the success of the Groups plans is that we bring the most experienced management as close as possible to the Dividend business.
William Stobarts role as head of the transport The Group maintains a stable dividend policy, which takes into business allows him to optimise fleet operations and increase account both the underlying growth in Group earnings and the focus on customers.
Andrew Tinklers expertise and need for investment.
An interim dividend of 2p was paid in entrepreneurial strengths are best placed to focus on the December 2010.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 4p strategic development of the whole Group.
per ordinary share, bringing the total dividend for the year to As well as our employees and customers, the Groups greatest 6p 2010: 6p.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders strength is the management team.
The Board has every on 7 July 2011. confidence in, and support for, the management team and their ability to generate value and strong returns for shareholders.
People At the start of the current financial year, following an operational review, William Stobart and David Irlam stepped down from the Group Board to allow them to focus full time their experience and leadership on the core transport and logistics divisions.
They remain Directors of the key operating Rodney Baker-Bates Non-Executive Chairman subsidiaries, with William as Chief Operating Officer COO and May 2011 David with responsibility for business development.
At the same time, Nick Watts and Daniel Dayan stepped down from their roles as Non-Executive Directors.
