Overview Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 9 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overview Dividend 2011 was an exceptional year for Yule Catto.
We delivered a very The Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.3p per share, strong set of financial results.
Just as importantly though, it marked making a total dividend per share for the full year of 3.5p.
the end of a process of transformation for the Group from a small This represents growth of 35% on the adjusted full year dividend diversified chemical business in 2007 through to a much larger per share for 2010.
Looking ahead, the Board expects to increase focused specialty Polymer business in 2011, with a broad product the dividend ahead of earnings growth in accordance with the offering and exposure to high growth markets.
Boards stated intention of pursuing a progressive dividend policy.
At the end of March, we completed the acquisition of PolymerLatex, Safety, health and environment effectively doubling the size of our business.
Subsequently, in The Group is absolutely committed to the continuous improvement November, we concluded the sale of our Pharmaceutical business, of its performance in respect of safety, health and the environment.
the last non-core asset we needed to divest to complete I am pleased that most of the metrics that we measure in this the transformation process to become a focused specialty area showed good improvement over the course of the year.
People Strategy The Groups employees, including those who have left as part Our broad strategy remains unchanged.
We are focused on of the restructuring, have worked extremely hard this year to deliver geographic expansion around existing business hubs, further the transformation of the Group, and the Board thanks them increasing our presence in emerging markets, and in developing for all their efforts.
market sectors where our technology, new product development and manufacturing capabilities give us a real competitive advantage.
Board composition Consistent with this strategy we commenced construction of At the forthcoming AGM, I shall not be seeking re election 70,000 tonnes of new nitrile latex capacity in the year in Malaysia, as Chairman.
After eleven years as a Director, the last three due on line in the fourth quarter of 2012, and completed the being as Chairman, and after the transformational year of 2011, acquisition of a small dispersion manufacturer there in late 2011.
I feel this is the right time for a change.
Dr A A Dobbie has also indicated he will not be seeking re-election.
He has been Performance a director for five years and Chairman of the Remuneration We delivered a very strong set of financial results.
The Group Committee for the last three.
We thank him for his valuable reported underlying profit before tax of 84.8 million, an increase contribution and wish him well in the future.
of some 100%, and underlying sales were 1,117 million an increase of 92% over 2010.
Throughout the year the Board has In January 2012, Dominique Fournier joined the Board as reviewed the performance of the business on a pro-forma basis, a non-executive director.
Dominique subsequently became which includes the results of PolymerLatex for 2010 and 2011 in potentially conflicted and he decided to step down from the full, with an allowance for the finance cost of the acquisition for the Board on 13 March 2012. periods we did not actually own the business.
On this basis, and excluding the divested Pharma business, the comparisons are more The appointment of three new non-executive directors is well representative, and are very strong with sales of 1,269 million, advanced and we expect to make further announcements shortly.
up 18%, and underlying profit before tax of 96.0 million, up 25%.
During 2011, we brought Neil Johnson onto the Board as our Integration progress Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and I am very When we announced the acquisition of PolymerLatex we pleased he has agreed to succeed me as Chairman.
committed to deliver hard synergies of at least 20 million from the combination of both polymer businesses.
I am pleased to say Current trading and outlook that, at the end of 2011, only nine months after the acquisition, Looking forward, we continue to anticipate several years of we had already established a synergy run rate annualised rate low growth in western economies with global growth generally of delivery of 15 million.
The Board now anticipates we will driven by emerging markets, where we have a significant and achieve an annual run rate of 25 million by March 2013. increasing presence.
Balance sheet Whilst the general economic environment requires a degree The acquisition of PolymerLatex was structured so as to ensure of caution, I am pleased that the business has made a solid that the enlarged Group had a solid balance sheet, with an start to the year.
Earnings will benefit from the synergies from estimated ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA at the date of the PolymerLatex acquisition coming through over the course acquisition of just below 2.0.
The strong performance during the of 2012, and the Board remains confident about the prospects year, and the divestment of the Pharma business, have resulted in for the Group in 2012 and beyond.
net borrowings reducing substantially from the position at the date of acquisition, and our closing net borrowings was 164.3 million.
This represents a pro-forma underlying net borrowings to EBITDA of 1.2, which the Board considers to be a prudent leverage position.
