Business review Chairmans statement Tate & Lyle has made progress during the year, delivering a good financial performance and having taken a number of important steps in line with our strategy to focus, fix and grow the business.
Sir Peter Gershon Chairman Overview We have no higher priority than safety.
In light of the We have refocused the business through the sale above, during the year we asked DuPont, recognised of our EU Sugar Refining Operations, Molasses as an industry leader in safety, to undertake a review business and ethanol facility in Fort Dodge, Iowa, of safety across the Group.
The results of this audit USA, and the reorganisation of the Group into have catalysed an action plan which will help us two global operating divisions, Speciality Food achieve our long-term goal of world-class safety Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, supported by performance.
My colleagues on the Board and I the creation of the Innovation and Commercial will continue to pay close attention to this.
Development group, a unit dedicated to driving Corporate responsibility and risk management long-term growth.
Following its 2010 effectiveness review, the Board During the year, the Board approved two major established a Corporate Responsibility Committee strategic initiatives to support the transformation of to strengthen its oversight of safety, social, the business.
The first, the Commercial and Food environmental and ethical matters.
Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA will transform our product development capability and the way we work with our customers: the second, the development of a single set of business processes supported by one global IT infrastructure and a Profit before tax, exceptional global Shared Services Centre in d z, Poland, will make the business more efficient and responsive.
items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 263 million Financial performance Profit before tax, exceptional items and represents growth of 34% amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 263million represents growth of 34% 32% 32% in constant currency.
in constant currency on the previous year, with Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients delivering an increase of 26% and 15% in adjusted Providing strong, effective leadership within a sound operating profit respectively.
framework of control is the Boards primary duty and requires directors to have a deep understanding Through a combination of continued tight financial of the business.
We began a programme of discipline, strong cash generation and proceeds individual site visits by directors which has helped from disposals, net debt at the year end stood at us enormously in our work this year to enhance risk 464 million, a 43% reduction on the previous management and determine an appropriate risk year 2010 814 million.
It has also made the directors more visible to employees.
This will be very important I am also pleased to report that we have made in the coming year as we continue to implement our progress reducing the amount of adverse strategy and intensify our focus on safety.
exceptional items reported within these results.
Finally, I would like to thank all our employees who Dividend have worked immensely hard during a period of The Board is recommending a 5% increase in the great change to deliver this years results.
final dividend to 16.9p, making a full-year dividend of 23.7p per share, up 3.5% on the prior year.
The proposed increase in the dividend reflects Sir Peter Gershon the Boards confidence in the business.
Chairman Safety 26 May 2011 The Board deeply regrets the fatality that occurred at our joint-venture plant in Turkey in May 2010 as reported last year.
Whilst our overall safety performance has continued to compare well against the industry we are very disappointed that our performance has deteriorated from last year.
