Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Chairmans statement 2011 performance Despite the ongoing challenges in the wider economy, Taylor Wimpey has made strong progress across a number of areas and it is pleasing to see this reected in our financial performance.
We have increased profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptional items to 89.9 million 2010 loss: 15.9 million.
After pre-tax exceptional charges for the year of 11.3 million 2010: 138.9 million, the majority of which related to renancing costs in both years, profit before tax from continuing operations for 2011 is 78.6 million 2010 loss: 154.8 million.
Sale of our North American business We were in the process of evaluating proposals for the sale of our North American business at the time of last years Annual Report and announced an agreement to sell this business on 31 March 2011.
Following receipt of your approval as shareholders and the satisfaction of a number of customary conditions, we completed the sale of the business on 13 July 2011.
This represents a very significant step towards our goal of becoming a UK-focused homebuilder as Pete Redfern explains in his Chief Executives Review on page 6.
We now have a strengthened balance sheet and increased financial capacity to invest in the UK market and we are well positioned to deliver further margin improvement going forward.
2011 has been a Strategy and dividend Following the sale of the North American business we have transformational year communicated our future strategy to stakeholders both internally and externally.
Pete Redfern outlines this strategy in detail in his Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 13 and a key element is taking a for Taylor Wimpey.
more active assessment of, and approach to managing, the market Kevin Beeston cycle.
In the medium term, when opportunities in the land market are less attractive, we anticipate reducing the level of investment in our Chairman land portfolio and, therefore, generating significant cash ow from operations.
At such points in the cycle, we intend to retain a proportion of these funds in order to maintain balance sheet strength and return the remainder to shareholders.
In 2011 the Company has: In the meantime, given the current outlook in the UK housing market, achieved the double-digit UK operating margin target and the strength of the Groups asset base, we are proposing a final in the second half of 2011, ahead of schedule: dividend of 0.38 pence per share 2010: nil.
This represents the final communicated a strategy to optimise the UK residential portion of a total dividend representing 1% of Net Asset Yield.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the dividend will be paid on development business both internally and externally: 22 May 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business completed the sale of the North American business: on 20 April 2012. successfully restructured the Board: This dividend will be paid as a conventional cash dividend, but SURSRVHG D QDO GLYLGHQG RI SHQFH SHU VKDUH DQG shareholders are once again being offered the opportunity to reinvest some or all of their dividend under a re-launched Dividend continued to improve the strength of the balance sheet, Re-Investment Plan, details of which can be found on page 110 of including selective investment in new land and buying back this Annual Report.
85.4 million of our 10.375% Senior Notes due 2015.
Corporate responsibility As a major residential developer, we have social, ethical, environmental and economic responsibilities that we take extremely seriously.
We continue to believe that corporate responsibility is an essential part of good governance and makes sound business sense, as well as being crucial for risk and opportunity management.
Ultimate responsibility for the delivery of our corporate responsibility strategy continues to rest with CEO Pete Redfern, with a Sustainability Steering Group coordinating sustainability activities at the operational level in line with the strategy.
This group comprises seven senior personnel from relevant disciplines across our UK business and is chaired by a representative of the Group Management Team.
4 4 T Taylor W aylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 impey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Executive remuneration remains in strong focus and we have taken Corporate governance what we believe to be a considered approach, including consulting with Strong corporate governance and risk our major shareholders ahead of the publication of this Annual Report, management are essential in challenging in respect of the policies set out in the Remuneration Report on pages market conditions.
In line with the requirements of the UK People and shareholders RYHUQDQFH &RGH ZH FDUULHG RXW RXU UVW I said last year that I had been very impressed by my initial externally facilitated and comprehensive experiences of our business and people, and my opinions have independent assessment of the Board in 2011. only been strengthened by what I have seen over the last 12 months.
We welcome Lord Davies review of women on Against a backdrop of significant economic uncertainty, our team has boards.
As recommended by the review, I was delivered an excellent operational and financial performance across pleased to make a statement in the Half Year the business which is a testament to their professionalism, customer 5HVXOWV DQQRXQFHPHQW FRQUPLQJ RXU DSSURDFK focus, hard work and commitment.
to diversity both generally and with regard Our new strategy sets us some challenging targets and, in order to to gender.
ensure effective communication, Pete Redfern gave a series of 14 More information on our approach is contained presentations across the country to outline our approach to and seek within my statement on page 30 and the feedback from employees in each of our 24 regional businesses and Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 to our head ofce.
The Board looks forward to working with all of our ZKLFK FRQUPV WKDW WKH &RPSDQ ZDV IXOO employees to deliver our strategic goals over the coming years.
compliant with the Combined Code.
I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate the Boards thanks to our former employees in North America for their hard work, loyalty For more information and commitment over many years and, in particular, in relation to the see pages 30-38 sale process.
We wish them every success in the future.
I enjoyed meeting with a number of shareholders on my appointment Shareholder information in July 2010, at the General Meeting in connection with the sale of the Full details of the facilities available to North American business and also at the Annual General Meeting last shareholders can be found on page 114 of April.
The Board values its dialogue with shareholders and their this Annual Report and Accounts and at representative bodies, and remains vigilant and appropriately advised to your views.
co. uk InvestorRelations Board changes  The sale of our North American business meant that the President, Sheryl Palmer, stood down from the Board in July 2011 and I would like to formally record the Boards thanks for her significant contribution Electronic communications to the Group during our period of ownership of that business.
We make our Annual Report available As I highlighted in my statement last year, Katherine Innes Ker and electronically to those shareholders who have Andrew Dougal stood down at the AGM in April 2011, after more than not requested a paper version.
This has three nine years and eight years respectively, and the Board would like to NH EHQHWV record our thanks for their distinguished service as well.
D VLJQLFDQW UHGXFWLRQ LQ SULQWLQJ DQG SRVWDJH James Jordan was appointed as an Executive Director in July 2011 costs, without reducing the level of after nearly ten years of service for Taylor Wimpey plc and previously information available: George Wimpey Plc.
James played a significant role in the recent faster access to information: and renancings and the sale of the North American business and I am delighted to welcome him to the Board as Group Legal Director and reducing the amount of resources consumed, Company Secretary.
such as paper, and lessening the impact of printing and mailing activities on I was also very pleased to welcome two new Non Executive Directors the environment.
Kate Barker, who joined with effect from 21 April 2011, brings a wealth of economic and political experience as We also encourage shareholders to elect to receive well as a detailed knowledge of the housing industry.
Mike Hussey, who QRWLFDWLRQ RI WKH DYDLODELOLW RI &RPSDQ joined with effect from 1 July 2011, has an extensive knowledge of the documentation by means of an e-mail.
property industry and both the London and national market, along with Shareholders can sign up for this facility by a proven strategic focus.
Proles of Kate and Mike are on page 29. logging onto our Web site.
htm Kevin Beeston Chairman Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 5
