04 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview A snapshot of our business Our 2011 performance at a glance Chairmans statement Chairmans statement As the leading carrier-neutral data centre group in Europe, weintend to continue to secure sites that will underpin thedigitaleconomy by providing growth capacity inourcoremarkets for several years into the future.
I am delighted that TelecityGroup is yet again Robert Morse, who had been a non-executive The increasing scale of our Group has seen very reporting an excellent set of results.
Our strategy of Director of the Group since 2005, stepped strong growth in profitability and cash generation.
pursuing controlled, sustainable, profitable growth downfrom the Board during the year.
I would TelecityGroup is now in such a strong financial across Europe, and a continuing track-record of liketo thank him for his enormous contribution position that it can fund its organic growth consistent execution on thisstrategy, is delivering to the Group.
programme, selectively expand inorganically value for all of ourstakeholders.
As such, I am Our expanded corporate governance review looking forward to another landmark for the In many ways 2011 represented a landmark commences on page 29.
This includes the report Group this year, in the form of its inaugural yearin our progress.
We saw our new data from our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR dividend tobe paid following the 2012 half centrebuilds progress well across Europe committee, which we established during the yearresults.
year, reflecting our commitment to this important area.
Looking to the longer term, we aim to continue The first phase of our 21MW expansion TelecityGroups growth trajectory in a controlled, toourflagship London Powergate site opens This current year also promises to be an exciting sustainable and profitable manner.
Together with our other builds one for our business.
Demand for highly connected is uniquely well placed to continue to benefit from ofpremium, highly connected data centres, data centre infrastructure continues to increase the growth of the digital economy in Europe.
thissite will, intime, transform TelecityGroup strongly across Europe as the digital economy Assuch, I remain excited about the outlook interms of scale as we meet the growing grows.
The trends that are underpinning this growth forthe Group and its future prospects.
can be seen everywhere, from the continued growth in the use of the mobile internet to the Finally, I would like to thank all of TelecityGroups The acquisition of Data Electronics gave increasing adoption of cloud services.
employees for the invaluable contribution that usaleading position in Ireland, while UKGrid they make to our continuing success.
further strengthens our position in the I look forward to further significant data centre UK.
Theintegration of both businesses openings during 2012, as part of our rolling hasprogressed well and I am pleased to programme of announced and secured welcome thenew employees to our team.
John Hughes, CBE A full discussion of our performance in2011 As the leading carrier-neutral data centre company Chairman startson page 14. inEurope, we intend to continue to secure sites 10 February 2012 that will underpin the digital economy by providing During 2011, we appointed two additional growth capacity in our core markets for several independent non-executive Directors, years into the future.
They bringvaluable experience of the digital media We currently have 124MW of announced, secured and cloud computing sectors to the Group.
capacity, versus the 68MW that was operational Theirappointments brought the Board and at the end of 2011.
This clear expansion roadmap itsCommittees into full compliance with the is designed to provide our customers, investors newUK Corporate Governance Code, in line and employees with visibility over our longerwithour commitment to investors at the time term development.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 05 Telecity Group plc 05 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Annual report and accounts 2011 Business model and operating review TelecityGroup is continuing to expand its capacity across Europe in response to increasing customer demand as the digital economy grows.
Michael Tobin, Chief Executive Officer In this section: Business model 06 The data centre industry 07 TelecityGroups role in the industry 08 Why customers choose us 09 Demand drivers for our business 1 0 Our locations and management 1 2 Our growth strategy Operating review 1 4 Our key performance indicators 16 Group performance and outlook photos tbc
