Overview Business review Governance Financial statements OVERVIEW Chairmans statement Richard Brasher has assumed the newly created role of CEO for the UK, as well as having responsibility for the Republic of Ireland, whilst David Potts has become the first CEO of our growing Asia business.
Laurie McIlwee has taken on responsibility for Group Strategy in addition to his role as CFO.
Andrew Higginson and Lucy Neville-Rolfe will continue in their roles as CEO Retail Services and Executive Director Corporate and Legal Affairs respectively.
There have also been a few changes to the Non-executive members of the Board this year.
Rodney Chase CBE retired from his position as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director in July.
Patrick Cescau, who has served on the Board since February 2009, has replaced Rodney as Senior Independent Director.
Charles Allen CBE and Dr Harald Einsmann, who had both served on the Tesco Board since February 1999, also retired in July and were replaced by Stuart Chambers and Gareth Bullock.
Stuart, formerly CEO of NSG Group and Pilkington plc, has replaced Charles as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Gareth, former Group Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC, has joined the Audit Committee.
I would like to thank Charles, Harald and Rodney for their excellent advice and important contributions over a combined 30 years service, and also formally welcome Gareth and Stuart, who bring with them I am pleased to report another a wealth of international experience and new expertise in financial services, further adding to the overall strength of the Tesco Board.
good set of results in what has Dividend I am delighted to report that we have again increased our dividend been a challenging year in some for the 27th consecutive year.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 10.09p per share, taking the full-year dividend to 14.46p.
represents an increase of 10.8% on last years full-year dividend, which is in line with the growth in underlying diluted earnings per share at constant tax rates.
Community After 14 years as CEO, Terry Leahy announced his retirement in June This year, we donated over 64 million to charity again meeting our and, as part of our long-term succession plan, Philip Clarke replaced target to donate the equivalent of over 1% of our profits to charities him at the helm in March 2011. and goodcauses.
Terry is undoubtedly one of the leading businessmen of his generation.
Weve made further progress towards our goal of becoming a Under his leadership we have more than quadrupled our sales and zero-carbon business by 2050.
This year we have reduced emissions profits, expanded into 13 countries outside the UK and entered new from our baseline portfolio of buildings by 7.7%.
markets such as online retailing and financial services.
On behalf of Our people everyone at Tesco and all our shareholders, it is a privilege to thank Our growth over the past year is a direct result of the dedication, Terry for his unrivalled contribution to the success of the business.
passion and hard work of our people a team which is now over There could be no better person to lead us going forward than Philip 492,000 strong.
Im delighted that our share ownership incentive Clarke.
Philip has worked at Tesco throughout his career, spending schemes are helping our staff to get their own personal stake in the many years in Retail and Commercial.
He joined the Tesco Board in business.
This year 216,000 employees shared a record 105.5 million 1998 and, as part of his role as Asia, Europe and IT Director, has been through our Shares In Success scheme.
On behalf of the Board, at the heart of many of our most important developments and I would like to thank all of our people for their ongoing commitment operational improvements in recent years, such as entry into China, to providing the best possible service for our customers.
Turkey and India and the introduction of the Tesco Hindustan Service Centre HSC our global services arm.
I set the Nominations Committee the objective of delivering a seamless succession and I am delighted with the outcome.
The handover process from Terry to Philip was very smooth.
I have every confidence that David Reid under Philips leadership, Tesco will go on to achieve even greater Chairman success in the future.
In order for the Tesco Board to better reflect the global nature of our business, provide more focus on key areas of performance and deliver on our immediate objectives, we made additional changes in March 2011.
Tim Mason has become Deputy CEO and Chief Marketing Officer in addition to his role as President and CEO Fresh & Easy.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 3
