Directors Report: 2 Business Review Chairmans statement Taking action to strengthen our business.
by the disruptions in the Middle East and North Africa region DEAR SHAREHOLDER MENA, particularly on our French business.
These events This is my fi first report to shareholders following my contributed to the Group requiring an additional 200m loan appointment as Chairman on 1 December 2011.
Since joining facility to help us through the seasonal cash low point at the the Board at the beginning of October, I have spent my time end of December.
This additional facility was secured at the end meeting the members of the Group Executive Board and of November and the Board would like to extend its thanks to their management teams to gain a clear understanding of our Paul Hollingworth and the Finance Team for their efforts.
operations, brands, management strength and opportunities.
My initial observations are as follows: The Board and the Group Executive Board are taking action to strengthen our business.
We are focused on implementing we have strong key brands in our respective markets: a turnaround plan to create a stronger UK business and taking Ving, Neckermann, Thomas Cook and the corporate brand a number of decisive steps to substantially strengthen the of Thomas Cook: Groups balance sheet.
These priorities are fully described in there are opportunities to increase the sharing of best the joint statement from the Group Chief Executive Offi cer practices across the Group: and Group Chief Financial Offi cer on pages 6 to 11. we need a determined approach on cost and cash During the year, the Board was disappointed that management management on one side and the development of business performance in certain areas fell short of the standards that opportunities on the other, which requires the making we demand.
Decisive action was taken, with changes at the of strategic choices after proper consideration: Group Executive Board level as well as placing new senior we need to refresh and further strengthen the Boards management teams into both the UK and French operations.
composition: and The Board is pleased that Sam Weihagen, who previously we need to install a proper pay for proper performance headed our successful Northern Europe Segment, was able to approach in respect of executive and senior management step into the role of Group Chief Executive Offi cer.
Executive Board under Sams leadership has the full support of the Board.
Together, we will take all the actions necessary My initial observations will be further explored as I lead to improve performance and embed the right culture, values the Board in the conduct of a strategic review to secure our and behaviours across the Group.
To say that 2011 was a challenging year for our Group is an DIVIDEND understatement.
Whilst our Northern Europe, Central Europe The Group paid an interim dividend of 3.75p per share on and Airlines Germany operating segments performed very 7 October 2011.
As previously announced, the Board will well, the Groups result has been adversely affected by a not declare any further dividend payments whilst the Group disappointing performance in the UK and the impact caused re-builds its balance sheet.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 3 to customer service, in particular when responding to the THE BOARD challenges brought about by the disruption in the MENA As referred to above, I joined the Board as Chairman Designate region.
We continue to believe that our employees are our key on 1 October 2011 and, following Michael Becketts retirement, differentiator in the competitive travel industry and the Board became Chairman on 1 December 2011.
I would like to thank has confidence that they will deal with the challenges that we Michael for his contribution to the Group.
will undoubtedly face in the future.
On behalf of the Board During the year, a number of other changes were made to I would like to thank them for their dedication and the composition of the Board: high standards.
the Board was strengthened with the appointment of Martine Verluyten and Peter Marks as Non-Executive THE FUTURE Directors on 9 May and 1 October 2011 respectively: The uncertain economic environment, continued disruption in the MENA region and higher input costs, particularly Manny Fontenla-Novoa stood down from his role as Group fuel, will contribute to another challenging year.
The Board Chief Executive Officer and resigned from the Board on and the Executive team will conduct a strategic review, 2 August 2011: and whilst remaining focused on the implementation of the Sam Weihagen was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer UK turnaround plan, cost management, cash flow and on 2 August 2011, until a permanent successor can be found.
Sam is a highly experienced and successful executive, who is greatly respected within the industry and our organisation.
A search for a new Group Chief Executive Officer is underway see page 51.
Together, these appointments bring a wealth of operational and financial experience across many markets and build on the Frank Meysman diverse composition of the Board.
I am currently conducting Chairman a review of the Board and expect to make changes to refresh 13 December 2011 and further strengthen its composition in the near-term.
EMPLOYEES It has not been an easy year for our employees, with significant change brought about by business transformations, cost reduction programmes, and the disappointment of poor performance in parts of our business.
Once again, our employees have demonstrated their utmost dedication
