Chairmans Statement For the year ended 31 December 2011 Our businesses are supported by sector leading IT, and a strong people culture based on clear values and leadership behaviours assuming BSS had been owned for all of 2010, Introduction adjusted profit before tax was 11% higher, and Travis Perkins is the UKs largest distributor of adjusted earnings per share were up 11%, or building and construction materials.
Through our various group companies, we We have made excellent progress with our aim to offer the widest range of products to our planned BSS financial systems integration professional and retail customers, providing and organisational changes, and our synergy the highest levels of customer service at project is running ahead of schedule.
2011, we realised 20m of synergies and Our organisation model devolves we anticipate that we will beat our previously management responsibility close to customers published target of 25m, achieving 30m in and provides the benefits of innovative and 2012. shared central services.
Strong cash flows and working capital Our businesses are supported by sector management, which includes 27m from the leading IT, and a strong people culture based sale of Buck and Hickman, have reduced debt on clear values and leadership behaviours.
We aim to deliver consistent and increasing Robert Walker On 3 January 2012, the Group exercised its shareholder value over time.
Chairman option to acquire the remaining share capital of Toolstation.
The company, which sells lightside Results products through its network of 103 UK based 2011 was a good year for Travis Perkins.
Our retail stores, a catalogue operation and online, primary focus was integrating the former has grown rapidly and profitably in recent BSS businesses into the Group to maximise years.
We welcome our new colleagues to synergies, but we have also outperformed in the the Group and look forward to their continued majority of our markets through the continued success.
implementation of self-help initiatives, all this, in spite of the markets in which we operate Dividend declining by between 4% and 5%.
The Boards stated intention is to reduce the Revenue increased by 52% to 4.8bn and multiple by which dividends are covered by our adjusted pre-tax profits rose by 37% to post tax earnings to between 2.5 times and 297m: adjusted earnings per share were up 3.5 times over the medium term from the by 21% to 93.1 pence.
On a proforma basis, 12 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 current cover of 4.7 times.
As a step towards them, on behalf of the Board, for all their efforts meeting that target, the Board is pleased to during the year.
recommend a final dividend of 13.5 pence per share, payable to shareholders on the register Outlook on 4 May 2012, which will give a total dividend The markets in which we operate are likely to for 2011 of 20 pence per share.
The proposed remain subdued for much of 2012.
We expect 33% increase in dividend over 2010 will result new house starts and mortgage applications, in a cash outflow of 47m.
which are key indicators for our business, to remain relatively flat and public sector Board of Directors expenditure to fall as the government strives I am delighted that Ruth Anderson joined to reduce the deficit.
Consumer markets are the Company as a non-executive director likely to be soft as disposable income is further in October.
She has extensive experience of squeezed.
advising a broad range of companies across Our investment in Toolstation will realise many business sectors and so will be of great full year profits for the first time, the 13 stores value to the Board.
acquired from Focus in the summer are trading As a result of re-organising the Groups profitably and our synergy projects will continue operations into four divisions and making to deliver strong benefits.
When these projects other organisational changes, John Carter, are taken together with our ongoing initiatives who has successfully served as the Groups to improve customer service and our careful Chief Operating Officer for the past seven management of costs, we are confident 2012 years, was promoted to Deputy Chief Executive will be another year of progress for the Group.
I am sure that John will continue to make a very significant contribution to the Group in his new role.
Employees Our engaged and hard working colleagues are Robert Walker critical to our success.
Yet again, they have Chairman delivered outstanding results for shareholders 21 February 2012 in difficult circumstances.
I should like to thank 13 REPORTS
