Chairmans statement Committed to exCellenCe Dear Shareholders, once again, it is a pleasure to present abgs annual report.
we are pleased to report robust financial performance for the year overall, notwithstanding certain challenges we have faced in our operating environment.
we achieved record revenues of approximately US$1,218 million, operating cash flows of US$498 million and net income of US$275 million.
we ended the year with US$584 million of cash on the balance sheet and no debt, which provides us with significant strategic flexibility to pursue our growth ambitions over the coming years.
our financial strength overall has enabled the directors to recommend a significant step up in the final dividend of US13.1 cents per ordinary Share, in addition to the US3.2 cents per ordinary Share that we paid in September.
we achieved production of 688,278 ounces of gold for the year, which was marginally below our initial guidance range, primarily as a result of interruptions to production schedules caused by power outages throughout the year.
Market outlook gold was rarely far from the headlines in 2011, reaching a record high of Significant value has again US$1,921 per ounce in September as the global macroeconomic backdrop was again characterised by weakness.
government balance sheets came under scrutiny been added to the business amid increasing concern over the viability of the Euro, the debt ceiling in the US and a slowdown in china.
This uncertainty, together with the weakening of the in 2011, while navigating a US dollar, has led to strong demand for gold and we continue to be positive on the medium-term outlook as global growth remains weak and governments attempt series of challenges in our to reinflate their economies.
golds outperformance has not been matched by the performance of gold equities, which have instead tended to follow the wider market.
This decoupling from the underlying gold fundamentals is a frustration as we have demonstrated our substantial margin leverage to the increase in the gold price.
as one of the largest gold producers in london, with significant growth opportunities, we believe we will be able to continue to deliver shareholder value as we continue to build on our performance over the past 18 months.
industry expertise AAron regent, non-ExEcUTivE cHairman The african gold mining industry is both an exciting and challenging environment in which to operate.
industry and regional knowledge and expertise are critical in order to drive performance.
we believe that abg is in a unique position as a mid-tier producer with the experience of acquiring, financing and building mines in Tanzania, a country new to commercial mining, as well as access to the world INDUSTRY GOLD PRODUCTION class knowledge and skill base of our supportive majority shareholder barrick.
metric tonnes indeed it is the breadth of our experience that has assisted us when addressing issues 3,000 caused by the loss of critical infrastructure and interruptions in core utilities supply during the year, and in the development of action plans to help address and resolve 2,800 the complex social and economic challenges that have impacted our operations, 2,600 particularly at north mara.
overall, and despite the challenges faced this year, our management team has made a number of significant advancements in addressing a 2,400 range of operational issues and remains committed to developing effective measures 2,200 in order to strengthen our operations.
com 6 overview pErformancE govErnancE financial SHarEHoldEr STaTEmEnTS informaTion Responsible mining We understand the benefits we recognise the importance of developing our responsible mining practices to that responsible mining can develop and support sustainability for the benefit of our stakeholder group as a whole.
in particular, we understand and seek to promote the benefits that the mining industry bring to host communities and can bring to host communities.
Throughout the year we have continued to strengthen our existing commitment to corporate social responsibility, through the development stakeholder groups.
of additional policies and projects, particularly at north mara.
moreover, we were delighted to launch the abg development maendeleo fund during the year, the largest community development fund of its kind in Tanzania.
we are excited by the opportunities that this fund presents to broaden our community investment programmes.
Solid governance and controls we have continued to build on the existing strength of our board throughout the year, with the appointment of ambassador mwapachu, whose experience in Tanzania and the wider region brings a new dimension to the board, and david Hodgson, who brings 30 years experience across africa.
during the course of the year bobby godsell decided to step down from the board to pursue other interests and more recently James cross has decided to retire from the board.
we thank both of them for their contributions to abg and wish them well for the future.
we also completed our first board performance evaluation during the year.
we view board assessment as critical to the evaluation of overall board effectiveness and performance.
further details regarding this process have been provided as part of our corporate governance report.
we have continued our focus on effective governance and controls throughout the year in order to support our business.
key to this was the development and adoption of abgs business management framework, which applies throughout our organisation to guide the implementation of our standards.
in addition, we have also reviewed our overall corporate governance framework in the context of our secondary listing on the dar es Salaam Stock Exchange.
Employee development we view our people as our greatest asset and are committed to promoting and developing the skill set of our workforce for the benefit of our business and industry generally.
we have continued to invest in our training programmes throughout the year and have seen the first fruits of success from the underground training centre at bulyanhulu.
further initiatives for employee development are being advanced for 2012.
Outlook 2012 promises to be an exciting year.
we will continue to optimise production from our existing asset base and expect to see some of our growth projects move through board approval and into the construction phase.
we remain positive on the outlook for the gold industry and committed to further advancing our position as one of the leading african gold miners.
finally, i would like to thank my fellow board members for their hard work, dedication and valuable guidance throughout the year, and i look forward to reporting again on our progress in 12 months time.
AAron regent, non-ExEcUTivE cHairman annUal rEporT and accoUnTS 2011 7
