Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 13 Strategic overview Strategic overview Market overview World Travel and Tourism Councils The political climate Outlook, future trends and factors TUI Travels core markets account Economic Impact Report 2011.
Travel and tourism are heavily regulated industries.
While the global recession and uncertain economic for 388bn of global travel spend United Nations World Tourism As a global organisation, TUI Travel has a public environment have had an effect on consumer travel Organisation UNWTO, United Nations Environment Programme UNEP and affairs team that works with governments and spending habits, demand for leisure travel remains World Meteorological Organisation regulators across key source markets to address strong.
The mainstream holiday market, our WMO October 2007 Climate Change 346bn and Tourism: Responding to Global issues affecting our industry and customers.
traditional stronghold, has seen a resurgence Challenges.
We have The issue of air passenger rights has assumed Core markets include continued to modify our product offering in particular importance, the European institutions UK, Sweden, Germany, line with consumer preferences to include more France, Belgium, Netherlands, having focused heavily on this issue during the year.
Austria, Poland, Switzerland differentiated and exclusive products as well as Our public affairs team has engaged regularly with and Canada exibility of duration.
Our all inclusive holidays 42bn politicians and ofcials both in Brussels and in key Euromonitor have proved particularly popular as consumers source markets in order to ensure that regulation seek more financial certainty of their total holiday properly balances the needs and interests of spend.
In the UK, we announced that from Summer customers and industry.
Our three largest markets 2012, the First Choice brand in the UK would be 106bn Germany The question of aviation taxation has also gured completely all inclusive a reection of growing prominently in a number of jurisdictions and we consumer demand.
France 85bn have, together with trade associations and other UK 61bn Independent travel, which has experienced industry partners, sought to press our case for consistently strong growth over the years, remains a more equitable taxation regime that properly a key focus area for TUI Travel.
As the demand for rewards and incentivises efficient use of aircraft.
independent travel continues to increase, we seek Financial protection of air passengers continues to expand our already significant positions within to be an issue, particularly in the UK, and we this segment of the market.
have continued to lobby stakeholders to ensure provide our customers with easy-to-access In 2011, an increasing number of consumers The leisure travel market a fair and affordable system of protection.
Good information combined with easy-to-use booking turned to online channels to research and book In 2010, international tourism saw a strong progress has been made in this area, with the engines.
TUI Travels mainstream businesses have their holiday.
We expect this trend to continue recovery driven primarily by better global UK Government announcing plans for a series seen a consistent year on year increase in online into 2012 and beyond where our mainstream economic conditions and compared to 2009, of key reforms.
In the past year, the Nordic business businesses expect to see an even greater share total international arrivals grew by 7% UNWTO.
took 61% of its bookings online and in the UK Finally, our work to inuence the European of online bookings.
We, therefore, remain focused TUI Travels ten core source markets, including online sales made up 39% of total bookings.
Commission to extend the scope of the European on improving our online presence, increasing our the UK, Sweden, Germany, France, Belgium, the Package Travel Directive in order to reect the participation in social media and moving towards TUI Travels accommodation wholesaler businesses Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Switzerland and changes in the industry since the inception of that an online-driven Company culture.
Hotelbeds, Bedsonline and Hotelopia continue Canada, make up 388bn of global travel spend regulation, has continued and we see clear signals to experience strong growth and have established We believe the BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and Euromonitor, with our three largest markets that the European Commission is now persuaded leading positions in this market.
In the China economies, with high growth forecasts, of Germany, France and the UK totalling 65% of the need for reform.
accommodation only online travel agency OTA will be the key driver of long term travel growth.
com now commands 25% TUI Travel already has a presence in Russia and The sustainability challenge With approximately a one third share of the market share in the UK and is among the top OTA Ukraine which we plan to increase from the existing Travel and Tourism will account for 9% of global European mainstream holiday market, TUI Travel players within Europe.
The APAC region, with high platform and we continue to determine our GDP in 2011.
The industry will continue to be occupies a strong position.
We have number one annual growth forecasts in the accommodation participation strategy in Brazil, India and China.
one of the worlds fastest growing sectors, with or two brand positions across all our core markets OTA segment, is of increasing importance to TUI emerging economies in particular seen as engines We remain cautious about 2012, given the and, as the traditional mainstream markets mature, Travel.
To strengthen our position in this market, of such growth.
Travel and Tourism today is continued economic uncertainty in Europe, a slow we continue to differentiate ourselves by offering a we continue to invest in the AsiaRooms brand.
responsible for 9% of global employment but recovery of demand to North African destinations greater choice of unique products and destinations also for 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions.
and increased volatility in fuel prices and currency as well as looking to new markets for growth.
The economic environment From a sustainable development perspective this exchange rates.
There is, however, every reason The global economic environment experienced Independent travel, which includes self-packaged poses an interesting challenge the growth of to believe that the demand for leisure travel will two distinct phases in 2011.
A recovery in early holidays, specialist holidays, accommodation only an industry highly dependent on fossil fuels and continue to experience robust growth in the long 2011 curtailed the fears of a double-dip recession.
and online travel agencies, continues to be the biodiversity in a world of nite natural resources.
TUI Travel has already proved resilient in This has, however, been followed by a period of fastest growing area of leisure travel.
TUI Travel a challenging market environment and, with a slow growth and economies across Europe now At TUI Travel we have long embraced this has market leading positions in a number of heritage in leisure travel and a diverse range of face the prospect of a pronounced slowdown.
We are actively working towards our specialist segments within independent travel experiences on offer, the Company is well placed.
goal of providing special travel experiences whilst and we plan to continue to expand this portfolio The IMF projects real GDP growth worldwide at minimising environmental impact, respecting the of fast growing businesses.
4.0% for 2011 and 2012 0.5% lower than its culture and people in destinations and bringing previous projection in April 2011.
The GDP growth The online travel market is a key area of focus.
real economic benefit to local communities.
We of our two largest source markets, Germany and According to PhoCusWright, the global online travel recognise these as issues on which the future UK, is also expected to slow to 2.7% and 1.1% market is estimated to be worth 181bn.
Europe health of our own business and of the wider respectively.
While unemployment has continued and the USA led the way in online sales in 2011, industry depend.
Hence the alignment of our to rise in the UK and currently stands at 8.3%, generating approximately 75% of global online sustainability programme with TUI Travels strategy unemployment in Germany rose unexpectedly for revenues and growing 10% and 8% respectively and our record across the industry of inspiring the first time in over two years in October 2011 and year on year.
The Asia-Pacic APAC region, change and leading by example.
See Sustainable now stands at 7%.
The economic outlook for 2012 however, continues to grow at a much faster rate development on page 28. remains uncertain with continued uncertainty in of 17% year on year.
With the significant proportion North Africa, the ongoing Eurozone crisis and of future growth estimated to come through online volatility in fuel and currency prices.
channels, we remain focused in our efforts to www.
