Chairmans statement I take over as Chairman of your Company at an exciting time We have enhanced our Environment, Health and Safety EHS for Tullow.
2011 has been a very good year for the Group.
processes, aligning and embedding high standards across the We have drilled 35 Exploration and Appraisal E&A wells business to ensure that we continue to improve the health and with a 74% success ratio and have made further discoveries safety of our employees and contractors and safeguard the in Ghana and Uganda as well as opening up a major new environment.
In 2011, we achieved the best safety performance basin with significant potential offshore French Guiana.
in our history with our lowest Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Once again, this represents an industry-leading result for LTIFR of 0.38.
We also continued to foster the creation of our exploration-led growth strategy.
shared prosperity in the countries and communities where we operate through localisation, local content development and Our financial performance has also been strong with social enterprise investment, which increased 346% to record results for 2011.
Sales revenue grew 111% to $11.6 million in 2011.
$2.3 billion 2010: $1.1 billion as a result of a 41% increase in sales volumes and significantly higher average price During the course of 2011 the Group faced some significant realisations.
Profit before tax was up 499% to $1,073 million strategic and operational challenges.
Profit after tax for the year increased project in Uganda took considerably longer than originally 670% to $689 million 2010: $90 million.
The discovery of oil by Tullow has created the share grew 795% to 72.5 cents 2010: 8.1 cents.
During the year opportunity to transform the economy of Uganda, and the lives we invested $1.4 billion in operations and spent $737 million of local people and communities, if wisely managed.
We also increased the debt facilities available triggered a debate, at every level, about how best to develop to us to strengthen the financial resources of the Group and these resources in the national interest.
Tullows commitment position ourselves to pursue new opportunities.
to reaching an agreement that will benefit all parties and to building durable relationships that will stand the test of time was rewarded in February 2012.
We signed two new Production Sharing Agreements PSAs with the Government of Uganda, and completed the farm-down of two-thirds of our Ugandan licences to CNOOC and Total.
We are now ready, with our partners, to embark upon the development of the countrys oil industry.
First oil could be as soon as late 2012, with material production volumes likely to be from 2016.
In October 2011, allegations were made in the Ugandan Parliament that Tullow employees had bribed senior government ministers.
The accusations were made on the basis of forged documents and we have worked with the UK Serious Fraud Office, the Metropolitan Police and the relevant authorities in Uganda and Malta where the payments were allegedly made to demonstrate irrefutably that the allegations are entirely unfounded.
Tullow has an absolute commitment to upholding high ethical standards.
Our approach is based not only on our legal obligations, but on the firm belief that our reputation for integrity underpins our attractiveness as an employer, a business partner and an investor in the countries where we operate.
W e are committed to building strong relationships with the countries and communities in which we operate, that will benefit all parties and stand the test of time.
Simon Thompson Chairman 8 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW More information Page 1 Risk management 40 Chairmans introduction to corporate governance 76 Board objectives and performance 78 In Ghana, we have experienced technical challenges related In our search for two new directors, we have identified the to the completions of the Jubilee Phase 1 production wells.
personal attributes, background and experience that we require The cause has been identified and remedial work has already for the next phase of growth.
We will also seek to increase the commenced.
This work, in parallel with the Phase 1A diversity of the Board both gender and nationality as part of development which was approved in January 2012, is expected this process and will conduct the searches sequentially to ensure to restore production capacity steadily during the year.
The Plan that the two successful candidates bring complementary skills of Development PoD for  TEN and experience to Tullow.
discoveries in Ghana is progressing well and is expected to be submitted in the second half of 2012.
The Group underpinned its Executive remuneration has been the focus of considerable long-term commitment to Ghana with a secondary listing on the comment over the past year.
At the beginning of 2011, Tullow Ghana Stock Exchange in July 2011, which raised approximately granted 20% salary increases to our Executive Directors, to $72 million.
This provides the opportunity for Ghanaian individuals reflect the outstanding performance and growth of the company and institutions to invest in the future of their oil industry and to and the fact that increases in the previous two years were share in the performance of Tullows global operations.
In 2012, in common with all other members of staff, the Executive Directors will receive Tullows financial position has been significantly strengthened salary increases in line with inflation.
by production and cash flow from the Jubilee field.
As a result, the Board feels that it is appropriate to increase the final As part of my induction as Chairman, I conducted the Board dividend to 8.0 pence per share, which brings the total payout evaluation in 2011.
Timely approvals for the PoD in Uganda for the year to 12 pence per share.
This represents an increase and production ramp-up in Ghana are clearly key issues for of 100% compared with 2010.
The dividend will be paid on the Board in 2012.
Talent management, succession planning, 24 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 20 April 2012. and financial and portfolio management will also be areas of The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on 16 May 2012 particular focus.
In addition, we intend to continue to improve at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ.
A the quality of information and analysis available to the Board meeting for shareholders in Ireland will be held on 30 May 2012 on political and economic risk, the competitive landscape and at the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland, No.
The early months of 2012 have seen strong oil prices driven by Our successful exploration-led growth strategy requires uncertainty over supply.
While Tullow carefully hedges much of its disciplined resource allocation and effective risk management production we remain exposed to any major change in oil prices.
to be embedded into all of our activities.
The broad range of risks Recent forecasts expect global economic growth to exceed 3% that we face are outlined in this report, starting on page 40, and this year, which is seen as a key level to underpin oil prices.
Asia the measures that we take to mitigate them are necessarily is likely to be the main driver of economic growth and almost all varied and numerous.
However, underpinning them all is a of the growth in demand for oil is expected to come from corporate culture that strikes a balance between entrepreneurial non-OECD countries.
risk-taking and prudent risk management, combined with outstanding people with a strong commitment to the The performance of Tullow is testament to the strength of our long-term success of Tullow.
I thank Aidan Heavey, our Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Directors and all Tullow employees and contractors Continuing this success depends upon our ability to build for their contribution to past performance and commitment organisational capacity without compromising our unique to the future success of the Group.
As we continue to grow, it is necessary to introduce demonstrated the ability to create new opportunities for growth, more formal processes and procedures, but we remain develop major projects effectively and generate exceptional absolutely committed to maintaining our entrepreneurial shareholder returns.
Despite the current economic character and to upholding our core values of teamwork uncertainties, the outlook for oil price remains good and the and commitment, entrepreneurial spirit and initiative, Groups exploration programme and development pipeline focus on results, and integrity and respect.
With these rich opportunities ahead, Tullow looks forward with confidence and excitement.
At the end of 2011, Pat Plunkett retired after 11 years as Chairman.
David Williams, Chairman of the Audit Committee, will retire after the AGM in 2012 after six years on the Board.
Steve McTiernan, the Senior Independent Director, will retire from the Board before the end of 2012 after 10 years on the Board.
I would Simon R Thompson like to thank them on your behalf, and on behalf of the Board, for Chairman their contribution to a period of outstanding growth and success for Tullow.
In March 2012, Steve Lucas was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 14 March 2012.
