Section 1: 2011 Review 2011 Review Chairmans Statement Our Aim: To create long term value while .
2011 has been a very successful year for UBM.
UBM is a fundamentally different business from Revenues were 972.3m, up9.3% over 2010: what it was five years ago.
adjustedoperating profit was 201.9m, up 17.5%: and adjusted fully diluted earnings per share were up Strategic Progress 13.1% to 56.8p the highest in the UBMs history.
UBM continued to deliver on its strategic objectives The Board is recommending a final dividend of 20.0p during the year by investing in our organisational per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to resource needs and in our core activities.
Progress in 26.3p, also a record level for UBM.
Events was underpinned by important acquisitions The 2011 financial results demonstrate tangible and organic initiatives.
Our acquisitions included returns on the substantial investment we have made in Ecobuild, the worlds largest exhibition dedicated to the organisational structure and culture of UBM and sustainable building products and the UKs fastest illuminate managements remarkable progress in Revenues growing trade event with over 55,000 attendees in systematically repositioning our business portfolio Up 9.3% 2011.
Ecobuild both complements our existing through organic development together with our construction portfolio and affords highly attractive very active and disciplined acquisitions program.
geo-adaptation opportunities into growth markets Overthe last five years, UBM revenues havegrown at such as China, where Ecobuild will operate alongside a 4.9%CAGR, but a very substantial shift underlies this 972.3m our existing Expobuild event in 2012.
As with all growth, with expansion in new businesses offsetting acquisitions, we expect Ecobuild to generate returns significant print declines.
Eventsgenerated more than in excess of our cost of capital in the first full year 40% of revenue in 2011, up from under 30% in 2006: oftrading, further illustrating managements while Print has declined from over a third of revenues continuing discipline and prudence in the pursuit five years ago to 11.6% last year.
inEmerging Markets have more than doubled, Several important organic initiatives also John Botts andnow comprise over a fifth of UBMs revenues.
underpinned our results, particularly the integration Chairman ofCanon which performed well, and the continued 1 impact made through GEM in systematic geo-adaptation and promoting best practice across ourfastest growing segment.
We also continued to invest in our other businesses: in new product development in Data Services: technology, new products and sales force inPR Newswire: and new product development inour Online activities where we have substantially expanded our presence in virtual events and community engagement products.
With the recent divestitures of Farmers Guardian, Pulse, and Daltons as well as the announced disposals of the French and Belgian medical titles there has been a marked acceleration in the rationalisation of our print magazine activity, which is increasingly focused on communities where print magazine advertising forms one element of an integrated marketing services offering.
4 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Dividend pence 26.3 25.0 24.2 23.8 21.6 18.0 15.0 12.0 9.0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Wehave now completed the second year of our global Organisational Progress Dividend environmental reporting initiative, with substantial Full year dividend increased expansion of energy and waste data collection and 5.2% Our People have established a group wide objective to reduce our carbon footprint by 5% by the end of 2012.
Our Continued investment in our people and business people and businesses have received numerous awards culture is also showing tangible returns.
Over the 26.3p recognising leadership in carbon reduction most lastfive years 100 high potential managers have recently, in November 2011, UBM was ranked in the participated in our Business Leadership Program top 4% of the UK CRC Energy Efficiency Schemes BLP, contributing not only to their capacity to lead Emerging Markets performance league table.
businesses, but creating a common lexicon and culture Now account for a significant across UBM.
The ongoing value of the BLP is proportion of UBM revenues The Board reflected in the vibrant regional BLP alumni group activity as well as the emergence of alumni as senior The Board has continued to demonstrate leaders of our businesses.
The BLP is complemented extraordinary commitment to UBM, both at 21.3% by a number of regionally-focused leadership itsregular meetings, including in Shanghai and programs 2011, importantly, saw the launch of the NewYork during 2011, and through on-going first China Leadership Development Program.
engagement with senior executives, mentoring Success in our investment in UBMs culture has relationships and participation in UBM leadership alsobeen evident in usage of the UBM Wiki, which and training programs.
continues to grow and is used increasingly as a tool Looking back at progress over the past five years, foreffective collaboration across UBM.
Our second Iwould like to thank the Board, management and annual ubmVOICE global employee engagement UBMs staff and particularly our CEO David Levin survey noted a significant increase in participation for all their efforts, culminating in a successful 2011. andengagement scores.
AsIlook back at my five years as Chairman of UBM We have also reinforced our headquarters team Iam very encouraged by the quality of the business tostrengthen UBMs capacity to support continued and people and believe that UBM is increasingly well growth and development notable senior hires positioned for sustainable growth.
include Rorie Devine, our Group CIO.
Finally, both the Board, and I personally, would like to acknowledge the hard work and effort of all the Sustainability people at UBM who have helped to generate another exceptional set of results.
We continue to focus on using our events management skills to support key community initiatives reflected in the expansion of our NGO Events series to include a new event in the UK with afurther event scheduled in India in 2012.
Our policy to limit our environmental impact andin particular to reduce UBMs carbon footprint John Botts has yielded highly encouraging results this year.
Chairman UBM plc UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
