Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement Growth in underlying earnings per share 11% 120.2p 2010: 107.9p Dear shareholder I am pleased to report that, in a time of uncertain market conditions, the resilience of the Ultra business model was demonstrated by the Groups performance in 2011.
Ultra In a time of uncertain market maintained its focus on winning new business in its specialist niches in the defence, security, transport and energy conditions, the resilience of the markets.
The Groups business model is explained in detail on pages 2 to 5.
The consistency of Ultras performance has Ultra business model was been rewarded with a rating through its share price towards demonstrated by the Groups the top of its peer group.
The Groups growing prole has been further reected by Ultra being invited to join foreign performance in 2011. trade delegations, led by senior members of the government, and I am pleased to have been able to represent the Group on these.
Since the Group was formed in 1993, Ultra has consistently and successfully positioned and repositioned itself in the sweet spots of its markets.
An important role of the Board is to participate fully in the review of the Executive Directors strategic plan for the Group, to make sure that this positioning addresses current, and anticipates future, market dynamics.
This process, which has been in place since Ultras inception, works extremely well and will continue in the future.
A key part of this positioning is Ultras acquisition strategy.
The Group has always augmented its organic growth with value-adding acquisitions and I am pleased that 2011 has been no exception.
Ultra completed four acquisitions in the year: 3eTI at the beginning of February: AEP Networks in 2000 1800 Ultras track record of KPI delivering above average 1600 shareholder returns 1400 since otation pence 1200 FTSE all share price index FTSE 100 price index 1000 FTSE all share aerospace defence 800 600 400 200 0 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Chairmans statement Growth in dividend per share 11% 38.5p 2010: 34.6p September and Zu and SOTECH at the start of December.
professional and enthusiastic people supporting the Groups All four of these businesses take the Group deeper into the management, I am confident that Ultra is better placed than cyber security and surveillance market niches that have most in addressing the current market uncertainties and been identied by Ultra as areas of preferential customer ensuring that growth continues into the future.
spend with expanding budgets, even in the current economic climate.
Making sure that the Group is positioned appropriately in its markets is one element of the Boards approach to managing risk.
Another is the review of acquisitions: the Board is regularly briefed about the watch-list that Ultra maintains on possible targets and all approaches are reviewed by the Board to ensure that any potential acquisition achieves an Douglas Caster CBE appropriate strategic t and that it is valued sensibly.
We are Chairman never afraid to walk away from a deal if we dont believe that it will enhance shareholder value as part of the Group.
In the same way, Ultras major programmes are reviewed by the Board, during both the bid and execution phases.
In Ultra, the responsibility for managing risk ows through all levels of management and all involved have an obligation to maintain the high standards for which Ultra is known.
The Board also ensures that appropriate stress testing of the business performance and projections takes place at regular intervals, with particular focus on conrming that the Group maintains a robust balance sheet with sensible headroom against its banking covenants.
This is all part of the Groups commitment to ensuring that a high standard of corporate governance is upheld.
This report contains a specic section devoted to the framework and processes that are in place to maintain a standard of governance that is appropriate to Ultra.
Further detail about how the Board provides effective leadership and minimises risk can be found in the risk management section pages 35 to 39 and the governance section, starting on page 45 of this report.
Ultra relies on having good people in excellent teams in all aspects of the business and works hard to recruit, retain and develop the skills of staff at all levels of the organisation.
To ensure that the Board continues to add as much value as the rest of the Groups employees, a review of the Boards effectiveness is conducted.
This is an , annual process that considers the performance of the Board and that of each Director over a two-year cycle.
The result this year is that the Board is considered to be highly effective with strong individual Board member performances.
This is crucial if the Board is to continue to provide the appropriate amount of rigour to the matters under consideration.
In addition, just as each of the Groups businesses has succession plans in place for all key employees, a plan is in place for the succession of each of the Boards members.
I would like to nish by thanking, on behalf of the Board, all of Ultras employees for their hard work and dedication in what has been a tougher year than most.
With so many committed, Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 7.
