Report of the Directors About Unilever CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT Against the backdrop of a continuing tough economic 1 environment, Unilever delivered a good performance in 2011.
We have a stronger business, with a compelling vision, a sharper organisation and an increasingly effective performance culture.
I am pleased that already 25% of In a year marked by natural disasters to the Boards in December and Directors on our Boards are women, and and political turmoil, Unilevers concluded that overall the Boards were we will continue in our aim to increase performance stands out all the more.
The report made a that percentage.
However, Unilever feels Beyond delivering solid results, the number of valuable recommendations that gender is only one part of diversity, Group has been taking the right actions and, as a result, Board meetings will and Unilever Directors will continue to for the long term, building a sustainable now build knowledge-sharing sessions be selected on the basis of their growth model for our business.
into the agenda where Directors can wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, discuss experiences on specific topics skills, knowledge and insight.
This model reflects the values that are of relevance to Unilever.
central to Unilevers approach to doing Changes to the Boards business knowing it can only prosper Understanding the business Jeroen van der Veer retired as a if the societies and communities in During 2011 the Directors went out into Non-Executive Director at the end of the which it operates similarly benefit from the business and visited operations in 2011 AGMs in May and, on behalf of the its presence.
Jakarta, Indonesia, and Rome, Italy.
In Boards, I would like to thank him for his both locations the Directors visited local markets and consumers in their homes.
valued contributions as Vice-Chairman We also see good governance as an Rome is particularly important as the and Senior Independent Director, and as essential foundation for the long-term global centre for Unilevers ice cream Chairman of the Nomination and success of the Group, and your Directors business.
Visits such as these give Remuneration Committees.
firmly believe that acting with integrity Non-Executive Directors the opportunity and upholding the highest standards of to meet senior managers across At the same AGMs Sunil B Mittal was corporate governance form an essential Unilever and help them to gain a deeper elected as a Non-Executive Director component of the delivery of the Groups understanding of the Group.
bringing experience in developing strategy.
You will find a description of markets that will further strengthen Unilevers corporate governance Diversity the expertise and independence of the structures and procedures, along with At Unilever we have long understood the Boards as well as broadening their an explanation of the work of the Boards, importance of diversity within our diversity.
Together these workforce because of the wide range of should give you a sense of how Unilever consumers we connect with globally.
It remains for me to thank our 171,000 seeks to achieve these aspirations.
This goes right through our organisation, employees across the world for their starting with the Boards.
hard work in delivering good results in 2011 was another busy year for the such a challenging environment.
Boards, with a number of key initiatives The subject of gender diversity at Board undertaken.
level is receiving considerable attention within the EU.
In nominating directors, Michael Treschow Board evaluation Unilever considers diversity in terms of Chairman Following our internal evaluation of the nationality, race, gender and relevant Boards activities and effectiveness in expertise and directs that, wherever 2010, we appointed an external possible, the Boards should reflect consultancy in 2011 to carry out the Unilevers consumer base.
Their report was presented 2 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors About Unilever BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 Michael Treschow Chairman 2 Kees Storm Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director 3 Paul Polman Chief Executive Officer 4 Jean-Marc Hut Chief Financial Officer 2 3 4 5 Louise Fresco Non-Executive Director 6 Ann Fudge Non-Executive Director 7 Charles Golden Non-Executive Director 8 Byron Grote Non-Executive Director 9 Sunil B Mittal Non-Executive Director 5 6 7 10 Hixonia Nyasulu Non-Executive Director 11 Sir Malcolm Rifkind Non-Executive Director 12 Paul Walsh Non-Executive Director For Directors biographies, 8 9 10 please go to page 34.
11 12 The Unilever Group Unilever N. V. NV is a public limited company registered in the Netherlands.
It has listings of shares and depositary receipts for shares on Euronext Amsterdam and on the New York Stock Exchange.
Unilever PLC PLC is a public limited company registered in England and Wales.
It has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their group companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV and PLC and their group companies, regardless of legal ownership, constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated financial statements.
The same people sit on the Boards of the two parent companies and other officers are officers of both companies.
Any references to the Board in this document mean the Boards of NV and PLC.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3
