Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 06 Chairmans Statement Delivering an exceptional performance Its been a good year for Vedanta.
end of the year of US$7.8 billion.
Gearing We have achieved record levels of was at a conservative 12.6%, after capital production, record sales of power, and expenditure of US$2.5 billion on growth an impressive 55% increase in EBITDA projects and the acquisition of Anglo as we continue our focus on delivering Americans zinc assets: our proposed growth and creating long-term value acquisition of Cairn India is fully funded.
Our free cash flow demonstrated a healthy growth to US$2.4 billion.
Our extensive investment in organic growth projects continues, driving strong On behalf of the Board, I would like to EBITDA and cash flow growth.
We thank all our 31,000 employees for their announced two strategic acquisitions, contribution to these excellent results.
expanding and diversifying both our Their commitment and hard work are geographic and commodity footprint.
critical to our performance and ensures we deliver the quality that underpins Financial Performance our reputation.
Against a background of recovering economic conditions in the developed Operational Performance world and continued strong demand The ramp up of our various expansion from emerging economies, we have projects contributed to record delivered a robust financial performance.
production volumes in the year.
Strengthening prices, increased volumes and a continued strong focus on Zinc production at our operations in operational efficiency contributed to India rose significantly as the 210ktpa a substantial growth in revenues to smelter at Dariba commissioned at the US$11.4 billion, up 44% on last year, and end of FY 200910 ramped up.
We are in a record EBITDA of US$3.6 billion.
also well on the way to becoming one EPS was up 29% during the year.
We of the worlds largest integrated silver continued to deliver volume growth, producers as we ramp up production with significant increases achieved in at the Sindesar Khurd SK mine.
Once Zinc-Lead, Aluminium, Commercial the SK mine reaches full capacity by Power and Copper from our the end of FY 201112, we will have a Zambian operations.
capacity of 16moz of refined silver per annum.
The balance sheet remained strong and liquid, with net debt remaining We started two 600MW units of the low at US$2.0 billion and cash and 2,400MW power plant at Jharsuguda liquid investments position at the and also announced the addition of Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 07 a fourth 660MW unit at the Talwandi With our industry leading organic growth Sabo power project.
The power programme and the successful integration generated by this new unit will be largely sold in the merchant market, of our recent acquisitions, Vedanta is well significantly enhancing the overall placed to capitalise on the positive outlook return of this project.
The first phase of our 150MW wind power expansion for commodities.
project has been commissioned: when complete, this project will make us one of the largest wind power producers in India.
We remain committed to an integrated Markets Dividends aluminium strategy, and we continue Commodity prices began rising again In line with our policy to progressively to engage in discussions with the in the second half of the year, as euro increase our dividend payments Government of Orissa regarding access zone debt fears receded and developed to shareholders, the Board has to alternative sources of bauxite.
Demand from recommended a final dividend of the Asian economies remained robust, 32.5 US cents per share, an increase of Mergers and Acquisitions although Chinese markets cooled, 18% that will be paid on 3 August 2011 We completed the acquisition of the zinc and the ongoing Indian growth to shareholders on the register on 8 July assets of Anglo American in the second story remains a key contributor to 2011.
This takes the total dividend for half of the financial year, increasing our our success.
The long-term trend the year to 52.5 US cents per share, zinc-lead capacity to 1.5mtpa.
This of urbanisation and accelerated 17% above last year.
acquisition makes us the largest producer infrastructure development will in the world and extends our geographic continue to drive strong demand for Outlook footprint in Africa.
Looking forward, we anticipate continued growth in metal consumption led by India We also announced the acquisition of Sustainability and China, with tight supply in specific a majority stake in Cairn India Limited.
We remain committed to sustainable markets particularly for copper and zinc.
Cairn India represents a unique development, focusing on the priorities opportunity for Vedanta to develop its of good governance, environmental FY 201112 is an important year for presence in the attractive oil and gas footprint reduction and creating value for Vedanta, with significant growth in our sector.
With our strong track record of all our stakeholders.
The international production capacities as we ramp up integrating acquisitions over the years, consulting firm, Scott Wilson, was many of our organic expansion projects.
we will seek to accelerate its growth and engaged last year to review our Higher commodity prices are driving up harness its substantial resource base.
Some of its key input costs in our industry: we believe Acquisition funding has been secured, recommendations were to deliver an that our structurally low-cost assets, shareholder approvals granted and the improved Code of Conduct and combined with our continuous open offer for shares of Cairn India has Practices, to widen the remit of the improvement culture, will enable us to been completed.
The transaction is Health, Safety and Environment mitigate the effects of this phenomenon.
currently awaiting approval from the Committee and reconstitute it as the Government of India.
Sustainability Committee and to With our industry leading organic growth enhance the scope of Environmental programme and the successful Reserves and Resources Impact Assessments EIAs for large new integration of our recent strategic Exploration continues to be a major projects in line with international best acquisitions, Vedanta is very well placed focus, and this year too, we have practice.
We are progressing well on to capitalise on the positive outlook for successfully added reserves and implementing their recommendations commodities demand and to continue resources in our Zinc-India, Iron Ore while retaining our focus on continuing to deliver growth and long-term value for and Copper-Zambia businesses, to improve our safety performance: our shareholders.
increasing the life of our mines.
contributing further to local communities: The additional zinc reserves from continuing to manage and minimise Anil Agarwal the promising Gamsberg project our impact on air, water and land: and Chairman acquired from Anglo American maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders 4 May 2011 further reinforce this firm foundation.
