6 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans statement I leave Vodafone Dividend per share pence 8.90 8.31 7.77 with huge optimism for its future 2009 2010 2011 Improving operational performance shareholder return for the year was 23%, compared to 8% for After the macroeconomic shocks of the previous financial the FTSE 100. year and the business challenges that accompanied them, our overall operating environment did not deteriorate further Tax policy during the year.
Most markets saw economic growth recover, During the year, the Group has been involved in two high although southern Europe remained weaker.
profile tax cases in the UK and India.
Our tax policy is straightforward: we pay taxes that are due in the countries Within this context, the Group has performed well.
We achieved where we make profits or record capital gains in line with the organic service revenue growth of 2.1%, a significant change prevailing legislation of those jurisdictions.
in momentum from last years 1.6% decline.
Our people Our adjusted operating profit was up 3.1% at 11.8 billion, I am proud to say every year that our people all around the reflecting a stable performance in our controlled operations world are absolutely committed to serving our customers and strong growth in the contribution from Verizon Wireless, and are often the difference between Vodafone and our our US associate.
However, this year I must highlight the extraordinary commitment and dedication shown to Data has been the key driver of growth over the last year.
Our maintaining services to customers in two of our markets customers around the world are increasingly drawn to the in extremis.
experience of the mobile internet and related services.
Organic data revenue growth was 26.4% achieved through In Egypt, our employees risked their personal safety in a very combining increasingly disciplined pricing structures with a volatile environment to keep the network up and running at broad range of devices and a network with a deserved a time when mobile communication was more important reputation for market-leading speed and reliability.
than ever, keeping the voice network outage to less than 24 hours.
We have continued to make substantial investments in our infrastructure to maintain our advantage over our peers, with a In New Zealand, our people responded magnificently to the total capital expenditure outlay of 6.2 billion during the year.
earthquake that devastated Christchurch in February 2011.
The Group, however, remains highly cash generative, with free They ensured network coverage was maintained 24 hours a cash flow for the year totalling 7.0 billion.
day despite major power outages and structural damage, and managed unprecedented levels of demand as the mobile Delivering value from non-controlled interests phone became the primary means of communication for the The Board remains committed to achieving full value from people of Christchurch and the rescue services.
The team the non-controlled interests within the Group.
This has been worked around the clock to ensure the safety of our own staff an ongoing process, starting with the disposals of our and to provide temporary stores and subsidised packages to interests in Belgacom and Swisscom five years ago, but support customers communications needs.
inevitably pausing during the financial crisis when asset prices were depressed.
During the year, we successfully The Vodafone Foundation disposed of our holdings in China Mobile Limited and We have continued to fund the good work of the Vodafone SoftBank, generating proceeds of 7.4 billion.
Through the Vodafone Foundation and our year end, we were pleased to announce the sale of our 44% network of national affiliate foundations we support interest in SFR, the number two mobile operator in France.
communities and societies in the countries in which we operate.
In this financial year we invested a total of 50 million Increasing shareholder returns in foundation programmes and social causes.
This time last year the Board put in place a target to grow total dividends per share by at least 7% per annum over the Our World of Difference programme is now in 20 countries following three years, and I am pleased to announce a 7.1% and has so far enabled 1,500 people to take paid time to work increase in the final dividend for the March 2011 year, giving a for a charitable purpose of their choice in their own total payout for the year of 8.90 pence.
community or in a developing country.
In addition, from the proceeds from our portfolio Our Mobiles for Good programme, combining our rationalisation, we have committed 6.8 billion to share technology with our giving, saw the launch of Instant buyback programmes.
Combined with the dividend, this Network, a partnership with Telecoms Sans Frontieres which takes total committed shareholder returns during the year enables a network to be deployed from three suitcases, to 15.7 billion, or 17% of our market capitalisation at covering 10 sq km for usage of up to 12,000 people.
Including share price appreciation, our total are currently underway.
B Bu us si in ne es ss s re rev vi ie ew w Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 7 23% Vodafone total shareholder return 2011 financial year 8% FTSE 100 total shareholder return 2011 financial year Vodafone share price vs FTSE 100 Vodafone share price in pence FTSE 100 index 200 7000 179 177 180 6250 5745 5643 5593 160 5958 5500 5397 6010 5163 165 159 140 4750 152 151 139 120 4000 1 Apr 10 1 Jun 10 1 Aug 10 1 Oct 10 1 Dec 10 1 Feb 11 1 Apr 11 Across the Group we continue to promote text giving, enabling mobile networks that lead the industry for speed and reliability.
our customers to give money simply and free of charge This will be crucial as customers expectations grow in line with to support charitable appeals following disasters.
Using this their data usage.
platform we raised over NZ$1.3 million for the Red Cross to support the people of Christchurch.
Furthermore, we have continually assessed the risks and opportunities of having capital deployed in some of our The Board noncontrolled interests.
This is particularly true of Verizon During the year the Board appointed Renee James as a Wireless, from which we have not received a dividend other nonexecutive director.
Renee is Senior Vice President and than tax related dividend receipts for six years.
It would General Manager of the Software and Services Group for arguably have been easier to sell our stake along the way, but Intel Corporation.
She joined the Board in January 2011 and it our decision to remain invested has been strongly vindicated is clear that her industry knowledge and expertise will make by its exceptional operating performance and strong cash a strong contribution to the Group through another period generation, which have led to a significant increase in the value of rapid technological change.
The Board welcomed the publication in February of the Our approach has led to strong returns to shareholders over Davies Review on Women on Boards and, in line with its the last five years.
Total shareholder return since July 2006 recommendations, it is our aspiration to have a minimum has been 85%, compared to 22% for the FTSE 100. of 25% female representation on the Board by 2015.
The Financial Reporting Council is currently consulting on I am delighted to welcome Gerard Kleisterlee as Vodafones changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code including new Chairman.
As CEO of Philips, Gerard spent ten successful a recommendation that companies adopt a boardroom years at the helm of an international consumer technology diversity policy: we expect to comply with any such business, and the Group is certain to make continued good recommendation.
The Board recognises the importance of progress under his stewardship.
I wish him, and the Group, all gender balance throughout the Group and continues to the best for the future.
support our CEO, Vittorio Colao, in his efforts to build a diverse organisation.
Further information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
After five years as Chairman I am retiring from the Board at the AGM in July.
It has been a privilege to chair a Board of such diverse and rich experience, and to help steer the Group Sir John Bond through the challenges of a dynamic industry and an uncertain Chairman economic environment.
As a Board, our goal has always been to make the right decisions based on the longterm opportunities for the business.
As a result, we now have an established presence in a number of emerging markets that offer attractive potential for sustained growth: and our commitment to maintaining investment throughout the economic cycle means we have
