02 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Overview by Chairman Lord Smith of Kelvin Structured for growth Underpinning this were three main factors: the ability of our operations to execute In a year of slowing effectively against our growth plans: positive conditions in the main markets that global economic we serve: and our focus on consolidating and extending our positions in the worlds fastest growing economies.
Whilst this is a business that always guards growth and considerable against complacency, the Group demonstrated during 2011 the strength of its uncertainty in the business model and its ability, through the balance of its chosen end markets eurozone, I am pleased and operating geographies, to create shareholder value.
to report that 2011 was Revenues were up 40% and we are able to report an increase in Group pretax profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and intangibles a successful year for the amortisation of 34% to a record 396m with cashflow from operations of 303m.
Weir Group, delivering We are proposing a final payment to shareholders of 25.8p per share, making another record financial 33p for the full year, an increase of 22%.
This reflects the Boards confidence in performance.
the ability of the Groups strategy, management and employees to continue to deliver sustainable growth.
An important theme of 2011 has been the progress made by the business in developing new products and enhancing underlying technologies.
Whilst there has been strong momentum across the Group behind the other strategic priorities of collaboration and global capability, innovation has been a particular focus.
Weir produces and supports technologically advanced products that are relied upon to function in many of the worlds harshest and most remote operating environments.
Our passion for continuously improving these products and developing new technology to meet changing market challenges has resulted in a number of important new products and research developments during 2011.
Innovation creates sustainable competitive advantage for Weir, high barriers to entry and is a key enabler of our continued aim to grow faster than our end markets.
In addition to important organic growth initiatives, the acquisition in December 2011 of Seaboard Holdings extends our leading position in the production and servicing of a wide range of surface equipment targeted at unconventional upstream oil and gas markets, with strong opportunities to take Seaboard products into new markets through Weirs global networks.
The acquisition in February 2012 of Novatech expands Weirs offering in the fast-growing hydraulic fracturing pump consumables markets.
03 Doing business the right way means behaving with integrity, respecting the Dividend per share environment and the communities where we operate and providing safe working 33.0p conditions for our employees and contractors.
We have continued to focus on 35 27.0p these commitments.
The Groups Code of Conduct and programme of training 30 for Weir employees supporting the Code creates an ethical framework that is 25 21.0p 20 well understood and acted upon by Weir employees, wherever they operate.
15 The Groups sustainability initiatives have also progressed, with actions underway 10 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our businesses.
A number of initiatives 5 are in place to improve safety performance and bolster the safety culture across the Group.
Our sustainability report on pages 54 to 68 provides more detail.
2009 2010 2011 During 2011, the Board visited our operations in South America to develop a better understanding of one of our key markets.
The visit reinforced yet again the major contribution made to the success of the Weir Group by our people, wherever they operate.
The substantial investment this year in a new management and leadership development framework across the Group is a positive illustration of how we are developing talent across the organisation.
A key element in sustaining the success of the Group lies in ensuring that the right people are in the right roles and that sufficient leadership potential is being nurtured throughout the organisation to enable effective succession planning.
This framework will play an important role in developing and supporting these aims.
Central to the effective management of the business and maintaining the confidence of investors are high standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, I seek to ensure that the Board is as effective as possible and I believe strongly that this is the case.
This year the issue of diversity was focused upon, considering how this applies both at Board level and throughout the wider organisation.
The Board composition today includes experts in our principal end markets alongside City and relevant financial experience.
Of our ten directors, one is female and one a foreign national.
We will continue to consider the benefits The Board visits Weir Minerals operation in of greater diversity, in balance with ensuring the best person is appointed to Jundiai, Brasil in October 2011 the relevant role.
I would like to thank my fellow directors for their hard work and support throughout the year, including two new non-executive directors, Melanie Gee and Alan Ferguson, who added their skills and experience to the Board during 2011.
I would also like to thank three members of the Board who stand down at our annual general meeting in May.
Michael Dearden, our senior independent director and Remuneration Committee chairman, leaves the Board after nine years and Stephen King, Audit Committee chairman, leaves after six years.
Alan Mitchelson, Legal and Commercial Director, also stands down after 12 years with the Group, 11 of those as an executive director.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their excellent contributions to the Group.
Lord Robertson will become senior independent director, Alan Ferguson Audit Committee chairman and Melanie Gee Remuneration Committee chairman.
At the same time, Keith Ruddock, who is currently General Counsel for Upstream International, Royal Dutch Shell plc, will take over as General Counsel and Company Secretary.
As we seek to grow ahead of our end markets, concerns over the health of many of the worlds major economies continue.
It is difficult to predict how strong these economic headwinds could become, but we approach 2012 with the confidence that our clear strategy and flexible business model will enable continued progress.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 29 February 2012
