Directors report and business review Chairmans statement Chairmans statement I am pleased to report another good year for the The Travel business has delivered further profit Group, despite the challenging economic conditions.
growth despite continued soft passenger numbers.
We had not been anticipating any improvement in Travels customers were inevitably impacted by the theconsumer environment during the year and we weather pre-Christmas and the economic climate planned accordingly.
The Groups performance more generally.
However we have continued to grow, demonstrates our resilience and ability to deliver demonstrating the strength of the business model.
inatough trading climate as we continue to grow Wehave made further good progress in both our ourTravel business, strengthen our core categories established and newer channels.
We continue to inthe High Street and create value for shareholders.
identify opportunities for growth in the UK, opening 35new units during the year including four units The Group remains highly cash generative with a under the Funky Pigeon brand.
Internationally, the strong balance sheet as we continue to focus on WHSmith brand and offer have been well received profitability and cash generation.
Group profit before andwe have demonstrated that we can add value tax was four per cent ahead of last year at 93m.
We now have revenue for the Group was down three per cent at 32units open ininternational locations, including airports, railway stations and shopping malls, and are The Groups performance demonstrates pleased with theprogress in this growing business.
ourresilience and ability to deliver in a tough High Street has delivered a resilient performance aswe continue to make progress with our strategy trading climate torebalance the mix of our business by building authority in our core categories, one example being 1.27 billion, with like-for-like LFL sales down the development of our online personalised greetings 1 fiveper cent.
Free cash flow was strong at 96m.
cards offer through the Funky Pigeon brand.
Margin Thisperformance has led the Board to recommend optimisation and tight cost control are an ongoing afinal dividend of 15.3p.
During the year we have focus, and this was particularly true in the poor alsoreturned 55m of cash to shareholders via a weather conditions pre-Christmas.
In October we share buyback.
On 31 August 2011 the Company also announced our plans to deliver cost savings during announced its intention to make a further return of up the year and we exceeded these plans by 3m, to 50m of cash to shareholders via a share buyback.
achieving total cost savings of 14m in the year.
Thebusiness continues to be highly cash generative 2 and delivered profits up by two per cent.
We continue to invest in the High Street estate and opened 39 new stores during the year, including the stores acquired from the British Bookshops and Stationers chain.
1 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, and net interest received.
2 High Street and Travel operating profit are stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
WH Smith PLC 4 Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements My sincere thanks go to our management teams, staff This year saw changes to the Board.
John Barton, who and suppliers, especially during the pre-Christmas had served as a non-executive director for 12 years, snow, when they worked hard to react quickly to retired from the Board on 10 June 2011.
On behalf of changes in trading conditions and maintain the best the Board, I would like to thank John for his immense possible service for our customers.
Without their contribution to the Group.
Jeff Harris who joined the ongoing loyalty and support throughout the year, Board on 10 June 2011, brings extensive retail and wecould not have achieved these results.
finance expertise and both I and my colleagues on theBoard are very pleased to be working with him.
Our Corporate Responsibility CR programme continues to help manage risk, identify operational Whilst we continue to expect the economic efficiencies and new opportunities.
As a leading environment to remain challenging, we believe that stationer, forest sourcing remains a focus and we now the Group is well-positioned for the year ahead and source 72 per cent of our own brand timber and paper weremain focused on implementing our strategy.
products from sustainably managed sources, with an increase in the number of products now showing the Walker Boyd Forest Stewardship Council logo.
Our efforts in all Chairman areas of CR continue to be recognised inthe Business in the Community CRIndex, where weare delighted 13 October 2011 tohave been awardedthe Platinum ranking for the fourth year running.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 5
