Chairmans statement Over the next twelve months the focus will be on strengthening our value propositions, controlling costs and accelerating our expansion.
I am pleased to report another year in long term growth.
Over the next of successful results for Whitbread.
twelve months the focus will be We have achieved strong revenue, on strengthening our customer profit and EPS growth against propositions to deliver even the backdrop of an uncertain greater value, controlling costs and economic environment, with the accelerating the expansion of our consumer coming under increasing network to win market share and pressure.
Our determined focus to increase profits.
Longer term, we give customers value for money, have new growth targets in place win market share and keep tight for Premier Inn and Costa.
control of costs is serving us well.
Dividend During 2010 11 Premier Inns drive The Board recommends a final to attract the leisure market has dividend of 33.25p per share, reaped rewards with weekend making a total dividend for the year occupancy at record levels as of 44.50p per share, up by 17.1%.
customers take advantage of The final dividend will be paid on our Premier Offers.
While in our 13 July 2011 to shareholders on the restaurant brands the meal deals register at the close of business have proven popular with one third on 13 May 2011.
Once again, a scrip of all customers selecting them dividend alternative will be offered from the menus.
Costa has had and further information on how another stellar year as it continues shareholders can elect to participate to expand at pace, reaching a in the scrip dividend scheme are milestone of 50 million profit.
available from the registrars or on the Companys website.
Over the past year we opened 22 new hotels and eight new Board restaurants in the UK and over 300 We announced last March that coffee shops across the world.
In Alan Parker would retire as Chief the UK alone our outlet expansion Executive in November 2010 has created some 1,500 additional and would hand over to Andy jobs.
I am pleased to report that Harrison.
I would like to thank our employees have now achieved Alan for his commitment to around 2,500 qualifications through Whitbread and for his achievements the apprenticeship and skills for as Chief Executive over more than life programmes.
As I said last year, under his leadership Whitbread grew to We conducted an orderly Chief become the UKs leading hospitality Executive succession process, as company with a strong focus on a result of which Andy Harrison value for money brands.
He took over as Chief Executive when Alan There have been two other changes Parker retired in November.
Andy to the Board since I wrote to you settled quickly into the role.
Philip Clarke relevant experience and approach stepped down from our Board on of rigorous evolution are serving 1 March 2011 when he took over as us well as he seeks to build on the new Chief Executive of Tesco.
the strengths and success of the I would like to take this opportunity Company by further developing to thank Philip for his important and accelerating the growth of our contribution to the Board and to strong brands.
the development of our business.
In particular his emphasis on customer While we believe the economic focus and competitiveness has been outlook will remain challenging, a great influence on the Company.
our good return on capital and He leaves with our very best wishes continued positive performance for the future.
give the Board confidence to invest 2 Our increasingly focused strategy and drive to meet the needs of our customers enabled us to deliver another excellent set of results, with a 17% higher dividend, and position us well for the future.
On 1 February 2011 Ian Cheshire People was appointed as an independent On page 8, you will see the non-executive director.
Ian has customer heartbeat model that been Chief Executive of Kingfisher Andy Harrison has introduced plc since 2008.
He has held a since his arrival.
A vital ingredient number of other roles at that in that model is the quality, company including Chief Executive enthusiasm and commitment of of B&Q and CEO International and Whitbreads employees throughout Development since joining in 1998. the organisation.
The Companys We are delighted to welcome Ian performance is entirely dependent to our Board.
As a serving Chief upon the ability of team members Executive of a large successful to provide customers with high international consumer-facing quality service and I would like business, Ian is already giving us to thank them all on behalf of valuable advice and support as the Board for their invaluable we continue to grow both in the contribution to another good year UK and internationally.
Ian is also for the Company.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a role previously held by Philip Clarke.
Governance Later in this report, on pages 26 to 30, you will find the annual corporate governance report and Anthony Habgood I hope you will agree that it is laid Chairman out in a helpful and user-friendly style.
Clearly though governance 27 April 2011 is about a good deal more than ticking the right boxes to show compliance with the Code and Im pleased to say that here at Whitbread we are determined to manage the Company in a transparent and ethical manner.
I take personal responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and I am pleased to report that it is functioning well.
I believe that we have an appropriate mix of knowledge and skills around the Board table and the results of the Board review we carried out during the year were positive.
