2 Chairmans statement Highlights 2010 11 Strong performance in tough times Profit up year-on-year Earnings per share increased Cash generation improved page 22 for the Operational review Colleague recognition Awarded Retail Employer of the Year 2010 by The Grocer Gold awards Training our 132,000 colleagues through our award-winning Academy 9% increase in profit share pool Shareholder investment and returns Sir Ian Gibson Financial strategy reinforced Chairman Three year commitment to double-digit annual dividend growth Rebalancing of the split between our interim and final dividend payments to be c30:70 in future Two year equity retirement programme to cancel 1bn ordinary shares purchased from the market Another good year page 28 for more on financial strategy with record sales and customer numbers This has been another good year for Morrisons.
In a difficult consumer environment, increasing numbers of customers have recognised the great value and quality of our offer and we have again Retail Industry Awards delivered record profits.
We have ambitious plans to take Morrisons unique offer to more Retail Industry Awards: customers through our accelerating new store Store Manager of the Year Fresh Produce Retailer of the Year programme and through the development of Meat Retailer of the Year Drinks Retailer of the Year new channels.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 3 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 874m 12% increase 17 % increase Profit before tax increased compared Underlying earnings per share increased Total dividend for the year has increased to last years 858m, which included to 23.0p from 20.5p in 2009 10.
8.37 p 46m 1.3m The Board has recommended a final dividend The profit share pool for our colleagues raised for our Charity of the Year of 8.37p per share, bringing the total is 46m, an increase of 9% on the Help the Hospices.
dividend for the year to 9.60p per share.
I am pleased to report another year of strong progress for Mark Gunter, the Groups Retail Director, retires from the Morrisons.
Sales growth was ahead of the market, confirming Board following our AGM in June 2011, after which he will that our offer remains in tune with the needs of our customers, remain an adviser to the Group before full retirement in June whilst our solid profit and dividend growth is evidence that 2012.
Mark has served on the Board for over ten years of his we continue to thrive in a challenging economic environment.
Dalton Philips, our new CEO, arrived early in the year and quickly We are deeply appreciative of their outstanding contributions began to make his mark.
He has shaped his senior management to Morrisons growth over many years.
team with a great blend of new and existing talent, and between them they have developed a clear plan to deliver the next stage As a consequence of these changes, the Group will have two of Morrisons growth, with a vision to be Different and Better Executive Directors going forward, the Chief Executive and the than Ever.
Results As previously announced, Paul Manduca, our Senior Independent Profit before tax was 874m, compared with the prior years Director, stepped down from the Board on 9 March 2011.
858m which included an exceptional credit of 91m.
Underlying Additionally, Brian Flanagan, a Non-Executive Director since 2005, profit before tax, which we regard as the measure of true business has indicated that it is his intention to step down from the Board performance, was up 13% to 869m.
Statutory basic earnings per immediately following the AGM in June 2011.
Paul and Brian have share were 23.9p, an increase of 5% over the previous year, whilst both made an enormous contribution, over more than five years, underlying basic earnings per share increased by 12% to 23.0p.
to the stabilisation and subsequent success of the Group and In accordance with our policy of increasing the dividend in line we are extremely grateful for their efforts.
with underlying earnings growth and moving dividend cover in line with the sector average, the Board is recommending a final Colleagues dividend of 8.37p per share, bringing the total dividend for the Morrisons commitment to providing our customers with year to 9.6p, an increase of 17%.
outstanding value, quality and service has once again been recognised with numerous industry awards.
We were particularly Our cash generation was again strong, with cash from operations proud to be awarded Employer of the Year in The Grocer Gold of 1.1bn, up 127m 13% over the previous year.
Capital Awards, in recognition of our commitment to the training and expenditure of 592m was well within earlier guidance, and was career development of our 132,000 colleagues.
I am delighted lower than the prior years 916m which had included the opening that our growth during the year will provide a profit share pool of a new regional distribution centre and a package of stores from for them of 46m, an increase of 9% over last year.
We expect the rate of investment to pick up again in of the Board I want to express my thanks to them for their 2011 12, as we invest in further distribution capacity and a higher dedication, professionalism and hard work throughout the year.
rate of new store openings.
Charitable donations Net debt was 817m, a decrease of 107m over the year, to Our colleagues and customers are always enthusiastic supporters leave gearing at 15%, a level well below the average for the of our charitable activities and I am pleased that this year has sector.
At the year end the Group had undrawn, committed been no exception.
Raise a Smile is Morrisons campaign to bank facilities of 625m.
support charities by bringing together our suppliers, customers and colleagues to help make a real difference.
This year we were The Board pleased to have raised 1.3m for Help the Hospices, our Charity Martyn Jones, the Groups Trading Director, took on the new role of the Year which supports local hospices for children and adults of Group Corporate Services Director during the year, extending with a life-limiting or terminal illness.
We also contributed 0.4m his 20 years of service with the business, whilst stepping down to the Pakistan flood appeal.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
