04 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement Delivering shareholder value I am pleased to present my first statement to shareholders as Chairman of Wolseley and to report on a year of substantial progress across the Group.
A return to like-for-like revenue growth, together with a continuing focus on improving customer service, cash generation, cost reduction and margin protection have produced a strong set of results despite a weak economic climate.
Our Executive team, led byIan Meakins, has also made robust and encouraging progress during the year on strategic initiatives, in particular in refocusing Wolseley on those businesses where we have In summary or can create leading market positions.
Several disposals ofnon-core businesses have been announced in the year.
Atthe same time, in the core business the leadership teams have continued to impose greater rigour on the management Dividend reinstated.
and execution of strategy at the business unit level, which Successful redomiciliation to Switzerland.
willserve us well in the future.
Board refreshed with three new Group results appointments.
I am particularly pleased to report a strong set of financial results for 2010 11.
Like-for-like revenue growth for the year ended 31 July 2011 was 5 per cent and headline earnings per share was strongly ahead at 142.9 pence 2010: 74.1 pence.
Wecontinue to place a high degree of emphasis on generating cash.
Our balance sheet remains strong and our adjusted netdebtposition at 31 July 2011 improved by 490 million to705 million.
Dividend In view of the Groups improved prospects and strengthened financial position, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 30 pence per share.
Together with an interim dividend of 15 pence per share paid in May 2011, the total dividend for financial year 2010 11 will amount to 45 pence per share, costing 127 million.
Our policy is to grow the dividend over time, taking into account the significant opportunities for investment in profitable organic growth andselected bolt-on acquisitions.
The Group will continue totarget adjusted net debt in the range of 1x and 2x EBITDA, consistent with investment grade credit metrics.
For our Corporate governance report see page 56 Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 05 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Atthe same time Nigel Stein also stepped down as a Non Redomiciliation to Switzerland Executive Director as a result of his increasing commitments In November 2010, we completed the incorporation of as Chief Executive of GKN plc and President of the Society Wolseley plc in Jersey, a new holding company for the ofMotor Manufacturers and Traders.
He was a valued Group, tax resident in Switzerland, which has a less complex colleague and we wish him continued success.
Andy Duff and more certain system of taxation compared to the UK.
has assumed responsibility as the Companys Senior The business case for redomiciling wascompelling and the Independent Director.
Board felt strongly that action was required to keep the In March 2011, Tessa Bamford and Michael Clarke joined Groups effective tax rate competitive and that the action theBoard as Non Executive Directors.
Tessa is a Consultant wasin the best interests of shareholders.
The redomiciliation atsearch rm Spencer Stuart and is also a Non Executive does not make any substantive changes to ourcorporate Director of Barratt Developments plc.
Michael was recently governance or to any existing investor protection measures, appointed as Chief Executive of Premier Foods Plc and was nor has it had any adverse tax implications forshareholders.
previously President of Kraft Foods, Europe.
We recently Iam conscious of the UK coalition Governments publicly announced that Karen Witts will join the Board as a stated desire to simplify UK tax law asit applies to NonExecutive Director, she brings with her tremendous multinational corporations such as Wolseley, and the Board experience insenior finance roles at Vodafone and BT.
will keep the Companys position under review should the UK tax environment changematerially.
The Board and I welcome the findings of the Davies Report Women on Boards which recommends that targets are set Governance for the appointment of women to Boards and Executive Committees.
Our recent appointments to the Board The Board is committed to the highest standards of meanthat we are substantially in line with Lord Davies corporate governance.
It recognises that it is accountable recommendations.
Our objective here is to deliver an tothe Companys shareholders for good governance, optimum level of skills and experience to lead the Company tofacilitate efficient and effective management in order in its future developments.
We also continue to put a todeliver shareholder value over the long term, within significant effort into succession planning for Executives, appropriately established risk parameters.
The Directors, NonExecutive Directors and all senior management.
both individually and collectively, take governance seriously and I am satisfied, as borne out again by this years Board People review, that our Board operates effectively, is properly engaged on critical matters and that all Directors set Lastly and most importantly, I would like to thank all our asidethe time required to full their duties.
Following the employees and pay tribute to their dedication, professionalism redomiciliation to Switzerland, a new meeting schedule and loyalty to Wolseley: they have delivered a very good set wasdeveloped for the Board and its Committees, which of results for our shareholders.
As a service business, at hasresulted in higher quality discussion of the issues facing Wolseley our people really do make all the difference.
Further details are outlined on pages 56 to 70.
Board changes I have also reviewed the composition of the Board with the Nominations Committee and we have refreshed the team with three new Non Executive Directors.
I am confident that these appointments will ensure that the Board continues to operate with a broad and diverse range of complementary skills and Gareth Davis Chairman specialised knowledge to take the Company forward.
In November 2010, following the redomiciliation, Alain Le Goff stepped down from the Board as a Non Executive Director.
The Board and I were sorry to see Alain leave and we wish himwell for the future.
In January 2011, John Whybrow retired as Chairman having served nearly 13 years as a Non Executive Director, eight ofwhich were as Wolseley Chairman.
John steered the Company and the Board through a time of considerable change and we thank him for his steadfast leadership andhiswise counsel.
We wish him well for his retirement.
