06 Introduction Chairmans Statement Results I am pleased to report that in this, my first full year as chairman, Atkins has progressed well in what has proved to be a transformational year for the Group.
I am particularly pleased to see that the Group has extended its geographic presence with the acquisition of the North American based consultancy PBSJ rebranded Atkins with effect 1 April 2011 on 1 October 2010.
This strategic Good results in acquisition provides increased resilience in a challenging economic environment.
a transformational It also demonstrates our ability to succeed in pursuing growth opportunities during year prove our difficult times in a number of our markets.
In the year ended 31 March 2011 the Groups revenue increased by 12.7% to 1,564.3m, with staff numbers increasing by approximately 2,000.
On an underlying basis the Groups operating profit rose by 7.5% to 118.7m and the Groups operating margin was 7.6%.
This improvement in underlying operating profit was achieved despite challenging economic conditions in a number of our markets.
The underlying operating profit excludes transaction expenses of 8.0m and intangible amortisation of 3.7m relating to the PBSJ acquisition.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Introduction 07 The Groups liquidity remains strong, driven role with an excellent track record and The Board continues to play an important by a good cash performance in the second a low carbon legacy.
The Board and I are part in the corporate governance of the half of the year, and we ended the year delighted that Keith will remain with the Group and we have a strong independently with net funds of 123.3m.
Group as director of sustainability and to minded Board encompassing experienced assist with the development of our Middle non-executive directors.
During the year Our growth in staff numbers is East business and we would like to thank we held Board meetings in the UK and predominantly as a result of the PBSJ him for his tremendous contribution North America.
I was pleased to meet our acquisition.
We have continued to flex to Atkins.
new colleagues in North America and was staffing levels as we anticipate market delighted to see first-hand the cultural fit demand for our services.
On behalf of the Board I would like to of the combined business.
welcome his successor, Dr Uwe Krueger As we had expected, in a number of our and I am delighted that a businessman We remain committed to health and safety markets, fiscal budgets have remained of Uwes calibre will continue the Groups improvement, beyond that required by law, under pressure throughout the year.
development as a highly successful in the regions in which we operate.
It is However, the future for the built multinational organisation.
with deepest regret that we report on environment will bring more complex the fatality of a staff member and serious engineering challenges as our clients put Sir Peter Williams, a non-executive director injury to a contractors staff member that greater emphasis on planning and design and chairman of the Remuneration occurred in October at Houston Airport, disciplines to achieve maximum value from Committee, has announced his resignation, USA while we were overseeing the their infrastructure programmes.
This is and will retire from the Board of Atkins construction of an Automated People our core competence and therefore we following the conclusion of the Companys Mover.
We have carried out our own are confident that we can continue to Annual General Meeting, to be held on investigation, in addition to cooperating offer our clients effective solutions.
Peter joined the Board in with the relevant authorities, and we have 2004 and has made a tremendous subsequently implemented changes to People contribution to Atkins, with a passionate systems and procedures as a consequence.
Atkins is a technical design and engineering understanding of the work that we do.
consultancy and we rely on the ability On behalf of the Board I would like to Dividend of our employees to satisfy our clients thank him for his support over the past The Board is recommending a final requirements.
I continue to be impressed seven years and wish him well for the dividend of 19.5p, making the total with the professionalism, talent and future.
dividend for the year 29.0p 2010: 27.5p, commitment of our staff who are an increase of 5.5%.
If approved, the delivering very effective solutions to our I would like to thank all our employees dividend will be paid on 30 September clients complex infrastructure challenges.
throughout the Group for their 2011 to ordinary shareholders on the This is particularly impressive when budgets commitment and effort during this register on 26 August 2011. are under pressure and we are making transformational year for the Group.
staff reductions in certain sectors across Outlook our business.
I would also like to take this opportunity to The Group continues to demonstrate its welcome new staff members, particularly resilience in difficult economic conditions, We continue to invest in the training those in our North American operation, while at the same time delivering our and development of our people and, in who have joined us during the year.
strategy through geographic and sector particular, in the development of a suite diversification supported by a strong of carbon calculation tools to help our Board of directors balance sheet.
The Board remains staff and clients deliver lower carbon As chairman of the Board I am responsible confident in the Groups strategy and engineering solutions.
for ensuring the effective management its ability to deliver shareholder value, of the Board, its agenda and processes and its outlook for the current year We announced on 2 June 2011 that Keith and I have set out my commitment to remains unchanged.
Clarke will retire from his position as chief excellence in governance in my letter executive and director of Atkins on 31 July to shareholders accompany this report Allan Cook CBE 2011.
Keith has steered the Group back to on page 64.
Chairman a high performing business, successfully 15 June 2011 navigated a world recession and charted the course for growth and he leaves the WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction
