Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Chairmans introduction Governance Group accounts Company accounts 2011 has been another good year for Babcock.
Our financial results This year I was pleased to welcome Ian Duncan to the Board.
Ian has demonstrate the underlying strength of the business we have created awealth of financial experience and will be taking over from John through the acquisition of VT. Rennocks as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee following the AGM in July.
In March we announced that John would be retiring from Following the General Election in May, many commentators were the Board on 31 December 2011. concerned that the coalition Governments determination to deal with the UKs fiscal deficit and achieve savings, through its Comprehensive In April we announced that Kate Swann, CEO of WH Smith PLC, Spending Review CSR and Strategic Defence and Security Review wouldbe joining the Board on 1 June as a Non-Executive Director.
SDSR, would negatively impact the Group.
The outcome of these Katebrings a wealth of commercial experience and I look forward reviews, along with our ongoing discussions with the Ministry towelcoming her to the Board.
ofDefence MoD and Cabinet Office have, in fact, been positive.
Wehave identified a number of opportunities where our enhanced Our people capabilities following the VT acquisition mean we are better placed Through the acquisition of VT we now have more than 27,000 toassist them with the delivery of savings on current projects as well employees across the globe.
On behalf of the Board, I would like asthrough new outsourcing initiatives, without affecting the financial tothank them all for their ongoing commitment to ensuring our expectations of the Group.
customers achieve the very highest standards of operational excellence and the superior levels of customer service they have cometo expect Headline results from both Babcock and VT. Revenue for the year was 2.9 billion 2010: 1.9 billion a 50%increase and operating profit was 286.9 million 2010: 164.7million a 74% Outlook increase, the financial results benefiting from both theacquisition of VT We remain confident that in the current economic climate, as well as organic growth across the Group.
Profitbefore tax increased ourmarketscontinue to provide excellent long-term growth prospects by 57% to 228.2 million 2010: 145.2million.
Earnings per share has with potential for significant further outsourcing opportunities.
increased to 55.03 pence pershare 2010: 51.37 pence per share.
In this environment, strengthened by the acquisition of VT, the scale The Board remains committed to ensuring our shareholders share in of our operations, the breadth of our expertise and our track record of theongoing success of our business.
Reflecting our confidence in the delivering both operational and financial efficiencies place us in a strong strength of our business and the opportunities the Group has for future position from which to benefit.
growth, we are recommending a final dividend of 14.20 pence per The Board remains confident in the outlook for the Group.
We have share, this will give a total dividend for the year of 19.40 pence per excellent long-term visibility, through our 12 billion order book, share anincrease of 50% 2010: 17.60 pence per share, comprising two our 8.5 billion bid pipeline which is growing as new outsourcing interim dividends of 12.80 pence per share and 4.80 pence per share.
opportunities are created and our involvement in long-term The dividend will be paid on 9 August 2011, to shareholders on the programmes delivering critical support for our customers.
We look register at close of business on 8 July 2011. forward to making further good progress this year and thereafter.
The Board In November 2010, Lord Hesketh resigned from his position as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Alexander had been a member of Mike Turner CBE theBoard since 1993 and I would like to thank him for the significant Chairman contribution he made to the development of the Company during thattime.
As I mentioned in my report last year, following the appointment of Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas as Executive Directors we would be seeking to appoint at least one new Non-Executive Director to retain anappropriate balance of executive and non-executive knowledge andexperience on the Board.
We have continued to make good progress building on the strength oflast years results, the acquisition ofVT has created an excellent platform for future growth.
