4 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CHAIRMANS LETTER Dick Olver Chairman BAE Systems maintains a well-defined strategy with a defence focus under review and will move to adjust its portfolio of businesses where at its core, but with the flexibility to adapt to changes in the business it is in the interests of shareholders to do so.
As markets have evolved, with changing customer BAE Systems has been successful in its drive for cost efficiencies to priorities, the Groups strategy has also evolved to good effect.
enhance competitiveness, and generate value through higher return There were three essential elements to the Groups strategy in 2011, on sales and the generation of cash flow.
With the benefit of that cash each of which progressed in the year.
Firstly, the Group targeted flow, the Groups allocation of capital aims to address pension development of export business to sustain and, over time, build on its obligations, organic investment in the business, pay dividends, established Platforms business.
Secondly, it sought to build on the generate accelerated returns to shareholders when the balance sheet geographic footprint which is a differentiating characteristic of the allows and fund business development for the longer term.
Thirdly, the Group targeted growth in the cybersecurity market.
allocation in 2011 addressed all these items, including a 500m As a consequence of the actions taken to support this strategy, repurchase of the Groups shares.
BAESystems has developed significant capability in the field of BAE Systems is a results-focused business, but great importance is cybersecurity.
also attached to the way it conducts its business.
The Group With budget pressures now prevalent in many markets, and expected continues to pursue an integrated approach to performance in all to continue, sales growth has become more challenging.
Recognising aspects of its business life.
This Total Performance approach includes the significant changes taking place in its markets, the Group will the setting of financial and non-financial objectives for management.
continue to develop within this strategic framework, driving from its Further details of this Total Performance approach, and the way it established core defence capabilities to address the emergent embraces all employees, can be found on page 9 of this report.
demand for cybersecurity and intelligence capabilities, to address BAE Systems is committed to maintaining a work environment in which higher growth segments of the electronics markets, and build on its a diverse range of talented people work together to improve business successes in international markets.
A diverse workforce, with Agility at all levels of the Group is becoming ever more important employees drawn from all backgrounds, encourages innovation, whether it be responding to meet urgent customer requirements or improves productivity and brings the Group closer to its customers.
moving to re-position the Groups business portfolio to address Consistent with this commitment to improve the diversity of its changes in markets.
BAE Systems will continue to keep its strategy workforce, the Group currently meets its aspirational target of having at least 25% of the Board consisting of women.
Following the publication of the report by the Woolf Committee in 2008, the Group initiated an extensive programme to address the Agility at all levels of the 23recommendations of the Committee.
Implementation of that programme was completed in May 2011.
This has established a firm Group is becoming ever platform on which we continue to build.
The Group remains committed to a programme of continuous improvement to position BAE Systems moreimportant.
in the vanguard of best practice in the area of responsible business conduct.
Strategic review BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 5 Dividend pence per share 7.4% 25 increase in dividend on 2010 20 18.8 17.5 16.0 15 14.5 12.8 10 5 0 07 08 09 10 11 The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.3p per share making a total of 18.8p per share for the year.
In May 2011, the Company and the US Department of State reached a was appointed a non-executive director.
Having completed a second civil settlement in connection with violations of the US defence export term of three years as a non-executive director, Roberto Quarta stood control regulations that were the subject of the earlier settlement with down from the Board at the end of 2011.
Also, after nearly nine years the US Justice Department announced by the Company in 2010. on the Board, Michael Hartnall will stand down at the Annual General Under the agreement with the Department of State, the Company Meeting on 2 May 2012.
I would like to record my thanks and agreed to pay a fine of up to $79m 49m in respect of alleged civil appreciation for the contributions that both Roberto and Michael have violations.
The fine is payable over a period of three years, subject to a made to the working of the Board and its committees.
reduction of up to $10m 6m in respect of the cost of enhanced Summary export control compliance measures already implemented by the In the current challenging business environment, the Group continues Company and planned for implementation during the four-year period to take the actions the Board believes are necessary to remain from the settlement date.
In addition, a limited number of the competitive and to deliver value for shareholders.
Companys UK-originated export programmes will be subjected to enhanced administrative review, which is not expected to adversely In addition to its well established positions on priority programmes, impact the Companys current or future export programmes.
The providing key capabilities to support the needs of defence and security Company also agreed to make additional commitments concerning its customers, the Group has strong positions in electronic systems and ongoing compliance and, pursuant to those commitments, appointed cybersecurity, together with significant international presence.
These a Special Compliance Official for a period of up to three years to strengths provide a good base of activity which, with a continued focus monitor compliance with such commitments.
on cost, is expected to result in a resilient business performance.
The success of the business is built on the hard work, creativity and The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.3p per share commitment of our workforce.
I am pleased to be able to recognise making a total of 18.8p per share for the year, an increase of 7.4% formally many of their achievements through the annual Chairmans over 2010.
At this level, the annual dividend is covered 2.1 times by Awards.
We were delighted to also see external recognition.
Joe underlying earnings from continuing operations excluding the R&D tax Murphy, Training Co-ordinator Structural Welding, and Philip Burns, benefit 2010 2.3 times.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Engineering Manager, for Submarine Solutions, were made Members 2012 Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 June of the Order of the British Empire MBE for services to the defence 2012 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 20 April 2012. industry.
Directors and management George Rose, Group Finance Director, retired from the Board on 31March 2011 after 19 years with the Group.
Peter Lynas, previously Director, Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury, was appointed Group Finance Director with effect from 1 April 2011, and joined the Board and Executive Committee on that date.
Dick Olver Chairman Also with effect from 1 April 2011, Ravi Uppal, a non-executive director, stood down from the Board and Paula Rosput Reynolds was appointed a non-executive director of the Company.
