Overview Chairmans message Real growth opportunitiesboth in existing and new markets Balfour Beatty continued to perform strongly during 2011.
This was despite difficult trading conditions in our twolargest markets.
Steve Marshall Chairman Underlying earnings per share Dividends per share 9% 9% 1 Underlying earnings per share Final dividend of 8.5p per up by 2.8p to 35.5p ordinary share, giving a total 2010: 32.7p dividend for 2011 of 13.8p 2010: 12.7p 1 From continuing operations, before non-underlying items.
View our online report at: http: annualreport11.
com 10 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Balfour Beatty continued to perform strongly during 2011.
This While Balfour Beattys core markets continue to provide the bulk wasdespite difficult trading conditions in our two largest markets.
ofthe Groups revenue, the make-up of the business and its involvement in new areas of opportunity is also creating a sense A relentless focus on operational delivery for our customers and ofchange in the way in which the business operates.
This is to onenhancing the Groups reputation enabled us to successfully bewelcomed.
deliver numerous high-profile project commitments such as theAquatics Centre for the 2012 London Olympics and also We have seen a good performance in our professional services tomaintain a strong forward order book into 2012 and beyond.
business and, in turn, people here have worked hard alongside Effortsto accelerate the realisation of the Groups long-term colleagues in other businesses to secure important pieces of work strategy, based on deploying and sharing our combined expertise in areas that would not otherwise have been seen as opportunities worldwide, have also been a major focus.
The Chief Executives for Balfour Beatty.
This welcome development reinforces the importance of engaging with our customers at a very early stage in the planning process.
Go to P12 P21 for more information on the Embedding greater efficiency and an effective cross-team working Chief Executives review and our strategy culture translates into enhanced value for customers and the business as a whole.
In turn, this ensures we maintain a strong focus on sustainability and in this years report we have sought to This combination of strategic focus and development of new ensure we reflect this critical area throughout the narrative.
It is a opportunities enabled Balfour Beatty to withstand the impact of core part of what we do and there is more information on this in tough economic conditions in our two largest markets the UK and the way we work.
As a result, the business at year-end was again able to report an order book of more than 15bn for the second successive year, a significant achievement given prevailing economic conditions, Go to P48 P51 for more information which included major cuts in public spending on both sides of the on the way we work Atlantic.
In addition, underlying profit from continuing operations has been resilient, as we reported year-on-year growth of 5m Safety continues to be an area of unrelenting attention for the Board or2%.
and the management team, and over the course of 2012, the goal As you will hear from Ian Tyler later in this report, despite the tough of delivering on our Zero Harm vision takes on an even sharper economic backdrop, there are real growth opportunities both in level of focus.
Balfour Beatty is investing significant efforts in positioning itself to take advantage of these.
As a Group, Very significant steps have been taken to improve safety we operate across the infrastructure lifecycle.
This gives us a performance, nevertheless the fact is that the sector in which our unique insight into the performance of our customers critical business operates is one where risk remains a constant and it is assets.
Progressively, this will enable us toadd value to our with sadness that the Board learned of five fatalities during the customers in a way that others cannot, differentiating Balfour Beatty course of the year, all of which were in our business in Hong Kong.
from its competitors in its chosen markets.
Steps are being taken to address this with our joint venture partner.
In 2012, the Group will be focusing on three key strategic priorities: As I mentioned above, the economic challenges facing our delivering greater customer value, particularly via knowledge traditional markets continue.
With these challenges it is vital that sharing and collaboration: seeking out superior growth market we maximise efficiencies throughout the Group.
This will be an opportunities in developing geographies and market sectors: and ongoing theme for the coming period.
A Group-wide culture of ensuring that our operating structure is as efficient as it can be.
efficiency is critical if our broad ambitions are to be realised.
Youwill find more on these points in Ians review.
Looking ahead Dividend We remain confident that Balfour Beatty is well positioned to In line with its existing progressive dividend policy, the Board is takeadvantage of the inevitable growth in long-term infrastructure proposing a final dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share.
This will give investment, in existing as well as in new and exciting markets.
It is a total dividend for 2011 of 13.8p, an increase of 9% on 2010. clear that the proportion of work we do away from the traditional markets and sectors will grow, albeit in a timely and controlled The Board fashion.
Pace of change and momentum is also important in a Our Board has been stable throughout the year.
Our most recent business as diverse as ours.
Management will be redoubling its non-executive appointments, Rob Amen and Iain Ferguson, efforts to capture Group-wide efficiencies and to accelerate market havecontributed rapidly and strongly with Iain taking on the development plans.
We will also work and collaborate ever more chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
closely with our key customers, as we increasingly demonstrate With Balfour Beattys increasingly diverse global and sector the benefits of our Group-wide reach and capabilities, both to our reach, it is important that we continue to ensure the aggregated customers existing and prospective and to our investors.
experience of the Board reflects the nature of these markets.
We We have every reason to be confident of playing a larger are still an all-male Board, and we are taking active steps to address international leadership role across our chosen infrastructure this during 2012, albeit any selected Board appointment must have sectors in the years ahead.
Near-term market pressures are the best overall credentials to contribute, irrespective of gender.
however likely to continue, requiring continuing focus on operational delivery and on increasing the contribution from Our people and reputation Group-wide efficiencies.
It is our people that make this business a successful one.
The Groups hard-won reputation for delivering for its customers reflects the hard work and dedication of all of our people.
I extend my thanks to all of them for their commitment and skill in helping us navigate our way through the current choppy waters.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 11
