understanding our business CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Delivering strong performance Total property return 14.8% Total return 12.7% Total property values 1.6 billion NAV per share Ian Durant, Chairman 166 pence Capco is well positioned to maintain its momentum following a year of progress and value creation in 2011. a year Of prOgress Strong total returns were generated by energetic and The Board is committed to delivering market-leading total returns to shareholders.
profitable activity in line with the strategy articulated at We aim to achieve this by combining value the time of establishing Capco as an independent company creation through capital value and income growth and adopting an innovative and in 2010.
Carefully targeted acquisitions and the drive entrepreneurial approach to managing towards creative regeneration have established a solid theGroups assets.
The portfolio of high potential, central London estates and a platform from which to continue to create value from prudent balance sheet provide the platform to deliver this commitment.
covent garden In 2011 we enhanced Covent Garden through a series of tenancy changes and acquisitions inthe latest phase of its repositioning, which resulted in a strong increase in the valuation of the estate.
This expansion was supported by the successful equity issue in May last year which raised 100 million, together with a300 million refinancing in November.
earls court and Olympia The exhibition business performed in line with expectations in 2011.
The development of Olympias West Hall, already open for business, has increased the venues ability tohost simultaneous shows.
8 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements The proposals for Earls Court reached several and Transport for London TfL.
This means that investors milestones, in particular the launch of Sir forward to working closely with the Kwok in South Africa are now able to trade shares Terry Farrells Masterplan and the submission Family Interests to take forward the Seagrave inCapco on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange of planning applications for Seagrave Road Road project.
without the previous restrictions on foreign and the wider scheme.
These illustrate holdings under South African exchange For more detail on our activities and future Capcos vision for Earls Court which has been control limits.
plans for our estates, please see pages 18 to 37 formally identified in the Mayors London in this report.
Regarding shareholder engagement, I remain Plan as an Opportunity Area with the capacity committed to meeting our shareholders and for large-scale development.
cOmmitment tO cOrpOrate the Executive team has a comprehensive respOnsibility cr In February 2012 a resolution to grant programme of investor briefings.
Capco employs people with a diverse range of planning consent for Seagrave Road was experience and expertise.
Our entrepreneurial OutlOOk received, which followed the agreement culture encourages a creative and holistic Capcos success in 2011 is the result of our ofaconditional joint venture in relation to approach to place-making, which takes into strategy of focusing on specific central the site with the Kwok Family Interests in consideration our impact on the environment London prime assets where the Group has December.
These successes will allow the and on the local communities where our adominant position.
This has allowed the Group to pursue, in partnership, the estates are based.
CR has become embedded Group to benefit from the distinct, strategic development of more than 800 homes into the fabric of our day-to-day work.
For capital and economic characteristics of atSeagrave Road.
more about the specific initiatives that aspecialist central London non-REIT the great capital partnership illustrate our strategy, please see our propertycompany.
and china dedicated CR section on pages 44 to 49.
I am in no doubt that London will benefit The Great Capital Partnership and the gOvernance enormously from the Queens Diamond Groups investments in China have continued The Board has taken particular care to Jubilee celebrations and as the host city for to perform well, allowing us to take the establish an open culture in which debate and the Olympics this year, and am proud that opportunity to realise capital to be recycled management accountability are emphasised.
Earls Court will be an integral part of the into the Groups core activities.
We encourage our people to be passionate Olympics experience having been chosen results and dividends about the estates in their stewardship but to asan official venue.
Capco delivered another year of strong maintain a high degree of objectivity about I believe the future for Capco is positive, and performance in 2011, with a total return of the use of, and the risk-adjusted returns look ahead to 2012 with optimism tempered 12.7 per cent underpinned by a rise in EPRA available from, the Groups capital.
A strong by caution regarding the macroeconomic adjusted, diluted NAV per share from corporate governance structure underpins climate.
We look forward to making further 148pence to 166 pence.
This was largely this culture.
progress on realising Londons most driven by the positive revaluation of the A full description of the activities of the Board significant urban place-making initiatives for investment properties, which increased and its Committees during the year is many years at Earls Court and Seagrave Road.
9.2per cent on a like-for-like basis, contained in the Corporate Governance report We are also confident of seeing further value outperforming IPD capital values which rose from pages 52 to 58.
During the year the Board creation at Covent Garden.
The share price increased 23 per has increasingly focused on considering the cent in 2011 which compares favourably to the Finally, I would like to thank the Executive Groups options for evolving its strategy 11 per cent fall in the FTSE Real Estate Index.
Directors and all staff for their hard work beyond the goals set out at the time of andcommitment during the past year.
I am The Directors are proposing a final dividend establishing Capco as an independent entity in confident that they are committed to meeting of 1.0 pence per share, bringing the total 2010: and reviewing planning and commercial the challenges of the year ahead.
dividend paid and payable for 2011 to decisions and critical timelines all within the 1.5pence per share.
context of effective risk management.
future OppOrtunities Following an external board effectiveness Following considerable progress in 2011, evaluation in 2010, an internal review was the Covent Garden team continues to undertaken this year.
The Board recognises implement asset management opportunities the benefits that increased gender diversity whilst considering ways in which to expand would bring and accordingly a search for Ian Durant the estates footprint that will enhance anadditional Non-executive Director is Chairman long-termvalue.
underway and a description of the ongoing 29 February 2012 recruitment process is set out on page 58.
Our immediate priorities for the Earls Court Masterplan are to secure planning consents I am pleased to report that in December, across the wider area and to conclude the Capco shares were classified as domestic for commercial transactions with the London trading purposes on the Johannesburg Stock Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham LBHF Exchange, where the Company has a www.
