Chairmans Statement average premium of 4.9 per cent to the published NAV per share.
The Companys strong performance for the year is attributable in the main to its retail and office properties in Central London, in particular, Wimbledon Broadway, London SW19 and the Companys largest property, St. Christophers Place Estate, London W1.
The completion during the year of the developments at Revolution Park, Chorley and 25 Great Pulteney Street, London W1 also contributed positively to performance.
Indeed, Great Pulteney Street recorded the highest total return within the portfolio.
The UK commercial property market continued to deliver positive total returns throughout 2011, Chris Russell Chairman although returns for the year were below those recorded in 2010.
Performance moderated as the period progressed and by the end of the year total returns were being driven purely by income.
The I am pleased to be reporting a further year of outperformance by the Company against its outperformance of Central London offices and benchmark index and, in challenging market shops continued in 2011 and these parts of the market delivered double digit total returns and conditions, growth in the net asset value NAV per share.
positive rental and capital growth.
In contrast, the commercial property market outside the South East The Companys NAV per share as at 31 December was significantly weaker with rental and capital 2011 was 100.5p.
This represented an increase of growth turning negative in several parts of the 4.4 per cent for the year.
The NAV total return for market.
With investors risk averse, the year saw the year was 10.9 per cent, comparing favourably prime, low yielding property generally outperform with a market portfolio return of 7.9 per cent as stock of a more secondary nature.
The sharpest measured by the benchmark Investment Property deterioration was in the retail sector, with shopping Databank IPD All Quarterly and Monthly Valued centres particularly affected.
Relative to other asset Funds.
The ungeared total return from the property classes, property benefited from a high and stable portfolio during the year was 11.4 per cent, income return in 2011, of approximately 6 per reflecting strong absolute and relative performance cent.
against the IPD benchmark return.
The portfolio The Companys main investment activity during the continues to have a strong performance record, year included acquisitions of 20.0 million for a being measured top quartile over one, three and five modern retail warehouse in East Kilbride, and years by IPD.
13.3 million for a distribution warehouse in The share price total return was 2.0 per cent and Liverpool.
These acquisitions were funded by the share price at the year end was 101.6p, available cash resources.
In addition, the Company representing a premium of 1.1 per cent to the NAV contracted to the funding of approximately per share.
Reflecting the attractive dividend level and 26.5 million for a student accommodation block in quality of the portfolio, the share price traded at a Winchester which, upon its expected completion regular premium throughout the year, with an date in 2013, will be let to the University of 4 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Winchester for a term of 25 years.
These Issue of New Ordinary Shares During the year, the Company announced that it investments were made at attractive yields which should increase the Companys revenues and would be prepared to issue new Ordinary Shares at improve its dividend cover.
a premium to NAV, on a non pre-emptive basis under existing annual authorities if it was in Full details of the investment and property shareholders and the Companys interests to do so.
management activities during the year are included On 26 January 2012, the Company issued in the Managers Review.
14,750,000 Ordinary Shares, which rank pari passu with shares in issue.
The shares were issued at a The following table provides an analysis of the price of 103.41p per share, raising an amount of movement in the NAV per share for the year: 15.3 million before issue costs, and were admitted to listing on the UKLAs Official List and to trading Pence on the London Stock Exchange on 1 February 2012.
NAV per share as at 31 December 2010 96.3 Unrealised increase in valuation of direct These new shares increased the Companys issued property portfolio 5.6 share capital by 2.2 per cent and provided additional Movement in interest rate swap 0.6 funds which are available for identified investment Net revenue 5.2 opportunities.
Dividends paid 6.0 Boardroom Diversity NAV per share as at 31 December 2011 100.5 The Board notes the proposed change to the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to the number of women on the boards of listed Dividends companies in the UK.
This and other factors, such Twelve monthly interim dividends, each of 0.5p per as diversity of skills, experience, availability of time, share, were paid during the year maintaining commitment and independence, are all taken into the annual dividend of 6.0p per share.
Barring account in the constitution of the Board and unforeseen circumstances, the Board intends that succession planning.
The majority of the Board dividends in 2012 will continue to be paid monthly at members need to be resident offshore, which also the same rate.
has an impact on the constitution of the Board.
A number of changes have been made to the Board since the Companys reconstruction in June 2009 Borrowings and Cash Balances and, while the process for future appointments will The Companys borrowings comprise 230 million of Secured Bonds, which have been assigned an Aaa necessarily be an evolving one, the Board will strive to embrace governance guidelines as well as rating by Moodys Investor Services and mature in 2015, and a 50 million secured bank loan which is fulfil the requirement of having a balance of competences, experience and independence in its repayable in 2017.
The principal covenants relating membership in order to safeguard shareholders to the bonds and loan are disclosed in notes 13 and 14 to the accounts.
As at 31 December 2011, the Companys level of Annual General Meeting gearing net of cash was 25.4 per cent which The Annual General Meeting will be held at compares with 20.6 per cent at the beginning of the 12.30 pm on Tuesday 29 May 2012 at Trafalgar year.
The movement in net gearing is due mainly to Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey.
All the investment of cash during the year.
shareholders are welcome to attend.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook Companys income stream in terms of covenant The prospects for UK commercial property are being strength and lease length.
They will seek successful adversely affected by macro-economic factors as asset management initiatives and acquisitions of the UK economy struggles to advance, credit further prime properties with attractive income markets remain constrained and the problems of the characteristics to deliver performance in the year Eurozone persist.
In this uncertain environment, ahead.
investors are expected to remain cautious and focused on core stock, and occupiers are expected to be reluctant to expand.
In addition, property returns are likely to continue to be driven by income with little prospect of capital growth.
ChrisRussell Against this challenging background, the Managers Chairman will continue to take positive steps to protect the 28March2012 6 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
