Chairman's Statement Chairmans Statement BBA Aviation produced another strong set of results in 2011 with good profit conversion and strong cash generation, despite the relatively low growth environment.
Our businesses made good operational progress throughout the year: we continued to invest in our employees and their development: we completed seven acquisitions and made additional organic investments to deliver growth and extend key lease terms demonstrating the ongoing execution of our growth strategy.
The implementation of a stable, long-term and diversified funding structure that, together with the equity placing and the Groups strong cash generation, positions the Group well Michael Harper for further investment and consolidation to complement our organic growth and continued Chairman operational improvement.
Results In 2011, our businesses continued to demonstrate their underlying strengths and capabilities, with revenue increasing by 9% excluding fuel price increases and underlying operating profits improving by 16% to $198.9 million 2010: $171.4 million due principally to increased activity across both divisions, the contribution from acquisitions and despite the inclusion in the prior year of a one-off $4.8 million pension curtailment gain.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 6% to 29.0 2010: 27.3.
We made good strategic progress on a number of fronts during the year.
Since the start of 2011 we have added 9 FBOs in the US, the Caribbean and Europe taking the total number of FBOs in our network to 112.
We also acquired the GE Aviation Systems fuel measurement business in Cheltenham, giving Legacy Support a meaningful footprint and platform for further expansion in the UK.
In addition, we successfully renewed the Groups debt facilities, achieving our strategic objectives of securing longer tenor debt, and diversifying our sources of funding, accessing the US private placement market for the first time.
The cash generative nature of BBA Aviation is once again apparent in the 2011 results, with free cash flow of $185.8 million 2010: $178.6 million.
The Groups net debt has been reduced to $403.6 million 2010: $492.8 million and leverage to 1.5 times 2010: 2.1 times.
The combination of absolute facility headroom and leverage headroom in the context of our target leverage range, mean we have ample scope to continue the execution of our growth strategy.
Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.95 2010: 9.39, taking the full year dividend up 6.5% to 13.94 2010: 13.09, with the increase reflecting the Boards continuing confidence in the Groups prospects for the future.
6 Directors Report Chairmans Statement Corporate Governance and the Board The Board firmly believes that good corporate governance is a major contributor to sustaining the delivery of strong Group operating and financial performance.
In our Corporate Governance Statement on pages 57 to 64 you can read in greater detail about the ways in which the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied in practice over the past year and the results of the Boards first externally facilitated effectiveness review.
We announced on 27 February 2012 that Susan Kilsby is joining the Board with effect from 10 April 2012.
Her international M&A experience from her distinguished career in investment banking, particularly in the US, will enable her to bring valuable skills and insights, as well as her global perspective, to the Board of BBA Aviation.
Employees The Board values the talent and commitment of all our employees and would like to thank them for their hard work in delivering the operating and financial results we achieved in 2011.
This included making further progress towards our goal of zero health and safety incidents, with 134 of our sites remaining accident-free throughout the year.
You can read more about our progress on CSR matters on pages 48 to 52.
Outlook We will continue to deliver operational improvement, to flex costs and to deploy our available capital to a strong pipeline of attractive investment and consolidation opportunities.
Whilst the macro-economic climate remains uncertain, we anticipate making further progress during the year.
Over the mediumterm, the strengths and track record of our business together with the structural drivers of our markets give us continued confidence in the attractive growth prospects for BBA Aviation and our ability to deliver superior through-cycle returns.
Michael Harper Chairman Directors Report 7
