04 04 Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement Results Peter Smith The Groups underlying profit before tax for the year increased by Chairman 7% to 50.4m 2010: 47.3m, on revenue which improved by 7% to 721.5m 2010: 677.0m.
The Groups reported profit before tax increased by 9% to 40.0m 2010: 36.8m.
Overview 2011 showed the strength of Savills position in the prime markets of the worlds key cities and the benefits of the diversification strategy we have pursued in recent years.
Our Residential Transaction Advisory revenue grew 11% primarily through the strength of our London business.
The principal Commercial markets in which we operate experienced a strong first half.
However, as we had long anticipated, markets in Asia, particularly Hong Kong, weakened in the final quarter resulting in lower profits from our Transactional businesses in the region.
Our less volatile businesses comprising Property and Facilities Management, Consultancy and Fund Management continued to grow well.
In 2011 Savills again performed well against The performance of these businesses, whose combined revenue a backdrop of volatile sentiment in many of grew 12% to 442.8m 2010: 396.9m, enabled the Group to withstand the effect of reduced transaction volumes in the year.
We continued to develop our Commercial Transaction businesses, In Continental Europe the economic turmoil since mid year reversed our Prime Residential businesses performed much of the optimism that had characterised the first six months in the core markets of Germany and France.
As we do not expect strongly and we grew Property Management, a quick recovery in these markets, in the fourth quarter we Fund Management and Consulting revenues.
implemented further restructuring of our Southern European businesses whilst, at the same time, continuing to invest in the core European cities.
Cordea Savills, the Groups Fund Management business, further improved performance throughout its European platform raising capital, winning some high quality mandates and increasing profits by 38%.
Business Development The industry saw significant consolidation activity during the year.
Over the last decade, Savills strategy has been to bolt smaller acquisitions onto our strong core business, and we continue to implement this approach.
Accordingly, during the year we made a number of acquisitions to improve our service or geographical offering to clients.
These included the acquisition of Thomas Davidson & Partners, a UK agency focused on the retail sector in London, Stadsmuren AB, and Loudden AB, property, project and facilities management businesses in Sweden, CKH Strata Property Management Limited in Singapore and in the UK, the London Planning Practice.
These, together with the recruitment of individuals and small teams, complement our existing activities well.
They inevitably have an impact on short term profitability but represent investment in future growth.
Since the year end Cordea Savills has acquired an asset management business in Germany and we have further strengthened our Central London investment advisory business through the acquisition of Gresham Down Capital Partners LLP.
Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 05 05 Our business Our governance Our results As part of our strategy to reshape the business for the long term, in People April we announced the sale of the majority of our interest in Savills On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my thanks to all our Private Finance Limited, the leading UK mortgage broker.
Renamed people worldwide for their hard work, commitment and continued SPF Private Clients Limited, the business is majority owned by its focus on client service enabling the Group to deliver a strong set management team, with Savills retaining an investment of 19.99%.
of results in variable markets.
Dividends Outlook An initial interim dividend of 3.15p net per share 2010: 3.0p 2012 has started well but we anticipate a continuation of amounting to 3.9m was paid on 25 October 2011, and a final challenging transaction market conditions in the first half, with ordinary dividend of 6.35p 2010: 6.0p is recommended, making greater market confidence emerging to improve financial the ordinary dividend 9.5p for the year 2010: 9.0p.
In addition, performance during the second half of the year.
a supplemental interim dividend of 4.0p 2010: 4.0p is declared, We anticipate further recovery in the US, relative stability in the based upon the underlying performance of our Transaction Prime Central London Residential and Commercial businesses Advisory business.
Taken together, the ordinary and supplemental and continued growth in Fund Management.
In Asia, we expect a dividends comprise an aggregate distribution for the year of somewhat reduced volume of transactions but the impact of this 13.5p per share, representing an increase of 4% on the 2010 should be largely mitigated by further growth in China and in our aggregate dividend of 13.0p.
The final ordinary dividend of 6.35p non-transactional businesses across the region.
In Continental per ordinary share will, subject to shareholders approval at the Europe it is not yet possible to see through to a sustained recovery Groups Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2012, be paid alongside however, assuming the macro-economic situation remains largely the supplemental interim dividend of 4.0p per share on 14 May unchanged, we expect to improve performance in the region in 2012 to shareholders on the register at 10 April 2012. the current year.
Board and Governance Subject to unforeseen circumstances, we anticipate performing Following the reorganisation of the Board and the Group Executive in line with expectations for the full year.
Board in 2010, the last twelve months has been a period in which the reorganised structure has bedded down well and has developed a strong modus operandi.
During the second half of Peter Smith the year we commenced the search for two new Non-Executive Chairman Directors.
We announced in August that Tim Freshwater would join the Board and, since the year end we have announced that Clare Hollingsworth has agreed to join the Board in April.
The Board is already benefiting from Tims experience of Asian markets and Clares knowledge of the service sector will add a further dimension to our discussions.
Tim Ingram, our Senior Independent Director, who joined the Board in 2002, will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2012.
Tim has been an important contributor to the growth and governance of Savills and we thank him for his wisdom and experience over the past ten years.
Following Tims retirement, Martin Angle will become the Senior Independent Director.
The Board believes that its Directors and Groups Management team should reflect the diversity of Savills international business and that both are representative of the Groups culture and the markets in which we operate.
We will continue to appoint those whose skills and experience we believe will make a real contribution to the continuing success of Savills.
