224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 5 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to announce on property acquisitions, changes in swap valuations and working the Annual Results of your capital movements.
Company for the year to The share price total return was considerably lower than the NAV 31 December 2011.
The Companys shares traded at a premium the year, the Company to NAV for the majority of the year but fell back towards the year continued to make solid end due to ongoing worries about the impact of the Eurozone progress across its crisis, as well as concerns over both the general outlook for the operations, including commercial property market outside London and about equity making a number of markets in general.
However, I am pleased to report that the share significant, accretive price has recovered well since the year end and is currently trading acquisitions.
at only a small discount to NAV.
Economic Background Over the longer term the Company has outperformed the property The UK economy remained subdued in 2011, with initial estimates market with the NAV total return over three years 31.3% and five indicating that UK GDP grew by only 0.8% in the year, well below years 3.2% outperforming the IPD benchmark on both a three most analysts forecasts set at the start of the year.
The Office of and five year basis and the FTSE REIT Index on a three year basis Budget Responsibility has now cut back growth forecasts for 2012 there is no five year track record for this Index.
In addition, at a by a significant degree and many independent economists suggest corporate level, the Company has outperformed its immediate that the UK may be on the verge of a technical recession, especially peer group in the AIC Direct Property Sector which has returned with the 0.2% fall in GDP recorded in the last quarter of 2011.
The 26.7% over three years and -12.8% over five years on a NAV basis.
economy continues to be affected by the Eurozone sovereign debt A full analysis of the portfolio performance and a description of crisis, which threatens the UK banking sector and potentially limits the portfolio asset management activity are contained in the the exports that can be sold to the UKs largest market.
the retail economy is suffering from a decline in real disposable incomes and, even though inflationary pressures are expected to Significant Property Transactions subside, confidence remains low as the governments austerity package continues to impact the economy.
As highlighted in the interim report, the Company purchased two large, high quality properties in the year: St. Georges Retail Park, Commercial Property Market Leicester cost 49.9 million and the Rotunda Leisure Complex in Kingston upon Thames cost 50.7 million.
These two Against this background the commercial property market purchases have added over 6 million to the Companys revenue remained resilient in 2011.
The IPD benchmark showed that stream and further enhanced its income generation potential.
commercial property returned 7.8% on a total return basis.
This They also provide significant asset management opportunities for positive return was predominantly driven by income which made the Manager to increase overall returns.
The capital return of 1.8% was mainly due to Central London offices and retail both of which continued Since the year end, the Company has announced the purchase of to perform strongly.
The secondary market faced more challenges three multi-let principally industrial properties at a cost of 63.5 during the year with limited debt availability and macroeconomic million including costs and stamp duty.
The three properties, worries resulting in investors generally being unwilling to take risks situated in Bristol, Crawley and Portsmouth, with quality rental in this area of the market.
covenants, were purchased at an overall initial yield of 7.3%.
The purchase of these properties is in line with the Companys policy In light of these market conditions, the Companys strategy is to of buying quality real estate with a strong income profile while continue to focus on quality, income-generating properties providing the Manager with an opportunity to boost future returns offering the opportunity to create uplifts in capital value and through successful asset management initiatives.
The Companys void position as at 31 December 2011 improved to Net Asset Value NAV Share Price Performance 3.4% 2010 3.6% of annualised income or 4.5% including units The Companys NAV total return for the year was 4.9%, which was held in administration.
This compares favourably to the IPD below that of the IPD Benchmark total return of 7.8% but greater benchmark of 8.2%.
This low figure for the Company, and the fact than that of the FTSE Real Estate Investment Trusts Index -10.6% that it has decreased during the year despite the worsening and the FTSE All-Share Index -3.5%.
The property portfolio macroeconomic environment, again emphasises the high quality continues to perform well in line with the Boards long term nature of the portfolio and the importance of successful asset strategic positioning and has achieved an increase of 1.0% in the management initiatives.
However, this increase was partly offset by transaction costs UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 5 224170 UKCPT pp01-pp15 new 22 03 2012 13:33 Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued Borrowing On 2 February 2012 the Company declared a 4th interim dividend of 1.3125p which was paid on 28 February 2012.
In May 2011, following an EGM to amend the Companys investment policy, the Board was pleased to announce it had The yield on the Companys shares as at 31 December 2011 was secured, on attractive terms, a new 150 million seven year loan 7.6% which is significantly higher than the yield on the IPD facility with Barclays.
This facility has enabled the Company to act benchmark of 6.0%, the FTSE Real Estate Investment Trusts Index quickly and in line with its objectives, demonstrated by the yield of 5.1% and also the FTSE All-Share index yield of 3.5%.
purchases of The Rotunda and the three multi-let industrial properties.
The new facility was used to help fund these Outlook acquisitions with the associated borrowing costs being significantly The next 12 months will be challenging for the UK economy with lower than the yields on the properties acquired, providing a boost continued public spending cuts, increasing unemployment at to dividend cover.
home and Eurozone instability abroad.
As ever, during this stage As at 31 December 2011 the Company had gearing of 13.3% at a of the economic cycle we find ourselves looking for the green blended interest rate of 3.8% on amounts drawndown.
Given the current pessimistic environment gearing represents 60 million of the new Barclays facility and even the CBIs conclusion that we will technically avoid recession, 80 million of the existing Lloyds facility which was fully utilised in while sharply reducing their growth forecasts, counts as a positive.
On 16 February 2012 the Company drew down an The UK purchasing managers index for December was also a additional 60 million to fund the industrial portfolio purchase bright sign and it is to be hoped that the most recent Bank of resulting in a total of 120 million of the Barclays loan now being England quantitative easing programme will assist the UK utilised.
Following this drawdown, the Company still has economy in building positive momentum through these difficult 30 million of the Barclays facility available for future investment times.
along with current cash balances of 38.2 million.
It should be highlighted that, assuming the Barclays loan is fully utilised, the The Board believes that investment in prime quality UK Companys gearing will still be the lowest within the Companys commercial property will remain attractive for investors, with this peer group at an estimated 20.1%.
asset class continuing to offer comparatively stable returns.
This is demonstrated by our Managers in-house forecasts which indicate During the year the Company entered into interest rate swap an all property return of 5.1% in 2012 and annualised total returns agreements that resulted in all of the Lloyds facility and 100 for the next three years 2012-2014 of 6.9% per annum.
million of the Barclays facility being covered.
These swap agreements reduce risk by providing certainty as to the interest At a portfolio level the Board believes the Company is well placed rates the Company will have to pay on its debt.
As interest rates demonstrated by the award of Best Property Fund at the Investors fell in the year, the NAV of the Company was adversely affected, as Chronicle Awards 2012.
It continues to perform well, with low accounting rules require that the swap agreements be marked to voids, a very high rental collection rate and a strong tenant base market.
The impact of this was 12 million or 1p per share.
underlining the prime nature of the portfolio.
On the income side, However, this reduction in NAV should be only temporary, as it will the main risk comes from further administrations, particularly in reverse either as the swap agreements approach their maturity the retail sector.
However, the nature and diversity of the portfolio, date or, more quickly, if swap rates begin to increase.
along with the current resources the Company has at its disposal, should give rise to asset management opportunities which, when Following the industrial portfolio purchase the Company took out successfully implemented, should at least maintain, if not improve, an additional interest rate swap agreement resulting in the current dividend cover over the medium term.
These factors provide a Barclays drawdown of 120 million being fully covered.
solid foundation for growth in your Company.
Dividends Christopher M. W. Hill The Company declared and paid the following dividends during Chairman the year: 19 March 2012 Payment Date Dividend 2011 Rate p 5th interim for prior period Feb 1.3125 1st interim May 1.3125 2nd interim Aug 1.3125 3rd interim Nov 1.3125 Total 5.25 6 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
