Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 02 Chairmans statement An eventful and e ncouraging year.
I am pleased to report that Berendsen has delivered another strong set of results.
Reported revenue in 2011 grew by 1% to 992.0 million 2010: 986.1 million and adjusted operating profit grew by 13% to 139.8 million 123.9 million.
Operating margin increased to 14.1% 12.6%, a 10 year high.
Adjusted profit before tax increased 15% to 111.8 million 97.1million and earnings per share increased by 16% to48.4 pence 41.7 pence.
Return on invested capital improved from 7.4% to7.9%.
From left: Christopher Kemball Outgoing Chairman Iain Ferguson CBE Incoming Chairman Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 03 Our financial position continues to be Strategy Diversity very strong with net debt to EBITDA In November 2010, we presented the The board strongly supports the need of1.7 times compared to our bank results of our Strategic Review and for diversity and inclusion at all levels of covenant of not more than 3 times and announced our intention to change our business and has made this a major interest cover, measured on an EBITDA from our then regional to a global objective of our talent management basis, of 11 times compared to our business line structure.
We acknowledge the covenant of not less than 3 times.
beginning of 2012, we have been fully recommendations on board diversity Inmid-2011 we refinanced 535 million managing the group along these and note that there has been much of bank facilities, putting in place new business lines.
In order to focus future debate on this issue, specifically relating facilities with a maturity of five years.
capital expenditure and resources to gender and the representation of The total facilities available to the group onhigher growth and higher margin women in the boardrooms of FTSE are now 802.5 million comprising areas, we have split these business companies.
At Berendsen each new ournew bank facilities and existing linesinto two groups: Core Growth, board appointment must complement private placement notes which extend which comprises workwear, facility the rest of the board, in terms of from 2014 to 2021: we currently have including mats, washroom, cleanroom, independence, skills, knowledge and 441.3million of fixed rate borrowings and UKflat linen, and Manage for experience.
We will therefore always with an average interest rate of 5.1%.
Value, comprising clinical solutions appoint on merit judged against anddecontamination and flat linen objective criteria taking into account Dividend outside the UK.
The Core Growth diversity considerations.
businesses will be grown aggressively The board is recommending a final and the Manage for Value businesses dividend of 16.0 pence, which, together Outlook for 2012 will be managed for cash.
Each of these with the interim dividend of 7.4 pence business lines has their own dedicated I am pleased to report a strong set of paid in October 2011, gives a total of management team and strategy.
results for 2011 along with significant 23.4 pence, an increase of 10% on last Weremain committed to increasing progress being made on the groups years level.
The final dividend will be value from both segments and the strategic initiatives.
The move to a paid on 4th May 2012 to shareholders reviews in this Annual Report discuss business line structure is now complete onthe register at the close of business performance on both the previous and we have strengthened our on 13th April 2012. regional basis and in the new business capabilities in sales, HR and business line segments.
development, as well as initiated Employees majorgroup-wide programmes in During the past year, we have also capital efficiency and procurement.
strengthened our capabilities in sales, On behalf of the board, I would like to Weremain encouraged by the scope HR and business development and express my sincere thanks to all our both to accelerate the development wehave initiated major group-wide colleagues across the group for their ofour Core Growth businesses and to programmes in capital efficiency commitment and hard work through enhance the returns of our Manage andprocurement.
It is very forValue businesses.
We finished the much appreciated.
We now have a clear strategy organised year with a strong balance sheet and on business lines, which we believe in asecure long-term funding position.
the medium term will grow revenue Board changes 2011 was my final full year as Chairman byGDP plus 1% to 2% annually, and I believe we enter 2012 in good As announced at the end of last year, improveoperating margins and Ishall be retiring from the board at the shape with the benefits of our strategic deliverearnings per share growth initiatives already gathering momentum.
Annual General Meeting on 26th April inthehigh single-digits, resulting in 2012 after 12 years service as a director While much of our top line growth is apost-tax ROIC of atleast 10%.
dependent upon economic activity, at and nearly seven years as Chairman.
Ihave thoroughly enjoyed my time this early, stage we anticipate delivering a slightly better performance in 2012 Funding withBerendsen and particularly the opportunity to participate in its than previously expected.
As referred to above, a major project transformation from a UK bound this year has been on managing the conglomerate into a market-leading capital invested in the business more pan-European textile rental business efficiently in order to better achieve operating in 15 countries.
oneof our key performance indicators of converting more than 100% of My successor as Chairman will be ourprofits to cash.
Free cash flow IainFerguson who joined the board roseby23% in the year to 93.1 million inMarch 2010.
He was Chief Executive 75.5million which represented a cash Officer of Tate and Lyle plc for six years, conversion ratio of 114% on adjusted prior to which he held a number of netprofit after tax 107%.
This funded senior positions at Unilever plc.
netcapital expenditure of 159.2 million, Heisalso a non-executive director ofwhich 131.3 million was spent ofBalfour Beatty plc and Greggs plc.
ontextiles and 32.1 million on fixed Iains significant international and assets.
We also reduced our net debt strategic experience will, I am sure, to513.6 million 540.2 million.
makehim an excellent Chairman as thegroup continues with the next stageof its development.
Read more on our Governance: Pages 4860
