Chairmans statement The strong financial performance of the business has been built on important improvements in customer service.
Phil White CBE Chairman Rental growth and a strong performance in our development business UNITE enjoyed a strong year in 2011 contributed to an 8% increase in adjusted NAV per share to 318 across its core business.
The combination pence across the year and, despite broader economic volatility, yields across our portfolio remained stable at 6.6%.
Development activity of strong rental growth, 99% occupancy and rental growth will continue to underpin NAV growth in future years and this growth would have been even stronger in 2011 had and effective control of costs drove we not recorded a charge of 21 million 13 pence per share in a significant increase in Net Portfolio relation to UNITE Modular Solutions UMS in our 2011 accounts for trading losses and costs associated with our decision to cease Contribution NPC to 11 million from trading.
Whilst it is disappointing to incur these costs it does remove 4 million in 2010 and has enabled us a loss making activity for the Group and will result in greater visibility of the underlying profitability and cash generation of our core to reinstate a dividend at 1.75 pence business.
There will be no detrimental impact on the Groups future development pipeline as a result of the UMS closure.
per share for the full year.
We also laid The strong financial performance of the business has been built the foundations for further growth in on important improvements in customer service, both for our student NPC in 2012: new openings, continued residents and our University partners.
Credit for this must go to the dedicated employees throughout our business and I would like to rental growth, further cost savings and congratulate them and thank them for their impressive performance.
a focus on London should all help ensure We have remained very focused on managing the Groups financial position over the year.
Operationally the business has significantly recurring profits and cash flows grow improved its cash generation and capital commitments to new strongly again in 2012. development activity have been, and will continue to be, carefully managed until the outcome of debt refinancing can be viewed with more certainty.
We have also made positive early steps to sell noncore assets as a means of enhancing portfolio quality and controlling leverage.
In addition, in January 2012 we successfully bought out Lehman Brothers, our former partner in the UNITE Student Village USV Joint Venture, at an attractive price and made positive progress with our other partners in establishing longer term strategies for our remaining joint ventures.
There is more to be done in 2012 in all these areas but the progress to date has been pleasing.
18 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Unsurprisingly, debt financing has been very much in focus throughout 2011 also saw some important changes on the UNITE Board.
2011 and again UNITE has enjoyed success in this area.
Despite the John Tonkiss, our COO, left the company at the end of December ongoing constraints on credit, we successfully arranged or extended after nearly ten years of committed service and, as part of a wider 234 million of new debt facilities for ourselves, our fund and joint management reorganisation, we made two internal promotions to ventures during the year, with a further 82 million arranged since the Board with Richard Simpson and Richard Smith joining with effect the year end, all of which has resulted in a fall in our overall cost of from January 2012 as Managing Directors of Property and Operations debt from 6.8% to 5.7%.
Of course, this will remain an area of focus respectively.
On the non-executive side, we were pleased to appoint during 2012 but our long track record and recent successes give us Manjit Wolstenholme as an additional Director on 1 December.
continued confidence as we move forward.
Manjit will succeed Nigel Hall as Chair of the Audit Committee when he retires from the Board following the annual general University applications were also the subject of much media coverage meeting AGM in May 2012. throughout 2011 following the Governments introduction of higher tuition fees from 2012.
At the initial closing date in January 2012, In recent years, Boards and management teams have had to adjust applications were down 7.4% overall but despite this fall there will still to operating in a much more volatile environment and we do not be over 160,000 unsuccessful applicants this year.
In addition, with expect 2012 to be any different.
Our focus is very much to build applications from school leavers only down 2% and demand from further on the good work of 2011: to keep growing recurring profits non-EU students a key customer segment for UNITE up 14%, the and cashflow substantially and sustainably, to pursue attractive fundamentals of longer term demand remain stable.
Our reservations development opportunities selectively, and to manage the Groups and enquiry levels for the forthcoming academic year are solid and we financial position prudently.
With a robust outlook for demand, a clear remain confident of delivering rental growth of 3-4% for the full year.
strategy in place that is being delivered and a strong track record we look forward to 2012 with continued confidence.
D espite the ongoing constraints on credit, we successfully arranged Phil White CBE or extended 234million Chairman 1 March 2012 of new debt facilities.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Development Selective development programme Moonraker Point forms part of our secured has agreed a nominations agreement, securing development pipeline.
The property is a significant the lease of the building over a 15 year period.
project in the heart of Londons Southbank close Teams from both organisations worked to ensure to two other UNITE properties.
The 671 room that the UNITE offer matches Kings standard development on Great Suffolk Street in the London offer to incoming students so that the experience Borough of Southwark, is due for completion for the of residents at Moonraker is in line with that 2012 13 academic year.
Kings College, London, of Kings students in other College residences.
Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Overview Our key objectives in 2011 were to grow recurring profits and cash flow, make good progress in the delivery of our targeted development programme and manage the Groups financing effectively in challenging conditions.
We made very good progress in all areas.
This progress has ensured positive movements in our key metrics of Net Portfolio Contribution NPC and Adjusted Net Asset Value NAV whilst keeping gearing within target levels.
The financial performance has been driven by rental growth and high levels of occupancy across the portfolio together with tight financial stewardship of operating and interest expenses and the overall level of gearing in the business.
Financial highlights 2011 2010 NPC 11.0m 4.1m Profit before tax 4.7m 24.2m NPC per share 6.9p 2.6p Adjusted earnings per share EPS 3.4p 2.7p pre UMS NAV adjusted, fully diluted 318pps 295pps Gearing adjusted 84% 71% See through loan to value LTV 54% 54% Operating cashflow 13.8m 0.6m Full year dividend 1.75pps Occupancy for current 99% 97% academic year Reservations for next academic 59% 62% year at 28 February Net operating income growth 3.1% 3.1% like-for-like As a result of a disappointing performance at UMS, a reduction in the Groups own development pipeline and a challenging outlook for the construction sector generally we have taken the decision to close the facility once production has finished at the end of March.
The resultant provision, together with in year trading losses, has resulted in a reduction in NAV in 2011 of 21 million.
However, a strong performance in all other areas of the business means that this charge has been absorbed within an overall increase in adjusted NAV per share of 8% for the year.
Whilst disappointing, the closure of UMS means that going forward we can focus on our core activities to deliver shareholder returns.
