O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 5 Chairmans statement An absolute focus on improving the performance of every aspect of our business.
An in-depth review of the brand was undertaken during the year.
This review produced evidence of deep loyalty to 3i amongst the wide group surveyed, as well as considerable affinity for our responsible style of investing.
There was, however, a desire for 3i to operate more consistently, especially within our Private Equity business.
As a result, we have made a number of changes to the business to improve both consistency and performance.
These cover a range of actions including the formation of the Private Equity business line from our Growth Capital and Buyouts businesses, a series of Responsible investing initiatives and the decision to form a Brand and Values committee composed of executives and Increased momentum in the Private Equity business, non-executives.
further good progress in Infrastructure and a significant acquisition in Debt Management meant that the financial In March 2011, the Group announced that Jonathan year to 31 March 2011 was both active and productive Asquith would be joining the Board.
Jonathan is also a for 3i, albeit against an uncertain economic background, non-executive director of Ashmore Group plc, AXA UK especially in the UK.
plc and Chairman of AXA Investment Managers.
As a former chief financial officer and later vice-chairman of High quality new investment has always been central to Schroders, he brings a wide range of financial experience future value growth for our shareholders.
It was therefore directly relevant to our strategy for growing the business.
encouraging that, although we retained a measured and highly selective approach to investing, the rate of balance During the year, Robert Swannell also retired from the sheet investment, at 719 million in the year to 31 March Board to take up his new role as Chairman of Marks and 2011, was significantly ahead of last years low level of Spencer Group plc.
As a consequence, Richard Meddings 386 million.
We also invested a further 736 million became the Senior Independent Director.
Following his on behalf of funds that we manage or advise.
appointment as a non-executive director to the board of the UK Home Office, John Allan stepped down from the Good performances across most of the Group meant 3i Board on 1 May 2011.
After nine years on the Board, that we were able to deliver a total return of 10.6%, Christine Morin-Postel will retire as a non-executive despite a significant value reduction in one of our largest director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in investments.
Strong overall growth in the earnings of July 2011.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our Private Equity portfolio, especially in northern Europe, Robert, John and Christine for their valuable contributions more than compensated for a general reduction in the to 3i.
They have been much appreciated.
multiples used for valuation purposes.
With regard to outlook, it would appear that there Our balance sheet remains strong with net debt at remains a generally improving but somewhat fragile 522 million and we have substantial liquidity available environment.
Significant regional differences are evident to increase investment.
The Board has decided to and it is a little early to assess the longer term effects recommend a final dividend of 2.4p which, together of the geopolitical developments in the Middle East, the with the increased interim dividend, results in a total natural disaster in Japan, and increased energy and other dividend of 3.6p, 20% higher than last year.
Our strategy therefore is to retain In the Half-yearly report in November 2010, my first our financial strength, to continue to take a measured since becoming Chairman in July 2010, I said that 3i and highly selective approach to investment and to is a group with considerable opportunity in each of its keep an absolute focus on improving the performance three areas of business.
Given the highly competitive of every aspect of our business.
nature of most of our markets, the 3i brand is key Sir Adrian Montague to winning investments, to developing the business Chairman internationally and in taking these opportunities.
11 May 2011 For more information on Governance, please go to p61 k 6 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Strategy and business model A description of our business, our strategy and business model, as well as our key performance measures.
Chief Executives review 7 Our business 10 Strategy and performance 12 Business model 14
