Chairmans statement dividend to 5.72 pence per share, or 5% of In December 2010 the Company also opening shareholders equity, in line with the extended its Investment Advisory Companys return objectives and represents Agreement with 3i Investments plc.
an increase of 4% over the previous year.
The renegotiation achieved two key objectives: i it extended the exclusivity Investment and realisations arrangements between the Company and The Company invested a total of 187.5 3i Investments plc by a further 200 million, adding four new investments to million, and ii it extended the fixed the portfolio.
These include the direct duration of the agreement by three years investment in Eversholt, as well as three from March 2012 to March 2015. investments completed through the 3i India The investment in Eversholt and the further Infrastructure Fund the Fund.
With the investment exclusivity and the investments in India strengthen the agreement with the Investment Adviser The acquisition of Eversholt in December Companys existing portfolio, which has extended, and with the Companys liquidity 2010 was very important in the continued to perform well throughout the secured over the medium term, the implementation of the Companys strategy year, generating strong income.
The Board Company has a solid platform from which of growing its core infrastructure portfolio, looks forward to building on this positive to invest.
building towards the delivery of the return momentum, and is working with the objectives.
Eversholt, one of the three Corporate governance and Board Investment Adviser to develop the pipeline leading rail rolling stock leasing companies in The Company aims to uphold the highest for the next financial year.
the UK, is a profitable transport asset with standards of corporate governance and has Peter Sedgwick Chairman stable contracted revenues, a strong market chosen to comply fully with all applicable 4 May 2011 position and defensive characteristics.
provisions of the Combined Code on The investment has already contributed Corporate Governance.
This has been an important year for strongly to portfolio income for this 3i Infrastructure plc 3i Infrastructure, During the year, the Financial Reporting financial year.
or the Company, which saw continued Council updated and reissued the UK good asset performance and significant The opportunity for infrastructure Corporate Governance Code the Code, investment momentum.
During the year, investment in India is exciting and the Board which will now apply to all companies with the Board also focused on securing liquidity is pleased with the three new assets added a premium listing on the London Stock in the medium term by signing a new by the Fund in the year.
The Board has conducted a revolving credit facility, it extended the power projects GVK Energy and Indthorough appraisal of the new Code and has Companys advisory agreement and Barath Utkal and one toll road operator implemented a number of changes to its investment exclusivity with the Investment KMC Roads, providing the Company with procedures, to ensure that the Company Adviser, and it implemented procedures to additional exposure to these two rapidly complies with all applicable provisions of the ensure compliance with the new UK growing sectors through the Funds new Code.
These changes are described in Corporate Governance Code.
partnerships with established promoters greater detail in the Corporate governance with a strong track record of delivery.
statement, on pages 43 to 48, and include Performance the annual re-election of all Directors and 3i Infrastructure delivered steady growth Developments in the debt markets have the creation of a Remuneration Committee.
in net asset value during the year to provided the backdrop for most of the 31 March 2011.
Total comprehensive divestment activity during the year and in Due to the nature of the Company, income attributable to the equity holders of the period following the financial year end.
it is important that the members of its the parent, on a consolidated basis, totalled In October 2010 the Company completed Board have a broad variety of skills and 86.8 million for the year, a return of 9.3% the sale of its Viridian junior debt experience.
Florence Pierre, a French on opening shareholders equity.
investment, generating proceeds of national, was appointed to the Board as a 46.8 million.
In April 2011 the Thames non-executive Director in September On the investment basis, which the Board Water tranche was repaid in full by the 2010, bringing with her over 25 years also uses to monitor investment performance, borrower before its full term, and the NGW of experience in European mergers and the return was 85.5 million, or 9.2% on Arqiva tranche was sold, generating acquisitions and general corporate finance opening shareholders equity.
The return proceeds of 55.4 million in aggregate.
was underpinned principally by the strong income generated from the portfolio assets, Liquidity and Investment Advisory Outlook totalling 69.3 million in the year, more Agreement The investment in Eversholt and the further than double the income generated last With a significant portion of the cash investments in India strengthen the year, reflecting the strong operational balances invested, the Board looked to Companys existing portfolio, which has performance of the asset portfolio.
secure the Companys liquidity in the continued to perform well throughout the medium term.
In November 2010, year, generating strong income.
The Board Dividend 3i Infrastructure signed a three-year, looks forward to building on this positive On the basis of these results, the Board is 200 million revolving credit facility with a momentum, and is working with the pleased to propose a final dividend payment syndicate of five major banks.
This replaced Investment Adviser to develop the pipeline of 2.86 pence per share.
This, added to the the 225 million revolving credit facility for the next financial year.
interim dividend of 2.86 pence per share signed in March 2008, which was due to paid in January 2011, brings the total expire in March 2011.
Overview 3i Infrastructure plc 4 Annual report and accounts 2011 Investment Advisers review 5
