Chairmans statement Roger Cornick Chairman The final quarter contrasted starkly to the relatively stable Financials market environment during the first three quarters of our Revenue for the year of 784.0 million was 23% higher than financial year to 30 September 2011.
Yet, despite the economic in 2010 as the Group benefited from winning a significant and political circumstances of the last few months and volume of higher margin new business, principally into pooled challenges they present I am pleased to report the Group has funds, and maintaining fee rates on our principal products due achieved significant growth in revenue, margins and profits.
Performance fees of 36.3 million 2010: Revenue increased by 23%, underlying profit before taxation by 30.3 million remained stable at around 5% of total revenue, 44% and underlying earnings per share by 41%.
These results while the scale and quality of recurring fee income continue demonstrate that with Aberdeens strategy of product, asset to benefit from the higher average fee rates earned on class and geographic diversity, combined with a strong balance new business.
sheet and a robust investment process, the Group is well placed Operating costs increased by 14% and ongoing control of to deliver shareholder value and withstand the pressures faced operating costs remains a key area of focus.
We have seen a by the global economy.
small increase in headcount as we have continued to invest The 23% increase in revenue, combined with operating costs in the depth of our investment teams and develop our global controlled to an increase of only 14%, has seen underlying distribution effort.
We have also prioritised marketing and operating profit improve by 39%.
The resultant cash ow has sponsorship expenditure in certain areas where it aligns with been used to add further strength to the balance sheet, and we our business strategy: for example, as part of our campaign to can report a year end net cash position of 127.5 million 2010: promote our brand in the UK market we agreed to an initial net debt of 7.7 million.
Assets under management AuM three year agreement to become the main sponsor for Cowes had grown steadily for most of the year, although the events of Week, the worlds premier sailing regatta.
the last few months have brought about a 5% reduction in AuM Underlying operating profit increased by 39% to 309.3 million from the levels of a year ago.
2010: 221.9 million, and the operating margin improved to New business ows have been won from a broadening range 39.5% 2010: 34.8%.
We believe that this margin compares of capabilities of which gross ows amounted to 43.0 billion.
favourably with our international peer group and, subject to Flows were, as last year, primarily into our global emerging stabilising markets, we will look to build this margin further.
market and global equity strategies but with a growing I am pleased to report the company has also taken significant momentum of ows into our Asian xed income and emerging steps to add further balance sheet strength, and we report a net market debt capabilities, both higher margin products.
cash position of 127.5 million at the year end 2010: net debt of 7.7 million.
During the year we repaid the US$125 million 7.2% subordinated notes using the strong cash ow generated from our operations.
We also spent 98.1 million to make market purchases of ordinary shares to negate the potential dilution from vesting of the deferred share element of prior years bonus awards.
We will continue to build balance sheet strength in the year ahead in order to reach a position where we no longer require the waiver from the full consolidated capital adequacy regulations.
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 reected in a healthy forward looking pipeline.
We continue to Results and dividend monitor the gross inows to this strategy to ensure they do not profit before taxation, on the statutory reporting basis, has reach unsustainable rates.
increased by 78% to 224.1 million and diluted earnings per share of 14.1p is 75% ahead of last year.
The Groups underlying We are now seeing strong interest in our higher margin profit, which we define as profit before taxation, exceptional emerging market debt and Asian xed income products, both items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, of which have good long term performance records this increased by 44% to 301.9 million 2010: 210.0 million.
is reected in healthy net inows of 1.6 billion into these Underlying earnings per share, on a diluted basis, increased strategies during the year.
As a result, the xed income business by 41% to 18.7p 2010: 13.3p.
mix is slowly moving from low margin core mandates towards higher margin specialist products.
Performance in the core The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.2p per share, strategies of US and EMEA continues to improve towards making a total payment for the year of 9.0p per share, an attaining three year track records although we have seen some increase of 29% on the total payment for 2010.
The Board short term underperformance as our teams believe government remains committed to its policy of paying a progressive level bond markets are overvalued and have therefore favoured of dividend.
The second half of our financial year has seen our property New business teams add 1.2 billion of new business wins, following a quiet Gross new business of 43.0 billion was added in the year, first half.
Conversely, outows have slowed and, although the principally into our higher margin pooled funds.
Outows, outcome is net outows for the year of 0.6 billion, momentum mainly from lower margin segregated mandates, totalled is good as we enter a new financial year.
We continue to see 44.7 billion.
While it is disappointing to report net outows investor interest in our property capability, and our European of AuM, the mix of the ows had a positive effect on revenues.
and Asian expertise is now supplemented by our global multiThe new business ows are summarised in the table below: manager platform.
Performance has been steady in difficult gross inows were sourced principally from investors in Europe market conditions, recognised by numerous third party bodies 38%, the UK 23%, the Americas 20%, Asia Pacic 17% and industry commentators.
Alternative Investment Strategies continues its transition Pooled funds Segregated Total following the acquisition of the RBS business in 2010. bn bn bn Importantly performance of the agship products remains Gross inows 25.1 17.9 43.0 robust and we are making steady progress in broadening their investment appeal and accessibility to our existing client and Outows 19.4 25.3 44.7 consultant base.
We are confident that our recently launched Net ow 5.7 7.4 1.7 multi-asset Diversied Growth strategy will be attractive to a broad range of investors, while our Fund of Hedge Funds Our equity teams have continued to deliver consistent strategies continue to be recognised for investment excellence outperformance against their respective benchmarks both over with the Aberdeen Orbita Global Opportunities Fund recently the longer and shorter term periods with most core strategies named FoHF of the Year at the Hedge Fund Review European performing particularly well as market conditions became more FoHF Awards.
We believe this demonstrates the merits of our disciplined investment process and team-based approach and New business ows, analysed by asset class, are shown in the that our portfolios are well positioned during this extended following table.
It is pleasing to note that the quality of our equity philosophy and process has been recognised through Inows Outows Net ows a number of awards, notably Hugh Young being honoured bn bn bn with the Outstanding Achievement award at this years Equities 24.1 15.1 9.0 Investment Week Fund Manager of the Year Award and our Fixed income 8.7 13.5 4.8 investment teams also winning the Asian and the Emerging Market categories.
Alternative investment strategies 3.9 7.1 3.2 Demand for global emerging market equities has remained Property 1.2 1.8 0.6 strong, but at more sustainable rates following our decision to close to new segregated business at the beginning of 2010.
Money market 5.1 7.2 2.1 Global equity also remains popular with investors, attracting 43.0 44.7 1.7 interest from a wide range of geographies and institutions, www.
com 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Business development Outlook Our distribution efforts continued to make progress on a Markets are likely to remain volatile until there is meaningful number of products globally.
As part of the Groups strategy to progress towards a resolution to the European debt crisis.
promote our UK product range and full the demand for xed Even then the likelihood is for a low growth environment income yield, we launched two UK open end funds investing in across Europe and the US over the next few years.
Despite emerging markets bonds and high yield bonds, together with a this we are confident that Aberdeen can continue to grow Latin American equity fund.
revenues, assets under management and profits.
The combination of the significant pools of wealth around the However, by far the most successful new product this year has world, the evident increased need for retirement planning for been the re-launch of the Asian Local Currency Short Duration increasing longevity and an extended period of extremely low Bond fund in March this year which grew to over US$600 interest rates will lead to increased investment in equities, million by the year end and has subsequently exceeded xed income securities and property.
Our strength in these US$750 million.
asset classes and geographical reach, particularly in Asia and Our investment trust business won the top award at the 2011 the US, means that we are well positioned to meet this demand.
Money Observer Investment Trust Awards.
Elsewhere Aberdeen Furthermore the shift from traditional core xed income Asset Management was named winner in the Best International portfolios to more specialist mandates ts with our expertise Fund Group category at the Professional Adviser International in Asia Pacic and emerging market bonds.
Fund & Product Awards 2011 an award given in recognition We remain focused on growing the business organically and of the Groups Luxembourg fund range.
We also received four we will continue to impose tight cost control to grow margins awards at the prestigious Euromoney Liquid Real Estate Awards.
Despite the uninspiring economic outlook, the Group is Finally, Aberdeen was named Investment Trust Manager of the in a strong financial position and well placed to withstand the Year at Investment Week's Investment Trust of the Year Awards.
The Board During the year I have been pleased to welcome to the Board our new non-executive director, Julie Chakraverty, as well as two new executive directors, Anne Richards and Hugh Young.
R C Cornick I am again indebted to my fellow Board members for their Chairman continued hard work and support.
The Board continues to undergo change and I would like to take the opportunity to offer special thanks to Sir Malcolm Rifkind for his highly valued contribution and commitment to the Group.
Sir Malcolm will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in January following twelve years of service.
Finally and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank the staff for their continued hard work and support.
6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
