Chairmans Introduction to Betfair Dear Shareholder, Overview For Betfair, the most signi cant event in the past year has been the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange, which was a key step in the evolution of the Company.
So in our first annual report as a public company, I would like to welcome our new shareholders and thank them, along with our longstanding investors, for their support.
Edward Wray Non-executive Chairman The Companys status may have changed, but our aims and ambitions have not.
This business was created to offer customers a unique, revolutionary alternative to the traditional betting model.
Building on this foundation, over the past 12 months we have continued to invest for the future and to deliver growth.
Our first year as a listed company During the past year the Company delivered record revenues and pro tability.
However, the challenges of the past year resulted in slower Football is a growing product and we had a very growth than we would have liked.
But I am con dent that we have the successful FIFA World Cup in June and July in terms strategy, the people and the products to grow more rapidly in the future and, in turn, to protect and grow shareholders assets.
of levels of activity and customer acquisition We have completed a number of signi cant milestones that position Betfair well for the future.
Sports accounts for the majority of our business We successfully completed the migration of our and football in particular has grown at a robust rate following our activity Casino and Poker products onto new platforms and customer acquisition strategy around the FIFA World Cup in June and July.
during July and August During July and August we successfully migrated our Casino and Poker products onto new platforms and in January moved our main data centre The migration of our main data centre to Dublin to Dublin.
This gave us increased regulatory exibility, enabling us to in January gave us increased regulatory exibility transfer the licence for our Betting Exchange from the UK to Gibraltar in March.
With new of ces in Dublin and Gibraltar, we are now in a strong position to derive real bene ts for the business in terms of technology, customer service and pro tability.
In the short term, the regulatory environment for our industry remains unpredictable and challenging.
However, over the long term we believe it is preferable to have the clarity and player protection offered by licensed and regulated markets.
I am encouraged by the progress a number of European countries have made towards creating their regulatory frameworks and the overall trend across the whole continent is moving in a direction that will bene t Betfair and our customers in future years.
In the US, both California and New Jersey have passed legislation introducing Exchange Wagering for the first time.
We look forward to applying to be an operator in both these jurisdictions when the application process begins.
Our aim is to be the leading global Related information More information online sports betting operator.
in this Report: online: Our people You can access the latest Page 24 information and read this report online at NO.
1 Corporate Responsibility Betfairs corporate website: Page 34 http: corporate.
com Corporate Governance Page 45 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 02 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Responsibility and integrity Dividend and share repurchase We put responsibility at the heart of what we do.
We aim to operate The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.9 pence per share.
This to the highest ethical standards at all times and to have a positive is the first regular dividend we have paid and represents approximately impact on the communities where we work.
Our work in this area is two-thirds of the payment we would have made had the Company been led by Non-executive Director Fru Hazlitt, who chairs our Corporate listed for the entire year.
The final dividend will be payable, subject to the Responsibility Committee.
approval of shareholders at our Annual General Meeting on 22 September 2011.
The Directors have chosen to adopt a progressive dividend policy We work closely with sports governing bodies across the world to support while maintaining an appropriate level of dividend cover: you can read integrity in sport, and now hold Memoranda of Understanding with 48 of more detail on page 31. them.
We continue to work honestly and openly with anyone who shares our goal of keeping sport free from corruption.
We have also announced our intention to return 50 million of cash to our shareholders over the next 12 months through an on-market share repurchase programme.
The Companys strong cash generation enables Our people us to do this whilst still investing in the business for future growth.
Betfair is committed to creating a stimulating environment that helps us Outlook attract and retain the best and most talented people.
We are fortunate to have a team of people who have helped us achieve so much in the past and who will help achieve our vision of being the number one online The last 12 months have presented challenges and we have redoubled sports betting operator.
I would like to thank all our employees for their our efforts and focused the business on a clear vision of how to deliver hard work and dedication over the past 12 months.
stronger revenue growth in the future.
FY12 will be an important year of execution for us, albeit against the backdrop of an unclear economic outlook.
Many of the new products we expect to drive future growth will Governance launch in the second half of the year.
Accordingly, we expect to make progress in FY12 and for growth to accelerate in the following years.
The We have a Board of Directors of the highest calibre with valuable and timing and impact of regulatory developments remain uncertain and varied experience.
dif cult to predict, although our product plans will leave us well placed to react to any such change.
We also expect to continue improving Core At our Annual General Meeting in October, Andrew Black and Chris Betfair adjusted EBITDA margin towards our medium-term target of 30%.
Batterham retired from the Board and as I mentioned at the time of the IPO, we are immensely grateful for their contribution to the Company We are focused on delivering long-term shareholder value through a over the years.
Of course, Andrew requires a particular vote of thanks combination of accelerating revenue growth, driving further margin because without his initial inspiration, there would be no Betfair.
improvement and returning excess cash through dividends and share repurchases.
We are con dent that we can deliver on these plans.
We were delighted to welcome Baroness Denise Kingsmill to the Board in February.
She has a wealth of experience as a Non-executive Director with International Airlines Group, is a member of Microsofts European Policy Council and was previously Deputy Chairman of the Competition Commission.
Her advice and expertise on international regulatory affairs is invaluable as we continue to work with governments around the world.
She has also joined our Audit Committee, making it fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Edward Wray Chairman In June, David Yu noti ed the Board that he will not be renewing his contract when it expires in October 2012.
David has been with Betfair for close to ten years, with nearly six as those as CEO, and has played a pivotal role in Betfairs rise from start-up, to industry leader.
He remains fully committed to the business as the Board searches for his replacement.
People Betfair is committed to creating a stimulating environment in which we can attract and retain the best and most talented people.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03 Growth opportunities The following pages describe in more detail the five areas which will drive growth in the business.
STRONG SPORTS-LED GROWTH Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 04 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Bets are only accepted by the Betting Exchange if the full risk of each bet 130,000 customers bet on the World Cup Final in Johannesburg, can be matched with another customer or a set of customers with the July 2010. opposite view.
Betfair generates revenue on the Betting Exchange by charging a commission between 2-5% on a customers net winnings on a market.
In 2011, 916 million bets were matched on the Betfair Exchange.
916M 130,000 New product delivery is key to driving revenue Second, we will extend the number of markets growth.
The Betting Exchange is our lead we offer to customers.
We are developing Sports product and will remain so.
We will an integrated Exchange and sportsbook enhance our customer experience in two product that will allow us to provide more important ways.
in-play markets as well as giving customers guaranteed execution in less liquid markets.
First, the investment we have been making in our platform enables us to launch a new, We believe this liquid Exchange and faster version of our website during FY12 with sportsbook combination will be unique a completely new look and feel and greatly to Betfair and will allow us to capture improved navigation.
a greater share of the market.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 05 Growth opportunities continued CROSS-SELLING AND PORTFOLIO EXPANSION Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 06 2011 overview Governance Financial statements We made signi cant investment in our portfolio 25% of our Core gaming revenue comes from our products during the year and we now have a very portfolio products.
competitive suite of over 250 games.
250 25% Betfair already offers a range of non-sports We now have a very competitive suite of betting products such as Poker, Casino games games, which we believe will enable us and our proprietary Exchange Games.
We to capture a greater share of gaming spend know our customers like playing these games, increasing the proportion of revenue want to do so with an operator they trust, we generate from non-sports games and and appreciate the convenience of a single enhancing the overall growth of the business.
We will continue to extend our games range with exciting new offerings, such as our recent addition of backgammon.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 07 Growth opportunities continued We are seeing incremental revenue growth from Betfairs open platform has enabled over 60 thirdcustomers who start to use a mobile device and party software developers to build products for believe that the proliferation of smartphones will Betfair customers.
accelerate the shift of sports betting from of ine to online.
In FY11 we matched over 1 billion of bets placed via mobile phones.
1BN 60 NEW CHANNELS The Exchange can now be accessed through We also allow third-party software vendors the web, mobile devices and via the software to connect to our Exchange allowing them to of third-party vendors.
We believe this will further increase the pace of innovation for We have seen substantial growth of bets being our customers.
placed through mobile devices in the last year.
The popularity of smartphones has driven this We have put a new developer programme in growth and Betfair has been at the forefront of place with revenue share opportunities which developments, as the first operator to launch a we believe will encourage further innovation.
betting application in the Apple AppStore.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 08 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 09 Growth opportunities continued Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Betfair began as a UK business.
com is available in 17 different languages.
of our Group revenue came from outside the UK.
50% 17 GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION We continue to believe that geographic In the short term, there will inevitably expansion offers us exciting long-term be challenges as we aim to bring our growth opportunities.
disruptive, consumer-friendly technology to new markets.
Many European countries are moving towards a regulated environment for online gaming.
The development of our integrated We fully support this trend, which we believe Exchange and sportsbook product will favours us as a well-established, responsible give us additional exibility to react to operator that will work constructively changing regulatory requirements.
with regulators to bring best practice and competition to online gaming.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Growth opportunities continued NEW MARKETS We will continue to invest in large new We also have a number of smaller markets which we believe can provide investments including our 50:50 joint signi cant long-term growth for Betfairs venture in Australia and our shareholding shareholders.
in the social games developer Kabam.
At present we have two main investments: Betfair US TVG and LMAX.
Both provide opportunities to exploit our core technology in end-markets with multi-billion dollar potential.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Betfair owns TVG, a leading online wagering company and TV station for US horseracing.
In FY11 TVGs customers placed wagers worth $627 million.
$627M Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13
