85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Review of 2011 Performance After a good start, the second half of 2011 once again saw acute stress in financial markets.
Although not as extreme as the fourth quarter of 2008, credit markets, particularly European inter bank markets, displayed a level of dysfunctionality that required, and invited, Central Bank intervention.
In such a hostile environment, there was a global flight to safety.
Since 30 June 2011, ten year UK government bond yields have fallen from 3.38% to 1.98% mirroring similar moves in Germany and in the USA as risk assets plummeted.
In the UK equity market, all indices fell sharply in July and August, but larger companies staged a partial recovery by the year end, so that over the second half of the year, the FTSE 100 fell a modest 6.3% in capital only terms.
Mid and smaller companies suffered more severely and failed to enjoy the same recovery, with the FTSE 250 declining by 15.9%, the RBS HGSC XIC by 15.3%, the FTSE SmallCap by 18.6% and the minnows, as represented by the FTSE Fledgling, by 25.6%.
Of the worlds 30 largest equity markets, smaller companies achieved a positive return in just one country, and underperformed their larger counterparts in all but three.
Against such a backdrop, it is frustrating to report that your Company, Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT, lost all of its relative outperformance of the first half during the brutal sell off of the past six months.
For the year to 31 December 2011, your Companys Net Asset Value total return was -13.5% compared with -9.1% total return in the RBS HGSC XIC, your Companys benchmark.
The Managers Report provides greater insight into the investment themes and influences over the year, where once again wider market style effects have provided significant headwinds to performance.
Dividends In sharp contrast to the Net Asset Value decline, your Companys income account enjoyed an excellent year.
Indeed the recovery in dividends from the investee companies has resulted in your Companys earnings increasing at their fastest rate since 1995.
As I wrote in my Interim Statement in July 2011, dividends matter to all long term investors, but for value investors they have a special importance.
Your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, of 14.3p.
This results in total dividends for the year of 20.75p representing an increase of 9.2% on 2010.
This compares favourably with both the ten and twenty year growth rates that have, in the view of your Board and the Managers, been fundamental in establishing your Companys long term record.
At the year end share price of 501p, your Companys shares deliver a 4.1% yield.
Your Board is well aware of the significance of the income component of the total returns from UK equities over the long term.
Your Board remains committed to your Companys progressive dividend policy.
The level of your Companys revenue reserves, after adjusting for payment of the second interim dividend, amounting to 28.1p per share up from 24.6p as at 31 December 2010, provides a degree of flexibility going forward in the event of the UK economy dipping back into recession.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 24 February 2012 to Shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 3 February 2012.
The last date for submissions of Forms of Election for those Shareholders wishing to participate in your Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is also 3 February 2012.
Details of the DRIP are available from Aberforth Partners LLP on request or on its website, www.
Gearing As I reported in my Interim Statement, your Company, in May 2011, negotiated a new three year facility of 100m, replacing the previous facility.
Your Board regularly reviews the level of gearing with the Managers and is comfortable that your Company has access to sufficient liquidity for both investment purposes and also to fund share buy-ins as and when appropriate.
As at 31 December 2011, 68m of this facility was utilised.
The current level of gearing is based upon attractive valuation levels, described in greater detail in the Managers Report, but should also be viewed in conjunction with exceptionally strong balance sheets of the underlying investee companies held in your portfolio.
Share Buy-In Authority and Treasury Shares At the Annual General Meeting in March 2011, the authority to buy-in up to 14.99% of your Companys Ordinary Shares was approved.
During the year, 228,000 Ordinary Shares were bought-in 0.2% of the 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 5 Chairmans Statement Companys issued share capital at a total cost of 1.18 million.
Consistent with your Boards stated policy, those Ordinary Shares have been cancelled rather than held in treasury.
Once again, your Board will be seeking to renew the buy-in authority at the Annual General Meeting on 7 March 2012.
The Board keeps under constant review the circumstances under which the authority is utilised in relation to the overall objective of seeking to manage the discount.
Board Changes Eddie Cran, who has been a Director since July 2001, will not be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Eddie has been a valued member of your Board and we will all miss his insights and invaluable contributions.
We wish Eddie all the very best for the future.
We are delighted to appoint Richard Rae as a director of your Company with effect from 26 January 2012.
Richards investment career extends over 25 years.
He has extensive knowledge of the UK smaller companies area, and we look forward to working with him.
Summary 2011 proved frustrating for your Company.
The return to value style shift, which was witnessed through the latter part of 2010 and early 2011, faded as dysfunctional European credit markets became the overriding issue for investors.
2012 will undoubtedly bring challenges but amidst all the uncertainty it has been encouraging to see the dividend recovery, described in recent reports by both your Board and the Managers, come to fruition.
While the trading backdrop is likely to be tough in 2012, your Board and the Managers are cautiously optimistic that the dividend recovery witnessed in 2011 has the strength to continue through 2012.
This optimism is supported by the strong balance sheets of the investee companies and by the relative merits of equity capital, both of which are described in more detail in the Managers Report.
Value investing has proved extremely successful over the long run, but has always been punctuated by sometimes extended periods when the style is out of fashion.
We are currently experiencing one of the longest such periods on record.
While it is impossible to know when it will end, your Managers remain confident that your portfolio represents excellent value, and that this will ultimately be recognised by the market.
Professor Paul R Marsh Chairman 25 January 2012 paul.
co. uk Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 5 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 6 Aberforth Partners LLP Information Aberforth Partners LLP the firm act as investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 1.4 billion as at 31 December 2011.
The firm is wholly owned by six partners five investment managers including three founding partners, and Alan Waite, who is responsible for the firms administration.
John Evans, a founding partner, retired on 31 August 2011.
Six investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
The partners each have a personal investment in the Company.
The biographical details of the investment managers are as follows: Andrew P Bamford 45 BCom Hons, CA Andy joined Aberforth Partners in April 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Transportation: Technology Hardware & Equipment: Travel & Leisure: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Edinburgh Fund Managers for 7 years, latterly as Deputy Head of UK Small Companies, with specific responsibility for institutional clients.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Fund Managers he was a senior investment analyst with General Accident for 2 years supporting the head of UK Smaller Companies.
Before joining General Accident, he was a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Euan R Macdonald 41 BA Hons Euan joined Aberforth Partners in May 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Engineering: Life Assurance: Nonlife Insurance: Software & Computer Services: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Baillie Gifford for 10 years where he managed portfolios invested in small companies both in Continental Europe and in the UK.
Keith Muir 42 BEng Hons, CFA Keith joined Aberforth Partners in March 2011 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Automobiles & Parts: Chemicals: Construction & Materials: Electricity: Fixed Line Telecommunications: Gas, Water & Multiutilities: Household Goods & Home Construction: Industrial Metals & Mining: Leisure Goods: Mining: and Mobile Telecommunications.
Previously Keith was an Investment Director with Standard Life Investments for 13 years and spent the last 9 years as a senior member of the Smaller Companies team with associated portfolio management responsibilities.
Prior to that he gained experience with Southpac, Scottish Equitable and Murray Johnstone.
Richard M J Newbery 52 BA Hons Richard was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Alternative Energy: Beverages: Electronic & Electrical Equipment: Food & Drug Retailers: Food Producers: General Industrials: General Retailers: and Personal Goods.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 9 years where he managed international portfolios for a range of clients including those with a small company specialisation.
David T M Ross 62 FCCA David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Real Estate Investment Trusts: Real Estate Investment & Services: and Financial Services.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 22 years, the last two of which were as Managing Director.
He was a Director of US Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and served as a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
Alistair J Whyte 48 Alistair was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Aerospace & Defence: Health Care Equipment & Services: Media: Oil & Gas Producers: Oil Equipment: Services & Distribution: and Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where latterly he managed portfolios in Asia.
Prior to that he managed portfolios with the objective of capital growth from smaller companies in the UK and internationally.
Further information on Aberforth Partners LLP and its clients is available on its website www.
co. uk 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
