Chairmans statement Alastair Lyons, CBE Chairman Our consistent strategy: Grow profitably our share of the UK private motor insurance market Exploit the knowledge, skills and resources attaching to our established UK businesses to promote our expansion overseas in both private motor and price comparison Learn by taking relatively small and inexpensive steps to test different approaches and identify the best way forward Operate a capital-light business model transferring a significant proportion of our underwriting risk to reinsurance partners, which in turn allows Admiral to distribute the majority of our earnings as dividends Give all our staff a stake in what they create by making them shareholders Recognise the responsibility we have to the communities of which we are a part Delivering our strategy Turnover Profit before tax Return on capital employed 2.19bn 299.1m 59% 2010: 1.59bn 2010: 265.5m 2010: 59% Earnings per share Dividend Dividend payout ratio 81.9p 75.6p 92% 2011: 72.3p 2010: 68.1p 2010: 94% Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 05 Chairmans statement continued With our staff, management and Directors as shareholders we have all shared directly the disappointment of our broader shareholder base at the need in November to caution that our result for 2011 was likely to be somewhat lower than the prevailing analyst consensus.
This mainly arose from the UK insurance business earned during 2011 which, whilst remaining very satisfactory at a 91% combined ratio, was not as profitable as we had previously expected.
It is important to underline that this did not result from inadequate booked reserves on prior years but from a higher than anticipated projected cost of bodily injury claims on a part of the business written Each year since we floated in 2004 Admiral has during our recent rapid growth.
The effect of our increased its turnover, its profitability, and its reinsurance agreements is that we receive a dividends to shareholders.
2011 was no exception, substantial share of emerging profit on all the with our turnover growing by 38%, our pre-tax business we write, while only bearing the risk of loss profits by 13%, and our dividends by 11%.
Admiral arising on a portion of that business.
Changes to now insures 3.36 million vehicles across all its coand reinsurance arrangements over the past few operations and has an estimated 11% share of the years give Admiral an even greater share of profits, UK private motor market.
meaning relatively small changes in the loss ratio have a material impact on our results.
A lot has been written about Admiral over the past six months, not all of which I recognise as accurately The energies of our UK team have been focussed on reflecting the business I have chaired for the past taking the appropriate action as regards pricing and eleven years.
I think it is, therefore, appropriate to risk selection to put this issue behind us, re-establish restate the clear and straightforward strategy that the same broad confidence in the future potential determines our direction and our priorities and of our business that we ourselves have, and restore remains, we believe, as relevant now as when we lost shareholder value.
Knowing as well as I do the first listed:- quality of our management and our staff I am very confident that 2012 will demonstrate their capability Grow profitably our share of the UK private and commitment to achieve this.
motor insurance market Exploit the knowledge, skills and resources attaching to our established UK businesses to promote our expansion overseas in both private motor and price comparison Learn by taking relatively small and inexpensive steps to test different approaches and identify the best way forward Operate a capital-light business model transferring a significant proportion of our underwriting risk to reinsurance partners, which in turn allows Admiral to distribute the majority of our earnings as dividends Give all our staff a stake in what they create by making them shareholders Recognise the responsibility we have to the communities of which we are a part Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 06 When all is said and done, Admirals group pre-tax profits for 2011 at 299m represent a 13% growth on the previous year and deliver a 59% return on capital employed.
They support total dividends for the year of 75.6 pence per share which represents a distribution of 92% of our earnings.
Our normal dividend, growing in line with our growth in profits based on a 45% pay-out ratio, amounted to 36.8 pence per share, whilst our available surplus, after taking into account our required solvency, provision for our overseas expansion plans, and a margin for contingencies, made possible a further special dividend of 38.8 pence per share.
In addition to this margin, we retain a significant buffer within our booked loss reserves against any future development, such as periodic payment orders, We now have over 300,000 customers outside that might increase the cost of claims beyond the UK and last year we provided close to 4 million what we currently project to be their ultimate cost.
quotes across our non-UK price comparison sites.
Nowhere demonstrates better our test and This level of distribution, which sets Admiral apart learn approach than the US where we are now from its peers, is made possible by our sharing writing business in four states as we build our the underwriting of our business with our understanding of market dynamics and consumer reinsurance partners, and we have already buying behaviour.
With this growth, Kevin Chidwick announced the further extension of our current has moved his commercial focus, alongside his CFO rolling quota share reinsurance contracts to cover responsibilities, from oversight of Confused.
to that of our US insurance operations.
We are very conscious of the impact on our Over the next two years, three of our Non-Executive customers of the significant increases in motor Directors will reach the end of their permitted nine insurance premiums that the market has had to years.
As I said last year, we are very keen to ensure impose over the last two years to reflect the continuity of knowledge and Board dynamics and increasing cost of claims, in particular those relating have, therefore, a policy of recruiting well ahead of to bodily injury.
As the second largest player in the impending retirements.
I am, therefore, delighted UK private motor market with 2.9 million customers to welcome Roger Abravanel and Annette Court we, therefore, fully support any action that will drive to the Board, the latter subject to FSA approval.
We also believe in open With 34 years strategic consulting at McKinsey, fair competition as we gain market share by pricing and Non-Executive seats on the boards of a number competitively and offering covers that meet the of major international companies Roger brings to needs of our customers, such as Admiral MultiCar, Admiral both an in-depth understanding of doing which is now in its 7th year.
business in Italy, now our second largest market outside the UK, and a clear insight into how most Our international expansion continues to make effectively to develop our business internationally.
good progress across both car insurance and price Having been Chief Executive of RBS Insurance, comparison notwithstanding the impact on our the market leader in UK private motor insurance customers of the challenging economic environment, and European General Insurance CEO for Zurich particularly in southern Europe.
In line with our Financial Services, Annette has both extensive strategy, we have advanced over the last five years experience in UK direct motor insurance and in in relatively small steps supported by a cautious building retail insurance businesses internationally.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 07 Chairmans statement continued Admiral has an experienced Board with the Let me finish by thanking all our people for the diverse range of backgrounds and perspectives contribution they have individually made to a year needed to create an environment of challenging where we have extended our business still further and constructive debate.
As regards the specifics whether measured by revenue, profit, market share, of gender diversity 23% of our Board are female or geography.
It is their ownership of their whilst amongst our senior management team objectives, their commitment to their delivery, and this proportion is 42%.
We review annually the creativity of their thinking, that underpin the the effectiveness of our Board, and of myself as delivery of our strategy and the sustained profitable Chairman, and the entire Board submits itself to growth that I am confident we shall continue to be annual re-election at the AGM.
Recognising the able to report.
needs of a growing and increasingly broad business the Board has a particular focus on the development of management talent.
As Non-Executives we aim to understand the business by interacting with it informally as well as through the Board process.
Each year Non-Executive Directors visit both specific parts of our UK business and one of our overseas Alastair Lyons, CBE businesses to spend time with local management.
Chairman This provides an opportunity to discuss areas in 6 March 2012 more depth than is possible in the Board and to gain a first-hand view as to quality of management.
The Board aims to maintain an appropriate balance between matters strategic and operational and each year has a multi-day off-site to review Admirals progress against its strategic objectives and to shape future strategy.
Conscious of the increasing demands of developments such as Solvency II we have this year split into two Committees, Audit and Risk, the activities of the Audit Committee, and our Committee Chairmen have the responsibility for identifying, and ensuring the delivery of, the technical training requirements of their members.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 08
