Business review 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement As BG Group continues to focus on the execution of itsgrowth programme, it is opening a new chapter initsevolution as an international energy business.
Themajor investments in Brazil and Australia are ontrackto propel the Group to a leading position intheglobal energy market of 2020 and beyond.
floodingin Queensland, contributed to difficult conditions.
Where there were impacts on BGGroup operations, the situation has been managed well and, overall, disruption has been modest.
That said, the full consequences of far-reaching political changes in North Africa are not yet clear, and significant uncertainty also continues to surround the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.
Despite recent turmoil in Europe, global economic growth is holding up, bolstered by strength in China and emerging markets and, to a lesser extent, in the USA.
We expect global economic growth to exceed 3% in 2012, with emerging markets growing on average by nearly 6%.
Economic uncertainties are set to continue, but BG Group remains optimistic about the outlook for those economies that matter mostto theGroup.
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman In the USA, BG Groups landmark purchase agreement Energy industry context forthesupply of LNG from Sabine Pass represents an Looking to the longer term, BG Group innovative move, designed to secure early-mover advantage continues to expect gas demand growth in LNG export volumes from the US Gulf Coast.
The Group anticipates that many countries will be unable to meet rising demand from domestic supplies alone and will need increasing imports of pipeline gas and LNG.
By 2025, itisanticipated that China will become the second largest LNG importer after Japan andIndia will be third.
In many emerging economies, structural drivers BG Group made good progress in advancing cash flow and the Groups major investment such as urbanisation, population growth, rising its development programme in 2011, despite plans.
TheBoard has recommended afinal incomes and increasing consumption should sustained economic, financial and political dividend of 12.96 cents per share 8.19pence lead to continued economic growth and even turbulence affecting many markets.
Total per share, increasing the full year dividend by stronger growth in gas demand.
operating profit for the year was $8 209 million 10% to 23.76 cents per share 14.82pence per 2010 $6 925 million, a 19% improvement, and share, compared with lastyear.
Further details On track for growth earnings per share were 10% higher at 130.9 cents are set out in theFinancial review onpages The year saw good progress with our major 2010 118.7 cents.
40to 44. investment projects in Brazil and Australia.
InBrazil, significant progress was made with Over some 15 years, the Groups strategy has Volatile macro environment the development programme of offshore delivered strong results, with compound By any standards, 2011 was a politically and production facilities.
In Australia, coal seam annual growth in operating profit of 28% economically volatile year.
The financial crisis gas field developments and construction of perannum over that period.
Inconsidering in the eurozone, political upheaval in North theQueensland Curtis LNG QCLNG project the dividend level, the Board has taken Africa and the Middle East, and other localised continued to advance.
In the USA, BG Groups account of the outlook for earnings growth, physical disruptions, such as the severe landmark purchase agreement for the supply Unless otherwise set out in this statement, financial between business performance and totalresults, see note 1 information for the Group and its business segments is based onpage 99 and note8 on page 110. on BGGroups business performance.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 9 Dividend per share 23.76 cents 10% 2010 21.60 cents ofLNGfrom Sabine Pass Liquefaction, LLC 10 billion in 2004, BG Group has created an hasassumed Board-level responsibility for Sabine Pass represents an innovative move internationally diversified, integrated energy theevolution of the Groups organisation.
designed to secure early-mover advantage in business, whichhasgrown at a rate that Theaccountabilities of the Chief Financial LNG export volumes fromthe US Gulf Coast.
Today, Officer, Fabio Barbosa, have expanded BGGroup is a leading global gas and oil withhim taking on responsibility for the Throughout BG Groups operations, safety and business valued at approximately 52 billion development of the Groups strategy and asset integrity received sustained attention in $83billion.
Martin Houston has taken on a new 2011.
However, despite continual management role as Chief Operating Officer.
In this role, focus to achieve the highest standards, the At the same time, the international gas hehas Board-level responsibility for all Groups safety performance deteriorated last industry has changed on a scale that is regionsand assets and Group-wide business year in parts of our contractor workforce, unparalleled by any other major commodity development.
Martin will focus on driving asactivity across the Group increased.
Three revolutions have taken place: operational performance and project delivery Chief Executives statement highlights, this first, the huge growth of LNG and the increasing across the Group.
Safety is internationalisation of that market: secondly, anarea of utmost importance to the Board, the emergence of coal seam gas insufficient The Board andmanagements safety initiatives have quantities to become a major feedstock for There were a number of changes to the Board been reinforced.
LNG production: and thirdly, the shale gas during the period under review.
Lord Sharman revolution in North America that hasturned retired at the conclusion of the AGM in The future arapidly expanding import market for gas May2011.
I would like to thank him for his As I mentioned last year, achieving BG Groups intoapotential exporter of LNG.
In myview, considerable contribution to the Group.
growth and value ambitions will continue BGGroup has responded rapidly inaligning its DrJohn Hood succeeds Baroness Hogg as torequire substantial capital expenditure over business with these seismic changes in our Chairman of theRemuneration Committee thenext few years.
I expect these capital industry and Ibelieve that, asaresult, BG Group andSir David Manning succeeds Dr Hood as commitments to lead to an increase in the isnow well positioned for the future.
Groups gearing levels in 2013 and 2014 before Atthe beginning of2012, the Board announced reducing again as significant anticipated Preparing for the future the appointment of Vivienne Cox as a production from Brazil and Australia comes I am delighted that Andrew Gould has Non-Executive Director.
In order to maintain a robust financial accepted the Boards invitation to succeed me structure, BG Group is maintaining its focus on asChairman of BG Group.
He has had a highly New chapter operating costs, prioritising projects with the distinguished career during which he has As BG Group continues to focus on the highest capital efficiency, and is continuing its acquired a quite exceptional knowledge of the execution ofits growth programme, it is portfolio rationalisation programme.
Further oil and gas industry.
I cannot think of anyone opening a new chapter in its evolution as details oftheGroups capital investment better qualified to guide BG Group as it seeks aninternational energy business.
The major programme andfunding plan are outlined to deliver its growth portfolio, in particular investments inBrazil and Australia are on track inthe ChiefExecutives statement.
themajor projects in Brazil and Australia.
to propel the Group to a leading position in theglobal energy market of 2020 and beyond.
Reflections on Chairmanship tenure Andrew will lead the Board in its process todecide Iam veryhappy to be leaving the Group with As I prepare to stand down as Chairman the successor to the Chief Executive, SirFrank such anoutstanding portfolio of opportunities.
ofBGGroup at the conclusion of the Annual Chapman, who intends to step down during 2013.
This remarkable performance would not General Meeting AGM inMay2012, I have Senior executive roles have been restructured havebeen possible without the skills and been reflecting on the transformation that for an interim period to facilitate the transition.
commitment ofall our people, to whom I give Ihave witnessed in this Company since I took my wholehearted thanks.
up my appointment more than eight years Chris Finlayson has become Executive Director ago.
I felt then that thiswas a young company and Managing Director, BG Advance, and withavery exciting future.
I have not been isresponsible for ensuring BG Group has disappointed.
It has been a tremendous journey.
theright technology and technical capabilities, Sir Robert Wilson Out of the exploration and production division aswell as for its exploration strategy and Chairman of British Gas, with a market capitalisation of projects programme.
