Chairmans statement Providing continuity to our clients In a difficult year, the strength of our balance sheet and the quality of our people enabled us to rise to the challenge of multiple catastrophe events and demonstrate our commitment to our clients.
We are well positioned to benefit from improving markets.
Roger Taylor, Chairman balance sheet has allowed us to meet Return on equity Results and dividend 2011 was an exceptional year for catastrophe our obligations to policyholders quickly and losses, both in terms of scale and location.
For fairly and move forward with ample capital -8.6% the first time we encountered record natural into an improving trading environment.
Our 2010: 13.9% catastrophe losses mainly from outside the US, confidence in the outlook for the business including in what were viewed as non-peak is reflected in the decision of the Board to Dividend zones for catastrophe exposures.
In total, propose a final dividend of 15.8 pence per earthquakes in New Zealand and Japan and share 2010:15.8p, thus maintaining the 23.0p severe weather related events, including US total dividend declared at the same level as 2010: 23.0p tornadoes and floods in Australia, Denmark 2010, despite being uncovered by earnings.
and Thailand, cost Amlin 500.8 million on The final dividend will be paid on 24 May Total shareholder return five year index a net basis.
In addition to this wide ranging 2012, subject to shareholder approval, loss activity, we were also managing assets to shareholders on the register on 10 April 124% in a difficult and volatile environment with 2012.
In the longer term, our goal remains 2010: 205% historically low interest rates, which adversely to steadily grow the dividend.
affected the investment return achieved.
It has been part of our long term strategy Overall, we were disappointed to report a to underwrite a balanced portfolio of US and pre-tax loss of 193.8 million and a negative international catastrophe reinsurance.
It is our business to result, in 2011 we incurred disproportionately pay claims and prompt settlement following greater losses than some of our more catastrophes is the most practical way of US-focused peers.
However, this international helping our clients and the communities they catastrophe portfolio has generated a good serve to recover from such events.
It is a return over the longer term and provided a testimony to the quality of our organisation valuable counterbalance to our US exposures.
that we have been delivering a high level of We are confident it will continue to do so in service to clients in this regard, so maintaining the future.
Our major catastrophe claims in 2011 were In years when catastrophe activity is low or mainly the result of earthquakes.
A feature of average, the margins available to us on the earthquake claims is that it is very difficult to catastrophe account, combined with the crystallise initial loss estimates and these were profitability of the rest of the portfolio, are no exception, causing us to revise estimates reflected in high returns.
Despite the negative return on equity for 2011, our five during the year.
We have taken the opportunity year average return on equity of 14.7% is in our 2012 plans to modify risk appetite only slightly below our cross-cycle target of by purchasing more outwards reinsurance, 15% and over a ten year cycle since 2002, particularly for Amlin Bermuda.
which includes previous severe catastrophe While catastrophe claims loomed large, losses in 2005 and 2008, it remains well it was also not an easy year for large risk above target at 18.0%.
ACI, in particular, experienced an We remain focused on managing the unusual concentration of large losses in the business to produce excellent cross cycle first half of the year, which adversely affected returns for shareholders.
The strength of our its full year result.
12 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Strategic progress Governance and the Board Outlook Despite the challenges posed by catastrophe The Board believes that high standards of Many of the investments made in recent years events and financial market upheaval during Corporate Governance are intrinsic to Amlins in new teams, niche acquisitions and better 2011, management continued to focus on culture and values.
We have further developed operational capabilities have been against a the development of the business and the our strong culture of accountability through a backdrop of softening market conditions, with delivery of our strategic vision for profitable review of our executive processes and the a view to positioning the business to grow as long term growth.
subsequent interaction throughout the and when the trading environment improves.
organisation and with our subsidiary boards.
Now that we are seeing an upward trend in Amlin Re Europe, which started underwriting in pricing in much of Amlins portfolio, albeit not October 2010, got off to an excellent start and Through the work of the Audit Committee a hardening market across all lines, we are well has the potential to develop into an important chaired by Nigel Buchanan, our Senior placed.
The broader scope of the business, longer term earnings stream for the Group.
Independent Director, and the Risk & Solvency with three well capitalised underwriting We also continued to make targeted small Committee, led by Richard Davey, the Board platforms, gives us greater flexibility to manage acquisitions, with J R Clare and Lead Yacht has been updated on pertinent matters in exposures and the cycle, as well as creating further broadening the scope of business what is an increasingly complex regulatory more opportunities for profitable growth.
written by Amlin UK and Amlin London environment, allowing the Board to focus respectively.
The underwriting ratios obtained on challenging and encouraging executive The Amlin team by Amlin London in their principal lines of management and on the strategy for the As Chairman of Amlin I have witnessed many business, other than catastrophe reinsurance, Group as a whole.
aspects of the Groups remarkable were similar to the previous year, a particularly During 2010, the Board, upon the development.
However, a key to our success good performance in difficult market recommendation of the Nomination has been our ability to retain, recruit and conditions.
Amlin UK continued to grow its Committee, identified the need to recruit develop talented individuals in all aspects motor and property accounts as pricing an additional member, which culminated of our business, from front line underwriting improved, benefiting from previous investment in the appointment of Sir Alan Collins as a to the key support services.
I have personally in underwriting and distribution.
non-executive director on 14 November 2011. taken great pleasure seeing people flourish ACI remained a key focus during the year.
Its Sir Alan, who has had a distinguished career in their careers at Amlin, but also welcomed disappointing result for 2011 does not reflect in HM Diplomatic Service, brings a wide many excellent new staff who have joined our the sustained effort and substantial resource experience of promoting international business various operations as they have developed, being applied both within ACI and the wider activity, which will broaden the diversity of both in the UK and internationally.
I can Group to integrate and improve this business.
assure shareholders that Amlin has a stronger Step by step progress towards sustainable team today than ever before and I take pride At the AGM in May all of the directors are profitability is being made and we remain in them all.
standing for re-election as we announced confident of ACIs strategic value to Amlin over last year, other than Sir Alan Collins who is 2011 was a challenging year, with major losses the longer term.
standing for election and myself.
I am confident following one after the other, yet the staff Elsewhere, excellent progress was made in a in recommending to shareholders, following remained motivated, delivering on their plans number of key areas, notably our preparations individual as well as collective evaluation, that for the year and ensuring that Amlin was for Solvency II.
The tangible benefits to the the Board possess the necessary skills and positioned to seize opportunities as markets business realised so far from implementing our diversity of experience that a complex insurer reacted to events.
Target Operating Model already outweigh our like Amlin requires.
A great team needs good leadership and investment in its development.
Over the longer I was elected as a director and appointed in an unexpectedly tough year, Charles Philipps term, we anticipate significant further Chairman of Amlin on its formation from the and his colleagues have responded admirably.
advantage, particularly in risk management merger of Angerstein and Murray Lawrence We are in good heart and I would like to thank and capital efficiency.
This programme has in 1998 and it is my intention to retire Charles, his management colleagues and required the co-operation of colleagues from a at the AGM in May.
Succession planning, all our employees for their hard work range of disciplines and locations across the led by Nigel Buchanan in his capacity as and resourcefulness.
Group and its success is an excellent example Senior Independent Director, resulted in of the teamwork which is one of our core It has been a privilege to serve the the Board inviting Richard Davey to serve values.
Actuaries, risk modellers, accountants, shareholders as Chairman of Amlin, but it has as Chairman immediately following the AGM IT specialists and other professionals also been a pleasure to work with a first class on 17 May 2012.
Richard Davey is an throughout the business play important roles in team of insurance industry professionals.
outstanding financier and very capable supporting our underwriters.
We continue to director, who I have every confidence will invest in high calibre people across these be an excellent Chairman of Amlin.
disciplines to ensure that we are resourced to Roger Taylor support a larger and more diverse business.
