Business review Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement The increasing inflow of new assets and the continuing levels of good investment performance are impressive testaments to the teams success.
I am very pleased to be able to report upon another year of real Once again I would like to thank the whole Ashmore team for their progress at Ashmore.
tremendous efforts in achieving another successful year for the Company including the promotion into the FTSE-100 index effective In financial terms, we have reached new highs, in terms of AuM next week.
The increasing inflow of new assets and the continuing levels and profits.
This has been achieved primarily through organic levels of good investment performance are impressive testaments to growth and also by acquisition, with AuM reaching a closing level of the teams success and will allow the Company to build upon its US$65.8 billion, an increase of 86% for the year.
This has provided existing strong and solid business.
It is clear that the teams complete the foundation for the management fee income growth which, focus on understanding and interpreting the events of the emerging when combined with another good year for performance fees, markets is core to its success and this focus will continue with has produced record income and profit levels.
Operationally I am extremely pleased to have seen the completion, Global events in recent months and the continuing market volatility during the period, of the acquisition of Emerging Markets highlight the ongoing repositioning of emerging and developed Management LLC, a business similar to Ashmores, focused entirely world markets.
I am confident that the Group, with its experience on the emerging markets.
The combination of their equities gained over many economic and market cycles, will continue to investment history with ours, principally in debt, has created the manage their investment strategies successfully as world events largest independent dedicated emerging markets multi-asset class unfold.
I also remain confident that the opportunity for the investment manager.
On behalf of the whole Board I should like to emerging markets is a significant one and that Ashmore is well extend a warm welcome to the team at AshmoreEMM and we look positioned to capture it.
forward to working with them and seeing the results from our new equities business.
Michael Benson Chairman As the Companys business grows and prospers, the Board continues to give significant priority to ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance and codes of best practice are followed throughout its worldwide operations.
Recognising the financial performance achieved in the year, taken together with the Boards confidence in the prospects for future growth, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.34pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2011 which, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 2 December 2011 to shareholders on the register on 4 November 2011.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 14.5 pence per share FY2009 10: 13.0p.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
