The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 3 Chairmans Statement Richard Brewster I am pleased to report that the Company outperformed its benchmark by 1% whilst retaining its prudent and diversified investment policy.
The combination of a focus on quality companies and those that have solid dividend yields has allowed us to protect shareholders investments in what have been very difficult markets during 2011.
Despite these markets the total return has increased by 1.5% and supported a dividend increase of 5% whilst net assets remained broadly stable over the year.
This performance was against a backdrop of economic stagnation and political inaction where markets fell by 9% in Europe and 5% in Asia.
Performance and Markets The year end net gearing position of 3% was roughly the It is frustrating that many of the key challenges to global same as last year but we did increase exposure to equities economic growth that I highlighted in my outlook last year earlier in the year by drawing down the bank facility and have not been addressed by policy makers and, in certain switching our remaining bonds into equities.
Both these cases, their inaction has created deeper and more serious activities enhanced performance up to the April half year issues.
Sustainable policies for job creation, rebuilding when the net asset value per share had risen by 8.5%.
consumer confidence and encouraging companies to invest However markets suffered a sharp setback in the second half have been undermined by a lack of political courage and and during October we made a number of sales to bring leadership.
European politicians have made little progress over gearing down in order to take advantage of possible buying the year to solve the Euro regions sovereign debt crises and opportunities in the year ahead.
the lack of a consensus on the solution has affected The stubborn nature of inflation is becoming apparent in all investment markets, both in fixed interest bonds and equities.
Demand from emerging economies for raw As the crisis spread to countries such as Italy and Spain, equity materials, energy and foods is driving prices higher despite investors took flight and share prices fell heavily through the weak demand in western markets.
Price rises are limiting second half of our year, with a brief and short lived rally in discretionary spending by consumers and compounding weak October.
For the full year the net asset value total return was demand caused by high unemployment and the lack of 1.5%, compared to 0.5% for the composite benchmark index.
These effects are most Our outperformance of the benchmark index was due to apparent in the UK, where the Bank of England has adopted good stock selection, where our underlying regional portfolios further quantitative easing, effectively printing money, to in the UK, US, Europe and Japan all outperformed their stimulate activity.
Our stock selection in the UK has mostly respective local indices.
This justifies our Managers value avoided banks, which are still reducing lending, and consumer based stock picking investment style and they are to be related stocks affected by weak demand.
The performance in Japan and Europe was investments have been utilities and telecoms, sectors with particularly strong, based on purchasing companies with limited growth but scope to increase margins and dividend global footprints and well positioned products or services but distributions.
also careful avoidance of both financials and cyclicals.
Our Europe has been affected by fears that the harsh budget cuts geographic asset allocation has not been as successful and austerity measures being enacted in Greece, Portugal, principally due to our underweight position in the US, Spain, Italy and Ireland may lead to a fracturing of Europe and although a strategic re-positioning over the year did partially certain countries leaving the Euro.
We have selected Northern offset this.
We increased our investment in America earlier in the year and in Japan following the earthquake in March.
European countries and those sectors with growth or export led opportunities.
Investments in Scandinavia, Germany and Our overweight position in Asia, which I am confident is correct for the long term, has, in the short term, had an Switzerland have performed markedly better than those in the south, although even they have suffered a significant fideadverse affect on performance, as the region suffered an economic slowdown due to policies enacted in China to rating in valuation terms as earnings growth has not been control inflation.
rewarded by share price appreciation.
4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Chairmans Statement continued In North America, we have consolidated the portfolio and Looking to 2012, the year has started well, with a substantial performance has beaten all other regions, with a total return of special dividend of 270,000 from Vodafone, and we are 8.2%.
We increased the North American exposure to 20% of forecasting a dividend per share for 2012 of not less than the portfolio, as we believe the region has the best prospect of 13.2p, an increase of 4%.
pulling out of the stagnation affecting other economies.
There are promising signs of recovering retail sales, improving new Annual General Meeting housing starts and increasing manufacturing activity.
We have The Annual General Meeting this year will be held at the focused on medium sized companies with innovative products Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD on or services.
The natural optimism and entrepreneurial spirit of Thursday 23 February 2012 at 12 noon.
Full details of the Americans combined with the corporate sector beginning to business of the Meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting, invest seem to be pulling the US economy forward despite the which accompanies this Report and Financial Statements.
inability of politicians to agree key policies such as raising the Directions and a map showing the location of the AGM can debt ceiling.
The petty squabbling of politicians in the US has also be found on the Notice of the AGM.
As usual our not helped progress and voters may show their displeasure in Manager, Alex Crooke, and his team will be making a the coming elections.
I very much hope you will join the Board and the Managers at Stationers Hall.
It is my own Livery Company The Japanese people have suffered greatly this year, with the and I am particularly proud to be able to share the delights of devastating earthquake and resulting tsunami threatening the this 17th Century Hall with you.
The Stationers Clerk has safety of a large part of the population, through the flooding kindly offered to arrange tours for those shareholders who of a nuclear power plant.
The Japanese have always shown indicate an interest and have returned their invitation card.
a resilience and strong spirit to rebuild and, in our opinion, markets overreacted immediately after the quake.
We increased investment at that time, focusing on infrastructure Outlook spending and domestically orientated businesses.
The Sentiment for the future is at an extremely low level and while recovery has been impressive, although share prices have it may seem odd to make a virtue out of such a depressing not responded so quickly, with the majority of returns being position, it would only take a very little good news to motivate generated by the appreciation of the yen.
We remain marginal buyers of equities.
Where might good news come optimistic about the country and the wider Asian region.
China could, for instance, cut interest rates or signal an Many of the global problems involving high levels of debt and increase in lending activity as the inflationary pressures in the under capitalised banks are not issues for the Asian countries.
The US economy could surprise on We believe markets will respond positively if and when China the upside, especially if house prices stop falling.
After falls of signals that it has finished tightening economic policy to stem 40% or more, house prices are at affordability levels not seen inflationary pressures.
for a generation and an increase in residential building and housing activity would stimulate broad swathes of the US Revenue and Dividends economy.
The positive outlook for dividends that I alluded to last year Europe remains the region with the most troubled outlook.
The fide-leveraging of I see only two paths.
Either certain indebted countries need to balance sheets and low payout ratios have prompted leave the Euro or the European Central Bank needs to step in companies to increase dividends at a greater pace than the and print money, allowing banks to recapitalise.
Managements have sought to reassure both options are costly and the pain will not be shared shareholders of the sound nature of their businesses by equally.
Ultimately markets will force a resolution by closing increasing distributions, and in some cases, paying special bond markets or creating a crisis for banks.
It must be pointed dividends or indicating that these will be paid in coming out that much of this is already reflected in share prices and years.
Our Companys substantial revenue reserves which any resolution could well create a rally in asset prices based on have been built up over the years and are now equivalent sheer relief.
to over two years dividends which continues to allow us to strategically re-position the portfolio whilst maintaining our While the outlook remains uncertain in the short term, equity progressive dividend policy.
The revenue for the full year has shares have fide-rated over the past year as increased earnings reduced marginally due to the sale of our remaining bonds and dividends have been overlooked.
It may be that some with higher yields than equities and the decision to increase economies contract over the coming year but a fall in exposure to lower yielding regions like the US and Japan at corporate earnings would still result in many sound companies the expense of higher yielding regions such as the UK and trading on yields over 5% and single figure P Es.
This asset re-allocation has already added value this are the key to future returns and whilst we maintain a year and a greater exposure to equities should enhance cautious stance, we have faith that our portfolio will reward returns in the years ahead.
patient investors over the coming years.
We are recommending a final dividend of 3.175p, making a total of 12.7p, an increase of 5% for the year, building on our long term commitment to growing dividends.
We are proud Richard Brewster, Chairman of our record of having done this for the last 45 years.
