Chairmans Statement Overview Following a review of the investment trust universe, it has come to the The past financial year has been a challenging time for investors as a Boards attention that the Companys allocation of management fees whole.
The European debt crisis continued to dominate markets with and finance costs is out of line with industry norms.
Allocating 100% of no sign of a short term resolution.
The fragility of Eurozone countries, management fees and finance costs to the revenue account has been together with concerns over the strength of some of the worlds best the default position since the inception of the Company.
It does not known markets, combined to push share prices sharply lower.
reflect the Boards view of the long term returns from the portfolio.
Accordingly, having studied past returns from the portfolio as a guide It is therefore a small comfort to the Board that the loss in value for to assist us in assessing expected future returns, the Board is the year was less than the fall in the Companys benchmark, the proposing a revision of its current policy of allocating 100% of these HSBC Global Mining Index.
The Companys net asset value NAV expenses to the revenue account and, effective from 1 January 2012, decreased by 22.3% compared with a fall of 27.0% in the Companys proposes they be allocated 75% to capital and 25% to revenue.
benchmark index: the Companys share price fell by 21.5% all percentages calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
This change in policy will have the effect of enhancing the Companys dividend paying capability.
By way of example, had this policy been in Performance to 31 December 2011 place during 2011, there would have been an increase in revenue of 14.7 million, equal to 8.31p per share which would have been One year Three years Five years equivalent to total revenue per share of 23.03p.
This is an almost 60% increase on the 2011 revenue return per share and represents a 3.7% Net asset value per share: revenue yield to the year-end share price.
capital only -22.8% 124.2% 43.9% with income and 15 warrant reinvested -22.3% 130.8% 50.4% The Board is well aware of the increasing emphasis that investors are Ordinary share price: placing on dividend income as a portfolio protector and income capital only -22.1% 150.1% 42.2% diversifier given the FTSE All Shares continued dividend yield with income and 15 warrant concentration, sovereign debt headwinds and on-going wider market reinvested -21.5% 158.8% 49.9% uncertainty.
This initiative, along with others currently being pursued, HSBC Global Mining Index : should allow a material increase in the Companys dividend, hopefully capital only -28.3% 72.1% 47.5% leading to a significant uplift in demand for the Companys shares and with income reinvested -27.0% 81.4% 62.1% a reduction in the discount to NAV at which they currently trade.
Adjusted for exchange rates relative to sterling.
1 warrant for every 5 ordinary shares.
Discount to NAV The Company has a strong investment record, providing excellent Since the year end, the Companys NAV has risen by 14.5% compared returns to shareholders.
However, the Board is disappointed with with an increase of 12.9% in the benchmark index.
the persistence of the wide discount and continues to be highly focused on the need to reduce it to a more acceptable level on an Revenue return and dividend extended basis.
The Company generated a record revenue return per share of 14.71p in 2011, more than double the 6.57p generated in 2010.
This excellent The Company has initiated share buy backs and, whilst they can be a result was achieved through the combination of increased distributions useful tool, there is little evidence that share buy backs impact the from many of the portfolio holdings, including special dividends, as long term trend of the Companys discount.
Full consideration has also well as strategies implemented by the Manager to optimize income been and continues to be taken regarding other discount control generation alongside capital growth within the portfolio.
The Boards view is that in the medium to long term, exposure to fixed income securities of mining companies, subputting in place measures that stimulate demand for the Companys underwriting and the opportunistic use of derivatives to take shares, such as restructuring to facilitate potentially higher dividend advantage of elevated levels of market volatility.
paying capability for the Company, will be much more effective in addressing the discount problem, whilst retaining all the attractions of The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 14.00p per share being a large, liquid investment trust.
2010: 6.00p, which represents an increase of 133.3% on the previous year.
The dividend will be paid on 26 April 2012 to shareholders on the As Chairman, I also ensure that I have direct contact with Companys register on 9 March 2012. shareholders throughout the year.
During 2011, it was made clear to me yet again that a significant body of investors places a great deal of value on the liquidity which the scale of the Company provides.
The Board continues to believe that the Company is a popular, strongly performing, large investment company which provides an attractive way to gain diversified mining exposure.
4 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Share buy backs During the year and up to the date of this report, 250,000 shares were bought back and subsequently placed in treasury.
The Directors have the authority from shareholders to buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital.
This authority will expire on the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting, when a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew it.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at BlackRocks new offices at 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL on Thursday, 19 April 2012 at 11.30 am.
Details of the business of the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 63 to 66 of this Annual Report and the Investment Manager will be making a presentation to shareholders on the Companys progress and the outlook for the mining sector.
Outlook The political and economic difficulties in continental Europe which were a major concern to markets over the past twelve months look set to continue well into 2012.
However, over the long term, we expect mining companies to continue to perform favourably with commodity prices supported by demand from China and other emerging markets.
Over the short term we are encouraged by the combination of attractive valuations, strong earnings and M&A activity in the sector.
A W Lea 23 February 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 5
