B USI NESS REVI Ew: EXECU T IVE C hAI RMAN S STAT EMEN T I am pleased to report that your Company has delivered a Another development is the imminent opening of an important new resilientperformance, despite turbulence across the financial office in Bristol.
Bristol is a significant city where we were not markets worldwide and the effect on the UK of the continuing represented.
This closes a noticeable gap in our national coverage.
Combined with our clear focus on theindividual requirements of our clients the scale of our operation We now have a network that is of sufficient size to give us good underpins Brewin Dolphins ability to retain and attract clients.
coverage throughout the UK and we continue to attract new teams in a number of locations, including Glasgow, Leeds and London With 41 offices throughout the UK, the Channel Islands and Ireland, thisyear.
our business has made good progress.
The total income for the year from continuing operations is up by 10% from 240.0 million We have also doubled our Charity team in London and have risen to264.0 million and pre tax profit from continuing operations to 9th place in the top 50 Charity Managers survey 2011 by the excluding redundancy costs, additional FSCS levy, contract Charity Finance Magazine.
renewal payments, acquisition of subsidiary costs and amortisation of client relationships was 39.6 million, a 1% increase on the Dividend previous year.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.55p per share to be approved at the AGM in February 2012 and paid on 10 April 2012.
Funds under Management at the year end were 24 billion, This will bring the total dividend for the period to 7.1p in line with 3.4%higher than last year.
This increase is wholly attributable to the dividend paid last year.
theincrease in funds under discretionary management.
During the same period the FTSE 100 fell by 8.4% and the APCIMS Private Regulation Investor Series Balanced Portfolio fell by 3.8%.
This year we were required to pay a dramatically higher Financial Services Compensation Scheme levy in excess of 6 million 2010: Investment Management 0.6 million.
This related largely to the failure of Keydata.
While There have been significant developments in our office network clearly a charge of this nature is not something that any company thisyear.
would relish, or indeed anticipate, it is important that investors are provided with appropriate redress when the industry has clearly One is the acquisition of Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited formerly failed them.
However, it is important to note that this is only part of Tilman Asset Management Limited in Dublin.
We have long the ongoing and increasing cost of regulation.
Much work is being believed that there is a strong demand in the Republic of Ireland for done in the United Kingdom and Europe regarding regulatory the services that Brewin Dolphin offers.
We have known Tilman for reform and Brewin Dolphin is fully engaged in the process.
We many years and we have every confidence that it will prove to be hope that the eventual outcome of a number of important an important addition.
Tilman Brewin Dolphin manages 0.9 billion Parliamentary committee hearings and industry inquiries will lead to funds on behalf of clients and its style and modus operandi fit more efficient and suitable regulation for private investors and wellwith our ethos and approach.
greater confidence in the industry as a whole.
4 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C Board Changes Strategy I am pleased to announce some changes of responsibility within Our focus on cost control to achieve efficiencies is undiminished.
Henry Algeo has been appointed Chief Operating During the year we undertook a major strategic review of our Officer and has responsibility for Business Support: Information, investment management activities.
As a result of this we are Communication and Technology: Facilities and Change concentrating on the dual targets of reinforcing for the long term Management.
Henry brings much knowledge and experience to our continuing high standard of service to clients, and at the same this role in both the operational and client facing sides of our time re-engineering our processes to improve the return to industry.
Ben Speke has taken responsibility for Human Resources shareholders.
It will take three years to achieve maximum benefits to add to his Training & Competence and Health & Safety for shareholders, by which time we intend to have increased our responsibilities.
The Board has great confidence in both Henry and operating margin to over 20%.
Six months into the project, we are Ben and expects that they will bring many improvements to these on time and on budget.
These strategic initiatives will be delivered vital areas of the business.
without increasing our capital expenditure run rate of recent years, and a much fitter and more responsive Brewin Dolphin will emerge.
It has already been announced that our Deputy Chairman, Nick This will enable us to seize the increasing opportunities in our sector.
Hood, will retire from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
Nick has been Deputy Chairman since the summer of 2005, having first Last year, we announced our decision to focus on our core joined the Brewin Dolphin Board in 2000.
He has been a member investment management business and are progressing with the of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the disposal of our Corporate Advisory & Broking division to N 1.
Nomination Committee, chairing the latter two as well as being Disposing of a division rather than a clearly identifiable legal entity is Senior Independent Director.
During his time on the Board he has inevitably a lengthy legal process and I would like to record my been unstinting in his efforts and most generous with his time, and appreciation for the hard work and patience of all those involved.
he has consistently provided very welcome advice.
I am pleased to inform you that your Board has decided to ask Simon Miller to take Outlook on the role of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director At the time of writing stock market sentiment remains fractious with with effect from the end of our AGM.
The search is well underway the euro zone debt crisis and the possibility of another recession for two new Non-Executive Directors.
However it is your Boards belief that long-term equity investments will continue to have an important role in the The process has also begun to search for a candidate to take on wealth management market.
the role of Finance Director ahead of the anticipated retirement of Robin Bayford.
Robin will be a difficult man to replace.
He has been The work undertaken as a result of our strategic review will improve Finance Director since the Company floated in 1994 and his the service to clients and the return to shareholders.
With this in contribution to the Company for over 25 years is incalculable.
A mind, your Board looks to the future with cautious optimism.
final date for Robins departure is yet to be established and shareholders will be made aware of this in due course.
Jamie Matheson 6 December 2011 ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 5
