Chairmans Statement been sluggish at best.
However, company balance sheets are generally in good condition and earnings growth during the year was solid.
There has also been a good level of dividend growth from UK companies and this was of benefit to the Company during the year.
The table below provides a breakdown of the estimated contributions to the net asset value total return for the year.
The relative contribution from UK and overseas stock selection was positive.
However, with a fall in total assets there was a negative contribution from gearing.
The contribution from asset allocation was also negative as the Company was adversely affected by its overweight exposure to emerging markets which underperformed developed markets as the fears concerning reduced global growth increased.
However, we remain confident Lynn Ruddick Chairman that this allocation, which has contributed positively to performance over the past three This has been another challenging year for years, will continue to do well over the longer economies and markets.
asset value total return for the year ended 30 September 2011 was 5.1 per cent.
This compares with a total return of 4.3 per cent Attribution of Return from the composite index of 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 25 per cent FTSE World ex Market benchmark return 4.3% UK Index, which was the Companys benchmark Stock selection during the year.
The share price total return for UK equities 1.5 the year was 4.8 per cent and the debt-adjusted Overseas equities 0.3 premium of share price to net asset value per Asset allocation 0.9 share at the end of the year was 2.2 per cent.
Corporate bonds 0.3 For most of the year stock markets made Gearing 1.3 reasonable progress, with generally positive economic indicators and encouraging corporate Expenses 0.7 newsflow.
However, markets fell sharply in the British Assets Trust net asset value final months of the financial year as investors total return 5.1% became increasingly concerned about the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and the outlook for global economic growth.
During the last The end of the financial year also marked the end quarter of the year, the FTSE All-Share Index fell of the three year period since the Companys by 14.3 per cent, its largest quarterly fall since the overseas portfolios were consolidated into two third quarter of 2002. portfolios: a Global Developed ex UK portfolio In the UK, the government remains committed to and an Emerging Markets portfolio.
Shareholders reducing debt levels but economic growth has may recall that this change was designed to Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 Chairmans Statement continued provide greater focus on the best individual income, has been beneficial to the revenue investment opportunities overseas.
Companys net asset value total return for the The Board pays particular attention to the level of three years ended 30 September 2011 was dividend which we consider to be one of the 21.4 per cent and this was ahead of the total Companys key attractions.
As explained above, return from the benchmark of 18.9 per cent.
The we expect the changes to the portfolio since the share price total return over the three year period end of the year to be beneficial to the level of was 33.5 per cent.
Benchmark Index and Portfolio Re-Alignment Gearing At the end of the year, the Board announced As at 30 September 2011, the Companys level that, with effect from 1 October 2011, the of gearing, net of cash, was 20.5 per cent.
This Companys benchmark index would change from was represented by 4.9 per cent of equity gearing a composite of 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 15.6 per cent in corporate bonds.
and 25 per cent FTSE World ex UK Index, to 80 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 20 per The Companys borrowings comprise 60 million cent FTSE World ex UK Index.
Since the year 6.25 per cent Bonds which are due for end the Company has therefore modestly redemption in 2031, and a 60 million bank increased its exposure to UK equities and facility which matures in March 2013. corporate bonds to around 80 per cent of total 23.2 million of the bank facility was drawn down assets and reduced its exposure to overseas at the year end.
The Company has also realigned the Global ex UK sub-portfolio to Management Arrangements generate a higher level of investment income.
The During the year, Julie Dent, who had been the Board expects these changes to be beneficial to Companys lead fund manager since 2001, the level of dividend cover, whilst maintaining a decided to retire.
It was announced that, with the significant international equity exposure.
Boards full support, she would be succeeded by Phil Doel who, with effect from 1 October 2011, Earnings and Dividends has been fully responsible and accountable to the The Companys revenue earnings per share for Board for all investment matters.
Three interim Unrelated to this change, at the end of the year dividends of 1.442p per share were paid during the Board also announced that it had agreed the year and the Board recommends payment of changes to the management fee arrangements a final dividend of 1.786p per share, payable on with F&C.
F&C was previously entitled to a basic 6 January 2012 to shareholders on the register management fee equal to 0.3 per cent per on 9 December 2011.
This brings the total annum of the value of the Companys total assets dividend for the year to 6.112p per share, less current liabilities.
F&C was also entitled to a unchanged from the previous year and in performance-related fee calculated on an annual accordance with the Boards previously stated basis by reference to the performance of the expectations.
Company against the benchmark index over each During the year, BP returned to paying dividends, 12 month period to 30 September.
The maximum albeit at only half the level paid prior to the performance-related fee which could have been dividend suspension in 2010.
This, combined with earned by F&C in respect of any annual a continuing trend of increasing dividends in the performance period was 0.3 per cent per annum UK, where the Company earns most of its of the value of equity shareholders funds at the 4 British Assets Trust plc end of the period, depending on the level of The notice of Meeting is contained on pages outperformance.
54 to 56 and a Form of Proxy is enclosed separately with the Annual Report.
Shareholders With effect from 1 October 2011, F&C is no who are unable to attend the Meeting are longer entitled to a performance-related fee but encouraged to complete and return their forms so the basic management fee has been increased to as to ensure that their votes are represented at 0.4 per cent per annum of the value of the the Meeting.
Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Outlook A summary of the terms of the F&Cs The near term outlook for equity markets will be appointment is provided in note 3 to the heavily influenced by confidence in the enactment accounts.
and efficacy of the evolving polices to deal with the sovereign debt and banking crisis in the Boardroom Diversity Eurozone.
Internationally, the outlook is less The Board notes the recent review, by Lord negative with the US economy exhibiting Davies of Abersoch, of gender diversity of the moderate growth and emerging markets also boards of UK-listed companies and the proposed making progress, albeit at a more moderate rate changes to The UK Corporate Governance Code than in the recent past.
Encouragingly, company balance sheets are Any appointments to the Board are based on generally in good shape, with low levels of debt, merit, but we also take into account the need to but earnings are likely to come under pressure if have a balance of, amongst other things, skills, the economic position deteriorates further.
The experience, independence and gender within the Managers expectation, however, is for continued Board.
This will continue to be our policy.
growth in dividend payments by companies.
This, combined with the changes made to the portfolio since the end of the year, as detailed above, Annual General Meeting should be of benefit to the Company.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 14 December 2011 at the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, 80 George Street, Edinburgh.
It will be followed by a presentation from Phil Doel.
This is a good opportunity for shareholders to meet, and LynnRuddick ask questions of, the Board and Managers and Chairman 14November2011 I would encourage you to attend.
