04 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Chairmans Statement The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
This report covers the period 1 October 2010 to 30 September 2011.
At the half year, your Companys net asset value on a total return basis advanced 7.7% modestly below the benchmark and the share price was ahead by 6.7% at 496.7p.
The Board also announced an interim dividend of 2.0p, an increase of 11.1%.
The second half of the financial year has proven much more difficult than even our cautious stance had led us to expect, and the headwinds which we were expecting at the interim stage proved very challenging, particularly from the end of July.
The Companys NAV has fallen by 15.5% and the share price by 14.9% since the half year end with quite marked underperformance against its benchmark in that period.
Strone Macpherson For the year as a whole, the NAV is down 10.3% on a total return Chairman basis compared with 4.6% for the Companys benchmark Morning Star Global Growth Index and 2.7% in the MSCI World Index.
The Companys shares have traded over the past year between a premium to net asset value of 3.1% and a discount of 9.6%.
We continue to monitor carefully the share price and the discount or premium at which the Companys shares trade to net asset value.
We will, if necessary, take steps to limit the volatility of the discount or premium by either buying back shares at a discount or issuing new shares at a premium.
Therefore, the Board is once again seeking to renew its authority to buy back and issue shares.
Your manager has continued to invest steadily in equities through this difficult period and some 60m of the surplus liquidity had been deployed by the year end.
The overall investment strategy remains unchanged, with the manager finding new investments and adding to existing holdings at good discounts.
Dividend yields on the Companys investments have also been attractive.
In these difficult market conditions, the deployment of the Companys liquidity into investments in selected equities at attractive prices but in markets which have continued to fall has contributed to the underperformance against the benchmark.
Market conditions have also given rise to an estimated weighted average discount on your underlying equity investments of 39%, the highest level in our records and up from 23% a year ago.
These underlying discounts have historically proved to be an excellent source of good returns for shareholders as markets stabilise and start to improve.
It is also worth noting that the fall in the NAV was more than entirely accounted for by the widening of underlying discounts.
The estimated underlying value per share of our portfolio actually increased during the year.
05 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 In addition, the income of your Company has increased markedly in The Board has appointed a firm of head hunters to seek new the period under review, by some 6.4m to 25.9m.
This increase candidates to expand the Board and ensure that an appropriate has been achieved against a background of historically low yields on mix of skills and experience are available to the Company.
A further cash and government securities and results partly from changes in announcement will be made in this regard in due course.
the portfolio and partly from increased payments from investee companies.
Approximately 30% of the income was derived from The severe market setback over the summer was an indication of the the top two holdings.
nervousness of the investment community that much slower growth and a significant further recession and consequent lower earnings for We are therefore pleased to be recommending an increased final many businesses are a distinct possibility.
It was also a warning to dividend of 6.5p 2010: 5.7p up 14.0% on last year, which together politicians in Europe in particular to become more proactive and speed with the interim payment of 2.0p 2010: 1.8p 11.1% would bring up the process of finding workable and credible solutions to the the total dividends for the year to 8.5p 2010: 7.5p 13.3%.
serious issues facing the EU, the Euro, and the European banking In addition, we propose a special dividend of 2.0p, bringing total system.
There are now signs that some politicians may have dividends for the year to 10.5p 2010: 7.5p, and reflecting the understood the power of markets impatience.
exceptional increase in earnings in the past year.
Though this still remains a difficult time for all investors, we are Between the year end and 9 November the latest date for which data confident that your manager has sufficient flexibility and liquidity to is available the Companys net asset value increased by 4.1%, which continue to build a good store of value in selected stocks which will is similar to the return of the benchmark.
prove to be excellent investments when confidence returns.
On 2 July 2011, the Companys outstanding balance of 8.48 million 3 of 10 % Debenture Stock 2011 was, in accordance with the Strone Macpherson 8 provisions of the Trust Deed governing the Stock, repaid in full, Chairman together with accrued interest to that date.
Because it has been the 11 November 2011 Companys accounting policy to charge all of the interest on the Debenture Stock to the Revenue Account, repayment of the Stock will have a marginally beneficial account on the Companys revenue account in future years.
The Board has reviewed with the Manager the current long term borrowing and the Companys cash position.
The Board considers it unlikely that the Company will engage in any further long term or structural borrowing in the foreseeable future.
John May, who has been a director for eight years, retired as a director of our largest shareholder, Caledonia Investments, in September and has decided not to stand for re-election.
The Board will very much miss his wise counsel and wishes him well in his future activities.
At the Nominations Committee, the Board has completed a formal evaluation, led by an external party for the first time, the conclusions of which were positive in terms of good boardroom practice and governance.
In line with current trends in corporate governance, the board has decided that all directors who wish to continue as directors should offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Apart from John May, the directors all offer themselves for re-election and the Nomination Committee has considered again their qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board.
The Nomination Committee confirms that they each continue to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends that they should each be re-elected.
