2 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Overview Chairmans statement Results The Caledonia investment philosophy is tried and Against a background of market volatility over tested and will continue to be followed.
However, the past year, Caledonias net asset value per share within that model the board fully endorses, for increased by 6.4% compared with the FTSE Allinstance, the moves towards managing Caledonias Share increase of 5.4%, an outperformance of 1.0%.
investments as pools of capital with enhanced accountability for relevant members of the Over the longer term, Caledonias net asset value per investment team and towards the inclusion of share has significantly outperformed this index a pool to yield higher income as well as growth.
both over the last five years and since Caledonia In furtherance of these moves, the management became an investment trust in April 2003. team has been strengthened in recent months However, on a total return basis including dividends, by the recruitment of two senior executives.
our net asset value per share has underperformed Board over the last five years.
This underperformance The board has seen a number of changes since has been more marked in the case of our share the sad death of Peter Buckley in December price total return over the last five years, with a 2008, when I took over as Chairman.
A year later, significant widening of the share price discount Stephen King joined the board as Finance Director, to net asset value, although we have strongly in succession to Jonathan Cartwright, and last outperformed over ten years.
July Will Wyatt succeeded Tim Ingram as Chief While we cannot directly control the share price Executive.
Charles Gregson joined the board as and discount, sustained superior long term net asset an additional independent non-executive director value growth and a progressive dividend will be key in September 2009. influencing factors.
In providing further details of Over the last two and a half years, Caledonia has Caledonias performance in his report, Will Wyatt therefore seen changes in the Chairman, Chief gives strong emphasis to those objectives.
In view of this, Dividend the board sees the need for some continuity and The board has recommended a 5.3% increase in stability, but is also conscious of the length of the final dividend to 26.0p per share, which will be tenure of certain non-executive directors and payable on 11 August 2011.
The total dividend for thus intends to undertake a process of gradual the year will therefore amount to 37.1p per share, board refreshment.
an increase of 5.1% over the previous year.
This In the meantime, David Thompson will take over represents the 44th successive year of annual from Charles Allen-Jones, the Senior Independent dividend increases.
It is the boards intention to Director, as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
raise the dividend to a higher base level in due Charles has served as a non-executive director for course, when income from the portfolio allows, over nine years and Mark Davies will soon have and to continue its progressive dividend policy.
However, each of them contributes a Investment strategy wealth of knowledge and experience to the boards The Chief Executives half-year and full-year deliberations in a manner which, in the boards reports set out in some detail the recommendations view, enables them to continue to be regarded he and his management team have made to the as independent, notwithstanding this milestone.
board for building on Caledonias past success and achieving strong performance in the future.
The board has agreed both the overall strategy and the strategy proposed for the component parts of the investment portfolio.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Overview Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 3 AIFM Directive Staff I mentioned in my report last year that Caledonia I would like to thank the members of our management was making concerted efforts to persuade EU team for the expertise and diligence they have policy makers to exclude investment trusts from brought to bear on Caledonias affairs, and all of the scope of the Alternative Investment Fund our staff for the dedicated and professional way Managers Directive.
The principal purpose of the in which they have worked throughout the year.
Directive was to impose greater transparency Outlook and accountability on private equity and hedge In most of the developed world low economic funds following the financial crisis.
However, it growth seems likely to persist for some time to encompassed investment trusts within its definition come, including in the UK.
The main drivers of of an alternative investment fund, but without any the world economy will continue to be elsewhere, recognition of the differences in their nature and notably China and India, though policy moves to characteristics.
The Directive was approved by control inflation in those countries may well be the European Parliament in November 2010 and, a limiting factor.
Whilst the outlook for Western while regrettably the adopted version did not stock markets is bound to be affected by sluggish exclude investment trusts, it did incorporate domestic growth, it will also be influenced by the significant amendments to the original text drafted major exposure of companies based in developed by the European Commission.
These should enable countries to higher growth economies.
self-managed investment trusts to continue in their current form without substantial changes to their With the strategies described above in place and governance structures, though there will inevitably ably led by the Chief Executive and his strengthened be some additional cost.
management team, Caledonia will be in a good position to take advantage of the investment However, the European Commission is now to opportunities ahead, as well as benefitting from draft implementation measures which will then the strengths in its existing portfolio.
have to be incorporated by Member States into national law, probably in 2013.
As always, the devil will be in the detail.
We shall therefore continue to monitor closely and, where necessary, try to influence the progress of the Directive through its remaining stages in order to seek the best possible outcome for Caledonia and other self-managed investment trusts.
