The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 3 Chairmans Statement The year ended 30 June 2011 was another successful year for City of London.
The net asset value total return was 29.2%, exceeding the 26.5% return in 2010 and importantly the dividend was increased for the forty-fifth consecutive year.
Our total expense ratio remained amongst the lowest in the sector.
Simon fide Zoete Performance for Year to 30 June 2011 funds, was 0.44%, which is very competitive compared with the Earnings and Dividends OEIC market, with most other investment trusts and with other Earnings per share rose by 10.4%, a figure that benefited mainly actively managed equity funds.
from a very satisfactory increase in the dividends received from This is important because expenses are a tax on shareholder returns companies held in the portfolio.
Investment income rose by 16.9% and we have to compete for investment and savings in a market and we made some use of our borrowing facility to buy dividend that will be changing as a result of the Retail Distribution Review.
Share Issues and Buy-Backs A fourth interim dividend of 3.35p was paid on 31 August 2011 The Board's aim is for our share price to reflect closely its underlying making a total for the year of 13.20p, an increase of 4.3% over the net asset value: and also to reduce volatility and have a liquid previous year.
EPS of 13.17p almost covered the DPS of 13.20p and market in our shares.
Our ability to influence this is, of course, there were revenue reserves per share of 11.98p at 30 June 2011. limited.
We do believe that flexibility is important and that it is not The dividend declarations from companies in our portfolio have in shareholders' interests to have a specific issuance and buy-back been encouraging during our current financial year.
The Board intends, however, subject always to the overall rate will next be considered when the third interim is declared in impact on our portfolio, the pricing of other trusts and overall March 2012, by which time the Board will be able to assess better market conditions, to consider issuance and buy-backs within a the trend in income of the portfolio.
narrow band relative to net asset value.
Net Asset Value Total Return City of Londons shares have been in strong demand.
During the It was a good year with a net asset value total return of 29.2%.
The year under review 16.24m new shares were issued for proceeds of majority of the return was achieved in the first half of the period 45.57m at a premium to net asset value.
This allowed the Portfolio with the euro sovereign debt crisis and concerns about UK Manager to invest in good dividend yielding shares at attractive economic growth overshadowing the equity market in the second valuations.
Gearing and stock selection both contributed positively to our Outlook performance over the year.
Since our financial year end of 30 June 2011, there have been On stock selection, for a second year running the best performers in significant falls across world equity markets.
Growth expectations in our portfolio were industrial stocks, such as Weir Group and Croda, the developed Western economies have been declining.
The process which have benefited from global economic growth and have of deleveraging for consumers and national governments is proving strong market positions in their niche industries.
In addition, Land to be protracted and painful.
In contrast, companies have, in Securities was a notable outperformer, based on the rise in value of general, relatively strong balance sheets.
In addition, many UK listed its London office and retail property.
companies are well-placed to benefit from the structural growth taking place in emerging markets.
Equities seem to be attractive, on City of London marginally underperformed the average of the AIC a price earnings basis, based on the consensus of analysts UK Growth & Income sector by 0.5% over the year.
The dividend yield of equities is substantially The share price did better than its net asset value moving from a above gilts and dividends have prospects for growth over the coming year.
discount with debt at par value of 1.7% at the previous year end to a premium of 0.5% at 30 June 2011.
Board After ten years serving as Chairman I am standing down from the Performance for Five Years to 30 June 2011 Earnings and Dividends Board after the Annual General Meeting on 24 October 2011.
I am absolutely delighted that Philip Remnant will be succeeding me.
The Companys annual dividend has grown by 41% over the last five years from 9.36p to 13.20p and revenue reserves have Annual General Meeting increased from 8.65p to 11.98p.
Shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting on Monday 24 October 2011 at 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE.
The Net Asset Value Total Return meeting will start at 3pm and will include a presentation from the Shareholders net asset value total return has been 26.9% over the Portfolio Manager.
last five years, which compares with 21.6% for the average of the AIC UK Growth & Income sector.
Expenses There is no performance fee payable for the year.
The total expense ratio TER, which is the investment management Simon fide Zoete fee and other non-interest expenses as a percentage of shareholder 14 September 2011
