Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2011 cHairMans stateMent i am pleased to report that Booker stewart was formerly chief executive of i am pleased to Group plc has delivered another strong Muller Dairies uK & ireland and has great performance.
in the year to 25 March experience in the food and drinks trade.
i report that Booker 2011 sales rose by 6.2% and operating should like to thank all our colleagues for Group plc has profit was up 15% as customer their contribution to the success of the satisfaction continued to improve.
the Group in the year just ended.
delivered another financial performance was good and Basic earnings per share were 3.90 the Group ended the year with net cash strong performance.
pence up from 3.19 pence last year.
the drive into the catering Given the strong operational performance market is working, with like-for-like sales of the business, the Board recommends to caterers up by 6.3% and sales to the payment of a final dividend of 1.40 retailers up by 4.6%.
pence per share 2010: 1.03 pence per the plans to Broaden the business share which, together with the interim are going well.
We have converted dividend, makes a total dividend for the 115 of our 172 business centres in the year of 1.67 pence per share 2010: 1.27 uK to the extra format the lighter, pence per share.
the final dividend is brighter, more modern format.
Booker payable on 8 July 2011 to shareholders distributed 930m of product to our on the register on 3 June 2011. customers premises this year versus Outlook 797m last year and we continue to the economy is expected to remain expand our delivered offering.
internet difficult in the year ahead and the sales were 526m compared to 407m food wholesale market remains very in the previous year and Booker india competitive.
nevertheless, we expect continues to trade well.
i am pleased to continue to make progress in this that ritter-courivaud and classic, our challenging environment.
the exceptional two new acquisitions, have settled well weather in the first seven weeks of the into the Booker Group and are helping current financial year has led to a good to broaden the business for the future.
start, and Booker is on course to meet after five years of great service to our expectations for the year.
Booker, Bryan Drew has left the Board to pursue his entrepreneurial interests: Annual General Meeting i and the rest of the Board would like our annual General Meeting will be held to thank him for his contribution to on 6 July 2011. the notice of annual the Group.
We are delighted that Guy General Meeting separately accompanies farrant has joined Booker as Managing this document.
Director of the uK cash and carry Richard Rose business.
Guy brings a wealth of food Chairman industry expertise that will help to drive the business forward.
richard farr, nonexecutive Director, stepped down from the Board on 18 May 2011.
We thank him for the great support he has given to the company over the last two years.
i am also pleased that stewart Gilliland has joined as a non-executive Director.
