Chairmans Statement Background As has been widely reported, financial markets in 2011 have experienced great volatility, primarily due to concerns over growth and sovereign debt in the developed world.
Asian markets, on the other hand, were specifically impacted by worries over how monetary policy might be used to control inflation.
Despite these concerns, I am pleased to report that your Company recorded a Allan McKenzie satisfactory performance in the 12 months to 31 August Chairman 2011, consolidating the strong performance in the previous year.
The net asset value at the financial year-end Highlights was 251.4p per share 2010-240.1p, a rise of 5.4% on a Net Asset Value Total Return 5.4% compared to a total return basis compared to a 3.7% rise, in sterling benchmark return of 3.7% terms, in the benchmark, the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index.
Share Price Total Return 5.8% The share price rose 5.0% to 230.0p during the year.
Overview A few key themes dominated Asian markets during the year under review.
At first, there was growing optimism about Asias economic prospects.
In the middle of the period, inflationary concerns came to the fore, while, towards the period-end, external risks mounted on the back of concerns over the lack of firm political leadership in Europe and the US to address sovereign debt issues and avoidance of a double-dip recession in those economies.
In the first phase, lasting up to December 2010, Asian equity prices moved higher as the regions economies continued to lead the global recovery, with the economies of China and India growing by 10.3% and 8.9% respectively in 2010.
Expectations of further monetary easing which materialised in the form of a second round of asset purchases by the US Federal Reserve accelerated capital inflows into emerging markets and Asia.
From January to July 2011, equity prices traded sideways as successive monetary tightening in order to curtail rising inflation which ranged from 4% in Malaysia to 12% in India dampened growth prospects.
In China, Hong Kong and Singapore, specific measures were taken to dampen overheated property prices.
Exacerbating the situation were sharply rising oil prices, primarily on the back of unrest in the Middle East and North Africa.
The global supply chain disruptions caused by Japans March earthquake also took their toll on markets.
Inflationary fears gave way to growth concerns in the third phase, sparking a widespread market retreat in August 2011.
The simmering fears over Europes ability to pay its debts, which I had noted in the interim report, intensified after a second bailout for Greece failed to allay fears of impending sovereign default.
Across the Atlantic, the US suffered an unprecedented downgrade of its triple-A credit rating.
Moderating economic data in the West also Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 5 Chairmans Statement continued sparked fears of a double-dip recession.
Against such a The Board believes the authority to buy-back shares for backdrop there was a global investor flight from equities cancellation should remain in place and, accordingly, a with emerging markets seeing the greatest impact, despite resolution to renew the authority to buy-back shares for their superior economic fundamentals.
Regional equities cancellation will be proposed at this year's Annual General shed more than 9% during August and erased most of the Meeting.
gains accumulated in the first half of the year under review.
Revenue Account Due to the increased level of special dividends received in Against this backdrop, your Managers choice of stocks has the year, the revenue return per share was 4.31p, remained largely unchanged, underlining its genuine longcompared to 2.62p in the previous year.
It remains the term investment approach.
Your Manager places great Boards policy to pay a final dividend marginally in excess emphasis on the quality of companies it selects on your of the minimum required to maintain investment trust behalf.
This typically means companies that have strong status, which may, of course, lead to some volatility in the balance sheets, sound growth prospects, decent returns on level of dividend paid.
The Board recommends the capital and stable management teams.
Notable successes payment of a final dividend of 3.2p per Ordinary share include core holding Jardine Strategic, a Singapore-listed 2010 1.9p which, if approved by shareholders at the conglomerate, with interests in the fast-growing Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 9 December 2011.
Indonesian auto sector via subsidiary Astra International.
It was the top contributor to relative performance both this Bribery and Corruption Act year and last.
Similarly, Thailands Siam Cement has The Bribery Act 2010 became effective on 1 July 2011. remained in the list of top 10 performers for the past three The Company has a policy of conducting its business in an years.
The company has a dominant market position in the honest and ethical manner.
The Company takes a zero countrys cement, chemicals and paper sectors, and is tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has focusing on regional expansion over the next five years for procedures in place that are proportionate to the better growth opportunities.
Detailed information about Companys circumstances to prevent them.
The Manager your Companys performance and holdings can be found also adopts a zero tolerance approach and has its own in the Managers review.
detailed policy and procedures in place to prevent bribery and corruption.
Gearing As previously reported, the Company issued 60 million The Board nominal of 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 The Board welcomes greater transparency in the fulfilment CULS in January 2011.
The CULS provides the Company of its responsibilities to shareholders.
New appointments with long-term structural gearing at an acceptable cost are now routinely facilitated by an external recruitment and is in line with the Managers long-term investment firm.
While the Board is a supporter of diversity in the philosophy.
The CULS provides holders with an attractive boardroom, in all new appointments the overriding priority yield of 3.5% per annum, as well as capital protection is to appoint the person with the best set of skills and with the liability comfortably covered by the assets of the personality to complement the existing skills of the Board.
Holders of CULS may convert part, or all, of their holdings into Ordinary shares on 31 January and 31 As part of a previously stated commitment to an orderly July each year up to January 2018 at a fixed price of process of refreshment, the Board was pleased to appoint 310.1528p nominal of CULS for one Ordinary share.
At 31 Peter Maynard as a non-executive Director of the August 2011 the Company had actual gearing of 9.9%.
After many years of valuable service to the Board of Edinburgh Dragon, Frank Discount Frame will step down as a Director at the forthcoming The discount at which the Companys shares trade relative Annual General Meeting.
The Board joins me in thanking to their net asset value, as at 31 August 2011, was 8.5%.
Frank for his considerable and wide-ranging contributions The Board monitors closely the discount level of the over the years, not least in his role of Senior Independent Companys shares and has in place a buyback mechanism Director SID.
David Gairns will take over the role of SID whereby the Manager is authorised to buy back shares from the AGM.
There were no buy-backs of shares during the financial year and there have been no buyIn accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate backs subsequent to the year end.
Governance Code, the Board has endorsed corporate governance procedures whereby all Directors will retire from the Board and submit themselves for re-election on 6 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc an annual basis.
The Board recommends that shareholders investments in high quality companies which meet the vote in favour of the re-election of all Directors at the Managers well tried and tested criteria as set out above.
The Board has adopted the principle of external evaluation of its members and will report on the first such evaluation For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc in the Annual Report for 2012.
Allan McKenzie Chairman Annual General Meeting 13 October 2011 The Annual General Meeting will be held at Aberdeens Edinburgh office on Wednesday 7 December 2011 at 12.00 noon followed by a lunch for shareholders.
This will give shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager after the formal AGM business has concluded and we welcome all shareholders to attend.
The AGM will continue to be rotated between Edinburgh and London in successive years.
Outlook The growth outlook in developed economies is uncertain for the foreseeable future.
While Asian economies have increasingly decoupled from the West their stock markets are still subject to swings in global investor sentiment.
No doubt Asias growth will moderate if the developed world enters another recession but the region should be buffered by robust fundamentals and an increasing reliance on intra-regional trade and domestic demand.
Importantly, Asian governments have been financially prudent, avoiding the chronic debt problems of their Western peers.
Should the need arise, they are in a position to deploy a wide range of policy tools to sustain growth, especially in export-oriented countries like Korea, Taiwan and Singapore.
More domestically driven economies such as Indonesia and India may be less vulnerable to a fall in Western export demand.
Meanwhile, a modest growth slowdown might even take pressure off the prices of commodities that the large emerging countries of China and India compete for.
In the case of China, policymakers are still caught between containing inflation and supporting growth.
The policy dilemma has been made worse by the predicament facing both the American and European economies, its two biggest export markets.
For now, Beijing appears to be focused on quelling inflation: authorities have allowed the currency to strengthen and are curbing off-balance sheet lending.
Clearly, however, priorities could change if the global economy deteriorates further.
Despite the uncertain global growth outlook, your Board and your Manager maintain a strong belief that opportunities are still abundant in Asia for long term Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 7
