221274 Invesco Edin pp01-pp13 13 06 2011 11:21 Page 06 06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Introduction When Neil Woodford took responsibility for the Companys portfolio in September 2008 he and his colleagues had concern that global economic recovery would not be as straightforward and consistent as market consensus was at that time implying.
These considerations led to the construction of a defensive portfolio which was designed to be resilient in the face of a turbulent economic environment yet to have the potential for substantial long term growth by offering fundamental value.
This investment approach has remained unchanged.
The UK Equity Market As described in the Managers Report the UK Equity market made little progress during most of the year to 31 March 2011 as the generally positive attitude held by investors at the start of the year was dented by fiscal and economic pressures on sovereign states and by more specific difficulties in parts of the corporate sector.
The end of the period was however marked by a short period of positive sentiment and the FTSE All-Share Index the Index, the Companys capital benchmark, rose over the year as a whole by 5.4%.
Company Performance Investment Returns: The defensive nature of the Companys portfolio has been helpful in the uncertain environment and the Net Asset Value NAV has increased by 8.8% with debt at market value the increase with debt at par value was 8.1%.
This result benefitted to the extent of 1.8% from the early payment of a dividend in 2010 and from VAT repayments in 2011, but is felt by the Board to have exceeded the 5.4% growth of the benchmark Index by a satisfactory margin.
Dividend income from the Companys portfolio increased by 6.5%, and the NAV Total Return which is a measure of both income and capital growth increased, with debt at market value, by 13.3% substantially ahead of the Index equivalent, 8.7%.
Shareholders Returns: The Company continues to meet demand from investors and its share price rose by 12.0 % more than twice the rate of growth in the Index in the year to 31 March 2011.
Shareholders Total Return dividends and share price increase was 16.5% the Index comparison was 8.7%.
VAT Shareholders will recall my reporting at the interim stage that the Company had received repayment of VAT from HMRC in respect of the period 1990-96, together with an additional amount due for a subsequent period.
The Board determined at that time that all receipts of this nature by the Companys Revenue Account should be given immediately to shareholders and a special dividend of 0.93 pence per share was paid in November, this was in addition to the first interim dividend normally paid at this time.
My interim report also anticipated further payment from HMRC in respect of the interest due on the repayments which had been made.
I am pleased to say that this interest payment, 2.46m.
which accrues to the Companys Revenue account, was received shortly before the year end, and was paid to shareholders as a second special dividend of 1.26 pence per share on 20 May 2011.
There remains some possibility that on-going litigation and other claims could lead to further repayments of VAT at some future date.
Given the uncertainty surrounding this matter, the Company has taken no account of any possible outcome.
Company Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.55 pence per share which if approved at the Annual General Meeting will be paid on 29 July 2011 to shareholders on the Companys register on 17 June 2011.
If this payment is approved the total dividend payable in respect of the year to 31 March 2011 will be 22.99 pence per share, of which 2.19 pence per share represent the repayments of VAT and related interest.
Payments excluding the special dividends total 20.8 pence per share, 1% higher than the total dividend paid in respect of the previous year.
Although this years increase in the core dividend is below the 5.3% increase in the Retail Price Index in the comparable period the Company continues, on the basis of its five-year performance, to meet its long term objective of providing income growth which exceeds the rate of inflation.
Including the special dividends, total payments in respect of this year will be 11.6% higher than in the previous one.
221274 Invesco Edin pp01-pp13 13 06 2011 11:21 Page 07 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Investment Policy Overseas Securities Prior to 2009 the Companys policy was to restrict investment to companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange within the UK.
At the Annual General Meeting in that year shareholders approved a change to permit investment of up to 15% of the value of the investment portfolio, measured at the time of acquisition, in securities listed on overseas exchanges.
A number of such investments have been made in the subsequent two years, they have performed well, and the manager has no flexibility to add to these holdings or to purchase others which he believes to be attractive.
The Board believes it is in the Companys interest to increase the overseas limit from 15% to 20% and will propose an appropriate resolution, which shareholders are recommended to endorse, at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board I am pleased to be able to inform you that Gordon McQueen has today been appointed to the Board.
Mr McQueen spent the bulk of his career with the Bank of Scotland where he was latterly Finance Director, retiring in 2003 as an Executive Director of HBOS plc.
He currently serves as a director of a number of companies in the investment trust and property sectors, and will become Chairman of the Audit Committee after the Annual General Meeting when Jim Pettigrew will, as already announced, succeed me as Company Chairman.
Outlook The Board and Manager continue to believe that equity markets generally have been too ready to forget the difficulties of the past few years, and to assume smooth progress to a world of future stability and growth.
Recent disappointing projections for the domestic economy, and the remaining instability in a number of Euro economies suggest that such progress cannot be taken for granted, and give us no compelling grounds to change our defensive posture.
The Companys investment portfolio is not, by historic standards, highly rated.
Although concentrated in a small number of sector and hence not without risk, our underlying investments are achieving relative growth in earnings and dividends, and give us confidence that they will continue to demonstrate resilience in a weak environment, with every prospect of continuing strength when conditions improve.
Having worked with The Edinburgh Investment Trust since the early 1970s, initially as a supplier of professional services, it has been for me a privilege to serve as a Director then Chairman of the Company.
I am very confident that the Company under Jim Pettigrews leadership, and with the able management of Neil Woodford and his team, will further enhance its strong position as an effective vehicle for the accumulation and retention of individual wealth.
