Chairmans Statement The performance of the business in the last financial year has once again demonstrated the Managers ability to invest and divest successfully during tough times.
This expertise together with Electras financial resources and flexible investment mandate, will, in our view, enable the Company to continue to deliver good returns.
Overview Electra has made solid progress this year despite the continuing financial crisis which has resulted in further market volatility around the world.
Trading results of the majority of companies in the unlisted portfolio have been resilient, resulting in another successful year for Electra.
During the year, Electras capital base was expanded through the issue of 100 million of Subordinated Convertible Bonds and, subsequent to the year end, the refinancing of our existing multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Results At 30 September 2011 Electras diluted net asset value per share was 2,225p compared with 2,050p at 30 September 2010, an increase of 8.5% against a FTSE All-Share decrease of 7.4%.
Over the five years to 30 September 2011, the diluted net asset value per share, inclusive of Special Dividends, has increased by 46.7% and Electra has achieved an annualised return on equity of 8.1%.
Over the year Electras share price broadly tracked the volatile movement in the FTSE All-Share rising from 1,368p at the beginning of the year to a high of 1,755p in April 2011 before ending the year at 1,360p, a 0.6% decline over the year.
The year end share price of 1,360p represents a discount to diluted NAV of 39% which continues to remain in line with the average discount of the Companys peer group.
Investment Activity The first part of the year saw a steady increase in the number of investment opportunities offset by a reduction in the availability of quality deals as a result of renewed market volatility at the end of June.
The net effect was that Electra Partners considered 148 new investment opportunities in the year and invested a total of 136 million.
The largest new investment was 35.8 million in the buyout of Davies Group, a leading provider of claims management services to the insurance industry.
Other investments included a 21.7 million secondary investment in Steadfast Capital Fund II, a fund comprising five investments in Germany.
As I reported in my Statement to 31 March 2011, the initial investments of 26.2 million in Daler-Rowney and 35.6 million in Sentinel Performance Solutions were reduced to 17.4 million and 15.7 million respectively, following an investment by the Electra Partners Club 2007 LP Fund, and the securing of medium-term banking facilities by Sentinel which resulted in Electra receiving 19.9 million.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 3 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview Total proceeds of 137 million were received in the year from the sale of unlisted investments, of which 54 million related to the disposal of Rio Trens Corporation.
Since the year end, Electra has agreed terms for the sale of its stake in heating products manufacturer BDR Thermea ending a very successful long-term investment in Baxi.
Proceeds of 39.1 million have already been received with further proceeds in the region of 40 million due to be received over the next two years.
Electra also sold its stake in specialist credit card provider SAV Credit with Electra receiving gross proceeds of 40.8 million.
The performance of the Convertible Bond Issue and Banking Facilities business in the last In December 2010 Electra issued 100 million of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds financial year has once through a placing and open offer.
In October 2011 Electra refinanced its existing again demonstrated the multi-currency revolving credit facility, increasing the size to 195 million and extending Managers ability to invest the loan term to June 2016.
This is part of our on-going strategy to diversify the sources and divest successfully and maturity of Electras capital base, which started in 2009 with the raising of 46 million during tough times.
Board Changes As reported previously, Kate Barker joined the Board in November 2010 and Geoffrey Cullinan was appointed a Director in January 2011.
Ron Armstrong and Peter Williams both retired as Directors at the Annual General Meeting held in February 2011.
Lucinda Webber was appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in March 2011.
Corporate Governance The duty of the Board is to act in our shareholders interests at all times and, as part of this, we take corporate governance very seriously.
We report in detail on corporate governance matters later in the Report and Accounts.
During the year, we established a Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Geoffrey Cullinan, to carry out the work previously done by the full Board in reviewing the performance of the Manager and the terms of the management contract.
The duties of Electra Partners include investment management, with full discretion on investments and realisations, and all treasury, accounting and administrative responsibilities of the Trust.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board believes that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of shareholders.
4 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 Outlook The performance of the business in the last financial year has once again demonstrated the Managers ability to invest and divest successfully during tough times.
Within the private equity market there are currently a number of conflicting messages on availability, pricing and financing of investments.
Electra Partners has successfully invested through several economic downturns and this expertise, together with Electras financial resources and flexible investment mandate, will, in our view, enable Electra to continue to deliver good returns and enhanced value for shareholders.
Colette Bowe Chairman 5 December 2011 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 5 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
