Financial position Profit before tax increased by 74% to 32.1 million as a result of a greater number of legal completions at an increased average sales price and an improved profit margin.
With a strong balance sheet with net cash of 50.8 million, the Group has an excellent platform from which to grow significantly the returns to our shareholders.
Earnings per share and dividends Earnings per share for the year have grown by 65% to 17.5p.
Consistent with the intention to increase dividends progressively as earnings per share increase, the Board will be recommending a final dividend of 3.5p per share, which, Malcolm Harris when combined with the 2011 interim dividend of 1.5p, totals Chairman 5.0p for the year.
The final dividend will be payable on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 30 March 2012.
It is the Boards intention to continue to pursue this progressive The Group has achieved excellent progress dividend approach.
during the past year, especially in the context of a challenging market environment.
People Mortgage availability continued to be On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of the employees of Bovis Homes for their efforts and commitment heavily constrained, particularly in respect during another challenging year.
The Board would also like to of first time buyers.
Consumer confidence extend its thanks to our subcontractors and suppliers.
was adversely affected due to rising unemployment, high inflation and ongoing Corporate governance political and economic issues within Europe.
Bovis Homes is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, including those related to the role and effectiveness of the Board and compliance with the The Groups profitability has increased significantly in 2011 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details are set out in the with the benefit of increasing revenue, strong cost control and corporate governance section on pages 31 to 37. an increase in sales outlets.
Corporate responsibility The future profit potential of the Groups land bank continues I am pleased to report good progress against the targets to be improved with further high quality land investments laid out within our Corporate Social Responsibility report, in the year improving both the consented and strategic in particular the improvements in our health and safety land holdings.
The drive to improve the efficiency of capital performance, a critical area where the Group will continue employed was assisted by land sales and strong control over to target improvements.
This progress has once again been work in progress.
recognised by the Groups inclusion in the independently assessed FTSE4Good Index.
The consented land investments made by the Group in the Summary last two years have increased the number of active sales outlets and positioned the Group to be able to significantly Bovis Homes has delivered a strong result in 2011 and is grow returns in 2012 and beyond, based on current market excellently positioned to build returns into 2012 and beyond, conditions continuing.
with its quality land assets, robust balance sheet and strong growth potential.
Whilst the trading environment is expected to remain challenging during 2012, the Group welcomes the Governments initiatives for the housing market and, in particular, is encouraged by the Government backed mortgage indemnity scheme, which will hopefully unlock the ability of Malcolm Harris aspiring homeowners to get onto the housing ladder.
Chairman 6 | Annual report and accounts | Overview Chairmans statement Overview The Group has achieved excellent progress in 2011 with improved profitability and in positioning the Group for growth Abbotswood Romsey, Hampshire Bovis Homes Group PLC | 7
