16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:11 Page 3 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 03 Welcome from the Chairman 2011 was a significant year for F&C with cover and provide the Group with the ability expects that the roles of Chairman and Chief changes in the composition of the Board and to accelerate the retirement of its long-term Executive will be separated again by the time important progress made in developing its debt.
Improving the Groups financial position of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
A review of business flows, will better enable F&C to implement its As a result of the handover, and to ensure investment performance and operational revenue growth plans, with consistent accountability for delivery of goals for each developments, is provided in the Chief investment in the resources required to business line, we have clarified senior Executives Report.
Richard Wilson Five new Directors joined the Board, three as Our revised institutional strategy is to focus is now head of our Investment and a result of the changes which arose from the on those areas where F&C has existing scale Institutional Business and Charlie Porter is Extraordinary General Meeting in February and marketable track records in products head of our Retail and Wholesale Business 2011, which was covered in last years that meet the needs of insurance companies which incorporates investment trusts.
Annual Report, and the subsequent and pension schemes.
Both of these large Responsibility for F&C REIT, our real-estate appointment of two additional Directors.
In client groups are increasingly focused on business, and F&C Portugal remains the second half of 2011, Keith Jones and immunising liabilities, with fixed income as unchanged.
Keith Percy were appointed as Independent the core asset class in their portfolios.
F&C On behalf of the Board and management Non-Executive Directors.
Both Mr Jones and has significant scale in fixed income, good team, I would like to thank Alain Grisay for Mr Percy bring considerable industry performance track records and has gathered the huge contribution he has made to F&C expertise to the Board as former chief strong consultant support for its expertise in over many years, the last six of which he has executive officers of major asset Liability Driven Investment.
Additional information on The second phase of the strategic review, achievements include successfully leading the recently appointed and incumbent which will cover the growth strategies for our F&C through a period of ownership Directors is included on page 22. retail, wholesale, investment trust and uncertainty to an independent stock market The Board has been conducting a real-estate businesses, is ongoing.
We listing and the acquisitions of Thames River comprehensive review of strategy during the expect to conclude this work in May.
As I wrote in last years report, F&C has F&C with our very best wishes for the future.
a great many strengths, including a strong Results and Dividend brand, competitive investment performance The underlying profit after tax was 28.4 across a range of products and high quality million compared to 28.8 million in 2010. professionals, but these have not been This represents underlying earnings per share reflected in its financial performance in recent of 5.5 pence for 2011 2010: 5.7 pence.
The goal of the review is therefore to On a statutory reporting basis, which enhance shareholder value.
Edward Bramson includes exceptional and non-cash items, the In setting the parameters for the revised Executive Chairman Group made a profit after tax of 2.6 million, strategy the Board agreed three key compared to a loss after tax of 13.4 million 15 March 2012 objectives: in 2010.
This represents a basic loss per Generate above-average shareholder share of 0.1 pence compared to a loss of returns with below-average volatility 3.3 pence in 2010.
Achieve competitive scale in areas of The Board is recommending an unchanged strategic focus final dividend of 2.0 pence per share, Create a stable environment for payable on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on long-term growth the register at 30 March 2012.
This brings full-year dividends to 3.0 pence per share The first phase of this work completed in 2010: 3.0 pence per share.
October and focused on addressing certain corporate issues, as well as the growth Retirement of Alain Grisay strategy for our institutional business.
In particular, we announced steps to improve In October 2011 the Group announced that 2011 was a significant year profitability through an additional 21.2 million Alain Grisay would be retiring in the latter part expense reduction programme over and for F&C with changes in the of 2012 and would therefore step down as above the 12.0 million target set-out at the Chief Executive and from the Board at the composition of the Board and start of the year from the operational conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in outsourcing project and related restructuring.
important progress made in May.
As part of a gradual and orderly These combined 33.2 million cost handover of responsibilities, I have developing its strategy.
reductions, which will substantially be temporarily taken on the position of Executive achieved by the end of this year and fully Chairman.
This is an interim measure while achieved during 2013, will enhance the Group completes its strategic review and underlying earnings and the level of dividend implements the related actions.
