Chairmans Statement RESULTS FOR THE PERIOD FROM 19 APRIL price of the ordinary shares increased from 100.00p to 2010 TO 31 MARCH 2011 110.00p, an increase of 10%, and the ordinary shares traded at an average premium of 5.30%.
NAV PER SHARE: 5.24% SHARE PRICE: 10.00% As of 17 June 2011, being the latest practicable date BENCHMARK: 3.30% prior to publication, the NAV of the Company was 93.86p per share and the share price was 94.50p per I have pleasure in presenting the first Annual Report for share, meaning that your shares were trading at a 0.68% Fidelity China Special Situations PLC and would like to premium to NAV.
take the opportunity to welcome all our shareholders.
DIVIDEND PERFORMANCE REVIEW As the Companys objective is to achieve long term Over the period under review, China overtook Japan to capital growth, the Board does not expect that dividends become the worlds second largest economy, driven by will constitute a material element of any return to its rapid transition from a predominantly export-led shareholders.
However, in order to continue to qualify as economy to one that is increasingly influenced by an investment trust, the Company is required by Chapter domestic consumption.
A key focus of Chinas twelfth 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 not to five-year plan is to boost the consumption power of the retain more than 15% of the income it derives from less affluent by reducing the income gap between its shares and securities.
This supports the consumer-consumption focus of the Portfolio Managers investment thesis.
This being the case, allowing for the number of shares eligible for a dividend, the Board recommends a final These structural changes have been managed through a dividend of 0.25p per share to be approved by period of volatility for all equity markets, which has been shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General amplified by sovereign debt concerns in the Eurozone Meeting.
and rising commodity prices, in particular food and energy.
These issues have certainly heightened investor The dividend will be payable on 5 August 2011 to caution.
Nevertheless, growth in the Chinese economy shareholders on the register on 22 July 2011 ex has been above 8% per annum, despite continued dividend date 20 July 2011. tightening of bank reserve requirements.
This, along with interest rate rises imposed by the Chinese Government, SHARE ISSUES has impacted the domestic property market.
On 18 June 2010, the Company was admitted to the FTSE 250 Index in recognition of the size of the The main concern now is inflation, with the Chinese Companys market capitalisation.
consumer price index running at 5.4% for the year to March 2011.
This is likely to lead the Chinese Since the Companys launch, the shares have generally government to implement a further round of tightening traded at a premium to their net asset value, reflecting measures.
Coupled with significant wage increases, demand for shares that is not satisfied by sellers.
This these in the long term may end Chinas days as the being the case, the Company issued a total of cheap manufacturing base of the world.
38,750,000 ordinary shares in separate issues during the period under review.
A further 6,250,000 shares were Against this backdrop, your Board believes that the issued after the period end.
growth in size and affluence of Chinas middle class leading to a higher level of aggregate disposable In addition the Company issued 166,250,000 C shares income will be an ongoing driver of domestic of 100 pence each, which were subsequently converted consumption.
We expect that for this reason, the into 157,654,480 new ordinary shares on 1 March 2011. consumer-consumption story will continue to be a This issue was supported by existing shareholders who central focus for the Companys investment portfolio.
subscribed for 56% of the issue.
Since the launch of the Company in April 2010, At the General Meeting to approve the C share issue performance figures for the period to 31 March 2011 are the Board received consent to issue further shares.
They provide a solid platform on which the Board may continue to issue shares at a premium, in Company can continue to achieve its investment order to satisfy market demand, subject to shareholder objective of generating long term capital growth for its approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor QFII In the period from 19 April 2010 to 31 March 2011, the On 26 November 2011, the Investment Manager of the Companys net asset value NAV per ordinary share Company was granted QFII Status and a QFII quota increased from 99.01p to 104.20p, an increase of 5.24%.
through which the Company may invest in China This compares with a rise in our benchmark, the MSCI A Shares through the Investment Manager.
In the same period, the market Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 3 Chairmans Statement This facility allows the Portfolio Manager to invest THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING directly into the potential growth opportunities of the 29 JULY 2011 A Share market.
The Company has now fully funded its The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be share of the quota as required by State Administration held at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London, of Foreign Exchange of the PRC SAFE.
THE BOARD Our Portfolio Manager, Anthony Bolton will be attending Board members who were appointed in February 2010 the Annual General Meeting and making a presentation are subject to election at the forthcoming Annual highlighting the achievements and challenges of the General Meeting of the Company.
initial period and the prospects for the year to come.
On 1 March 2011, Mr Douglas Naismith resigned as a Director and Mr Gary Shaughnessy was appointed to the Board.
I would like to welcome Gary to the Board and thank Doug for his valuable contribution to the Company.
Mr Shaughnessy will also be subject to election at the Annual General Meeting.
John Owen Chairman Since my appointment as Chairman of the Board, the 17 June 2011 last year has been both challenging and fulfilling.
The Board has held over twenty Board meetings and overseen two successful share issues, which have created the largest investment company listed on the London Stock Exchange providing direct exposure to China.
In October 2010, the Board visited China and Hong Kong to witness first hand the investment opportunities there.
During this visit it was clear that the key asset of the Company and that of its shareholders is the breadth and strength of Fidelitys investment team in Hong Kong, led by Anthony Bolton.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 to 30, the Board follows the approach recommended by the Association of Investment Companies in its Code of Corporate Governance.
The volume and impact of regulatory change remain challenging for boards of all UK plcs.
In particular, the uncertainties around the future of financial regulation in the UK, the potential impact of the Retail Distribution Review and the implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD will add to the complexity of the governance framework of investment companies going forward.
The Board regularly reviews regulatory change to ensure that the Companys governance arrangements meet best practice requirements.
Page 4 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011
