Chairmans Statement DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT The Board remains active in discount management, including buying back shares at a discount.
This is a practice it has adopted since launch and buybacks have continued during the year, during which the level of discount has narrowed.
The purpose of buybacks is to reduce share price volatility and it also results in an enhancement to the NAV per share.
Further details of share buybacks made during the year may be found in the Directors Report on page 18.
Humphrey van der Klugt, Chairman In summary, your Board has sanctioned share buybacks over the course of 2011 amounting to just over 10% of the issued share I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of Fidelity capital of the Company.
Yet the discount remained at 14.2% at the European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011. year end.
In part, this is a reflection on European equities being out of favour in relation to other asset classes.
Whilst it is PERFORMANCE frustrating that the discount remains wide for the time being, we Investors entered 2011 in an upbeat mood following a pick up of have been able to help dampen the level of share price volatility economic growth and positive stockmarket returns in 2010. against net asset value: and this we believe is strongly in the However, the Arab spring, Japanese tsunami, continued sovereign interests of shareholders and it will continue to be an objective of debt issues in Europe and concerns over global economic growth the Board.
swept aside this wave of optimism and pessimism prevailed.
In Europe, the sovereign debt crisis, fears that Greece will leave the DIVIDENDS euro and the contagion effects on other indebted nations, such as The Board intends to continue with its practice of paying out Italy, dominated the headlines and investor sentiment.
As a result, earnings in full.
The objective is one of long term capital growth European equities proved to be volatile throughout the year and and we will not seek to influence the Manager to determine the underperformed other asset classes.
level of income of your Companys portfolio in any particular year.
Against this backdrop, the net asset value NAV per share of the The Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of 26.50 Company returned -11.5%, but it outperformed its benchmark, the pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which returned -14.7%, both final dividend 15.75p.
This dividend will be payable on 25 May figures being on a total return basis.
Overall, companies with 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 16 defensive characteristics whose earnings are less correlated to March 2012 ex-dividend date 14 March 2012. economic growth outperformed companies with more cyclical business models: and financials struggled once again.
The The proposed dividend increase for 2011 over 2010 is therefore Company benefited from holdings in the healthcare, food 68%.
Whilst we would continue emphasising that the increase is a producers and tobacco sectors.
However, returns were held back function of stock selection and cannot be extrapolated into the by positions in the financials sector.
A more detailed review of the future, there are two positive factors shareholders may like to note.
performance of the portfolio is provided in the Managers Review.
Firstly, the fall in European share prices has taken place even as underlying earnings and dividend growth has been positive, Whilst the NAV total return was -11.5%, the share price total return thereby enhancing the yield on the market.
The dividend yield on was -8.6% over 2011, with the share price discount to NAV having the FTSE World Europe ex UK index at 31 December 2011 was narrowed slightly over the period.
It is of course unattractive to see 4.38% Secondly, your Portfolio Manager, Sam Morse, who took negative returns, but, to look at the situation more positively, there over management of the portfolio from 1 January 2011, focuses on are many fine and strong companies with wide international companies which are able to grow their dividends as being one of businesses quoted on the European stock exchanges and it is the underlying factors in his stock selection.
A further explanation encouraging to see this loss limited to 8.6%, against a tumultuous of the investment process can be found on page 15. and largely negative political backdrop.
PERFORMANCE OVER ONE YEAR, FIVE YEARS AND SINCE LAUNCH TO 31 DECEMBER 2011 ON A TOTAL RETURN BASIS FTSE World Europe 1 NAV Share price ex UK Index One year -11.5% -8.6% -14.7% Five years -1.3% -9.1% -7.3% Since launch 1991 1,269.8% 1,083.3% 390.0% Source: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 December 2011 Basis: bid-bid with net income reinvested Past performance is not a guide to future returns 1 Data prior to the year ended 31 December 2011 is on a net of tax basis 3 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Chairmans Statement INVESTMENT POLICY AND GEARING DIRECTORATE During the year, shareholders approved a change in investment In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for policy predominantly to allow the introduction of Contracts For Directors of FTSE 350 companies the entire Board is subject to Difference CFDs for gearing purposes.
Following the repayment annual re-election.
The Directors biographies can be found on of the drawn down variable rate unsecured credit facility from page 13.
The Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills Lloyds TSB Bank plc on 18 November 2011 and the unsecured bank and experience to make up a balanced board for your Company.
loan from Barclays Bank PLC on 15 December 2011, the Company With the exception of Simon Fraser, in the opinion of the Board, all has no loans.
However, the Company has obtained equivalent other Directors are independent.
exposure, on a significantly more cost effective basis, to the market through the use of CFDs.
As at 31 December 2011 the total portfolio Simon Fraser, due to his previous employment relationship with the exposure represented 108.6% of Shareholders funds.
Manager and his directorship of another investment trust managed by Fidelity, namely Fidelity Japanese Values PLC, is Additional disclosures to the financial statements have been deemed non-independent by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
added explaining the Companys geared position through the use The Board is convinced that Simon Frasers experience serves the of CFDs, including details of how they are measured and how they Company well: and the Directors support unanimously his are reported.
Further details on the use of CFDs can be found in continued position as a Director of the Company.
the Directors Report on page 14.
It may interest shareholders to know that, again in line with good CURRENCY HEDGING corporate governance, the Board has arranged for an Shareholders will be aware that there are inevitably heightened independent, externally facilitated assessment of its performance risks in holding a portion of the portfolio in euro denominated to take place during 2012. shares at a time of considerable stresses for the euro.
Although the portfolio has never been hedged out of European currencies The Board has considered the proposals for the re-election of all of into sterling since the Company was first formed in 1991, this is the Directors and recommends to shareholders that they vote in allowable and the Board has considered this option carefully.
We continue to believe on balance that shareholders are looking CONTINUATION VOTE for continental European exposure, including currency exposure, in In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, an making an investment choice: and on this basis euro exposure has ordinary resolution that the Company continue as an investment not been hedged back into sterling.
trust for a further two years was passed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
A further continuation vote will take place at next It should be noted that a large number of the underlying years Annual General Meeting.
investments have significantly diversified businesses and non-euro income streams.
Companies are also carrying out their own ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING hedging operations, which may or may not be disclosed to the The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due to take place marketplace.
Furthermore, from an operational standpoint, your on 16 May 2012 at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street.
Board has discussed arrangements and contingency plans with Full details of the meeting are given on pages 51 to 54 and I look your Manager, should the Euro run into further difficulty.
forward to talking with as many shareholders as possible on this occasion.
As a result of our overweight position in a number of non-Eurozone markets, the Company has a 14.1% underweight position in euro CONCLUSION denominated stocks.
European equities will have to contend with a wide range of complex factors in 2012, ranging from a lack of economic growth PERFORMANCE FEES and high budget deficits and debt in the periphery, to the With effect from 1 January 2012 the Board entered into a newly continued possibilities of a disorderly Greek exit from the euro and negotiated performance fee arrangement with the Manager.
We the consequences for the Eurozone as a whole of such an event.
are pleased to inform you that the performance fee element has There also remains a worrying lack of competitiveness mainly in been reduced from 20% to 15%: and the upper limit of the southern Europe, resulting in a two speed Eurozone, which has yet performance related fee payable in any one year has been to be addressed satisfactorily in the political arena.
reduced from 1.5% to 1% of net asset value.
It remains the case that the Manager must recoup any underperformance against the There is a risk that aggregate earnings may fall in 2012.
However, benchmark before any subsequent outperformance can be as already mentioned, there are many fine companies quoted on rewarded.
Given the underperformance brought forward there is the continental European bourses, with strong and internationally no performance fee payable this year.
Further details are included competitive businesses.
We support your Managers view that in the Directors Report on page 18. overall valuations look attractive.
Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman 6 March 2012 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011
