Chairmans Statement RESULTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED The strategy of FSV is to deliver enhanced or special value in two 31 AUGUST 2011 main ways.
First, the investment strategy is not unduly influenced by NAV: -4.1% the benchmark, and the objective is to only invest in companies SHARE PRICE: -5.0% that Sanjeev, with the benefit of the Fidelity research team, BENCHMARK: 7.3% believes represent good value, ie a bottom up approach to DIVIDEND: 11.25p investment.
Second, to invest in sectors which are underrepresented in the portfolios of other institutional investors and are I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report for Fidelity Special at low relative historic valuations.
This is both a contrarian and a Values PLC.
value approach to fund management and requires an active and knowledgeable portfolio manager who makes investments by not following the crowd.
PERFORMANCE This has been a difficult and disappointing year for Fidelity Special Values PLC FSV with a Net Asset Value total return of -4.1% We have always made clear that we will judge success over the compared to a total return of 7.3% from the FTSE All-Share Index.
long term and that Sanjeev should not feel obligated to try to participate in shorter term trends which may be driven by fear or The poor performance has dragged the two year return into negative territory with a total return of -2.8%.
The five year total unrealistic optimism rather than by fundamental value.
We believe return remains positive at 10.9%, 0.3% behind that of the FTSE Allthat over time this will produce better returns than both cash and Share Index total return of 11.2% for the same period.
Since the inception of FSV the NAV has increased by 593.2% on a total return basis compared to the benchmark of 207.0%.
The behaviour of the UK equity market during the year ended 31 August 2011 was in many respects a repeat of last years.
The year started with markets still concerned that the initial V shaped However, this approach means that in any single year recovery following the crisis of 2008 was about to revert to a performance can and does vary significantly from that of the further period of recession the much feared double dip.
In fact, market as a whole and we have seen this, both positively and negatively, over the last five individual years and, indeed, since the prompted by a further round of quantitative easing in the US starting in November 2010, together with improving economic inception of FSV in 1994.
The last five years performance is set out indicators, equity markets recovered sharply during the first half of in the table below.
the year, with the UK market 16.5% ahead by the time of the Companys Half-Yearly report at the end of February 2011.
As a Board we review at each Board meeting the performance, particularly over rolling five year periods.
We challenge Sanjeev However, the second half of the year again saw much less benign market conditions, with a broadly sideways market during spring and probe his positions and underlying thinking.
What we are and early summer correcting sharply downwards in August, looking for is depth of knowledge, clarity of thinking, consistency of leaving the whole year ahead by 7.3%.
application, conviction, fearlessness in taking strong views and honesty in admitting misjudgements.
Two significant contributors to FSVs underperformance in this period were that the portfolio was substantially underweight Looking at the performance over the last two years, a large mining and commodity-related stocks, while retaining an element of the negative contribution has been due to conviction overweight to UK retail banks, and in particular Lloyds and RBS.
that mining and commodity-related stocks are overvalued and that Sanjeev Shah, the Portfolio Manager, has addressed his reasoning some banks are undervalued.
Sanjeev has been consistent in these and other convictions and has explained his views on these behind these and other positive and negative contributors to performance in his Managers Review, which follows.
We continue to believe that this contrarian strategy will produce better returns in the longer term and that the Given the poor recent returns the Board has reviewed whether strategy of FSV is valid in these markets.
FSVs investment philosophy and strategy is right in the current market environment.
The underlying philosophy of the Board is that over time the return from equities will be better than that achieved from cash and that a well managed and active approach to investment will produce better returns than an investment in an index tracker fund.
Year to 31 August NAV and Index total return % 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 5 years Fidelity Special Values PLC -4.1 1.3 9.0 -9.8 15.9 10.9 FTSE All-Share Index 7.3 10.6 -8.2 -8.7 11.8 11.2 Difference -11.4-9.3 17.2-1.1 4.1-0.3 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 4 OUTLOOK Board of Directors Stock markets around the world remain uncertain and highly It is my belief that the Board has the relevant skills and experience volatile and this is likely to continue whilst the US runs high public to serve the Company well in to the future.
In common with our and trade deficits and Europe enters the throes of a political and practice since 2004, all Directors are subject to annual re-election banking crisis.
As a counter to the bad news, despite weakness in and their biographical details are included on page 18 to assist the US and Europe, the world economy as a whole continues to shareholders when considering their votes.
In addition, major central banks are starting to ease policy and many UK companies have strong Retail Distribution Review RDR balance sheets and healthy cash flows to cover dividends.
With effect from 31 December 2012, independent financial advisers will be required to offer advice to investors after The volatility of stock markets over the last year has produced considering a full range of investment options.
Commission for significant opportunities to invest in sectors that should suit advice will not be payable and fees will have to be agreed with contrarian investment.
Both the Investment Manager and the the client rather than commission based payments being used.
Board acknowledge that this is a pivotal year in working to rebuild the good returns expected by our shareholders.
There is much to RDR should open up the opportunity to a greater number of be done but we have every confidence that the Investment private investors to invest in investment trusts when these have not Manager has the skills and commitment to achieve this.
been considered previously due in part to lack of commission, limited platform availability and less understanding within the IFA OTHER MATTERS industry.
Performance has clearly been the critical issue for our shareholders over the last year but there are some other matters The Annual General Meeting: Thursday 15 December 2011 at which I need to touch on in this Annual Report.
11.00am The Annual General Meeting will be held at Fidelitys offices at 25 Discount Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA St Pauls or Mansion House The Board is very mindful of the importance of the level of discount tube stations on Thursday 15 December 2011 at 11.00am.
to our shareholders and we have conducted a number of share repurchases during the year to help prevent the discount from It is the most important meeting that we, the Directors of your widening further.
Sanjeev will be making his annual presentation to shareholders, highlighting the achievements and Gearing challenges of the year past and the prospects for the year to The Board believes that using Contracts For Difference for gearing come.
We do urge as many of you as possible to come and join purposes continues to provide more flexibility for the Companys us for the occasion.
needs at a much lower cost than traditional bank debt.
At the time of writing the gross level of gearing is somewhat below the 115% to 120% range we would consider normal owing to the uncertain outlook, discussed above.
Dividend The Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of 11.25 Lynn Ruddick pence per share for the year ended 31 August 2011, an increase Chairman of more than 7% over the 10.50 pence paid in 2010.
This dividend 4 November 2011 will be payable on 19 December 2011 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 18 November 2011 ex-dividend date 16 November 2011.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 5
