Chairmans Statement confrontation over the governments debt ceiling.
There were serious political protests in several Middle Eastern and African countries.
In Japan there was a devastating earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident.
There were persistent worries about global economic growth and the long term impact of the financial crisis.
The second and positive trend was the strong performance from individual companies in both our public and private equity portfolios.
For the year as a whole this was outweighed by the poor economic Simon Fraser news but it gives us confidence for the future.
Chairman Our net asset value total return was -4.8% compared with -5.1% for our benchmark 40% FTSE All-Share and 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices and -9.3% for the AIC Global Growth sector.
The biggest positive influence on our performance was our private equity portfolio.
This rose by 13.8% In a difficult year we had strong returns from our as the underlying companies within our portfolio private equity portfolio and very strong growth in produced strong results.
The net asset value per share fell by 6.7% our private equity portfolio more than doubled to to 322.86 pence and the share price fell by 6.8% to 66.9m and we reached an important milestone in 288.5 pence.
Your total dividend is increasing for the September when cash distributions exceeded cash forty first consecutive year to 7.10 pence per share.
being invested for the first time.
In our public equity portfolio we benefited from good stock selection in Performance the US and Europe.
The US performed better than There were two opposing trends affecting markets and all other markets while emerging markets had a very our own performance in 2011.
The first and negative poor year.
We also made a well timed increase in trend was increasing political and economic uncertainty.
gearing when investors were very cautious in the late The problems in the Eurozone unsettled investors summer so our gearing level was at the highest level across the world.
In the US there was a political in the last twenty years at the end of September.
Foreign & Colonials annual dividend per share vs weighted average for the Global Growth sector vs Retail Prices Index over 10 years 220 200 180 160 140 120 Source: Morningstar UK Limited & F&C 100 Dec 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Dec 01 11 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust annual dividend per share Global Growth Sector ex Foreign & Colonial annual dividend weighted average Retail Prices Index 2 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Foreign & Colonials share price total return vs Composite Benchmark and Retail Prices Index over 10 years 170 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 Source: Morningstar UK Limited 70 Dec 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Dec 01 11 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust total return Composite Benchmark 40% FTSE All-Share 60% FTSE WI World ex UK Retail Prices Index Income and Dividends appointed chairman of Virgin Money in October We had a very strong year for dividend growth in all 2011 will also retire owing to this increase in his time markets.
The largest contributors were the resumption commitments.
We are sorry to lose such excellent of dividends from BP and a special dividend from Directors and I thank them both for their contributions Vodafone.
Net revenue per share rose 20.1%.
I should make particular mention of total expense ratio fell to 0.50% of our total assets, the Sir Michaels work as chairman of the Audit and lowest level in the last five years.
Keeping tight control Management Engagement Committee and additional of costs is an important responsibility of the Board and responsibilities concerning the private equity portfolio.
one we are determined to continue.
We wish both Directors well for the future.
An interim dividend of 3.00 pence per share was paid There have been no new appointments since in September 2011 and your Board is recommending Sarah Arkle and Nicholas Moakes joined the Board a final dividend of 4.10 pence to be paid on 11 May in March of last year.
The total dividend for the year will therefore be Nomination Committee assesses the composition 7.10 pence, an increase of 5.2% on 2010 and ahead of of the Board in terms of the skills and experience the 4.8% rise in the Retail Price Index.
required for the stewardship of a company investing We are very proud of our record of long term in an internationally diversified portfolio.
As such, dividend growth stretching back over four decades the Nomination Committee and the Board recognise and are very conscious of the importance of dividends the value of diversity inclusive of gender and seek to shareholders.
We have been able to increase the appointments that contribute to it.
All appointments dividend in the last three years despite the worst continue to be made on merit without the restraints environment for dividends in the last eighty years as of numerical diversity targets.
a result of our earlier prudence in increasing revenue reserves.
We expect to be able to increase your Management reappointment dividend again in 2012.
Each year the Board formally reviews F&Cs performance as Manager and whether their Board reappointment is in the interest of shareholders.
The Sir Michael Bunbury will retire from the Board Board decided to reappoint F&C as the Manager immediately following the AGM having served for and will continue to monitor developments at F&C over fourteen years.
Sir David Clementi, who was very carefully.
Report and Accounts 2011 3 Ch Cha aiirrm ma an ns s S Sta tatte em me en ntt co con nttiinu nue ed d The future will continue but we believe Foreign & Colonials own Five years after the first signs of the global financial prospects look promising for three reasons.
crisis it is clear that it will be many more years before Firstly, our private equity portfolio has started to its full impact has worked through economies and produce a positive cash flow.
As a result global economic growth will Secondly, as our 110m debenture approaches continue to be weaker and share prices more volatile maturity in 2014 we can look forward to far lower than in the 1980s and 1990s.
For 2012 itself the borrowing costs.
issues we are most concerned about are the problems Thirdly, our portfolio of strong individual corporate of the Eurozone, the risk of a sharp slowdown in names should generate further growth in income, China, political uncertainty in the Middle East, the US allowing us to continue to increase your dividend.
presidential election and continuing imbalances in the global economy.
We expect profits and dividend growth to be much slower in 2012 than in 2011 and we do not think there will be substantial takeover activity to support share prices.
Despite all the uncertainties markets have made Simon Fraser Chairman a strong start to 2012 and investors are more 2 March 2012 optimistic than six months ago.
We are not sure if this Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
