Back to contents Chairmans Statement I am delighted to report that the year ended 30 June 2011 was once again an excellent year for Hargreaves Lansdown.
The Group experienced record new business, record new clients and a record increase in profits despite many world events sapping investor confidence during our peak trading period.
December 2010, the Nominations Committee commenced a search for a replacement non-executive director and, following the previous successful use of our own client list, decided to again advertise the position to a subset of our clients.
The Committee took notice of the Davies Report when formulating the selection criteria and was keen to ensure that any new appointments sought to add diversity to the Board.
The Committee was firmly of the view that diversity is a far wider subject than pure gender.
We hope to announce the conclusion to this search shortly.
A second final ordinary dividend of 8.41 pence and a special dividend of 5.96 Introduction 5.96p per share 2010: 1.70p making the pence brings the total This financial year-end coincided with the total dividend for the year 18.87p per conclusion of 30 years since the formation share 2010: 11.88p.
Although dividend for the year to 18.87 of the business on 1 July 1981.
Hargreaves Hargreaves Lansdown has many pence 2010: 11.88 pence Lansdown is now an established and initiatives in train, it is the Boards view important part of the UK investment that none require major cash investment scene.
During its 30 years existence over and given the short timeframe within Governance one million people have placed some which profits turn to cash in the business It seems only yesterday that we became a business through the Group and today an increased dividend is appropriate.
public company and now we have to 380,000 investors actively use the consider what extra things our investors Hargreaves Lansdown investment might require of us to position ourselves platform - Vantage.
In the Corporate Governance statement on pages 29 to 36, It is interesting to note that when surveys we detail the steps that we have taken to 59% are carried out amongst investors we are broaden our compliance with the UK regularly bestowed with major awards.
The results of This is because we work tirelessly to the Board review undertaken were positive increase to dividends delight the people who invest through us.
and confirmed that the Board and its The service is legendary and compares Committees have operated efficiently and favourably to any business in the UK but The Board diligently.
in financial services is a leader.
Ian Gorham can be very pleased with his first years performance as Chief Summary Dividend Executive, since taking over from Peter I would like to express my gratitude to the Capital adequacy requirements have Hargreaves on 2 September 2010.
Board and all the staff for all their hard increased over the years and Hargreaves Not only has his visible performance, work in producing a strong set of results in Lansdown has always and still does retain i. e. the financial results, been good, but difficult circumstances.
There is no doubt a healthy margin over the regulatory he has led and gained the respect of the we face some interesting times ahead but requirement.
After careful review of the Executive Board to harness the effort that we will continue to look after our clients companys future cash requirements the has been needed to maintain our profit well, and in so doing grow the company.
Board has decided to increase the second record in testing economic times.
final dividend and pay an ordinary Michael Evans dividend of 8.41p per share 2010: 0.58p Following Jonathan Davis decision to step Chairman and an increased special dividend of down as a non-executive director on 31 13 September 2011 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
