CHAIRMAns stAteMent 2011 was a year of macroeconomic uncertainty and volatile stock markets that saw widespread declines.
Against this background I am pleased to report that the majority of portfolio companies made sound progress, albeit the net assets per share showed a negative return of 5.1%.
The UK portion of our portfolio returned 1.5%, which is significantly ahead of the main UK and overseas indices, as well as the overseas returns in the portfolio, justifying the overweight position in this region.
The FTSE Small Cap Index returned -12.3%, the HGSC Index plus AIM ex.
investment companies returned -13.1% and the FTSE AIM Index returned -25.0%.
The Companys second heaviest weighting was in the US, where small technology companies had a poor year relative to large ones, and the Russell 2000 Technology Index returned -8.4% in $ -7.9% in.
The Companys US portfolio returned -1.8%.
Unfortunately the overall return was dragged down by the smaller Asian and European portfolios and a widening loss on the mark to market valuation of the interest rate swap, which was taken out to hedge interest rate volatility on the loan.
The dull returns reflect the difficult stock market environment, which has led to a virtually closed market for primary capital for the third year running in the UK, Europe and to a lesser extent in the US.
In contrast there has continued to be a steady pace of takeovers.
A total of fourteen investee companies were taken over during the year, where our stakes had an aggregate value of almost 42m.
This takes the cumulative total value of takeovers within the portfolio over the last five years to 171m, and compares to a net value of just over 66m of external capital raised in the history of the Trust.
Valuations and takeovers in the UK seem to be driven by a continued withdrawal of capital from equities by pension funds and insurance companies.
From the micro perspective of Herald, it seems bizarre that actuaries appear to have such an influence on asset allocation decisions, with views that are so divergent from any reasoned investment judgment over the medium and long term.
The TMT sector, in which the Companys investments are focused, is never homogeneous, and as ever there have been parts of the universe structurally and cyclically challenged, while other parts have shown sparkling growth.
New technologies open up new markets, which can grow significantly whatever the economic backdrop.
The internet continues to have the most profound effect, both positively and negatively, and the mobile internet has again been a strong driver in 2011.
The best way of illustrating what a good year 2011 has been for the Company, in spite of the decline in the net asset value, is to quantify a few metrics in the portfolio.
The share of revenues in portfolio companies exceeds 400m for the first time, the share of net income of profitable companies exceeds 30m for the first time, and the share of net cash continues to exceed 20m, against an equity value of 462m.
Furthermore, although the prime motive for the fund is capital growth, dividend income growth has been particularly robust in the UK 44%, which is masked by flat overseas dividend income and a decline in bond income.
Some companies paying a dividend for the first time flatter the dividend growth rate.
These valuation metrics provide considerable confidence for the year ahead, and appears to offer value versus cash and bonds.
Dividends have never been significant for the Company, reflecting the growth orientation of the portfolio, but 2010 was the first year in respect of which no dividend was paid by the Company.
In light of the robust dividend growth during the year the Directors have decided to recommend a dividend of 1.00p in respect of 2011.
It is rational to be apprehensive about the coming year reflecting the excessive Government leverage in the world and European instability in particular.
Nevertheless, cash and bonds seem particularly unattractive, while there remains scope for growth in the technology sector, on very reasonable valuations, which appears attractive relative to appealing alternative investment opportunities.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 5 CHAIRMAns stAteMent continued the Board I am delighted to welcome Stewart Newton, who joined the Board in January.
Stewart has very broad experience in the investment world.
He is currently chairman and founder partner of an investment group focussed on real and absolute returns.
He is also closely involved in technology in both the academic world, as a Council Member of Imperial College, and in the charitable sector as a member of the Investment Committee of The Wellcome Trust.
We very much look forward to working with him.
Clay Brendish will leave the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Clays clear advice and wisdom over the past eleven years have been very much appreciated by both the Board and the Manager.
We thank him most sincerely for his contribution to Herald during his time as a Director and wish him well for the future.
