Chairmans Statement More details of the financial results are set out below.
Introduction On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to report another successful Portfolio Performance year for the Company.
The Company is now 5 years old and has The Groups portfolio continues to perform well, and as at 31 March exceeded the objectives set out at launch in 2006.
The last five years 2011 consisted of 37 PFI PPP P3 projects and an investment in the have seen great changes in economic and financial prospects for junior loan in Kemble Water.
The junior loan was repaid in full in April global economies and it is a testament to the infrastructure asset 2011, ahead of its maturity.
class that the Company has been able to deliver a stable, growing yield for investors.
The Group has two projects currently under construction.
On the Bradford BSF Schools project, construction work on the last school Financial Results and Performance has just been finished and the premises are being fitted out ready Financial Results for occupation.
Construction work on the M80 DBFO Road in As in previous periods, the Company has prepared pro-forma Scotland and the North West Anthony Henday Road in Canada accounts on an Investment basis treating all 38 holdings as continues to plan.
Profit before tax on an Investment basis was 45.2m 2010: 25.0m and earnings per share on an Investment basis were The Investment Advisers asset management team has been engaged 8.9p 2010: 6.5p per share.
This increase is driven by the across the whole portfolio and has been in dialogue with our public contributions from acquisitions supported by continued solid sector clients and our partners seeking ways to increase efficiencies portfolio performance including an increase in the value of the and find savings.
This work has been pro-active throughout the year, Kemble Water junior loan.
Cash received from the portfolio by way of and has included participation in a detailed review by the Ministry of distributions, capital repayments and fees was 45.6m 2010: Defence MOD on one of our MOD projects.
After Group costs, net cash of 34.9m adequately covers the distributions paid in the year.
Cash generation growth was in line Valuation with our projections benefitting from acquisitions in the current and As in previous periods, the Investment Adviser has prepared a fair the prior year.
market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at 31 March 2011.
For the PFI PPP P3 investments, this valuation is based on a On a consolidated IFRS basis, the profit before tax was 38.3m discounted cashflow analysis of the future expected equity and loan 2010: 7.7m.
note cashflows accruing to the Group from each investment.
This valuation uses key assumptions which are derived from a review of Profit before tax has benefited strongly from positive fair value recent comparable market transactions in order to arrive at a fair movements assisted by higher inflation and an uplift in the mark market value.
to market value of the Kemble Water junior loan which has since been repaid.
The Directors have satisfied themselves with the methodology used, the economic assumptions, and the discount rates applied.
The The Company has raised a total of 156.7m net of expenses through Directors have again taken independent third party advice on the the issue and placing of new shares, of which 108.1m was raised valuation carried out by the Investment Adviser.
through the successful C share capital raising in December 2010 which was oversubscribed.
The Directors have approved the valuation of 673.1m for the portfolio of 38 investments as at 31 March 2011.
On the M80 Total fees accruing to InfraRed Capital Partners Limited the Motorway DBFO, North-West Anthony Henday Road P3 and the Investment Adviser amounted to 8.1m in the year, relating to their Helicopter Training projects there are combined outstanding 1.1% p. a. management fee 1.5% p. a. assets in construction and the investment commitments of 47.0m.
1.0% fee on the acquisitions made, and 0.1m advisory fees.
The Investment Adviser does not receive any fees from the investment The valuation of 673.1m compares with 509.6m as at 31 March project companies in the portfolio, and hence all fees from these 2010 and 563.3m as at 30 September 2010.
An analysis of the companies are for the benefit of the Group.
In addition, the Group growth in the valuation is detailed in the Investment Advisers Report.
contracted with other parts of the HSBC Group on an arms length basis for the provision of bank accounts, foreign exchange hedges On an Investment basis the NAV per share is 113.1p at 31 March and insurance broking.
The Investment basis NAV per share after the second interim distribution at 31 March 2011 was 109.7p: an The total expense ratio for the Group on an Investment basis was increase of 2.3p over the comparable figure at 31 March 2010 being 1.20% being the Groups operational expenses excluding due to a robust performance from the portfolio coupled with acquisition costs, divided by the Groups net assets on an Investment incremental earnings from new investments, as described in more basis.
This compares with 1.45% for the year to 31 March 2010, the detail in the Investment Advisers Report.
reduction in this ratio reflecting the benefit of capital raisings with economies of scale.
The resulting NAV per share on an IFRS basis as at 31 March 2011 is 110.4p 2010: 107.1p.
4 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 The year has seen some useful additions to our portfolio of investments, offering both international exposure and solid growth in UK PFI assets Acquisitions willingly and constructively in this endeavour.
The review is due to The Group has had a successful year and has made 112.3m of new report shortly and we are not aware of any findings which may be of investments and 38.7m of incremental acquisitions for a total of concern to investors.
Clearly our working assumption is that the 151.0m including outstanding equity commitments.
The Group outcome from the review will be measures to improve contract acquired its first P3 investments in Canada and increased the number performance and delivery within the legal framework that was of projects under construction to three with Bradford schools agreed at inception.
We would not welcome, nor do we expect, any completing subsequent to year end.
Since the period end the Group unilateral redefinition of the terms of the contract given the very has acquired interests in 3 operational UK PFI schools Norwich, wide implications that would then arise.
Oldham and Sheffield for 17.2m and the Kemble Water junior loan has been repaid.
For new UK infrastructure projects, PFI is still being used selectively.
As previously reported, this change in emphasis in procurement Distributions does not affect the Group, as our investment focus remains on projects already procured and, normally, operational.
The Board declared on 19 May 2011 a second interim distribution of 3.425p per share for the year to 31 March 2011 2010: 3.35p.
This Each of the PFI projects within the portfolio has long-term funding in brings the total distributions declared to 6.7p for the year to place.
There is therefore no refinancing risk in this regard.
Projects 31 March 2011 representing a 2.3% growth on the prior year.
do have exposures to banks in the form of interest rate swaps and deposit accounts.
These exposures are monitored and managed A circular will be sent to shareholders on 3 June to explain the scrip where appropriate.
Shareholders need to decide by 17 June on whether to take up the scrip dividend offer in part or in full.
The The projects in the portfolio rely on contracting partners to provide distribution or scrip dividend will be paid to those shareholders on services.
There is a good spread of service partners with no material the register as at 27 May, and will be settled at the end of June.
performance or credit issues to report.
The Investment Adviser monitors project performance, and if issues arise, action is taken to At the Annual General Meeting AGM in July 2010, shareholders minimise any impact on performance.
gave the Board the power to offer a scrip dividend alternative and this power runs until the next AGM in 2011.
Based on the take-up and Corporate Governance current feedback from shareholders, it is the Boards current intention to seek a renewal of this power at the forthcoming AGM in July.
Board and Investment Adviser Changes Henri Grisius retired from the Board on 1 June 2010, having been a Risks and Uncertainties director since the launch of the Company.
Chris Russell joined the Company as a Director on 1 June 2010.
Chris is a Guernsey resident The 2010 Comprehensive Spending Review in the UK focused who has spent his career in the investment management industry in predominantly on the need to cut public spending, whilst highlighting the UK, USA and Asia.
the need for further investment in UK infrastructure to promote economic growth.
HM Treasury issued a guidance note in January Since launch in 2006, the Investment Adviser to the Company has 2011 to explain how PFI contracts should be managed, highlighting been HSBC Specialist Fund Management Ltd HSFML.
In June the need to seek efficiency savings where possible.
2010, we announced that the senior management team of HSBCs infrastructure and real estate arm, of which the Investment Adviser is On a number of our UK PFI projects, the Investment Adviser has been part, had agreed outline terms with the HSBC Group for a change of working with public sector clients and key contractors, to find ways ownership which would lead to the management team owning the of generating gains for our clients.
Together with our partners, we majority interest in the business and HSBC retaining a 19.9% stake.
have suggested ideas to create savings for our clients, and then The transaction successfully completed in April 2011, and the worked to deliver them.
The Romford PFI Hospital project was Investment Adviser changed its name to InfraRed Capital Partners chosen by HM Treasury as a pilot scheme for a government Limited, relocating to new offices in central London.
We, together with our partners, have engaged H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 5 Chairmans Statement continued Looking ahead, we remain confident that our investment portfolio is of sufficient quality to perform resiliently The Board met the Investment Adviser on a number of occasions Corporate Social Responsibility during the year to seek and gain reassurance that this change of Public Procurement ownership would have no impact on the ability of the Investment PFI PPP projects were originally conceived in the UK in the early Adviser to deliver the required services to the appropriate standards.
nineties by the then Conservative Government as a means of We agreed a small number of amendments to the Investment procuring new social infrastructure.
This procurement method was Advisers contract which were beneficial to the Company, and we are honed by the subsequent Labour government and its success led to satisfied that we will continue to receive high quality service and other countries implementing similar programmes.
commitment from the Investment Adviser.
PFI PPP has not been immune from negative comment in the media.
The Board also took the opportunity to review the level of fees In some cases, this was justified since where PFI PPP was not the earned by the Investment Adviser.
Whilst appropriate at launch, the most appropriate procurement method.
In the last 9 months, media Group has now doubled in size and therefore a change to the fee interest has intensified, particularly where public sector clients are structure was considered appropriate.
For investments under seeking to reduce their budget deficits.
This commentary can be management with an incremental value in excess of 750m, the misleading and inaccurate, often omitting to mention that the public Investment Advisers incremental fee is reduced to 1.0% p. a. from sector client procured the concession through a competitive bidding 1.1% p. a. with effect from 1 January 2011, provided that the assets process, with agreement at both local and national level, without have become operational.
which essential infrastructure projects such as new schools and hospitals would not have been built.
PFI has been the procurement As the Companys Investment Adviser is no longer a subsidiary of method of choice, with public finance in scarce supply.
It has allowed the HSBC Group, the trademark licence was terminated.
The new infrastructure assets to be built on time and with cost certainty.
Company therefore changed its name to HICL Infrastructure Company Limited on 29 March 2011.
The Board believes that this The Group has acquired its investments in good faith, based on new name will, while dispensing with the HSBC brand, preserve the long-term legal contracts which provide serviced assets to public Companys identity and maintain recognition amongst investors and sector clients.
Whilst procurement models will change over time, the wider marketplace.
the Board believes that private sector capital and expertise will continue to be required for the procurement and maintenance of As part of this process, the Company has updated and relaunched its public infrastructure.
We have taken the opportunity to give more background information about PFI and how HICL is organised Corporate Structure and managed.
In setting up the Company in 2006, the Directors and the Investment Adviser wished to give investors access via traded stock to this Governance illiquid and developing asset class.
Our choice of corporate structure In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council issued a new edition of and domicile was based on a proven investment company model the UK Corporate Governance Code, and in October 2010, the which is widely used and is designed to distribute efficiently all the Association of Investment Companies the AIC published its underlying investment returns, net of operating expenses, to updated AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
This AIC code has been shareholders.
Today we have over 4,000 shareholders, with over endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council and the Company has 90% of shares held by UK investors.
Over 50% of our shares are held chosen to report governance against the updated AIC Code.
by private individuals or small family offices.
6 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 ESG At present, the Group has adequate capacity through its established As reported last year, the Company with the help of the Investment funding lines to invest further.
With a number of opportunities Adviser has developed Environmental, Social and Governance currently under review, we are confident of achieving the growth Policies for the Group.
An update of our performance against these aspirations to further enhance shareholder returns.
policies is set out in our Corporate Social Responsibility section.
Whilst the primary market for new PFI projects has slowed, we are Outlook seeing a buoyant secondary market with an increase in the number of vendors and buyers.
The Group continues to look for further acquisitions in the UK and overseas consistent with its publicly stated policy for Against this background, the Board takes comfort from the portfolio new investments.
we have developed, the attractiveness of the risk-adjusted yield we offer, and the continuing opportunities we have to grow the portfolio There is a significant flow of opportunities to consider but we going forward.
continue to apply our strict investment criteria and processes.
The Investment Adviser has seen a number of PPP PFI assets which we declined to pursue as being either too small, inappropriately structured or having too many operational issues.
The outlook for our business remains good.
Public finances are the Graham Picken focus of attention in many countries and we, together with the Chairman Investment Adviser, have been careful when reviewing new 23 May 2011 investments overseas to take account of the associated sovereign risk.
In the UK, where the majority of our assets are located, we recognise the need to help our public sector clients find efficiency savings but within established contractual structures.
Looking ahead, we remain confident that our investment portfolio is of sufficient quality to perform resiliently.
Cash flows are generally predictable and, whilst the valuation of the portfolio is in part correlated with the rates that apply to long dated government debt, we do not anticipate significant fluctuations as a consequence.
