HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement uncertainties and risks concentrating minds in the Group Chairmans Statement advanced economies of Europe and the US, there are still attractive growth opportunities to pursue where our international network and strong balance sheet provide distinctive advantages.
Performance in 2011 In 2011 in our heartland of Asia, throughout the Middle East and in Latin America we made good progress in developing customer business in line with the risk appetite endorsed by the Board.
Largely driven by growth in lending in these faster-growing regions, our Commercial Banking business delivered a record performance.
In Europe and the US we concentrated on supporting our core customer base, targeting trade services while constraining risk appetite within the financial sector.
We also made significant further progress in working down our exit businesses in the US.
The Group Chief Executives Review expands upon the execution of our strategy Throughout its history HSBC has sought to facilitate during 2011. economic growth, as it is through such growth that businesses flourish and individuals fulfil the The strong progress made on strategy execution aspirations they have for themselves and those close was all the more marked when contrasted with the to them.
The cover of this years Annual Report and fragile confidence that pervaded the advanced Accounts illustrates a core element of HSBCs economies of the world.
Continuing uncertainties strategic direction that is connecting markets by arising from the Eurozone debt crisis contributed to providing the financing and risk management credit demand remaining muted in Europe, while US products that facilitate trade and investment flows.
In recovery lagged expectations held earlier in the year.
so doing, we help our customers to achieve their As investors crowded into the safest asset classes, growth ambitions and generate economic returns for market activity levels dropped markedly and prices savers and investors.
of securities outside the favoured asset classes weakened.
These factors markedly reduced trading The picture also illustrates the shift in emphasis revenues in the second half of the year.
towards the faster-growing markets that underpins HSBCs investment priorities.
The port is Santos in Against the backdrop of the economic and Brazil, which is the largest container port in South financial market conditions described above, the America: the ship is from China, delivering heavy Board considered the Groups performance in 2011 machinery.
The Brazil-China trade corridor has been to be satisfactory in aggregate and strong in the one of the fastest growing over the last decade with a faster growing markets.
Earnings per share rose by compound annual rate of growth of around 30%.
26% to US$0.92 and the Board approved a fourth China is now Brazils largest trade partner interim dividend of US$0.14 per ordinary share representing 18% of its total trade flows, versus 4% taking total dividends in respect of 2011 to US$0.41 in 2000. per share, an increase of US$0.05 per share or 14%.
The Board confirmed its intention to continue to pay HSBC entered Brazil in 1997 and since then has quarterly dividends during 2012 at the rate of built its operations to generate pre-tax profits of US$0.09 per ordinary share in respect of each of the US$1.2 billion in 2011, an increase of 19% over the first three quarters, in line with 2011. prior year.
We estimate that we finance over 6% of Brazils total trade and some 9% of its trade with Notably, the capital strengthening required by China.
In 2011 we were recognised as Financial regulatory reform is being successfully delivered institution of the year by the Brazil-China Chamber while maintaining the strongest dividend paying of Commerce for having contributed most to the record of any bank outside mainland China.
growth and development of the Brazil-China trade Total dividends declared during 2011 amounted corridor.
to US$7.3 billion and in the last four years, that is The purpose of the above introduction is to since the financial crisis started, they have amounted highlight the fact that, notwithstanding the major 4 to US$27.2 billion, making HSBC the second largest approach to financial regulation and the replacement dividend payer in the FTSE100 during this period.
of the FSA with a new supervisory structure, directed by the Bank of England.
Addressing a matter of public interest, the cost to shareholders of performance-related rewards Many topics remain subject to further debate made within our Global Banking and Markets including cross-border resolution protocols, the business in 2011 and during the past four years governance and operation of central counterparties, amounted to some US$1 billion and US$4.7 billion, the prospective role of clearing systems and respectively.
Pre-tax profit from Global Banking and exchanges, the calibration of the proposed new Markets was, in aggregate, US$30 billion in the liquidity framework, the definition and operation same four years, and represented the largest of proposed proprietary trading restrictions, the contribution, at 52%, of Group pre-tax profits during possible harmonisation and peer review of the that period.
calculation of the risk weights that drive capital requirements, a re-assessment of the risk free At the end of 2011, total shareholders equity treatment of sovereign debt and some 22 follow-on stood at US$159 billion, up 24% from its pre-crisis workstreams are ongoing in the wake of the UK level of US$128 billion at the end of 2007.
Over the Governments response to the ICB Report.
same period, our balance sheet grew by only 9%.
The core tier 1 ratio at the end of 2011 stood at It is clear from the above that the industry will 10.1%, in line with our target range.
continue to bear a heavy burden of both time commitment and cost as it works with policy makers As foreshadowed in last years Statement, the to finalise the regulatory reforms, including UK government proceeded with its plan to raise 2.5 addressing the many inconsistencies within and billion through a levy on the global balance sheets of extra-territorial dimensions of national rule-making.
The cost to HSBC was We are committed to all necessary constructive US$570 million of which US$340 million related to dialogue and support to speed the finalisation of non-UK banking activity.
The levy, which is not tax these remaining issues.
Our input will stress that deductible, is the equivalent of US$0.03 per ordinary it is critical that the reforms deliver a sustainable share and, as indicated last year, would otherwise be business model that can attract external economic available for distribution to shareholders.
This is essential for the financial system to be able to contribute as fully as it should to the Progress on regulatory reform economic growth agenda which is being mandated A number of important milestones were passed by political leaders globally.
during 2011 on the regulatory reform agenda.
In the UK the Independent Commission on Banking Board changes ICB delivered its report in September and the We bid farewell at the upcoming AGM to two Government published its response in December.
In directors who have given huge service to HSBC over the US, greater clarity on the Dodd-Frank legislation many years and who will not stand for re-election.
was delivered through a multitude of notices of proposed new regulation and four US financial Sir Brian Williamson has served on the Board regulatory agencies issued proposed uniform of HSBC Holdings since 2002 and brought great regulations that would implement the Volcker Rule, insight and wisdom to the Board from a which aims to constrain major financial institutions distinguished career in financial services, most from engaging in proprietary trading and most hedge notably in the areas of money and bond markets, fund and proprietary investment activities.
The Basel clearing, exchanges and electronic trading platforms Committee, in conjunction with the Financial where he was a pioneer in establishing The London Stability Board, set out its proposals to identify and International Financial Futures and Options increase capital requirements for Global Exchange.
Systemically Important Banks and most major Gwyn Morgan has served on the Board of jurisdictions published their proposals around HSBC Holdings since 2006 and before that on the recovery and resolution planning for major Board of HSBC Canada for some nine years.
Europe continued to embed the Basel III vast experience of leading large international proposals within a new draft Capital Requirements companies in the engineering and energy sectors Directive CRD IV, the European Banking brought a balanced industrialists perspective to Authority formally came into existence as the hub of Board discussions and debate.
financial regulatory bodies in Europe and, in the UK, HM Treasury published its proposals for a new 5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement Group We shall miss them both and thank them At the same time, however, we reflect that in sincerely for their contributions over many years.
2011 we continued to deal with legacy regulatory, legal and reputational issues which remind us that We are delighted to welcome two new faces to our good work can be destroyed by lapses of the Board.
Joachim Faber and John Lipsky will join judgement or control.
The settlement of claims the Board on 1 March.
around the historical selling of Payment Protection Joachim Faber stepped down from the Insurance in the UK, the fine and compensation Management Board of Allianz at the end of 2011 arising from the now closed NHFA business and where he served latterly as CEO of Allianz Global ongoing regulatory and legal investigations in the Investors one of the top five investment managers US across a number of areas are all matters from globally.
He brings a wealth of experience from the which we need to learn to ensure they do not recur.
perspective of the investor as well as in depth The programme of values training which the Group knowledge of banking, insurance, finance and capital Chief Executive is leading for all employees is but markets from previous roles in a long and one measure to this end.
We are truly sorry to all distinguished career.
those who were adversely affected by our failings and to our shareholders for the reputational damage John Lipsky is one of the worlds best known incurred.
and respected economists who most recently served as First Deputy Managing Director at the IMF from Looking ahead which he retired in November 2011.
Over the last five years John has been one of the key links It is just over a year now since Stuart Gulliver and I between macroeconomic policymakers and the took on our respective roles.
During that time, the financial community and brings to the Board an leadership team around Stuart has grown in stature exceptional depth of knowledge and understanding and cohesion and is I believe among the best in our of the macroeconomic and geopolitical issues that industry.
That team is supported strongly by talented will shape the future of the global economy.
colleagues whose engagement and commitment to the strategic priorities laid out before them is evident Fuller details of their background and and enthusiastic.
On behalf of the Board I want to experience are set out in the Directors Report.
take this opportunity to thank them for their support and dedication.
The uncertain economic and Brand and reputation geopolitical backdrop will continue to raise At HSBC we continue to think long-term as we build challenges throughout 2012 and beyond.
I am, business platforms and relationships that will create however, confident that HSBC has the people, the options for value creation in generations to come.
financial strength and the right strategic focus and values to do well for those who place their trust in Tactically there are necessary difficult decisions us, thereby meeting their expectations of us and to take in todays subdued economic environment contributing to the fulfilment of their aspirations and but these are always weighed against what is right ambitions.
That is what we exist to do.
for the long-term health of the business.
Similarly when things go wrong, as they will from time to time, we judge ourselves, inter alia, against how we respond and how quickly we learn from the experience.
Nothing is more important than our reputation.
It was a moment of great pride within the organisation when we were judged to be the most valuable banking brand in the world in the recent D J Flint, Group Chairman Brand Finance Banking 500 2012 report.
This is the 27 February 2012 4th time HSBC has headed the list in the last five years.
This recognition is a testament to the work of all of my colleagues in building value for customers that translates to shareholder value.
