44 Directors profiles The Group is led by an experienced board of directors consisting of a non-executive Chairman, a Group Chief Executive Officer, three further executive directors and four independent Charles Gregson N Michael Spencer N non-executive directors.
Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Charles Gregson was appointed non-executive Chairman Michael Spencer was the founder of Intercapital in 1986 in 2001 having been the executive Chairman from 1998 and became Chairman and Group Chief Executive to 2001.
Between 1978 and 1998, he was responsible Officer of Intercapital in October 1998, following the Key to membership of committees for the Garban businesses that demerged from United Exco Intercapital merger.
Michael, together with IPGL Business Media plc in 1998 and then merged with and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial shareholder AR Audit and risk committee Intercapital in 1999 to form ICAP.
He was chief executive in the Company.
Michael resigned from his role as of PR Newswire Association Inc and served on the board Treasurer of the Conservative Party in October 2010.
N Nomination committee of United Business Media plc.
Charles is a non-executive R Remuneration committee director of International Personal Finance plc, Caledonia Investments plc and St. Jamess Place plc and the non-executive chairman of CPP Group Plc.
He is chairman of the nomination committee.
John Nixon Iain Torrens Group Executive Director ICAP Americas Group Finance Director John Nixon was appointed an executive director of ICAP Iain Torrens was appointed an executive director of in May 2008 having been chief executive officer of ICAP ICAP in November 2010.
He joined ICAP in 2006 as Electronic Broking and the information business.
Prior to group treasurer and became group financial controller his full-time involvement with the Company, John in 2008.
Before joining ICAP, Iain worked in a number served from 1998 to 2002 as a non-executive director of senior financial roles for CP Ships Limited and of ICAP.
John has extensive experience in the interdealer Cookson Group plc.
He is a Chartered Accountant and broking industry.
He was previously the Chief Executive Chartered Secretary.
Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997.
