CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2011 was a difficult year for equity markets in general, dominated by the escalating European sovereign debt crisis and concerns about the sustainability of global growth.
Although the Company outperformed the relevant environmental markets index the FTSE ET50, environmental markets faced challenges and performed signicantly less well than the MSCI World indices.
The Companys investments in defensive subsectors and merger and acquisition activity made positive contributions, but the broad sell-off in environmental markets and especially in small cap Asian stocks, led to disappointing headline performance for the year.
Notwithstanding this recent period of underperformance, we believe the fundamental investment hypothesis of environmental markets appears to remain intact.
In October, the United Nations announced that the global population had breached the seven billion mark, which will over time place extra demands on increasingly scarce natural resources, while catastrophic ooding in Thailand and the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster highlighted the shortcomings of existing infrastructure.
The global response to these issues continues to create powerful drivers for growth in environmental markets.
Although support for renewables in Europe experienced setbacks, the overall momentum behind environmental policy remained positive, with a focus on Asia and energy efficiency.
We believe that this, together with technology advances, will drive long term growth in environmental markets.
Investment Performance During the year, the Companys net asset value NAV per Ordinary Share decreased from 142.7p to 117.0p, a fall of 18.0%.
This represented an outperformance of the FTSE ET50, an index of the 50 largest specialist environmental markets companies, which fell 28.2% during the year.
However the Company underperformed the MSCI World and the MSCI World Small Cap Indices capital return priced in pounds sterling, which fell by 6.9% and 9.8% respectively.
Over the same period, IEMs share price fell 26.2% from 129.8p to 95.8p.
At the end of the year, the Companys investments in six unquoted companies accounted for 4.1% of NAV, approximately the same proportion as at the end of 2010.
The Manager remains focused on securing exits, albeit supporting selective existing holdings with small additional investments.
Discount During the year, the discount to NAV at which the Companys Ordinary Shares traded ranged between 8% and 23%, with an average for the year of 14%.
The Ordinary Shares ended the year at a discount to NAV of 18%.
While the Board remains confident that improved portfolio performance will help to narrow the discount in the longer term, it has sought to address its concerns as to the share rating more immediately through the use of share repurchases, buying in 23,066,266 of the Companys own Ordinary Shares over the course of the year at an average discount to NAV of 17%.
The Board remains mindful of the discount and, accordingly, will continue to utilise its powers to buy back shares when it considers the circumstances to be appropriate: furthermore, it is exploring, in conjunction with the Manager and the Companys broker, means of widening the shareholder base through the identication of new avenues of demand for the Companys share capital.
Dividend The Companys net revenue for the year was 3.1 million.
As a result, the directors are recommending a slightly increased final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.9p per share.
If approved at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM, this dividend will be 3 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT CONTINUED CONTINUED paid on 24 May 2012 to shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 27 April 2012.
As the primary objective of the Company is capital growth, it should not be assumed that this level of dividend will be paid in future years.
Board of Directors As part of a programme of refreshment of the Board, Julia Le Blan and William Rickett were appointed to the Board on 27 January 2011 and Bill Brown stood down as a director at the AGM held in May 2011.
Rob Arnott will retire at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 17 May 2012 and will not stand for re-election.
My Board colleagues and I would like to thank Rob for his valuable contribution to the Company since its formation and we wish him every success in the future.
All other directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
The Board has agreed that Keith Niven will step down as chairman of the Audit Committee immediately following the AGM and that Julia Le Blan will be appointed in his place.
We wish to thank Keith for his valuable contribution in this function.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board appointed a third party to conduct an external evaluation of the Board and this process was completed in March 2012.
Current Status and Outlook The Companys NAV has had a reasonable start to 2012, as positive earnings momentum and a recovery in Asian holdings have helped performance.
As at 30 March 2012, the NAV had risen 9.6% since the year end, while the share price had risen by 3.9%.
The MSCI World, MSCI World Small Cap and FTSE ET50 indices capital return in pounds sterling had risen 7.9%, 10.0% and 4.3% respectively over the same period.
With strong long term fundamentals within environmental markets and with the current valuation appearing relatively inexpensive compared to the historical range and to global equity markets, the Manager and the Board continue to believe that IEM offers an attractive opportunity for long-term investors.
Richard Bernays 4 April 2012 4 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
