Intermediate Capital Group plc 04 Chairmans statement This has been a particularly strong year for ICG and I am pleased to report that we have generated a profit before tax of 186 million, up 76%.
As a result, gross impairments are materially lower Overview and we have started to benefit from write-backs This has been a particularly strong year for ICG and onthe assets which have shown a significant I am pleased to report that we have generated a improvement in trading.
Therefore net impairments profit before tax of 186 million, up 76% compared are also lower at 71 million.
We grew AUM by 5% to 11.8 billion, with third We have demonstrated our ability both to source party AUM of 9 billion, up 9%, thanks in large part and structure unique deals, resulting in a significant Justin Dowley to the Eos Loan Fund I.
Our Fund Management level of investment.
In particular, Eos Loan Fund I - Chairman Company has also benefited from excellent results the fund created for the acquisition ofa 1.4 billion across all our mezzanine, senior loan and high yield portfolio of senior loans from RBS attests to this bond funds.
ICG is one of the very few asset managers able Since 2000, our mezzanine and equity funds to analyse, price, manage andunderwrite a transaction have generated net multiples in line with top quartile of this scale and complexity.
performance of private equity returns and we are We deployed a total of 1 billion on behalf confident that we can maintain this level in the future.
ofourshareholders and mezzanine funds in spite Our credit funds have also performed well.
ofaslow market for mezzanine investments.
Ourloan funds have maintained a very low default 311million was invested from our balance sheet, rate of 1.5% and performance related fees have ahigher amount than we expected at the start of the returned.
Furthermore our European High Yield year.
This reflects the strength of our local networks Fund has consistently outperformed the market.
across Europe, the United States and AsiaPacific The fund generated a net return of 14% in 2010 and ourability to create investment opportunities and has already achieved a 4% net return in the first ina challenging environment.
Group profit before tax of four months of 2011.
We have realised significant value from our 186millioncompared to Capitalising on this track record of performance portfolio of investments with a total of 13 exits in the 106millionin2010 we have begun marketing a new European mezzanine financial year leading to capital gains of 133 million.
13 successful exits generating and equity fund to global institutional investors as a This represents the third highest level of capital 133 million of capital gains successor to ICG European Fund 2006.
In addition, gains in our 22 year history.
we have opened our European High Yield Bond The performance of our investment portfolio has 1 billion of new investments Fund to third party investors and continue to market improved steadily throughout the last 12 months as onbehalfofour mezzanine our loan funds.
the economic environment stabilised with 74% of funds and Investment Company Overall, we have had an excellent year and our investee companies performing at or above the Third party AUM up 9% to weare building momentum towards achieving our prior year, compared to 59% last year.
This is in spite 9.0billion strategic objectives.
of having exited strong performing companies.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Our business 05 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance 57-84 Accounts 85-119 Outlook and strategy Dividend Our strategy and priorities continue to focus on As a result of maintaining a high level of cash building a specialist fund management business core income at 107 million and the positive supported by a strong Investment Company.
outlook, the Board recommends a final dividend In the short term, we expect liquidity in the of 12 pence per share, making a total of 18 pence current buyout market to remain broadly similar, per share for the year.
This represents a 6% increase providing further opportunities to make profitable compared to last year.
Although the investment environment remains The dividend will be paid on 19 August 2011 challenging, we are seeing a promising pipeline of to shareholders on the register at 15 July 2011. mid-market deals across our geographies and The Board has decided to maintain the scrip 76% wewill continue to pursue investment opportunities dividend scheme introduced in June 2009 in Strong growth in profit before tax.
through our relationships, local presence and order to give shareholders greater flexibility.
structuring ability to gain early access to proprietary Thisscheme allows shareholders to elect to investments.
receive dividends in shares as opposed to cash.
In the medium term, the high levels of European buyout debt maturing over the next four years at the Employees same time as CLO reinvestment periods expire, will I would like to thank our employees for a year 18p dividend create demand for new sources of capital to fill the ofhard work and considerable achievement.
We will grow AUM by continuing to market our Sustained high level of cash mezzanine, loans and high yield funds to take core income led to 6% increase ofdividendto18p.
advantage of this market opportunity.
Justin Dowley Chairman We have made progress towards our three key strategic priorities: managing our portfolio to maximise value: investing selectively: and growing ourFund Management Company.
