Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms ANNUAL RePORT 2011 Chairmans statement The relationships we have with our customers are the foundation on which our business has been built.
That is why reaching our long-term target of 10 million customers this year was an important milestone in the Companys progress, as well as an endorsement of the quality, value and choice that we offer to our customers.
But more important than any single target is the way that the Company continues to transform itself.
Since setting the goal of 10 million customers in 2004, we have moved from being largely a single-product company to become a leader in a much broader field of opportunity, with a diverse set of entertainment and communications products.
In parallel, we have further developed our high-quality content offering, set the pace of innovation across the industry and grown our capabilities as an organisation by developing a strong culture of continuous improvement.
Those achievements are the consequence of a clear, consistent plan and excellent execution over several years by a highly focused management team.
Today, more families are choosing Sky for a greater variety of products than ever.
As we look to deepen our relationships with those customers, we recognise also the importance of making a positive contribution to the community in which we operate.
The last year has again Over the last year, we have continued to develop our work in three presented a challenging key areas of focus: helping to protect the environment: improving lives through sport: and opening up the arts to more people.
environment for consumer On 13 July 2011, News Corporation where I am an executive businesses, as families are Director withdrew its proposal to acquire the shares in Sky that squeezed by higher prices it does not already own.
In doing so, News Corporation stated that and lower disposable income.
it remains a committed, long-term shareholder in Sky, proud of the success that the Company has achieved over many years, and of Against that backdrop, Sky News Corporations contribution to it.
has continued to perform As well as reiterating that commitment and support, I would like well, with a strong operational to take this opportunity to thank the excellent team at Sky and the entire Board for the focus that they have shown throughout and financial performance the last year.
It is because of their talent and dedication that the across the board.
Furthermore, Company continues to deliver for customers and to achieve such strong progress for shareholders.
our business is well placed In reflection of the Companys continued strong performance, and to continue to grow in the our confidence in the opportunity ahead, the Board proposes a future, as we take advantage 20% increase in the full year dividend to 23.28 pence per share and of the significant potential intends to return 750 million to shareholders through a share buy-back programme over the next 12 months.
On behalf of the in the entertainment and Board, I would like to thank all shareholders for their continued communications marketplace.
James Murdoch Chairman 28 July 2011 AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 3 Book 1. indb 3 12 10 11 20:46:52
