Chairmans statement Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman This is the fifth time International Personal Finance has Since our demerger from Provident reported as a public company and it is an appropriate Financial plc in 2007 and despite recent time to put our performance into perspective.
In a period challenging economic conditions, we have of unprecedented global economic turmoil and uncertainty more than doubled our profit before tax and my colleagues have continued to deliver improved financial performance driven by strong growth in increased our dividends to shareholders customer numbers and credit issued.
All our markets by almost 50%.
were profitable in the year.
Almost five years ago we became a public company and we set ourselves four strategic goals: we planned to build our operations in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia into a business delivering over 95 million in profits.
In 2011 these markets generated a profit of 112.1 million.
Goal met but there is still real potential for further growth: we planned to take our developing markets in Romania and Mexico into profit.
Last year they contributed 5.6 million.
Goal met but we still have a long way to go to achieve their full profit potential: we planned to enter new markets.
We bought a small bank in Russia in late 2007 and began a market test the following year.
We withdrew in 2009 at the height of the financial crisis.
We continue to believe in the potential for new markets but will not rush into them until we get better line of sight on financial market stability: and we planned to improve the capital efficiency of the business when the current turmoil in credit markets has passed.
It hasnt, but our ambition remains the same.
Meanwhile, we are glad that our growing lending book is funded in a much more diversified manner than it was when we floated.
This stands us in good stead in these uncertain times.
08 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Business Review In July 2007, we said we aimed to be a leading Finally, I want to express my appreciation for the international provider of simple financial products and contribution made by our Chief Executive, John Harnett, services to people of modest means.
We said we would who leaves us at the end of March.
The story of IPF as achieve this by building close, long-term relationships a public company is the story of his leadership.
He has with our customers, our people, our business partners navigated our ship successfully through the most testing and the communities in which we work, through of seas and we will miss him.
Nonetheless the Board trustworthy and responsible behaviour.
believes that we have found an excellent new helmsman in Gerard Ryan who joined us as CEO Designate in Those ambitions remain unchanged and I believe we January and will become CEO at the end of March.
have made some real progress in the past five years.
Clear evidence of this can be found in the reporting Despite challenging global economic conditions, against sustainable business performance measures IPF delivered record results in 2011 and has made in our Annual Report this year.
Whilst the economic background continues to be uncertain, we have good We are doing some great work to improve the service prospects for growth and are confident that the we offer customers.
We continue to cut out unnecessary business will continue to perform well.
We are giving local employees greater freedom to operate and continue to invest in local Christopher Rodrigues community and financial education projects across Chairman the Group.
We also have a proactive approach to establishing relationships with all our stakeholders.
These groups help us to understand the impact of our business, products and services on society.
By investing in improving levels of financial literacy and giving access to credit to those who have been financially excluded, we are making a positive impact in bringing our customers into the financial mainstream.
Annual Reports now include extensive coverage on Governance, Risk Management and financial performance.
I do not propose to cover these items in my statement to you as they are covered in depth elsewhere in the report but I do want to take this opportunity to extend my thanks to our people, particularly our agents, without whom we would not have such a successful business, and to the Board for the support they give the Executive team in running the business.
Particular thanks are due to Charles Gregson who leaves after 17 years serving on the IPF Board and that of our previous parent, Provident Financial.
