International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholders, I am delighted to write to you after another very successful year for the Company and in circumstances where we see an ongoing pipeline of highly attractive prospects for the Company in 2012 and beyond.
1 In 2011 the Company provided returns to investors of 9.2%.
For an investor who has held shares in the Company since IPO in 2006, the total return to 31 December 2011 was 53.7%.
This compares with a return on the FTSE All Share index of -3.2% for 2011 and only 7.8% over the period to 31 December 2011 2 since the Companys listing.
I am pleased to be able to report the following major highlights for 2011: The new Royal Childrens Hospital in Melbourne Australia, one of the Companys largest assets during construction, was opened by HRH Queen Elizabeth II: Construction work at another significant investment Orange Hospital - was concluded: 122.0 million of capital was invested into new infrastructure assets: The Company became a major investor in the UK offshore transmission sector: A significant investment was made through the acquisition of Building Schools for the Future Investments from HM Government: To facilitate further investments over 54m of new capital was raised from shareholders and the Companys debt facility was renewed: The Companys dividend increased in line with the target set by the Board in 2006 for the fifth successive year: An increase in Net Asset Value of 15.2% over the figure as at 31 December 2010.
Looking forward to 2012 and beyond we see a significant number of positive factors.
The UK and other major international governments are supporting and offering an increasing range of new infrastructure investments.
Within our portfolio we see a number of value adding and synergistic opportunities, in particular the Building Schools for the Future Investment has given rise to a series of positive management and expansion opportunities within the portfolio which I believe will offer additional investment opportunities during 2012.
The Company is currently an investor in the UK offshore transmission sector and this position is likely to be consolidated if the fourth such investment for which the Company is currently preferred bidder is concluded.
Overseas we see continued opportunities specifically in Germany and Australia and we are actively supportive of our Investment Advisors policy to research opportunities in other major economies.
As a consequence of our past success and the opportunities that we have identified in the marketplace, we indicated at the year end that we will consider carefully whether it is in the best interests of shareholders and the Company to raise more equity capital to enable further expansion of the Companys portfolio.
We are actively considering this is light of certain identified near-term investment opportunities and expect to make a decision on this shortly.
1 From 1 January to 31 December 2011 share price appreciation plus income - Bloomberg 2 Share price performance plus income - Bloomberg 5 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued Financial Results As more specifically set out within the Accounting Policies section of the Directors statement, as part of our continual review of accounting policies in light of changes to IFRS and to ensure ongoing relevance, transparency and comparability with general market accepted convention, we have, in consultation with our new auditors, Ernst & Young, reassessed our accounting treatments.
As described in the Directors report, we have made two changes which are non-cash items.
The changes do not impact the cashflow statement or the investment performance of the Groups investments on a NAV basis.
On a consolidated IFRS basis the profit before tax was 13.2 million 2010 restated: 16.5 million and 3 profit after tax was 16.1 million 2010 restated: 15.1 million.
On a cash basis, cash received from its portfolio of investments produced a cashflow to the Company of 44.0 million before distributions.
On a net basis this produced an operating cash surplus of 30.5 million equivalent to a coverage over the distribution payable for 2011 of 1.5 times.
Investment Performance The Companys portfolio of infrastructure investments continued to perform well in 2011.
Aggregate portfolio performance was ahead of projections as a result of the successful management of opportunities to maximise income and specific initiatives to reduce costs.
As indicated above, the Companys distributions were well covered and, from a valuation perspective, value was enhanced by the Companys acquisitions in the period, effective asset management particularly in terms of reaching construction milestones and was further boosted by reductions in government bond rates.
Further information on the performance of the Companys assets is set out in the Investment Advisors report.
Over the period the NAV expressed on a per share basis increased from 113.1 pence per share as at 31 December 2010 to 116.9 pence per share at as 31 December 2011.
We remain optimistic for further increases in NAV in future periods most particularly as those projects currently in construction within the Companys portfolio move into the operational phase.
The ability to provide such organic growth in NAV as particular potential risks in assets reduce is an important and differentiating characteristic of the Company.
It also provides a potential future mitigant to any adverse movements in NAV that might arise from changes in macro economic factors.
The Company aims to ensure that whilst it owns assets that are in construction it is insulated from the attendant construction risk by ensuring appropriate contractual and insurance cover.
Distributions I am pleased to be able to confirm that the Company has delivered, for the past five successive years an increasing dividend in line with the target established at the time of the IPO and the Board does not see any reason to change this policy.
We have also confirmed that the Company will pay a distribution for the second half of 2011 of 2.925 pence per share total distribution for 2011: 5.85 pence per share to be payable in June 2012.
For 2012, the Board has confirmed that it will target a total distribution of 6.0 pence per share.
The first payment of 3.0 pence per share in respect of this target is expected to be paid in October 2012.
The second payment is expected to be made in May 2013.
A scrip dividend option exists in respect of the Companys distributions subject to the Directors being satisfied that this is in the best interests of the Company at the relevant time.
Applications for participation in the scrip distribution option will be sent to investors in May 2012.
3 See the Investment Advisors report for additional information on this calculation 6 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued Gearing The Company has continued its policy not to hold long term debt at the group level.
The Companys investments are generally held in special purpose asset owning entities that are financed by a mix of long term matched debt and risk capital.
This asset level debt is non-recourse to the Company and in almost every case is long term amortising debt upon which a fixed rate of interest is payable over the period of the underlying contract.
The group level revolving debt facility is used to acquire new investment opportunities in order to avoid as far as possible cash drag and allows the Company to move quickly to acquire attractive investment opportunities as they arise.
When drawn we expect that this facility will be repaid through new capital raisings giving our existing and new Investors the ability to increase or commence their commitment in a stable and income focused long term Investment strategy.
The Infrastructure Market in 2011 12 The infrastructure market continues to grow and to receive increased positive investor focus.
The Board sees this as an encouraging trend in this market, which is currently supported both by relatively high levels of investor interest and a strong supply of investment opportunities.
Infrastructure as an investment asset class has continued to receive much attention over the year, particularly in the UK.
Overall there continues to be strong high level support for private sector involvement in the provision of public infrastructure from both the UK Government and other major jurisdictions.
The National Infrastructure Plan, published in November 2011, in its executive summary stated: the Government will use all the tools at its disposal to facilitate the private investment that will finance the majority of the UKs infrastructure.
This is also reflected in other major jurisdictions in which the Company operates such as Australia and within Europe, which also continue to recognise the importance of private sector investment in 4 infrastructure.
In Australia the Department of Infrastructure and Transport issued a number of Principles in 2011 including that: The Commonwealth will encourage greater private sector involvement in infrastructure including by: ensuring that all proposed projects are fully tested for the scope for private funding: and reducing barriers to entry for domestic and international market entrants in the construction and operation sectors For these, among other, reasons we continue to be confident of the flow of new infrastructure opportunities in our core geographic markets.
We also anticipate within our target markets a steady flow of opportunities to acquire investments in existing infrastructure projects.
Investment Strategy The Company continues to pursue its strategy of focussing on investment in infrastructure assets offering a low level of credit and other risks that provide secure yield and potential capital growth particularly from assets which are in construction and yet to reach their operational stage.
Further information on the Companys investment strategy and policies can be found in the Investment Policy section of this report.
4 The Commonwealths Infrastructure Investment Framework, Australian Government, Department of Infrastructure and Transport 7 International Public Partnerships Limited Letter from the Chairman continued Outlook Overall the Board is looking forward to the remainder of 2012 with confidence based on the continuing good performance of its existing assets, the progress being made on delivering projects under construction on time and to budget and the attractive pipeline of new infrastructure opportunities under review by it and its Investment Adviser both in the UK and overseas.
The recent commitments to infrastructure procurement made by the UK Government and governments in other jurisdictions in which we invest support this strategy.
Additionally, we are encouraged by continued investor demand for the infrastructure sector.
The Board continues to review the capital position of the Company against its likely investment opportunities and believes that it is likely to be beneficial to seek additional capital from both shareholders and new investors in 2012.
Further announcements will be made at the appropriate time once details are confirmed.
In the meantime, I and my fellow directors would like to thank you for your support and confirm our commitment to the Company.
We reiterate our willingness to be available to meet with investors as required and to maintain a high level of constructive dialogue with our shareholders.
