business review overview c h ai rm a n s statement 2011 was a challenging year for Britvic following, as it did, several years of strong profit growth.
Indeed our operating profit has increased by over eighty per cent in the six years since we floated and became a public company.
Despite the raw material headwinds and In Ireland, trading conditions have continued to be very difficult, although we did deliver the difficult trading conditions we have delivered a solid set of results.
With a number of operational successes.
We restructured the go-to-market model the board confident in the future cash generation prospects of the business which has reduced costs and positively changed the way that we interact with we propose a final dividend of 12.6 pence per share, leading to a full year increase of our customers.
For the first time since the acquisition in 2007, we launched new 6.0% on last years dividend.
This will be payable on 10 February 2012 to shareholders brands in Juicy drench and Mountain Dew, both of which have been successful: on the register on 9 December 2011. additionally, we executed a price increase.
2012 looks likely to be another difficult However the very tough macro trading year in each of our operating territories.
conditions have resulted in a 9.6% Consumer confidence will continue to revenue decline.
be fragile as disposable incomes fall and Sixteen months on since the acquisition, unemployment continues to rise.
Our plans and in its first full financial year, Britvic are to take continued action on costs and France has delivered a very encouraging improve execution.
We can do nothing to The financial year has seen both volume high single digit revenue growth.
Our key change the general environment, but we and revenue growth in our GB, International syrup brands of Teisseire and Moulin fide can and will continue to improve the and French operating territories, with Valdonne have both taken market share things we can control.
overall group revenue growth combined and we have successfully introduced Our pricing growth ambition remains with cost control leading to group EBITA Fruit Shoot into the market under the unchanged as we look to mitigate the up 4.3% to 138.1 million.
impact of continued rises in raw materials.
In total our group revenue was up 14.6% Our fourth operating division, Britvic Innovation remains a key part of our plans year on year to just under 1.3 billion.
With and 2012 will see new innovation in all of Underlying revenue was up 0.8%, revenue up 12.8%, both the core business our operating territories as well as a focus excluding the results from Britvic France and the more recent international franchise on continuing the momentum of last years which we acquired in May 2010.
This agreements have performed well.
The international franchise performance was achieved against the developments in our franchising activities, and distribution opportunities continue background of unprecedented increases particularly in the USA, are important steps to go from strength to strength and in raw material costs, an unhelpful summer in leveraging the strong group-owned offer significant growth prospects in the across Western Europe and the weaker brands to drive future revenue and medium-term.
Regardless of the uncertainty in our GB revenue was up 2.7% in 2011 and over Given the backdrop of rising raw material markets, I believe that our great brands, the past two years has grown by 11.3%.
costs we took action to cancel or defer strong market positions, experienced A strong carbonates performance saw discretionary spend.
As a result profit after people and good record on innovation and revenue growth of 7.3%, resulting in Britvic tax was up 0.9% but adjusted earnings cost management will stand us in good growing its market value share against a per share was down, due to the increased stead for the coming year.
The business backdrop of increased competitor activity.
number of shares resulting from the is now more geographically spread and Our strategy of growing distribution in equity-raising last year for the acquisition the recent acquisition in France is going the on-the-go channels and continued of Britvic France.
The board would like to thank both innovation, whilst improving our supply the management team and all of the chain and business efficiency, is one employees of Britvic for their commitment reason for our continued success in to the business and their hard work at this market.
Gerald Corbett Non-Executive Chairman 10 Britvic plc Annual Report 2011 14:30 Heaton Park, Manchester 11 17:45 The Kings Road, London 12
