Introduction I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for their continuing support and involvement in growing our business: and to welcome the new shareholders that invested in John Laing Infrastructure Fund JLIF or the Company towards the end of 2011 as part of a successful capital raise of 130.7 million.
This is the second annual report for JLIF and its subsidiaries the Group, covering the period from 1 January 2011 to the period end 31 December 2011.
Last year I anticipated a year of growth and value delivery to our shareholders, which I believe JLIF has achieved.
JLIF has experienced a successful first full year of trading with notable key highlights being: 2 Delivery of a 9.2% growth in the Portfolio over 2011 paying dividends in line with the IPO Prospectus Acquisition of JLIFs first asset not acquired under the First Offer 4 Agreement with John Laing, being a 50% stake in Forth Valley Royal Hospital, from Commonwealth Bank of Australia Acquisition of seven third party stakes in assets during September 2011 and January 2012 Acquisition of twelve assets from John Laing during 2011 Paul Lester Chairman 158 million capital raised during 2011 and acquisition of 141 million 1 of assets Increased bank facility of 60 million providing flexibility to react to attractive investment opportunities Entry to the FTSE 250 index on 19 December 2011 Acquisition of Portfolio 3 JLIF made 19 acquisitions in 16 assets during the period 1 January 2011 to 17 January 2012.
These assets represent 141 million of the 158 million raised during 2011.
The remaining 16 million, plus a small borrowing on JLIFs facility, is intended to be used to acquire Roseberry Park and Newcastle Hospital from John Laing during 2012: these future acquisitions are awaiting the usual client consents.
The majority of the assets acquired were from John Laing as vendor: however, in September 2011, JLIF completed its first third party acquisition.
This was a pivotal moment for JLIF to demonstrate its credentials in the market to competitively tender for, and complete, an acquisition from a vendor other than John Laing: since which time, it has acquired a total of seven third party investments.
JLIF continued its acquisition of third party assets, and in January 2012, acquired three social housing assets from United House, through a competitive tender process.
1 Including acquisitions in January 2012 2 On a rebased Portfolio Value 3 Three acquisitions were additional third party co-shareholder stakes in projects 4 Here on in these will be referred to as third party acquisitions Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW 5.
JLIF acquired its first third party asset outside of the John Laing Group in September and subsequently acquired a further six stakes from third party vendors.
JLIF has also acquired the minority shareholdings in three assets from Corporate Governance third parties: Newham Schools and Enfield Schools from Wates and the JLIF maintains its Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange and North East Fire and Rescue project from Shepherd Construction.
therefore follows the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has put in place a framework enabling the Company to comply with the Throughout 2012, JLIF intends to further diversify its supplier base for relevant provisions of the Code.
The Company also remains a member assets and is actively seeking new opportunities in the market.
of the Association of Investment Companies AIC in order to provide Shareholders with an additional level of confidence in relation to Shareholder Returns and Investment Performance corporate governance.
The Board considers it appropriate to report I am pleased to report that JLIF was promoted from the FTSE Small against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by Cap to the FTSE 250 Index in December 2011.
JLIF has grown reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate significantly over the last 12 months through the acquisition of mature Governance Code.
operational PPP assets that meet JLIFs Investment Policy.
This In addition to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC code growth, coupled with the demand for the stock and its liquidity ensured above, we are anticipating the introduction of the Alternative Investment JLIF met, and exceeded, the required criteria as a FTSE 250 company.
Fund Management Directive AIFMD to be launched in July 2014.
JLIFs stock performed solidly throughout 2011, experiencing less JLIF is preparing for this new regulation and, albeit this is currently volatility than the FTSE Small Cap, the index JLIF was in for the majority still in consultation, anticipate being fully compliant within the of the year.
JLIFs opening share price in 2011 was 106.75 pence per timeframe stated by the Directive.
share, and closed 2011 at 108.5 pence per share.
The share price has consistently traded at a premium to Net Asset Value indicating the Outlook strong demand in the market for this asset class.
Last year I reported the impact of the austerity measures in the UK JLIF paid dividends in April and October 2011, the last one being for and the likely impact on the PPP market through the Comprehensive 3.0 pence per share.
These dividend payments were in line with the Spending Review.
As we predicted last year, JLIF is relatively unaffected expectations of the Company, and as outlined in the Prospectuses in in the short term and the growth over the last year supports that view.
During 2011, the UK Government produced its National Infrastructure Plan.
The plan outlined where government spending will be focussed Investment Adviser to improve infrastructure in the UK: rail, roads, energy and broadband.
I remain of the same opinion as last year, that an investment in Although the route for procurement and delivery of these projects is JLIF offers a differentiated and diversified Portfolio with strong yield yet to be finalised, the plan is a positive step in boosting investment in characteristics and the potential for ongoing capital growth.
The yield infrastructure in the UK.
from the underlying assets is positively correlated to inflation, and To complement this infrastructure plan, the Government needs to find because inflation is currently running above the assumed level in the alternative sources of finance to deliver these new projects.
There is current assets, this is expected to deliver a positive impact on the yield limited availability in the traditional banking sector to provide long received from those assets over time.
During 2011, the Portfolio Value term finance, and the Government is looking towards pension funds benefited from inflationary effects, generating additional growth in to supply the necessary liquidity.
At the time of writing, there has been value of 0.8%, with a total Portfolio growth of 9.2% overall.
no significant development in the engagement of pension funds to JLIF benefits from access to two experienced fund managers, David the primary infrastructure market.
We are keen to observe the further Marshall and Andrew Charlesworth, who have significant knowledge integration of pension funds into the market, which we hope will allow and expertise in infrastructure projects.
David and Andrew are Directors access to their capital for increased investment in infrastructure.
of John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM which is the I look forward to another exciting year with JLIF as we expand and appointed Investment Adviser to JLIF.
JLCM is using its extensive PPP continue to deliver value to our shareholders.
knowledge to manage the existing Portfolio effectively and to identify and manage the acquisition of suitable assets for the Company.
Value enhancements accounted for 2.2% of Portfolio growth over 2011 and JLCM will continue to seek further value growth from the Portfolio Paul Lester CBE, Chairman through proactive management in the coming years.
15 March 2012 John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited
