OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS MESSAGE pleased that the EU and US Government recently agreed a series of Sir Michael Rake pro-competitive regulatory principles to advocate globally.
Chairman BTs contribution to society We strongly believe that to be a better business our corporate and social responsibilities must remain at the heart of what we do.
So we have added being a responsible and sustainable business leader to our strategic priorities.
Through our formal volunteering programme BT people have given a lot of time to community initiatives over the past year, with over 49,000 days volunteered.
We are also participating in the UKs Work Inspiration campaign, led by Business in the Community, to help bridge the gap between the classroom and employment.
Last year we set out our plans for returning BT to growth in 2013.
This year has been one of progress against these plans, but it has not We have a range of measures to limit BTs energy use and emissions.
Financially, however, we have delivered or To help our customers reduce their impact on the environment we have exceeded our promises, improving both profitability and cash launched a building energy management product in Spain, a smart grid generation.
offer in North America and a smart metering partnership in the UK.
We maintained gold sector status in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Dividends and Platinum Plus level in the Business in the Community Corporate As we stated in 2010, the Board is committed to progressive dividends Responsibility Index.
over the period to 2013, while balancing the need to invest in the I am personally committed to our agenda and chair the Board business, reduce our debt and support the pension fund.
Taking these Committee for Sustainable & Responsible Business.
considerations into account, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 5.0p, giving a total dividend for the year of 7.4p, up 7% over last year.
The Board and governance I was delighted to welcome two outstanding non-executive directors BTs commitment to the UK to the Board this year.
Nick Rose, joined us from Diageo, where he Broadband is a critical service for people and businesses in the UK.
He brings a wealth of experience in The Government aspires to seeing the UK become the best European international operations.
Jasmine Whitbread, chief executive of Save country for broadband by 2015.
BT is doing a great deal to make sure the Children International, also joined us.
She has extensive experience this aspiration becomes a reality.
We start from a high base, with of public companies and charitable organisations and a deep around 99% of UK premises already enjoying access to copper understanding of the importance of corporate responsibility in building broadband, the best availability of all of the G8 countries.
This year a sustainable global business model.
we extended our ADSL2 copper broadband service, offering speeds There have been significant changes in the UK corporate governance of up to 20Mbps, to over 65% of UK premises.
In response we have extended the remit of the Audit We are also investing 2.5bn in our super-fast bre-based broadband Committee to reect an increased focus on risk: extended the remit network.
It already makes signicantly enhanced speeds available to of the Nominating Committee to include governance and compliance more than 4m premises, and we intend to extend this to two thirds of issues: and established five regional governance committees to assist UK premises by the end of 2015.
We aim to go further and bring bre the business in managing governance and risk internationally.
to homes and businesses in the final third of the UK, provided that We welcome the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the 2011 AGM, investment and regulatory conditions remain favourable and that we as well as Nick Rose and Jasmine Whitbread who will retire automatically are able to use funds made available by Government to support and be proposed for election, all the other directors, with the exception of roll-out to rural areas.
We are delighted to have taken part in winning Clay Brendish, will be seeking re-election.
Clay will be retiring as a nontenders which are seeing bre extended throughout Northern Ireland executive director at the end of August after nine years as a member of and Cornwall.
Clay has been a great asset and we have particularly valued his BTs networks are open to communications providers on wholesale IT industry experience.
I would like to thank him for his contribution over terms.
We continue to push for regulatory reform, so that, for example, so many years.
we can purchase more TV and movie content at fair prices, just as pay My thanks go to all the Board and the executive management for all TV providers can access our network at regulated prices.
their efforts during the year.
Our investment represents just one aspect of our commitment to the UK economy, which we also support through employment and paying Our future and collecting taxes of around 3bn per year.
I am convinced that the focus and determination of the Board, management and our people will enable us to deliver our plans to BTs global presence make BT a better business with a better future.
Across the world BT is investing to deliver excellent service to customers.
We will continue to focus our investment next year on the Asia Pacic region, where many of our largest customers are looking to expand.
Internationally, we want regulation to level the playing eld so that we can compete efficiently for the benefit of customers.
We work for open and fair wholesale access to xed and mobile telecoms networks to drive competition.
We have seen some progress.
In the US, the Sir Michael Rake Federal Communications Commission has launched an investigation on Chairman access.
In the EU, measures have been adopted that will offer greater 11 May 2011 regulatory consistency for bre networks and internet policy.
I was BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 3 OVERVIEW
