Chairmans Statement US large Cap stocks provide a relatively safe haven in a difficult year for equity markets Slight NAV underperformance vs. benchmark index, primarily because of the cost of gearing, but our strong long-term record is intact The Companys Ordinary shares moved to a consistent premium to net asset value and new shares were issued Investment Performance Over the year to 31st December 2011, your Company produced a total return on net assets of 0.5% in sterling terms, underperforming the total return of the S&P 500 Index our benchmark of 2.6%.
The Companys share price total return of 3.9% outperformed the Index, reflecting the Companys move from a discount of 0.3% to a premium at the year end of 3.3%.
Over the longer term, as can be seen from the charts and data on pages 11 and 12, the Companys relative performance record remains strong, particularly since 2002 when the current manager took over responsibility and various risk and gearing controls were introduced.
Performance attribution data shows that the larger companies portfolio outperformed the benchmark by 0.1%, while the smaller companies portfolio underperformed by 0.3%, but the major negative contribution came from the gearing cash effect which penalised our returns by 2.1%.
In hindsight the portfolio was positioned too cautiously in September and October 2011 when the markets rallied by over 10% in a few weeks.
In a year when most market participants were concentrating on macroeconomic issues and perhaps less on company fundamentals, in general stocks moved more in line with each other than usual and the most defensive sectors outperformed.
It is perhaps unsurprising that our large cap portfolio only just beat its benchmark index.
Although we are disappointed in the NAV underperformance of our benchmark, we continue to support the manager in his overall investment approach.
Full details of the activities of the investment managers are set out in their report on pages 6 to 9.
Sterling began 2011 at a rate of 1.57 to the Dollar and weakened marginally over the year, ending at 1.55.
This weakness has meant that returns to UK based investors were enhanced by around 0.7%.
In order to protect against currency fluctuations in respect of the Companys 50 million debenture, a currency hedge has been maintained since its issue in 2001.
Revenue Account and Dividends Net revenue after taxation for the year was 4,989,000 2010: 4,517,000 and earnings per share, calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue over the course of the year, were 11.20p 2010: 10.56p.
Revenue rose as cash rich companies increased their payout ratios and financial stocks began to reintroduce dividend payments.
The Companys dividend policy has been to distribute all, or substantially all, of the available income in each year.
The Board is proposing to maintain last years dividend of 11p per share and, in doing so, to draw around 93,000 from revenue reserves.
Shareholders should note that income streams can vary significantly, and the Companys dividend payouts are likely to reflect those variations.
After accounting for the payment of the proposed final dividend, this leaves a balance in the revenue reserves of 9.7 million equivalent to 21.0p per share or 1.9 times our current dividend.
The dividend will be paid on 8th May 2012 to shareholders on the register on 10th April 2012.
2 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Gearing The Board of Directors sets the overall gearing strategy and guidelines and reviews these at each meeting.
The investment management team manages the gearing levels actively within these agreed guidelines.
At present, there is an upper limit of 20% of shareholders funds and this can only be increased with Board consent.
The 50 million debenture provides the potential to gear up to around 12.5%.
As at the year end, the Companys net gearing level offsetting cash and near cash against our debenture was 97.2% of shareholders funds, having ranged between 92% and 104% during the year.
The chart below gives a longer term perspective to the Companys gross and net gearing history.
Net Gearing level offsetting cash and near cash against 50m debenture.
Management of the Discount Premium During the year, the Companys share price moved from a discount to net asset value NAV of 0.3%, calculated with debt at fair value after deducting the proposed dividend, to a premium of 3.3%.
The chart below shows the movement of the discount premium over the last five years.
Discount Premium level 10 8 6 4 2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Source: Datastream Discount Premium level calculated with debt at fair value and including income.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 3 Chairmans Statement continued The consistent level of premium, particularly in the second half of the year, enabled the Company to issue new ordinary shares to the market at prices in excess of the prevailing NAV.
In total, 3,353,098 new ordinary shares were issued at an average price of 846.6p per share for a total gross consideration of 28.4 million.
These issuances added 0.1% to performance.
Subsequent to the year end, the Company has issued a further 1,244,045 shares for a gross consideration of 11.4 million.
While the Company did not repurchase any shares during the year, your Board believes that such a facility is an important tool in the management of discount volatility.
Having issued shares at a premium recently, the Board is conscious of the need to avoid the discount widening significantly.
As such, the Board will use its share buy back powers to repurchase shares when necessary.
A resolution to renew the authority to allow the Company to repurchase up to 14.99% of its share capital will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Investment Manager The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments by outperformance of the Companys benchmark.
Your Board has once again thoroughly reviewed the capabilities of the Investment Manager in order to assess whether J. P. Morgan Asset Management remains the manager of the Companys assets.
In addition to scheduled Board Meetings, your Directors have undertaken additional strategy and investment meetings with the named investment managers, conducted comparisons with an appropriate peer group both in the UK and the US with regard to performance, fee rates and costs of management and spent time reviewing the investment management operation whilst in New York for a Board Meeting.
We have concluded that the ongoing appointment of the existing Investment Manager is in the continuing interests of shareholders.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFM The European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA has published its final advice on implementing the measures of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive.
How the UK Financial Services Authority chooses to implement the Directive, and therefore the implications for your Company, is currently the subject of consultation and discussion within the investment company industry.
Your Board in conjunction with the Association of Investment Companies the AIC and JPMorgan Asset Management is monitoring developments closely.
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA The United States has introduced provisions commonly referred to as FATCA, which introduce reporting requirements for foreign financial institutions FFIs in respect of financial information.
Under current proposals your Company may be deemed to be an FFI and therefore be required to identify and report on shareholders who are US persons or entities with substantial US ownership.
Compliance with these regulations in their current format is likely to be very difficult to achieve and in the extreme could affect the viability of any collective investment vehicle investing in US equities and other securities.
JPMorgan Asset Management and the AIC, are actively lobbying the US and UK authorities for clarification on these issues.
4 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Board Your Board has put in place procedures to ensure that the Company complies fully with the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code on Corporate Governance.
Details are given in the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 28 to 32.
The Board has resolved that, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, all Directors will seek reappointment at each future Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Sarah Bates, Kate Bolsover, James Fox and James Williams, all being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at this years AGM.
Details of their background and experience can be found on pages 20 and 21.
As I announced in my statement last year, I will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Sarah Bates will take over as Chairman at that time.
We also hope to be able to announce the appointment of a further director at the AGM.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has reviewed the fees paid to Directors.
No increase has been recommended for the forthcoming year.
Details of the fee levels can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 33.
Annual General Meeting Your Directors and I very much look forward to welcoming shareholders to the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA on Friday, 4th May 2012 at 2.30 p. m. Garrett Fish, our lead investment manager, will make a presentation to shareholders, reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook for the current year.
It would be helpful if shareholders could submit, in advance and in writing, any detailed or technical questions that they wish to raise at the Annual General Meeting, to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Outlook Our Manager has set out his views on the US outlook in his report on page 9.
We do recognise that there are many macro issues still worrying the markets in the short term.
However, your Board shares the Managers belief that the US market is attractively priced for those investors willing to invest for the longer term in US equities.
This is my last of nine reports as Chairman of your Company.
It has not always been plain sailing, but it has always been stimulating and interesting.
As I step down, I wish my colleagues, both on the Board and at JPMorgan, and shareholders continued success in the years ahead.
I have every confidence that the Board will be ably led by Sarah Bates and that the future management of the Company is in safe hands.
Hamish Buchan Chairman 23rd March 2012 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
