Chairmans Statement Performance In what was an extraordinary period for world and Asian markets, the Companys portfolio returned 21.1% net of management fees and expenses, underperforming our benchmark index by 7.5 percentage points.
The Companys diluted net asset value NAV total return which assumes that the 11.7 million Subscription shares outstanding at 30th September 2011 were all exercised at 176p per share was 20.1% and the return to Ordinary Shareholders, which includes the effect of a narrowing in the year of the Companys discount to NAV, was 17.8%.
In their report the investment managers give greater detail on the key factors which influenced performance in the year under review.
In 2006 your Board decided to change the investment style of the Company, following a number of years of respectable, but broadly in-line performance, with our benchmark index.
The Companys investment managers were authorised to adopt a higher conviction investment approach, which involved holding fewer stocks in a more concentrated portfolio which they rated highly, regardless of benchmark weighting, and a nimbler and more flexible attitude to gearing.
Although it was recognized by the Board that this investment approach would increase the risk profile of the portfolio and that the Companys returns would diverge, at times significantly, from those delivered by our benchmark, we expected that Shareholders would benefit from better relative returns over time.
It is therefore disappointing to note that the underperformance against our benchmark this year, much of which occurred in the last six weeks of the Companys financial year, principally from stock selection in China and Hong Kong, means that relative performance is now also behind our benchmark over longer time periods.
Your Board has spent much time with J. P. Morgan Asset Management JPMAM analysing in detail the causes of the underperformance.
One major contributory factor was JPMAMs belief that major Asian economies would effectively fide-couple from the turmoil in the Eurozone and the debt problems in the US.
JPMAM favoured China over other markets in Asia, in the expectation of falling inflation and looser monetary policy in due course, with a selection of sectors and stocks reflecting that view.
The positioning of our portfolio, particularly in China and Hong Kong, at a time when the global economic outlook was so unstable, appears in retrospect to have been ill judged and this severely and adversely affected performance.
The Board does not fault JPMAM generally, nor our investment managers in particular, for lack of conviction: on the contrary, JPMAM made certain global macro-economic calls on asset allocation which have yet to deliver, but they were well argued and have been consistently applied.
As a consequence, our portfolio underperformed the benchmark index by 6.2 percentage points in September alone, as investors retreated still further from Chinese stocks.
It was an extremely uncomfortable time for any investment manager with a bottom up stock picking approach and a particularly uncomfortable time for our own investment managers.
Future Management Arrangements We have concluded after our extensive discussions with JPMAM that it is in the Companys best interests that the management of the portfolio move to Hong Kong 2 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 from Singapore.
Companies listed on the markets of China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan account for approximately 70% of our benchmark index.
The proximity of the investment manager to these northeast Asian markets and also to the country specialist teams in JPMAMs Hong Kong office who follow these and other Asian markets is, we believe, critically important at this juncture.
Accordingly Jeffrey Roskell, an investment manager with more than 19 years of fund management experience, will take over as the Companys lead investment manager with effect from 1st January 2012.
Jeff has been managing Asia ex-Japan portfolios for JPMAM in Hong Kong for 11 years and is a senior member of its Pacific Region Group.
Joshua Tay has served as our lead investment manager for the past five years, more recently supported by Pauline Ng.
Investors who have met Joshua at AGMs or in other meetings have always appreciated his candour, his commitment, his energetic drive to seek out and invest in great companies.
We wish him very well in the future.
In appointing Jeff Roskell, we signal no fundamental change of investment management approach, but will closely monitor how JPMAM responds to the challenges it faces in its Asian portfolio performance.
Jeff has the immediate task of boosting our performance and the Board will give him all possible support to achieve this.
Revenue and Dividends Revenue per share for the year amounted to 2.23p on an undiluted basis and the Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.20p which, if approved by Shareholders, will be payable on 10th February 2012 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6th January 2012.
Continuation Vote and Discount Management It was pleasing that Shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of the continuation of the Company as an investment trust for a further three years at our annual general meeting in January 2011.
The Companys next continuation vote will be laid before Shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held in 2014.
In addition to the regular three yearly continuation vote, the Board closely monitors the level of discount at which the Companys Ordinary shares trade relative to their NAV.
Over the year the average daily discount, using the Companys diluted cum-income NAV, was 8.9%.
As part of its range of tools to manage the discount the Board obtained Shareholder approval at the Companys general meeting in February to implement, at its discretion, a conditional tender offer for up to 5% of the Companys Ordinary shares, at a 2% discount to diluted cum income NAV, less the costs of effecting the tender, if the Companys Ordinary shares traded at an average daily discount of more than 9% relative to their diluted cum-income NAV in the period between 1st April and 30th September 2011.
As the Ordinary Shares traded marginally above this 9% level over this period, the Board has decided to exercise its discretion and to implement a tender offer for up to 5% of the Ordinary shares in issue on the record date of 30th September 2011.
Subscription Shareholders can also participate in this tender JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 3 Chairmans Statement continued if they exercise their conversion rights by 30th December 2011.
The documentation in relation to this Tender Offer is enclosed separately with this Report & Accounts.
Subject to receiving the necessary Shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board intends to conduct further tenders on the same basis if the Companys Ordinary shares trade at an average daily discount of more than 9% relative to their diluted cum-income NAV over the period between 1st October 2011 and 31st March 2012 and the period between 1st April 2012 and 30th September 2012.
Shareholders should note that these tender offers will, however, remain at the discretion of the Board and be subject to prevailing market conditions at the time, so they should place no expectation on these tender offers being implemented.
In addition to these conditional tender offers the Board has decided to amend its discount management policy and will now, subject to market conditions, consider buying back shares with the objective of stabilising the discount between 8 and 10% to their diluted cum-income NAV and provide an uplift in NAV per share for continuing investors as a result of those shares being acquired at a discount to their NAV.
It is intended that this will be the Boards policy for the year ahead and the Directors will therefore propose a resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to authorise the Company to repurchase its Ordinary and Subscription shares.
The Board has been actively seeking to stabilize the discount since the year end and has bought back a further 1,095,000 shares in the market to the date of this report.
Subscription Shares The Company issued 32,000,805 Subscription shares as a bonus issue to qualifying Shareholders on the basis of one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held in February 2009.
Each Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to subscribe for one Ordinary share at predetermined prices on any business day during the period from 1st April 2009 until 31st March 2014, after which the rights on the Subscription shares will lapse.
Between 1st October 2010 and 30th September 2011, 158,613 Subscription shares were converted into Ordinary shares, raising proceeds of 279,000.
As at the date of this Report, a further 9,696 Subscription shares have been converted, meaning that a total of 27,940,000 has been raised for investment by the Company since the Subscription shares were issued, with 63.4% of the original allotment of Subscription shares being converted.
On 1st April 2012, the exercise price of the outstanding Subscription shares will step up for the final time to 203p per share from the current 176p per share.
At the time of writing the Companys Ordinary share price, is 183p, which despite the Companys recent performance remains above the current exercise price, but below the final step up price.
A reminder about the final step up in exercise price will be sent to Subscription Shareholders in February next year.
Further details on the Subscription shares, including the apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they may be exercised, can be found on the Companys website at www.
co. uk and on page 68 of this Report & Accounts.
4 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Manager In addition to the comprehensive review of the Companys recent portfolio performance and the changes subsequently agreed with JPMAM regarding its future investment management arrangements, the Board has also carried out its formal annual review of the company secretarial, administration and marketing services provided to the Company by JPMAM.
After full consideration, the Board concluded that the continued appointment of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited for provision of these services on the terms agreed is in the interests of Shareholders.
Performance Fee As the Companys NAV total return underperformed the benchmark, this has resulted in a negative performance fee calculation of 5,900,000, which is carried forward and must be made good by future outperformance before any performance fee can be accrued or paid.
Borrowing Facilities The Company has a 30 million three year multi currency loan facility with ING Bank in place which will expire in August 2013.
In May the Companys 25 million five year multi currency loan facility with Lloyds Banking Group expired.
Given the increasing levels of uncertainty and the investment managers growing caution, the Board decided not to replace this facility at that time.
The Boards policy permits the investment managers to utilise gearing within a range of 90-120% invested.
Board The Board was very pleased during the year to announce the appointment of Dr Linda Yueh as a non-executive Director with effect from 1st July 2011.
A recruitment consultancy was engaged to assist with the appointment and the Board considered issues such as diversity and balance of skills in its selection process.
Ultimately, we were able to select the most outstandingly competent candidate and Dr Yueh has already proved to be a strong addition to the Board.
In times such as these, of massive global market upheaval and instability, we are fortunate indeed to enjoy the input of a University of Oxford Economics Tutor and distinguished author and broadcaster, whose grasp of the elements of Chinas economic and social development is internationally renowned.
Dr Yueh was recruited to fill the enormous gap left by Mr Alun Evans, who has been a Director since 2001 and who will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
During his time in office, Mr Evans has proved to be a most valuable member of the Board and his insights into geopolitical affairs will be sorely missed.
We set great store by the quality and diversity of directors individual input, demanding intellectual rigour and fierce independence of mind: Alun Evans set an unprecedentedly high standard on both scores.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 5 Chairmans Statement continued Annual General Meeting This years Meeting will be held at the Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday, 1st February 2012 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal proceedings, there will be a presentation by Jeff Roskell who will also be available to respond to questions on the Companys portfolio, his investment strategy and outlook for Asian markets.
Following the Meeting there will be an opportunity for Shareholders to meet the Board and Jeff over a buffet lunch and I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible.
Outlook Since the Companys year end global markets have remained extremely volatile.
Following a strong rally in Asian equities in October we saw another reversal in November and markets will probably remain unsettled at least until there is a credible and co-ordinated response to the Eurozone crisis.
Notwithstanding this turbulence, your Board remains convinced of the longer term relative attraction of investing in Asia ex Japan equity markets and therefore looks forward to seeing our new investment manager adeptly exploiting the opportunities which will present themselves over the coming months.
James M Long Chairman 20th December 2011 6 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
