Chairmans Statement Having just passed the 20th anniversary of its launch, I am pleased to report that the Company has produced another year of strong performance in the 12 months to 30th June 2011, especially given the continuing volatility in equity markets.
Again our Manager added considerable value through outperformance against our benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index.
As I explained last year, following the successful issue of Subscription shares in 2009, we now report our net asset value on a diluted basis to reflect the potential dilution to net asset value assuming full conversion of the Subscription shares to Ordinary shares.
Until expiry of the Subscription shares, this gives a somewhat misleading impression of the Companys underlying portfolio performance as it has a negative effect on the net asset value calculation.
I would again emphasise that it is not the basis on which we judge the performance of the Manager, which we continue to do excluding the dilution effect of the Subscription shares converted during the year.
Accordingly, I am happy to report that the portfolio return net of fees and expenses was 22.3% before adjustments, against a rise of 19.1% in the benchmark.
Allowing for the dilution effect of those Subscription shares that were actually exercised in the year, this adjusts to a rise in net asset value of 21.4%, while the rise on a fully diluted basis was 21.0%.
This outperformance was driven by active stock selection as the Manager details in his report, continuing the traditional source of added value in the Managers performance over many years.
It also gives rise to a performance fee payment due to the Manager of 1.9 million.
Long term shareholders who have retained both their ordinary and Subscription shares have enjoyed a unit return of 21.9% over the year.
We do of course pay as much attention to the share price as we do the underlying net asset value and therefore to the fluctuations in the discount of our share price to underlying asset value.
The ordinary share price rose 19.5% through the year, from 500p to 597.5p at the year end.
The Subscription shares rose almost 77% over the year, from 76.3p to 135p.
The discount on the Ordinary shares ranged between 4.3% and 10.7%, averaging 7.5% through the year and no shares were repurchased.
Hitherto, the Boards policy on discount management has been to be prepared to buy back shares if the fully diluted discount touches or exceeds 10% for some time, is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
The average discount has remained comfortably below this level and we would like the Companys shares to continue to trade at a discount of less than 10%.
Therefore we are amending our policy and are now prepared to buy in shares at discounts of between 8% and 10% to achieve this, but again only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
Income after expenses rose by more than 20% and we are proposing to pay an increased dividend of 3.5p.
Our investment policy is aimed at maximising capital growth and does not focus on income, hence the Company only pays dividends to the extent necessary to maintain investment trust status.
Accordingly, dividends may fluctuate from year to year according to our income position.
The Board continues to take seriously its governance obligations and we comply fully with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
We also support the general drive to diversity in terms of board representation as recommended in the Davies Report.
2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 We continue to monitor our Manager carefully through the Management Engagement Committee.
We confirm that we are fully satisfied that the Manager is the right manager for the Company, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance.
The Board itself has remained stable in terms of composition over the year.
As previously, we carry out a review of the Board and separately the Board reviews my role as Chairman.
I am pleased to say no major concerns were raised and I would like to thank my colleagues for their continuing support.
In his report, the Investment Manager comments on the outlook for emerging markets and also draws attention to the fact that the Company has now been in existence for 20 years.
Looking back, it is striking to note that the Company was launched in 1991 with assets of 60 million, at a share price of 1.
At the end of the latest financial year the Company had assets of just under 800 million and the share price was close to 6.
It has not been a smooth ride, but anyone who has remained invested throughout that period has been very well rewarded for taking a long term view and the Board recommends that shareholders approve the Companys continuation for a further three years at the forthcoming AGM.
Alan Saunders Chairman 4th October 2011 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
