European Smaller pp01 19 European Smaller pp01 19 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 2 Chairmans Statement Performance The year to 31st March 2011 was a positive one for equity investors.
The Companys total return on net assets i. e. with net income reinvested was 21.7%, which compares with a return of 14.2% on the same basis from the Companys benchmark, the HSBC Smaller European Companies ex UK Total Return Index in sterling terms.
It is very pleasing to have outperformed the benchmark index by a significant amount, having underperformed in the previous financial year.
This restores the outstanding long-term performance record: as you will note from the charts on page 1, the Company has outperformed the benchmark over three, five and ten years.
A review of the market and more details on performance are given in the Investment Managers Report on the following pages and the Companys total return for the year can be analysed by looking at the performance attribution analysis set out in the table on page 6.
This shows that the Investment Managers activities added an additional 7.9% on top of the benchmark return of 14.2%.
With a return to more normal market conditions compared to the year before, the style factor analysis on which your Investment Managers investment process is based worked well.
As a result, stock selection was by far the main source of the value creation though their effective use of gearing during the year also added value for the seventh year running.
This is no mean achievement itself given the turbulent markets of the past few years.
The other contributor to the total return on net assets was share buybacks during the year which had a modest positive impact on net assets of 0.8%, offsetting the management fees and other expenses of 1.2%, resulting in the total return on net assets of 21.7%.
The discount of the Companys share price to net asset value narrowed over the year from 18.7% to 15.2% at year end, resulting in a total return to shareholders of 27.1%.
Revenue and Dividends Net revenue return for the year amounted to 2.4 million, thus increasing the positive balance on the Companys Revenue Reserve.
Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a dividend of 4.0 pence per share will be paid on 13th July 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17th June 2011.
I would remind shareholders that the Companys objective is to achieve capital growth rather than income and so dividends may not arise every year.
Share Buybacks Consistent with most investment trust companies in the European sector, the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares trade has remained stubbornly wide over the year despite the excellent performance, averaging 16.9%.
The Board has continued to use its share buyback authority to attempt to manage the volatility and absolute level of the discount.
During the year, the number of shares bought back totalled 2,312,367, representing 5 per cent of the shares in issue at the beginning of the financial year.
Tender Offer The Board has been in discussion with a number of institutional shareholders over recent months in connection with the relatively wide level of discount of the 2 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 European Smaller pp01 19 European Smaller pp01 19 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 3 Companys share price to NAV which has persisted due to poor investor sentiment towards European stock markets, despite the excellent relative and absolute NAV performance.
Whilst the large majority of those holders have been supportive of the Company and have noted the Boards pro-active efforts in utilising existing share buyback powers, the Board is aware through these discussions that at least one large long-term holder is seeking a partial exit for its holding at a price which is reasonably close to NAV.
The Board has considered the position of the Company carefully, including the importance of its size and place in the FTSE 250 to the liquidity of its shares.
Taking into account all relevant considerations, the Board has decided that implementing a one off Tender Offer is in the best interest of shareholders as a whole.
The Tender Offer price, described below, will be at a discount to the NAV on the calculation date and consequently ongoing holders following the completion of the Tender Offer will benefit from an uplift in the NAV per share.
The Tender Offer is for up to a maximum of 2,155,936 shares, representing 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at the record date of 16th May 2011.
Shareholders who successfully tender shares will receive the tender price per share being the NAV per share inclusive of undistributed revenue reserves as at the close of business on the calculation date on the calculation date, after subtracting the direct costs and expenses of the Tender Offer including stamp duty and portfolio realisation costs and a further 3% discount.
Board Evaluation The Nomination Committee carried out its annual evaluation of the Board, its Committees, the individual Directors and the Chairman earlier this year.
The Board takes this review seriously and views it as an effective means of evaluating the continuing efficacy of the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all Directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and did not retire by rotation at either of them must retire at the next AGM.
Accordingly, Tony Davidson and Federico Marescotti will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
Both being eligible, they will stand for reappointment.
Carolan Dobson was appointed to the Board on 1st September 2010 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will also stand for reappointment at the AGM.
Following the introduction of the new UK Corporate Governance Code in June 2010, it is now best practice for all directors of FTSE 350 companies to stand for annual reappointment.
Whilst your Board has always followed the highest standards of corporate governance, it believes that the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association ensure the appropriate level of governance in terms of Directors reappointment, whilst facilitating Board continuity, and has decided not to implement annual reappointment for all Directors at this stage.
However, it will continue to monitor market practice in this respect.
The Boards composition and succession planning policy stipulates that the total term of an individual appointed to the role of Chairman, having previously served as a Director, should be no more than 12 years.
Therefore, having served as a Director for more than eleven years, I shall stand down from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
I am pleased to tell you that Paul Manduca, who has been a Director since 2005, will succeed me as Chairman.
JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 3 European Smaller pp01 19 European Smaller pp01 19 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 4 Chairmans Statement continued Manager Evaluation During the year the Board carried out a formal review of the Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
This covered the investment management, company secretarial, administrative and marketing services provided to the Company by JPMAM and took into account their investment performance record, management processes, investment style, resources and risk control mechanisms.
The Board is satisfied with the performance of the Manager and concluded that its continued appointment on the existing terms is very much in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Annual General Meeting Your Directors and I very much look forward to welcoming you to the Companys AGM which will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London EC2R 5BJ on Friday 8th July 2011 at 12.00 noon.
The Investment Managers will make a presentation reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook for the current year.
The meeting will be followed by a General Meeting to approve the Tender Offer and, as usual, by a buffet lunch, providing shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and the Investment Managers.
Please submit in writing, or via the Companys website, any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
All shareholders are now able to cast their proxy votes electronically, whether their shares are held through CREST or in certificated form, and full details are set out in the form of proxy.
Outlook Our Investment Managers set out their views on the investment outlook on the next few pages.
They believe Europe is somewhere midway through an economic recovery but with a higher level of volatility in prospect than usual in this stage of the cycle.
Whilst relative valuations for smaller companies in Europe may not be compelling, they do see them as potentially attractive on an absolute basis and their challenge will continue to be one of stock picking in the context of the uncertain economic backdrop.
Your Board also sees significant uncertainties in the economic outlook for Europe given the ongoing debt problems on the periphery of Europe and the possibility that this will gather momentum in southern Europe.
This prevailing sense of economic uncertainty, exacerbated by the unknown legacy of quantitative easing, exists outside Europe too as evidenced by recent market movements in commodity prices.
In this environment your Board supports the cautious, currently ungeared, stance of the Investment Managers, but it is confident that their long experience and stock picking skills will enable them to continue to add value through the period ahead.
Elisabeth Airey Chairman 31st May 2011 4 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
