Chairmans statement I am pleased to report a year of strong progress, in which we started selling our own products in the US and expanded our product range through the acquisition of Biocompatibles.
Gross profit in 10 11 The financial results for the year reflect The Biocompatibles business is proving to 09 10: 65.7m the achievement of key strategic objectives be an excellent fit for BTG.
Its products are as we have continued to deliver on our used by specialists who can be served by a 77.3m growth strategy.
Sales of the embolisation and drug-eluting bead products grew at Results summary approximately twice the market rate between Total revenue Revenue of 111.4m 09 10: 98.5m 2007 and 2009 and provide significant generated a gross profit of 77.3m 09 10: opportunities for further growth.
The loss before tax of 10.8m to market the embolisation beads directly 09 10: profit of 9.1m includes acquisition in the US from 2012, leveraging our existing 09 10 98.5m adjustments and reorganisation costs commercial infrastructure.
The beads also of 15.5m 09 10: 8.7m and reflects give us access to important Asian markets, 08 09 84.8m the costs of the accelerated transition with reimbursement awaited in Korea and of marketing rights to CroFab and DigiFab Taiwan and registration progressing in Japan 07 08 75.0m from Nycomed US Inc. back to BTG and and China.
We have also gained access to the Varisolve PEM investment.
A tax early-stage programmes in the CellMed credit following the reorganisation of subsidiary that provide partnering our US businesses resulted in a profit opportunities.
Integration of Biocompatibles after tax of 9.2m 09 10: 11.3m.
is proceeding well and we have taken all the Cash and cash equivalents, together actions necessary to achieve the targeted with cash on fixed term deposits, were 3m annualised synergies by the end of the 73.9m at 31 March 2011 cash and 2011 12 financial year.
The financial review on pages Value creation continued in our partnered 21 to 24 describes the results in detail.
pipeline, with ZYTIGA abiraterone acetate being approved in the US as a treatment Progress against strategy for men with advanced prostate cancer and We achieved the key operating goals we set AstraZeneca initiating a global Phase IIb for the year.
Our first direct sales force, the study of AZD9773 CytoFab in severe acute care team, started selling CroFab and sepsis patients.
DigiFab in the US on 1 October 2010.
This Board changes enables us to retain the full value of these Ian Much and Melanie Lee, CBE, joined products.
We initiated three Phase III trials the Board as non-executive directors in of our experimental treatment for varicose August and November 2010, respectively.
veins, PEM, between September and William Jenkins retired from the Board in November 2010.
On behalf of my fellow complete in one and on track in the other directors, I wish to thank William for his two.
We believe PEM has the potential to many contributions to the Companys generate $250m$500m per annum in development since he was appointed sales in the US reimbursed sector.
We as a non-executive director in 2002. expanded our range of marketed products and our development pipeline in line with Outlook our strategy through the acquisition of Having established direct sales operations Biocompatibles in January 2011, adding in the US and expanded our product offering, a new growth component to BTG.
14 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review We are at an exciting stage in the providing another specialist focus area for development of our business.
In addition to increasing our established our own US sales force and sales revenues in the US, the Bead products, supporting operations, we will retain the which address the needs of patients with full value of CroFab and DigiFab, and liver cancer, provide a footprint in important of any other products we develop or acquire Asian markets.
that can be sold through the same team.
With a clear strategy for expanding our The acquisition of Biocompatibles has business and a strong financial profile, we brought a range of marketed products in are well-positioned to deliver growth for our the growing field of interventional medicine, shareholders.
Dr John Brown Chairman we can look forward to increasing revenue, gross profit and cash generation to fuel further growth of our business.
To drive growth we will continue to invest in pipeline programmes including PEM, we will enhance our US commercial operations in preparation for commencing direct sales of the LCBead and we will seek to acquire new products to expand our product portfolio and pipeline.
I am confident that the investments we are making will be reflected in the future performance and value of the Group.
15 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
