Bumi plc | Introduction 6 Annual Report 2011 Chairmans Statement We created a London listed Indonesian coal champion with the foundations for long term commercial success.
This is in part due to the unique location of the mines, which are mostly within 30 kilometres Our vision of the coast a geographical advantage.
The assets also maintain a competitive edge over other coal is to become producers in terms of freight and shipping costs.
the leading A clear strategy UK listed Our vision is to become the leading UK listed thermal thermal coal coal producer through the development of our world class asset base.
The main thrust of our strategy is to deliver on what is acknowledged to be the most significant expansion programme in the industry.
In 2011, PTBerau and PTBumi mined 85m tonnes of thermal coal, and this is planned to increase to around 140m tonnes by 2014.
PTBerau and PTBumi are currently on track to achieve this stated target, and a significant amount Indra Bakrie of new infrastructure is being installed in the key Chairman operating units of PTBerau, KPC and Arutmin.
Another key aspect of our strategy focuses on optimising our asset base.
Although we occupy a very competitive cost position, with the majority I am delighted to announce that, in our first year, of operations in the first or second cost quartiles, we Bumiplc has made significant progress in putting believe there is scope to further improve the way we together one of the largest thermal coal businesses operate.
To this end, in August 2011 we announced in the world.
It has been an exciting and productive a Group wide benchmarking review of all our coal 12months, during which time we have started miningoperations.
to put in place the foundations for long term commercialsuccess.
The final strand of our strategy is to lower the Wider Groups underlying level and cost of debt.
We recognise Throughout 2011 we delivered high levels the need to lower the net debt position of our associate, of performance and met our volume targets.
PTBumi, and are exercising our inuence to address We assembled a strong, independent Board this.
In October 2011, PTBumi announced it would comprising directors with extensive commercial reduce its debt levels by recouping certain loans and experience across diverse nationalities.
And investments and in November 2011 it renanced we are executing on our strategy for delivering $600m of the China Investment Corporation CIC value to our stakeholders andinvestors.
debt, thereby reducing its annual interest expense.
The creation of a FTSE listed coal business Corporate governance In November 2010, Vallar plc announced its The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code intention to acquire interests in PTBumi and calls for company chairmen to report to shareholders PTBerau, Indonesias largest and fifth largest coal directly on governance matters and this can be producers respectively.
Through these transactions, found in our Governance Report on page 41 where which were completed in March and April 2011 we demonstrate our commitment to pursuing the respectively, we created a London listed Indonesian highest standards of corporate governance.
coal champion at a cost of $3.4 billion.
We attained our premium listing in June 2011, and in December The Boards agenda this year was shaped by the 2011 we entered the FTSEindex.
creation of a FTSE listed coal champion and to ensure Bumiplc has an appropriate range and balance With our interests in PTBerau and PTBumi, we of skills, experience and background on the Board.
have created, on a 100% basis, the largest thermal Our Non-Executive Directors have made themselves coal producer in the world and we have acquired available, often at short notice, when we have had to assets with some of the lowest operating costs in the hold additional Board and Board Committee meetings.
Introduction 7 Each of them has been unstinting in the time they Health, Safety, Environment have been prepared to commit to the Company.
In and Communities accordance with the recommendations of the Code, The Board regards the Groups performance in all of the Directors will stand for re-election in 2012, health, safety, environmental and community affairs with the exception of James Campbell and Badung as a key element of its operational performance.
To Tariono who will be retiring at the AGM.
I wish to oversee this key area the Company has established thank both James and Badung for their hard work a specic committee, whose membership includes and wish them well for the future.
an experienced technical advisor, and a report of the Groups activities can be found in the HSEC We are committed to ensuring that we, as a section on page 30.
Our focus remains on prioritising Board, act in the best interests of all our shareholders.
the health and safety of our employees, minimising We recognise that the shareholding structure of the the Groups environmental impact and engaging Company requires us to ensure that the interests of all constructively with communities to create lasting shareholders are well represented in the proceedings of economic and social value.
the Board and the composition of the Board, together with the establishment of a Conicts Committee, is Having had zero fatalities at PTBerau for the last evidence of the steps we have taken to achieve this.
three years the most disappointing aspect of this year has been safety, with four fatalities in 2011.
The Due to ill health, our CEO, Ari Hudaya, has not been Board is committed to zero harm.
All fatalities in the able to attend all the Board meetings this year.
As Company and its subsidiarys operations are required a result, the Board appointed Nalin Rathod to take to be reported at Board meetings and PTBerau is over as CEO with effect from 26 March 2012.
Nalin separately reviewing its health and safety procedures has over 20 years experience in the Indonesian coal and operations in order to ensure that safety is, business.
On behalf of the Board, I wish to thank and is seen as being, a key indicator of successful Ari for all his hard work in successfully launching .
Bumiplc and wish him a speedy return to full health.
I would like to thank our management and all On 30 December 2011, PTBakrie & Brothers Tbk our employees for their hard work during 2011. announced that it and Long Haul Holdings together Their contribution has helped to make our first known as the Bakrie Group, which had been the year of business a real success and we look forward joint owners of a 47.6% stake in Bumiplc, sold half to building on the great work and progress we have of the stake to PTBorneo Lumbung Energi & achieved so far.
Metal Tbk PTBorneo, an Indonesian listed coal company.
The Bakrie Group and PTBorneo Lastly, I welcome the appointment of Samin Tan now jointly own the 47.6% stake in Bumiplc.
as Bumiplcs new Chairman and wish him all the best in taking Bumiplc forward to the next stage.
As a result of the above changes, Samin Tan became Chairman of Bumiplc and Nathaniel Rothschild and I will remain as Non-Executive Directors with myself as Co-Chairman from 26March 2012.
At the same time Scott Merrillees, a director of PTBorneo, became Indra Bakrie Chief Financial Officer, taking over from Andrew Chairman Beckham who left the Board on 26 March 2012.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome Samin, Nalin and Scott and also to thank Andrew for all his efforts during theyear.
Samin Tan was appointed as Chairman of Bumi plc on 26 March 2012, replacing Indra Bakrie.
He is the President Director of Renaissance Capital.
Between 2007 and 2011 Samin headed PT Borneo as its President Director.
Prior to this, he was Deputy Managing Partner of the Indonesian consulting practice of Deloitte Touche and Head of the Indonesian tax practice of Deloitte Touche.
