Chairmans Statement Investors in emerging market equities worldwide have had a difficult year as values have dropped sharply, especially in the August to October period of 2011.
JPMorgan Russian has not been immune from this turbulence and during the financial year to 31st October 2011, your Companys net asset value total return was 17.0% and the return to Shareholders was 16.7%.
These returns compare unfavourably with the return from the benchmark MSCI Russian 10 40 Equity Indices Index which fell by 2.9%.
Our Investment Managers maintained their long-held underweight portfolio position in the energy sector vs. the benchmark index with a correspondingly high weighting in consumer investments.
Although this stance has led to the Company outperforming the benchmark in recent years, it did not prove to be effective in the year just ended.
Oil and gas stocks in the energy sector rose with the strong oil price whereas many of the consumer and financial stocks in the portfolio underperformed largely through lower valuation rather than any fundamental change.
Notwithstanding the difficult year, it was encouraging to note that in October 2011, Kalina Concern, one of the long-standing consumer sector investments in the portfolio justified its long term retention by becoming the subject of an agreed takeover from Unilever at a substantial premium to its market value.
The Board has undertaken a thorough review of the Companys affairs covering performance together with a number of factors, including the current management arrangements, fees, discount control, secondary market liquidity of the Shares and the investment and portfolio construction approach.
In conducting the review the Board has consulted external advisers and solicited the views of Shareholders owning over 50% of the Shares of the Company.
The Board has made a number of amendments which we believe will benefit all Shareholders and these are detailed below.
Management Fee and Investment Approach The Board has agreed with JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, that the Companys management fee be reduced from 1.5% to 1.2% on net assets with effect from 1st November 2011.
As part of the review carried out, the Board and Investment Managers have agreed that market experience of the last year has led to a higher than anticipated divergence from the benchmark.
In future the Investment Managers will limit the amount by which aggregate sector positions in the portfolio can deviate from the benchmark index and will also introduce a maximum overweight position against the benchmark index.
We believe that these limits are a sensible risk mitigation approach and will continue to allow the Investment Management team to operate with a high degree of conviction.
The Board is convinced that the investment strategy of the manager is appropriate and should lead both to good investment performance and the mitigation of the political and corporate governance risks that attend investment in emerging markets and particularly in Russia.
Discount Control During the year the Company repurchased 160,000 shares for cancellation at an average discount to net asset value of 9.9%.
The Boards objective remains to use the share repurchase authority to assist in managing any imbalance between supply and JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 3 Chairmans Statement continued demand for the Companys shares, thereby reducing the volatility of the discount.
The Board regularly reviews the level of discount at which the Company will repurchase its shares for cancellation.
The Board has already expressed the view that they would like the Companys Shares to continue to trade at a discount of less than 10% and has implemented a new policy under which the Company intends, subject to market conditions, to buy in Shares at discounts of between 8% and 10% to achieve this.
The market capitalisation and liquidity of the Shares are of paramount importance to our Shareholders and the Board believes that active management of the discount via share buybacks is the best mechanism to achieve this.
The Board will only repurchase shares at a discount to their prevailing net asset value, and issue shares when they trade at a premium to their net asset value, so as not to prejudice existing shareholders.
The Board will be seeking authority to renew the Companys share issuance and buyback powers at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board of Directors As part of its discussions regarding the composition of the Board, the Companys phased programme of renewal to refresh the Boards membership will shortly be completed.
Following the appointment of Robert Jeens and Gill Nott this year, two of the founding Directors of the Company, Patrick Gifford and James Nicholson, will be retiring from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank both Patrick and James for their immense contribution to the Company and wish them well for the future.
Robert Jeens will be taking over the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee from James Nicholson.
I too will be stepping down from the Board in the following months after the AGM.
I am very pleased to report that the Board has agreed that Lysander Tennant should take over as Chairman once I step down.
Lysander has considerable experience of the Russian market and the Directors are confident this will benefit Shareholders.
I have very much enjoyed the stewardship of this Company and I am confident that it has been left in safe hands with the newly constituted Board.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all continuing Directors will be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further to this years evaluations of the Directors, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees, the Board recommends to shareholders that, taking into account the Boards collective investment experience, knowledge of the Russian market and contribution to the Boards deliberations, all Directors be re-elected.
Having been appointed during the year, Robert Jeens and Gillian Nott are required to seek election to the Board.
It is also recommended that their appointments be supported.
Revenue and Earnings The revenue loss after taxation for the year to 31st October 2011 was 350,000 which equates to a loss per share of 0.63p.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Continuation Vote Following the review referred to above, the Board has resolved to introduce a continuation vote every five years and will propose the first continuation resolution at a General Meeting to follow the Annual General Meeting on 27th January 2012.
The Directors believe that the changes the Board has introduced will benefit Shareholders and therefore recommends that Shareholders support the continuation of the Company.
As the introduction of a continuation vote is not normal business that can be agreed at an Annual General Meeting, a Circular has been prepared and has been sent with this Annual Report.
The Circular sets out in further detail the background to and reasons for the continuation vote proposal.
The Board firmly supports the Investment Management team in its investment stance and believes that the Company offers a valuable service to investors by providing a pure exposure to Russian equities in the form of a closed-end fund structure with a competitive fee.
In 2012 the Company will mark the 10th Anniversary of its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Since launch the value of the Shares has increased from 100p to 480p the price at the close of business on 12th December 2011.
Annual General Meeting and General Meeting The Companys ninth Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday, 27th January 2012 at 2.30 p. m. at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
The Annual General Meeting will be followed by a General Meeting, at which the Continuation Vote, referred to above will be voted on by Shareholders.
In addition to the formal part of these meetings, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMAM.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at this meeting.
Shareholders are asked to submit in writing any detailed or technical questions that they wish to raise at the AGM in advance to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Alternatively you can lodge questions on the Companys website at www.
Outlook Against a background of uncertainty in markets we believe that the current investment portfolio offers access to a range of attractive, well-run companies that will deliver good returns to Shareholders from what are now relatively low valuations.
The ongoing volatility in the Russian market has also given the Investment Management team a number of interesting buying opportunities.
This will be my last report as Chairman of your Company and I look forward to the Companys continuing success.
Pamela Idelson Smith Chairman 16th December 2011 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
