4 Chairmans statement We have a strong balance sheet, with considerable capacity to invest in growth.
As a people business, Jupiter also pays close attention to succession planning.
All our principal funds have either joint Jamie Dundas managers or an alternative fund manager with the appropriate experience and track record to run the fund in question.
Some of our leading fund managers are particularly well known, and with justification, but what may not be so widely appreciated is how fortunate we are to have real breadth and depth of fund management talent.
It is a continuing focus of the Board and management to build on this resilience and we believe we have made good progress in doing so in 2011.
We recently completed our first externally facilitated review of Board effectiveness.
We are now fully compliant with the Code in all material respects, other than in matters affected by the fact that two of our non-executive Directors are nominees of TA Associates, L. P. and, while continuing to make a strong contribution to the Board, are not considered to be independent for Code purposes.
2011 was Jupiters first full year since its Listing in June 2010.
Profit In September 2011, we welcomed Jon Little to the Board as a fourth before tax increased to 70.3 million 2010: 42.4 million and the independent non-executive Director.
His skills and experience in Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.3p, an increase of 13 markets relevant to Jupiter and the wider asset management industry per cent.
over 2010, which will bring the total dividend in respect of complement and strengthen what I believe is already a strong and 2011 to 7.8p.
Healthy positive cash flows from our operations throughout 2011 We believe that demand for Jupiters services will continue to grow, allowed us to halve the size of our remaining debt facility to though as the second half of 2011 has demonstrated, the path will 143 million during the year and to move into a net cash position by not be smooth.
Our task is to combine the delivery of outperformance year end.
We have a strong balance sheet, with considerable in investment management with strong distribution and an effective capacity to invest in growth.
Our focus will continue to be on the and scalable operating platform.
I am hopeful that in 2012 we will organic development of the business, building on Jupiters core make further progress in developing each of these pillars of strengths, and we will be careful to preserve an appropriate balance our strategy.
between reinvesting in our franchise and our intention to pursue a progressive dividend policy.
Delivering value for customers who invest in our funds is at the heart of Jupiters brand and strategic intent.
We believe that both retail and institutional investors will continue to seek out high-conviction, talented managers who aim to deliver excess returns across a challenging market cycle.
I am pleased to report that as at the Jamie Dundas year-end, 74 per cent.
of our assets had delivered above median Chairman performance to our customers over the past three years, and 23 March 2012 72 per cent.
Jupiter has a long history of employee share ownership and equity incentivisation, dating from well before the MBO in 2007.
This continues today with a large part of our variable compensation being granted in the form of options over shares and over 75 per cent.
of all our staff investing in Jupiter stock through the Sharesave plan.
Following our Listing in 2010, staff ownership stood at 38 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital.
By the last year end it was 29 per cent.
It is entirely to be expected that as remaining MBO shares vest over the three years from Listing, the current high level of employee ownership will further reduce.
Maintaining an appropriate level of staff ownership will however remain an important aim for the Board, and our remuneration policy since Listing has underpinned this.
