CHAIRMANS LETTER growth on this scale would not have been possible.
In financial terms, disciplined execution of these strategies over the five year period has resulted in Burberrys 102% revenue growth and 82% increase in operating profit, with core retail wholesale operating profit increasing 128% on a 112% revenue gain.
This notwithstanding a financial crisis in mid-course.
The five year financial profile is capped by the record 2010 11 performance.
Total revenue grew 27% to 1,501m, a 24% gain at constant exchange rates.
Operating profit increased 37% to 301.1m, achieving an historical high 15.6% retail wholesale operating margin.
After-tax return on capital, at 35%, remained strong.
All of these figures are on an adjusted basis, and exclude the impact of the now discontinued legacy business in Spain.
The Group ended the year with a 298m net cash balance.
The Board has recommended a 43% increase in the full year dividend to 20.0p.
While on a secular basis, underlying trends contributing to luxury growth wealth creation, rise of growth market consumers, continuing consumer interest An historic year for Burberry record revenue, margin and appear favourable, the global macro environment suggests profit.
These results reflect not only the most recent years some reserve.
effort, but five years of endeavour by this team.
Although Burberry was among the leading performers The five key strategies, outlined further in this report, have in the sector during 2010 11, a strong rebound in luxury been executed with lasting effect on the business and spending on the heels of recession lifted most participants.
In terms of status, the Burberry brand Despite some healthy headline forecasts, the current has clearly solidified its unique democratic positioning climate includes distinct uncertainties record fiscal within the luxury arena.
Retail, the channel which deficits in advanced economies, rising inflation in high maximises the brands ability to manage consumer growth economies and record commodity prices for perception, has become the primary route of distribution, all.
Political tensions in sensitive areas of the world also moving from 43% of total revenue in 2005 06 to 64% in present potential challenges.
In short, the macro backdrop 2010 11 greater adjusting for full China integration may not be as favourable in 2011 12. while licensing activities have been largely confined to Near-term factors aside, the Boards optimism for three global categories and Japan, with the foundation set Burberrys future remains in full.
The Group possesses a for future integration of the brands business in that market.
clear and well executed strategy, world-class management Burberry has also gained share across geographies, in and design teams and a strong financial profile, further both developed markets such as the US and high growth enabled by a powerful culture capable of executing under economies like the Middle East.
Work in Asia, most a range of market conditions.
And the brand operates in recently the acquisition of the brands store network in attractive markets with specific opportunities across the China, has positioned Burberry well in this high growth spectrum.
Burberrys results for the year and across this luxury region.
In line with the strategy, attractive nonvolatile five year period clearly demonstrate these qualities.
apparel categories have been intensified, accounting for On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I thank the team 40% of retail wholesale revenue in 2010 11 relative to 29% around the world for their contributions to these excellent in 2005 06.
Lastly, through a range of initiatives, including results, and look forward to Burberrys further progress.
development of an integrated supply chain and SAP implementation throughout the majority of the business, operational capability has been upgraded substantially.
Without this investment in infrastructure and expertise, John Peace, Chairman 8 9
