AMENDS TO DIGITALS 77122 5.1 LawDeb R&A 2011 13 03 2012 23:36 Page 6 6 Chairmans statement Performance Independent fiduciary services Our net asset value total return for the year to New appointments in financial wholesale markets remain 31 December 2011 was -1.6%, compared to a total below historic levels with no sign of any improvement in return of -3.5% for the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
the corporate bond and securitisation markets.
Special Net revenue return per share was 15.52p, an increase fees from pre-existing appointments have been at a high of 17.0% over the previous year, as a result of a 17.0% level and we have also benefited from an improvement in increase in the investment trust and a 17.1% increase the number of corporate transactions in global markets.
The outlook remains uncertain, but we continue to look for new opportunities and control costs.
Dividend For a discussion on the independent fiduciary services The board is recommending a final dividend of 9.0p per business please see the managing directors report on ordinary share 2010: 8.5p, which together with the page 14. interim dividend of 4.5p 2010: 4.2p gives a total dividend of 13.5p 2010: 12.7p.
Board The final dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder Armel Cates is not seeking re-election to the board at the approval, on 27 April 2012 to holders on the register on annual general meeting and I thank him for his valued the record date of 30 March 2012. contribution to the Corporation during the last 11 years.
Robert Laing, a partner in the law firm Maclay Murray & The Corporations policy continues to be to seek growth Spens LLP, joins the board.
His legal background and in both capital and income.
We attach considerable investment trust experience should be valuable to the importance to the dividend, which we aim to increase Corporation and we look forward to working with him.
over a period, if not every year, at a rate which is covered by earnings and which does not inhibit the flexibility of our In difficult markets we have grown our revenue return and investment strategy.
Our basis for reporting earnings is dividends to shareholders.
I should like to thank James more conservative than that of many investment trusts, Henderson and Caroline Banszky and her team for their in that all our expenses, including interest costs, are performances in challenging conditions.
charged fully to the revenue account.
The annual general meeting will be held at the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, London EC2V 7HR on Investment trust 24 April 2012, and I look forward to seeing as many as Equity markets were impacted by a year of uncertainty possible of you there.
resulting from debt problems, especially in the eurozone, political unrest and natural disasters.
We responded by taking gearing out of the investment portfolio and DouglasMcDougall investing the cash raised in short dated UK gilts.
Corporate performance during 2011 was good, resulting in improvement in dividends, which led to our improved earnings.
The high exposure to industrial companies has been maintained, whilst consumer related stocks were reduced.
For a discussion of the portfolio please see the investment managers review on page 7.
The prospects for dividend growth are encouraging, however uncertainty in the world economy is still a significant issue for future prospects.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
