6 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A STRONG 2011 GROWING While the UK economy essentially atlined, and the market suffered repeated uncertainties about the OURBUSINESS.
eurozone, Legal & Generals sales, operational cash generation and operating profits rose across all four of our business divisions: Risk, Savings, Investment management and International.
In the UK, the Company has retained its clear leadership in the protection and annuities segments, as well as in Legal & Generals clear strategy, institutional investment management and transformed the savings and its strong ability to execute that business to achieve significant strategy, enabled your Company to successes in workplace pensions and retail savings.
At the same time, deliver another strong set of results our international businesses are for the year.
delivering improved returns and operating much more efficiently.
TSR AND DIVIDEND This robust performance marked us out as one of a limited number of success stories in the global insurance sector, generating a total shareholder return of 11% for the year.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.74p per share, payable on 23 May 2012.
This is an increase of 39% on the prior year, and returns dividend to the pre-credit crisis level of 2008.
The full year dividend is 2.25 times covered by cash.
Given the improved underlying strength of the Company, the Board has every confidence that this is a further positive step in our progressive dividend policy.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 7 FULL YEAR DIVIDEND RETIREMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE We continue to encourage In September, Tim Breedon, Group shareholders to view information Chief Executive, informed the Board online.
Almost 90% of our shareholders of his intention to retire by the end no longer receive printed versions 6.40p of 2012, by which time he will have of our Annual Report.
This has 2010: 4.75p served the Company for 25 years, allowed us to improve shareholder of which he has spent ten years on communications and add options such the Board and seven as Group Chief as an iPad app which we introduced Executive.
The whole Board would last year and was well received.
like to thank him for his outstanding contribution to Legal & General, both OUR STAFF TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN in his current role and previously I would like to thank all Legal as one of the main architects of the & Generals employees for their growth of LGIM to its current position contribution during 2011.
In every 11% as the UKs leading pension fund area of the Company that I visit, I am 2010: 25% manager and one of the largest asset hugely impressed often amazed management groups in Europe.
by employees enthusiasm and by The long notice he has given us has the pride our people take in providing enabled a process to be put in place the best possible service to our to identify his successor and ensure customers and the communities in an orderly transition.
This is one of the characteristics which sets Legal BOARD CHANGES & General apart as a customerDuring the year Sir David Walker focusedcompany.
and James Strachan, respectively Senior Independent Director and OUTLOOK independent non-executive director, The insurance sector faces a stood down from the Board, having continuing period of low economic served for nine and eight years growth combined with regulatory respectively.
We would like to thank uncertainty in our sector, principally as them for their contributions and wise a result of the EUs Solvency II Directive counsel over many years.
During 2011 and the upcoming Retail Distribution we appointed three new independent Review RDR in the UK.
However, the non-executive directors: Mike Fairey, clear strategy we have outlined for formerly Deputy Chief Executive of Legal & General, the strength Lloyds TSB: Stuart Popham, formerly of our balance sheet and the quality senior partner of Clifford Chance, and of our distribution across a variety Julia Wilson, who is Group Finance of channels, mean we are well Director of 3i.
We look forward to positioned for this period of change.
There have been consequential changes to committee memberships which are outlined in each of the Committees reports.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING JOHN STEWART This years AGM will be held at CHAIRMAN 11.00am on Wednesday 16 May 2012 at The Honourable Artillery Company, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ.
