Lloyds Banking Group 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir Winfried Bischoff A yeAr of chAnge And encourAging ProgreSS Overview 2011 was a year of low economic growth and challenging markets in many parts of the world, which resulted in a difficult year for the banking industry as a whole.
The UK sector in particular was affected by a weakening UK economic environment, continuing regulatory uncertainty and the impact of the Euro crisis.
Despite this environment, we made progress against our objective of being the best bank for customers and on the key actions we are taking to deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders over time.
We created a new management team, presented our new strategy and are refocusing the business to meet our customers needs.
We also delivered a resilient performance in the core business, and made good progress on the reduction of non-core assets.
Having successfully completed one of the biggest integrations ever undertaken in banking, we are now working hard against a demanding set of targets to simplify the Group to improve our agility and efficiency, thereby realising cost savings which we will invest to enhance our service to customers.
By delivering against this plan, we will seek to unlock the potential in our franchise and deliver increased value to our shareholders.
We accelerated the EC mandated disposal, the transaction known as Verde, and made significant progress in strengthening the balance sheet and our funding position whilst delivering a resilient underlying trading performance.
We took responsible position on Payment Protection Insurance PPI, continue to improve switching for current accounts and have made excellent progress, with more to come, in reducing the number of complaints.
As a result we believe the Group is in a stronger position as we move into 2012.
Despite the progress made there were a number of challenges.
In particular our share price performance, down 61 per cent over the year, although partially due to external factors, is not acceptable.
This decline compares with a fall of 30 per cent of an index of UK banks and of 38 per cent of European banks.
Nor are the financial results satisfactory, particularly given a number of one off items, including the 3.2 billion provision for PPI.
This provision has had a significant impact on our statutory results but the decision to take this approach reflects the Banks desire to do the right thing for customers.
Introduction 1 Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Key performance indicators 6 At a glance 8 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 20 171 205 355 We believe that it is fair and reasonable that the activities which led to Supporting the UK economic recovery the PPI provision are reflected in the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP for Lloyds Banking Group plays a vital role in supporting a substantial the years 2009 to 2011 in spite of the longer term nature of the issue.
number of corporates and smaller and medium-sized businesses, Our current shareholders who may not have been shareholders at the helping them to weather the economic uncertainty and build for the time the income on PPI arose have been affected by the impact of the future.
In doing so we play an active part in supporting the strength provision in 2011 and therefore the Board, on the recommendation of and prosperity of the UK, given that, as a largely domestic institution, the Remuneration Committee, decided that the provision should also our success is inextricably linked to the health of the UK: as the nation impact the awards to our senior executives.
With respect to the LTIP, Shareholders will recall that awards for For this reason I am pleased to note that our involvement in Project Executive Directors have not paid out in any of the past three years.
Merlin has been successful: We met and continue to exceed our The annual pay-out of the LTIP, averaged over the last four years, agreed lending levels.
We provided 45.3 billion of committed gross is under 0.2 per cent of total pay, in stark contrast to what is the lending to UK businesses in 2011, and helped 124,000 new start up general perception.
All of this has been achieved while acting as a responsible lender.
We have more than delivered on our promise to provide gross Regulation new lending for credit-worthy UK businesses and have pledged yet more lending for the UK economy in 2012.
The level of regulatory scrutiny across all areas of the business remains high, but there is some expectation that in 2012 we will start to see At the same time, our Insurance business, including Scottish Widows, more clarity in a number of the key areas which will shape the industrys has continued to perform well through its established value rather future.
I believe robust and stable regulation of the sector is an than volume strategy and through its focus on customers.
Our important component in rebuilding confidence and creating a healthy Bancassurance business continues to highlight the importance of and sound financial system.
Changes to the regulatory framework are meeting our customers protection needs and has had a successful necessary in the wake of the financial crisis.
The reforms proposed by year doing so.
the Vickers Commission in its Independent Commission on Banking We are also well aware of the public concern around the banking ICB report are an important step towards a safer and stronger sector.
industry and recognise that further progress needs to be made in Further clarity is still required on some of the specific detail, and rebuilding public trust industry-wide.
We can only earn that trust by implementation will have many challenges.
However I remain hopeful addressing the fundamental requirements of all our stakeholders, and that the proposed changes will strengthen the banking sector and by being open, transparent and engaged in the broader debate about safeguard the interests of individuals and institutions.
At the same time the role of banking in the UK.
We will continue to demonstrate that we we forget at our peril the importance of financial services in all parts of are meeting our obligations to customers and society in a responsible the UK to our economy.
At the same time we believe, whatever the In December we were pleased to announce that the Co-operative sectors shortcomings, the debate about the banking industry has Group is our preferred bidder for the EC mandated disposal Project become one-sided which is unhelpful in achieving what those both Verde.
The acquisition will significantly enhance their banking inside and outside the banking industry want: a growing, strong operations, producing a new and effective competitor in the market, economy supported by a strong banking sector.
as the EC mandate envisaged.
This transaction combined with complementary measures to improve current account switching and Remuneration actions taken to improve the transparency and comparability of retail The Remuneration Committee undertook a further review of products will, I believe, further enhance the UKs competitive retail executive remuneration in 2011.
Anthony Watson, the chairman banking market.
of the Remuneration Committee, comments on detailed aspects of our remuneration policy elsewhere in this Report.
I want to give Equity Dividends shareholders some additional explanation of our philosophy and the The European Commissions restriction on dividend payments was, deliberations underlying incentive compensation for 2011 and for the initially placed on us as part of the State Aid restructuring plan which 2009-2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
We understand that the absence of dividends Remuneration remains an important issue for our stakeholders and the has created difficulties for many of our shareholders and we remain Group.
As we are primarily a retail and commercial bank the awards committed to recommencing progressive dividend payments as soon under our Group bonus schemes in 2011 are a very small percentage as we are able.
of our revenues at less than 2 per cent, and at less than 12.5 per cent It is our intention to do so when the financial position of the Group and of the profits before tax and bonus on a Combined Businesses basis.
market conditions permit and after regulatory capital requirements are Additionally, compensation fell this year in total and average terms.
At this time those requirements remain The bonuses paid, greater than half in shares, averaged less than unclear and although we have made good progress against our 3,900 per employee.
We firmly believe that remuneration policy at strategic priorities during the year we are not yet able to forecast when all levels, including senior executives, needs to incentivise staff to we will be able to resume dividend payments.
deliver strong, sustainable growth whilst reflecting the work required to reshape the business to fit the new, challenging environment.
We also need, however to be mindful of public concerns about equality and that remuneration reflects financial results.
In asking not to be considered for a bonus in 2011, Antnio made a principled decision with regard to his remuneration, a decision the Board fully supported.
Overview Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Finally, Truett Tate, Executive Director for Wholesale, has retired from Management and Board the Group.
He made a major contribution in a number of senior The year has seen significant management change within the Group roles since joining the Group in 2003.
He is the quintessential client as we enter the next stage of our development.
We have a strong advocate and in addition he was a great ambassador for many of and experienced management team, which proved its effectiveness our corporate responsibility and charitable programmes.
working with him and we wish him well for the future.
Antnio Horta-Osrio started as Group Chief Executive on 1 March As a Board and throughout the organisation we continue to focus on 2011 and we were pleased to recruit someone with his knowledge our commitment to meeting the targets set by the Review on Gender and experience of financial services, particularly in the retail and Diversity on Boards by Lord Davies, and are working proactively to commercial area.
The actions taken by him have already had a positive promote diversity in ethnicity, gender and skills.
Antnio took a two month leave of absence at the end of last year and the Board was pleased that he was able to People return to his role on 9 January 2012.
In conjunction with the Board, Antnio has implemented a number of changes to the structure of the We employ over 100,000 people.
Our colleagues have performed management team since his return to ensure that the most important well in a year which was characterised by much change and a difficult aspects of our business are prioritised and the responsibility of economic environment for both customers and themselves.
Customer managing our Group is effectively shared.
service is at the heart of our activities and I applaud their efforts to reduce complaints, evidenced by the data for 2011 which show We announced in September 2011 that Tim Tookey, our Group a 24 per cent reduction in year over year FSA reportable banking Finance Director, would leave the organisation at the end of February complaints excluding PPI.
Our colleagues share the Boards view that 2012.
Tim has been an important member of our Board since more needs to be done and I feel confident that 2012 will bring further October 2008 and helped guide us through the largest merger in UK progress in this area.
banking history and subsequent capital raisings.
I thank Tim for his commitment throughout that time, not least in the last two months of More generally, I would like to thank them for their commitment and 2011, when he took on the role of Group Chief Executive on an interim loyalty in what were challenging circumstances and in a climate of basis in addition to his responsibilities as Group Finance Director.
unfavourable public commentary on their work and livelihood.
We are all determined to demonstrate the utility and usefulness of banking, I am pleased that we were able to announce that George Culmer specifically our type of banking, concentrated as it is on the UK and will join us as our new Group Finance Director in time for the annual within that on retail and commercial banking.
general meeting on 17 May 2012 His knowledge and experience of insurance and his track record as a highly regarded FTSE 100 Finance Director will be of great value to us.
Community The principal means by which Lloyds Banking Group can benefit I would also like to thank Helen Weir and Archie Kane, who left the society and the communities where we operate is to be a successful Group in 2011, for their significant contribution to the Group over business.
Lloyds Banking Group plays a part in the lives of nearly many years.
Helen was Group Finance Director and then led our Retail everyone in the UK, as a supplier of financial services, a major business.
Archie was the Group Executive Director of our successful employer, and a customer.
We look after the financial needs of over Insurance business, Scottish Widows.
30 million retail and business customers.
In addition we employ Since the year end a number of additional changes have been 100,000 people and are a significant buyer of goods and services to announced.
Lord Leitch will relinquish his role as Deputy Chairman support our business.
We therefore have a relationship with nearly at the end of February 2012 to focus on his other commitments.
His every home and with many businesses in the UK.
We have a presence wise counsel to the Board and his empathy and involvement with in most communities and our brands are well recognised across the colleagues across the business will be missed.
I am pleased he has country.
At a time when the banking sector is under increased public agreed to continue as an advisor to the Boards of Scottish Widows scrutiny, we acknowledge our responsibility to provide the proper and of Lloyds Banking Group until the end of 2012. flow of credit to the economy by delivering simple products, great Sara Weller joined as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2012. customer service and secure banking every day.
We do this for more Her background in retail and in the application of new technology customers and businesses than any other bank in the UK.
such as the internet directly support our strategy.
We also continue to invest actively in the communities where we Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Independent Director since 2005 will not be operate both directly through our community giving programme, standing for re-election at the annual general meeting.
His counsel and and indirectly through our charity activities and staff giving days.
In advice on aspects of technology, marketing and customers will be much 2011, we invested 85 million in local communities, including support missed.
for financial inclusion and donations through the Groups charitable foundations.
Over the last 25 years, the Group has contributed in Glen Moreno, our Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman, excess of 510 million through its Foundations.
Our new programmes will not be seeking re-election at the annual general meeting.
He has supporting financial literacy, Money for Life, and our funding of been a tower of strength on our Board and his wide knowledge of university places through Lloyds Scholars show our continued banking and financial services developed over many years in senior commitment to support our communities.
executive positions has been of great benefit to our strategy and operations.
His constructive and informed contribution will be missed We are excited to be the Official Banking and Insurance Partner of by all.
the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
We have played a key role in bringing London 2012 to communities across the UK, by The Board has appointed Anthony Watson as Senior Independent inspiring children to do more sport through National School Sport Director and David Roberts as Deputy Chairman with effect from the Week, by giving our customers the chance to take part in the Olympic annual general meeting.
Torch Relay and by funding and mentoring future stars of Team GB and Introduction 1 Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Key performance indicators 6 At a glance 8 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 20 171 205 355 ParalympicsGB through our Local Heroes programme.
We have also 2011 through the resilient performance of our core business and the good supported one in three of all businesses who have won London 2012 progress in reducing our non-core assets.
We are now entering the final few months Our support for the wider economy and the communities where we before the Games start and I fully expect that the country at large will operate, in conjunction with our prudent risk appetite, a strengthened enjoy this historic event, be inspired by its achievements and benefit balance sheet and integrated systems are a sound platform for a from the legacy of this once-in-a-lifetime event.
Our Board is grateful for the support of our shareholders in 2011 and is Outlook very conscious that they including most of our staff who themselves Lloyds Banking Group has made significant structural and strategic are shareholders have suffered through the decline of the share price progress during 2011 but there remains much to be done against the and the absence of a dividend.
We have the right strategy in place and background of the current economic and regulatory environment.
given our significant assets, our committed leadership team and the skill of our dedicated workforce we are well positioned over time to It remains our intention over time to operate as a wholly privately owned, deliver sound performance for our customers, shareholders, colleagues self-supporting, dividend paying, commercial enterprise.
approach of focusing on customers in the UK whilst capitalising on our strong relationships, on our iconic and distinct brands, on our broad multi-channel distribution and on the clear operating model we have Sir Winfried Bischoff created is the right one.
We saw the early benefits of this approach in Chairman A commitment to good Governance The Board and I place great importance on Corporate Governance.
Board oversight in 2011 Not just because of increasing focus on this area, but because The Boards governance processes have placed us in a good position good governance is in the best interests of the company.
The Board to deal with key issues which arose during the course of the year, is ultimately responsible for the Groups success through setting including with respect to: strategy, devising sound governance arrangements, and establishing the values and standards of the Group.
Throughout the year ending the review and approval of the Groups new strategy: 31 December 2011, the Group complied with all relevant provisions the change of Group Chief Executive and other significant of the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
management changes: This is an important base level but in undertaking its responsibilities the short leave of absence for Antnio Horta-Osrio, including the Board seeks to exceed these minimum standards, as we believe ensuring that effective interim arrangements were in place and that a that good governance is a key contributor to the Groups long term rigorous process was followed with respect to his return to work: and success.
the decision to take a significant provision with respect to PPI.
Our Board Ensuring that the right mechanisms are in place at the time of change is There have been significant changes to the composition of the Board critical and I believe that the decisions made in these areas, and others, this year.
Though experience and a detailed understanding of financial have helped ensure that the Group is effectively positioned to deliver services will remain important attributes for Board members, a broader sound performance for all of the Groups stakeholders over time.
mix of skills is key to the overall effectiveness of the Board.
I believe that the current Board provides the Group with a good balance of Executive Remuneration skills and experience, which helps the quality of our decision-making.
As I have already referenced in my statement, remuneration remains We remain committed to keeping this balance right as we respond to an important issue for shareholders, and other key stakeholders.
This is further Board changes in 2012.
I continue to ensure that the majority a sensitive area, but the Board is committed to ensuring that the right of Directors are independent and that sufficient emphasis is placed on balance is struck between the need to incentivise staff, at all levels of ensuring that the Boards membership reflects appropriate diversity.
the organisation, to deliver strong, sustainable growth, whilst reflecting In the interests of good governance, all directors now retire voluntarily the work required to reshape the business, and broader concerns each year and submit themselves for re-election at every AGM.
As a Group we are committed to meeting the regulatory and other requirements that apply to this topic, including the FSA Code, and more generally improving the transparency of remuneration disclosure.
We always look to align reward with the Groups long term performance and the interests of its shareholders.
We fully endorse a stringent deferral process, as an important element of this alignment.
We maintain an open dialogue with our major shareholders to help ensure appropriate remuneration policies are developed, and that shareholder concerns are taken into account.
177186 During 2011 we have continued to be mindful of the need to exercise More on Corporate Governance restraint as part of the effective governance of executive pay and as a result a number of actions have been taken, including not increasing 187203 More on Directors Remuneration fixed pay for Directors.
Overview Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information r
