10 Overview Chairmans statement The actions that we have taken Market and operating environment The Group operates in an increasingly dynamic and fast paced to ensure our Company remains sector.
In particular, the environment remains characterised by widespread regulatory change and further exchange efficient, competitive and focused sector consolidation.
on building increased scale, We are proponents of regulatory regimes that place great value on efficient, transparent, independent and trusted scope and reach, have put capital markets services.
Currently, the EU is developing its new European Markets and Infrastructure Regulation EMIR, us in a strong position.
conducting a review of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive so-called MiFID II and undertaking a large infrastructure project Target 2 Securities T2S in the post trade landscape see page 9 of this report for further details.
We are actively involved in these regulatory processes, providing responses to consultations, reviewing draft policy and seeking engagement with policy-makers.
All of this regulation will impact our business opportunities.
In the UK, the Government is currently consulting on a new approach to financial regulation.
Again we are active in our lobbying, focusing on themes of transparency, efficiency, commerciality and the UKs attractiveness as a global financial centre.
We have also been vocal on the need for London to have an effective voice at an EU level.
It is expected that the Governments proposals will be implemented in mid-2011, with the aim of introducing a new regulatory framework by the end of 2012.
As domestic and international economies evolve, the Groups equity and debt markets continue to provide an important source of financing to business at home and overseas.
This funding function is essential for economic prosperity.
The year saw strong overall growth in the number of new equity issues, up 68 per cent with a more than threefold increase in money raised by new issues.
In particular, we were delighted to celebrate the 15th anniversary of AIM, our junior market, in 2010 and we have been working closely with the Government and European policy makers to find ways of encouraging equity investment in growing businesses.
AIM continues to play a pivotal role in the funding of innovation and business success, in turn driving economic growth, directly supporting 250,000 UK jobs.
We are staunch advocates of the importance of the SME sector and the role it plays in economic prosperity.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Overview Chairmans statement 11 Strategic Development Board of Directors We aim to develop the Group further, with increasing We have refreshed the Board with the appointments international scale, together with extended reach and scope of Paul Heiden, Gay Huey Evans and Massimo Tononi as to provide competitive services to global customers.
This Non-Executive Directors, and the addition of Raffaele Jerusalmi approach underpins the rationale for our proposed merger as an Executive Director.
Angelo Tantazzi, Oscar Fanjul and with Canadas TMX Group, announced in February this year.
Nigel Stapleton stepped down during the year and we thank We believe this transaction will create a leading diversified them for their substantial contributions during their tenure.
international exchange group with exciting opportunities Please see the Governance section of this report on pages for growth.
The process of achieving necessary approvals is 38 to 63 for more details of the Board and our report on underway and will include seeking approval from shareholders Corporate Governance.
Our focus has also been on driving efficiency through Conclusion management changes, cost reduction, client alignment Looking forward, we expect that regulatory changes, and new technology.
The results are showing through in macroeconomic factors, competition and developments improved operational and financial performance, and the in the exchange sector will continue to exert considerable efforts in this area will continue.
influence on the way we operate and future opportunities for the Group.
The second pillar of our strategic approach, characterised as leveraging our assets, is also delivering results.
We have We are very much engaged with the processes that shape these announced plans to launch pan-European equity derivatives developments.
The actions that we have taken to ensure our Group trading in the first quarter of the new financial year.
We have remains efficient, competitive and focused on building increased also strengthened our equities trading offering, stabilised scale, scope and reach have put us in a strong position.
We look our share of trading and have developed a number of new forward to continuing to make progress and to further strengthen information and technology products.
the Group, as we enter a new phase in our global industry.
The CEOs review and the update on strategy provide more detail on our plans and progress.
Financial performance It has been a good year for the Group, set against the backdrop of more stable though still highly competitive markets.
We made Chris Gibson-Smith real strides in delivering on our stated strategy to deliver greater Chairman efficiencies and to grow existing Group operations.
Reflecting the upturn in financial performance, the Board is proposing a 12.5 per cent increase in the final dividend to 18.0 pence per share, resulting in a dividend for the full year of 26.8 pence per share, a 10 per cent rise.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on the register on 29 July 2011.
For further information visit: www.
