Man Group plc Report and accounts 02 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 The nine months ended 31 December 2011 Active were a period of extreme volatility across all asset classes, heavily influenced by economic stewardship uncertainty in the Eurozone and globally.
This created very challenging trading and in tough performance conditions for Man and severely tested investor appetite for risk.
Although times some of our funds performed strongly and sales held up well, we experienced a net decrease in funds under management from $69.1 billion at the end of March 2011 to $58.4 billion at 31 December 2011.
Lower management and performance fees caused a reduction in earnings for shareholders.
While appreciating the negative impact of this downturn in performance, the Board remains confident in its strategy of offering diversified alternative investment returns, a broad range of liquid strategies and world class distribution.
This strategy has created a firm foundation for future earnings growth and our focus this year will be on its execution.
The Board will be challenging management to deliver against our key priorities of improving investment performance, meeting client needs and driving operational efficiency.
We need to ensure that the business is well positioned to grow assets and earnings as markets normalise and risk appetite returns and, in the meantime, look at all options to increase shareholder value.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman Man Group plc Report and accounts 03 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Chairmans review Strategic priorities for 2012 Improving investment performance Your Board has continued to make realising the full potential of AHL and delivering top quartile performance a key priority.
We have closely followed and challenged the results of the management teams review of AHLs investment model and the output from its ongoing research and development programme.
We have also explored and challenged the risk management approach adopted in periods of extreme price volatility.
We continually monitor the performance of AHL against its competitor group and seek to establish the reasons for adverse variance.
Among the GLG funds, there was a mix of investment performance during the nine months.
In periods of market volatility the focus of the Board is on enforcing strong risk management at the portfolio manager level.
The Audit and Risk Committee, through the Compliance and Risk teams, has provided independent oversight of the investment management process.
In addition, the Board has been active in reviewing and mitigating counterparty credit risk which continues to be a focus of attention.
Meeting client needs At its annual strategy meeting, the Board conducted a thorough review of the opportunities and challenges presented by recent market trends and regulatory developments and identified a number of workstreams to be pursued by management to respond to changing investor preferences.
These included a review of our strategies for client retention, the development of our product set and our entry into new markets.
The Board has continued to encourage and oversee the development of management capability to meet investor needs globally.
In addition to his portfolio management responsibilities in London, Pierre Lagrange, Senior Managing Director of GLG, has been appointed as non-executive Chairman of Man Asia to oversee the expansion of Mans investment management activities through that region and to respond to investor demand for Asian based assets.
Ruud Hendriks stepped down from the Board in December to take up the position of non-executive Chairman of Mans Institutional business and provide advice to their European Sales team.
I am delighted that Ruuds new role will enable us to leverage more directly his extensive experience and relationships with European institutional investors.
Driving cost efficiency The Board has sought to reshape the cost base to suit future business needs and reflect changes in product and margin mix.
As planned, we delivered $50 million of cost synergies from the GLG acquisition.
The completion of the outsourcing of fund administration and the Boards decision to repay debt and reduce interest cost will reduce our expense base by $40 million in 2012.
In addition, in 2012 we will be closely monitoring managements delivery of a programme to achieve a further $75 million of cost reduction, $50 million of which is targeted to be achieved by the end of the year.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 04 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Chairmans review continued Financial strength primarily from net performance fee earnings.
Available Maintaining the Companys financial strength continues to be a surpluses, after taking into account our required capital, key Board objective.
In last years review I explained how the potential strategic opportunities and a prudent buffer, will be Board had reviewed the Companys capital and stress liquidity distributed to shareholders over time by way of higher dividend positions in relation to its risk appetite and had reached a payments and or share repurchases.
Whilst the Board decision on the optimal sizing of each.
In 2011, the Board continues to consider dividends as the primary method of approved the decrease of surplus liquidity to our target level returning capital to shareholders, it will continue to execute through the reduction of the Companys committed bank share repurchases when advantageous to shareholders.
facilities and the buy back of a substantial proportion of its senior bonds.
Towards the end of the year, after due analysis of Given Mans financial strength and the Boards confidence in the its financial impact, we approved a programme to repurchase long-term prospects for the business, the Board intends to apply for cancellation $150 million of the Companys issued share this policy during 2012 to pay a total dividend for the year of 22 capital.
More recently, after further consideration of the cents per share, of which 9.5 cents will be paid as an interim Companys long term earnings potential and future capital dividend on 4 September 2012.
After a capital buffer, Man requirements, we have reviewed and redefined our future currently holds surplus regulatory capital of over $550 million.
Risk management Distribution policy The Board is responsible for defining Mans risk appetite and monitoring its overall risk exposures.
Strong risk management Dividend policy revised to pay out at least 100% of adjusted creates sustainable performance and is an essential feature of management fee earnings per share in each financial year Mans business for both shareholders and fund investors.
The by way of ordinary dividend Board has continued to strengthen its oversight and challenge Man expects to generate significant surplus capital, in this area.
The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed and primarily from net performance fee earnings.
Available challenged the output from managements recently developed surpluses will be distributed to shareholders over time by risk dashboard which monitors changes in the levels of key way of higher dividend payments and or share repurchases business risks.
Building consideration of risk into the The Board intends to apply this policy in 2012 to pay a total determination of reward has been reinforced.
The Audit and dividend for the year of 22 cents per share Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee have worked together on risk matters as they affect the remuneration of Man has a long history of returning capital to shareholders, by executive directors and risk takers more broadly within Man.
way of both dividends and share repurchases.
Distributions in Further details of the Boards risk management activities are the future will continue to reflect this track record and will be given in the Corporate governance report PG 52 and the assessed against the Companys current and future earnings, Audit and Risk Committee report PG 56. our financial position and the Boards view of the long-term prospects for the business.
Remuneration In making their remuneration decisions, the Board and In future, Mans policy will be to pay out at least 100% of Remuneration Committee are very aware of the downturn in the adjusted management fee earnings per share in each financial Companys performance and the need for this to be reflected in year by way of ordinary dividend.
In addition, the Company the compensation of its executive directors and senior expects to generate significant surplus capital over time, management.
They also need to set reward at a level which from left to right Nina Shapiro, Frdric Jolly, Jon Aisbitt, Kevin Hayes, Matthew Lester.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 05 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 retains and motivates staff to rebuild the Companys funds under backgrounds, outlooks and interests is well recognised.
The key actions which we have a Board with a broad base of independent non-executive undertaken to meet the challenge of aligning pay to performance expertise which is regularly reviewed and refreshed.
In May, while maintaining operating capability are set out in the our executive team was strengthened by the appointment of Remuneration report PG 62.
In making our remuneration and Emmanuel Roman, Chief Operating Officer and CEO of GLG.
In dividend decisions in respect of the period to 31 December the same month we welcomed Matthew Lester, former CFO of 2011, we considered carefully the balance between the return for ICAP and currently CFO of the Royal Mail, as a non-executive employees for their performance and the return for shareholders director.
Matthew brings substantial financial, regulatory and from the profitability of the business.
This period was difficult and markets experience and took over the role of Chairman of the earnings and FUM declined.
The Board has, however, taken Audit and Risk Committee later in the year.
measures to improve the earnings potential of the business as set out in our strategic priorities.
The Board believes that an The Board has considered its position in relation to the Davies appropriate balance was achieved such that employees have Review on the level of female representation on company been rewarded for their performance and the business has boards.
Our firm principle is that Board appointments should maintained operating capacity for growth in 2012. always be based on merit and overall suitability, irrespective of gender considerations, and we have in the past struggled to Shareholder engagement find female candidates with the appropriate experience who are The Board has kept close to shareholders views and concerns interested in joining the Board.
We were, therefore, delighted during this difficult trading period.
We receive regular and that Nina Shapiro accepted an appointment as a non-executive detailed feedback from our investor relations team and director in October last year.
With a career spent in the World corporate brokers on the markets response to our results Bank, Nina has in-depth experience of capital markets, broad announcements and trading statements and keep attuned to insight into government policies on the development of financial the key areas of importance to our investor base.
We are markets worldwide and extensive knowledge of emerging acutely aware of the need to focus on improving investment economies in which Man may wish to develop its business.
performance, building flows, delivering cost efficiency and communicating our policy on earnings distribution and capital At this years AGM, in line with UK Corporate Governance Code allocation.
We also recognise the need to communicate as requirements, we are giving shareholders the opportunity to vote openly and clearly as possible to provide the market with the on the reappointment of every Board member.
This Review has information it needs to evaluate our business.
In September we sought to give an overview of the priorities and actions of the invited our institutional investors to a Meet the Managers day Board during the period.
Further details of our activities and the which gave them more visibility on the Companys executive processes we employ to ensure we discharge our role to the talent below Board level.
Over the course of the year our best of our ability can be found in my Corporate governance management team met around 50% of our institutional report PG 48 and on our website www.
that together these provide a clear picture of our focus on and commitment to shareholder value and give you confidence in Board effectiveness the effectiveness of our stewardship.
The success of the Board and its stewardship of the Company is ultimately dependent on the skills and experience of its members and the effectiveness of how they work together.
Jon Aisbitt The importance of bringing together individuals with diverse Chairman from left to right Patrick OSullivan, Phillip Colebatch, Emmanuel Roman, Alison Carnwath and Peter Clarke.
