party 08 Chairmans Annual report & accounts 2011 statement Twelve months into the merger of bwin andPartyGaming, the combined enterprise is ahead of schedule in integrating the businesses and delivering the synergies expected and is on track to extend its reach into new areas of digital entertainment.
Simon Duffy Chairman Completion of Merger on Integration and regulation opening of the Danish market at 31 March 2011 thebeginning of 2012, as we will be The rapid evolution of the online when Spain opens later this year.
On-track with integration gaming industry is continuing, driven Ouragreements with MGM and Boyd delivering synergies byadvances in technology and changes mean that we are well-placed to be in to the regulatory landscape, resulting Ready to enter new markets the first wave when regulations allow ina business environment that is both including US entry into the United States, either challenging and full of opportunity.
Extending our reach into digital In such an environment, where the entertainment The early performance and the competitive landscape is usually settled potential of bwin.
party are Final dividend of 1.56p per share within a short space of time, late entry encouraging, as detailed in the into any newly-regulated market is not Over 31 million shares repurchased Co-CEOs Review on pages 10 to 17, an option.
The enlarged enterprise of where they expand upon the Groups bwin.
party provides a unique platform progress and business strategy.
In from which to launch into new markets addition to reaping the rewards from with the requisite scale to take full our investment in technology, brands advantage of the freedom to advertise, and people, we will extend our reach often for the first time.
As part of our into new areas of digital entertainment, goal of participating in all major newlysuch as social gaming, by capitalising regulated markets, we were among the on the Groups existing resources to first wave of operators to launch on the create new revenue streams.
party 09 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 The Chairman of the Board was Governance Dividend independent on appointment: and As we navigate this critical phase in the The Board is recommending a final Companys development, the Boards The Board had the appropriate dividend of 1.56p per share which, approach to corporate governance balance of skills and experience to together with the interim dividend of hasto be mindful of both the need to manage the imbalance appropriately.
1.56p per share, makes a total dividend avoid disrupting the integration of two of 3.12p per share for the year ended This matter, together with details about businesses with different governance 31December 2011 2010: nil.
Thefinal how the Board oversees the interests backgrounds and the detailed dividend, if approved at the Annual ofbwin.
party through its operating and negotiations that led up to the Merger.
General Meeting will be payable to management structure, is explored in During those negotiations bwin and shareholders on the register of more depth in the Governance Review PartyGaming agreed a balanced Board shareholder interests on 11 May 2012. on pages 70 to 101 of this Annual report.
would be in the best interests of the Itis expected that dividends will be paid combined Group, a decision that is The Board has considered Lord Davies on 12 June 2012.
Shareholders wishing supported by the success of the of Abersochs review, Women on to receive dividends in Euros rather integration to-date.
However, this Boards, which requested FTSE 350 than pounds sterling will need to file resulted in a Board structure that was companies to set out aims for having acurrency election and return it to not in compliance with the Code on women serve on boards.
Gender theGroups registrars on or before Corporate Governance in terms of the diversity is an important factor that we 25May 2012.
Further details are balance between independent and nonwill take into account when considering contained in Share information independent Directors.
any new candidates to join the Board.
However, gender is only one of many Despite this imbalance, the Board Share buyback issues that have to be considered issatisfied that it has maintained alongside a candidates experience, Since launching our 75m buyback asufficient degree of independence knowledge and skills.
Our aim is to programme in September, the Group forthe following reasons: appoint at least one woman to the had purchased 15.7 million shares at Board by the end of 2013 and to have On the majority of business items atotal purchase price of 19.9m by atleast two women serving on the considered by the Board, a non- 31December 2011.
As at 22 March 2012, Board by 2015. independent Non-Executive Director we had purchased a further 15.5 million is independent because the interests shares.
All purchased shares have Directors of the relevant founder shareholders beencancelled.
and the Company do not conflict: Further to the additions to the Board Outlook that became effective on completion On issues when the interests of the ofthe Merger, Geoff Baldwin replaced Current trading has been robust Company and interests of a founder Rami Lerner as a Non-Executive andin-line with our expectations.
shareholder may conflict, mechanisms Director of the Company on 15 July 2011.
Theenlarged Group is in a strong in the relationship agreement and or Mr Baldwins appointment was made position tocapture a greater share letters of appointment for the nonfollowing a nomination under the terms ofthe expanding digital independent Non-Executive Director of a relationship agreement entered entertainmentmarket.
allow the independent Directors to into by amongst others, bwin.
party exclude them from the decisiondigital entertainment plc, Emerald Bay making process: Limited and Stinson Ridge Limited that The independent Directors have not was approved by shareholders on been and will not be in a minority to 28January 2011.
All Directors will be the Executive Directors: standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
