The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement Market Background This is my first report to you as Chairman of The Merchants Trust PLC and I am pleased to report that we have performed well, with our total return exceeding 20% and our share price rising more than 23%.
Global uncertainties continued to build throughout the year.
We first had the crisis in the Euro and in particular in Greece and Ireland requiring massive intervention from the ECB and the IMF.
More recently we have had significant uncertainty building in the Middle East leading to Western intervention in Libya.
And of course we have had the tragic East Japan earthquake followed by the devastating tsunami and the huge risks of a nuclear meltdown at the Fukushima plant.
In the UK we have had a change of Government and the introduction of a significant fiscal austerity programme designed to bring the deficit under control.
At the same time we have seen a meaningful pick-up in inflationary pressures on the back of the dramatic rise in oil and other commodity prices.
Against this uncertain backdrop, the UK equity market has recovered further ground and made up much of the loss suffered since the start of the financial crisis in 2007.
Merchants performed well in both absolute and relative terms as well as compared to most of our peers, helped by strong stock-selection in a number of mid-cap companies.
Results The Net Asset Value per share increased by 14.6% to 427.1p and the total return per share, including dividends paid, was 20.7%.
This compares with the total returns of 16.8% and 12.2% recorded by the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, respectively.
The full performance breakdown is shown on page 5.
Over the year, the Trusts share price rose by 23.6% from 329.1p to 406.9p, having reached its highest level in the year of 425.0p on 6 January 2011.
At 4 April 2011, the Trusts ordinary shares yielded 5.5% compared with the yield on the FTSE 100 Index of 3.0%.
There is more detail on the major contributors to our performance in our Investment Managers Review starting on page 6.
Net Revenue Return per share Net Revenue Return per share rose by 12.2% to 21.22p.
This years earnings include a release of a provision of 862,086 against finance costs in First Debenture Finance PLC and there are details of this on page 38.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final ordinary dividend of 5.7p per share, payable on 13 May 2011 to Shareholders on the register on 15 April 2011.
This payment would give a total of 22.8p for the year, an increase of 1.3% over the total for the previous year.
In order to meet the payment it has been necessary to transfer 1,632,522 1.6p per share from our reserves, compared to a transfer of 3,724,961 3.6p per share last year.
As at 31 January 2011 and after providing for this transfer, the Trusts reserves amounted to 12,775,572 12.3p per share.
This will be our twenty-ninth year of rising dividends.
The Board and the Manager continue to remain focused on providing long-term steady income growth.
Derivatives As set out in the previous report, we have continued our policy of selectively writing call options on a limited number of the Trusts holdings.
Writing options has provided helpful additional income in a period where revenues have been under pressure following the temporary suspension of BPs dividend.
A more detailed explanation is set out in the Investment Managers Review.
Stewardship Code During the year the Stewardship Code was signed up to by our Manager, RCM UK, and we report on this on page 24 of this Annual Report.
Gearing The Trust continues to have long-term debt amounting to 111 million.
This is all deployed in the market for investment purposes.
At the end of the year our gearing level was 25.2% compared to 29.5% at the start of the year.
3 The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement The Board At last years AGM Lord Sassoon took on the Chairmanship of the Trust following Sir Hugh Stevensons retirement.
Hugh had been Chairman of the Trust for 10 years.
Following the General Election James was asked by the new coalition Government to become Treasury Secretary and a member of the House of Lords.
As a result James was obliged to stand-down from all his commercial responsibilities including the Board of Merchants.
I would like to thank Hugh and James very much for their significant contribution to Merchants over many years.
Dick Barfield has announced his retirement as a Director which will take place at the conclusion of this years Annual Meeting.
We have benefited greatly from his in depth knowledge of the investment industry and good advice over his many years on the Board and he will be greatly missed.
We have recently appointed Paul Yates as a Director and I am pleased he has joined the Board.
His biography is included with those of the other directors on page 16 and we support his election to the Board.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Tuesday 10 May 2011 at 12.00 noon and we look forward to seeing as many shareholders then as are able to attend.
Outlook The headlines will undoubtedly remain dominated by the huge uncertainties outlined in my introductory remarks.
However, underlying economic activity is still robust in much of the world and the corporate sector is financially strong.
A carefully selected portfolio of UK companies with globally diversified business models combined with a focus on strong and rising dividend income should continue to weather the storms well.
Merchants will remain committed to long-term growth in capital and income.
