It gives me great pleasure to introduce in April.
Reshaping the portfolio will require Chairmans review patience as in most territories we are a our annual report for 2010 11, Cable & Wireless Communications CWCs first provider of key national infrastructure, often partnered with the government.
To have year as an independent company.
completed two deals in our first year is an excellent start.
We have made good progress since our demerger in March 2010.
We saw strong Whilst the shape changes, our mission trading performances in three of our business and purpose remain clear.
We operate in units, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
local markets, assisting them to grow Our fourth business, the Caribbean, made by delivering world class communications solid operational progress, but its results services and expertise adapted for each continue to be challenged by weak or specific environment.
declining economies across the region.
Our Board of Directors has also seen change.
The Caribbean has a larger impact on our overall financial performance than our other Kasper Rorsted retired as a Non-Executive Director and Ian Tyler joined the Board.
Kasper businesses, due to the higher proportional shareholdings we hold in this business.
joined the Cable & Wireless Board in 2003, Nevertheless, we have reported improved and has served both Cable & Wireless and revenues up 4% to US$2.4 billion, EBITDA CWC shareholders impeccably.
Thankfully, we up 1% to US$872 million and profit before have found a strong replacement in Ian, who tax up 21% to US$462 million.
is the Chief Executive of a fellow FTSE 250 company, Balfour Beatty.
Kate Nealon will also Each of the businesses also continues to retire as a Non-Executive Director at the end generate a high cash conversion of profits.
of our Annual General Meeting in July, after The Board of Directors has recommended seven years of valuable service.
a full year dividend of US8 cents per share, US2.67 cents of which was paid in January George Battersby, our HR Director, also stepped following our interim results with a further down from the Board in July 2010, and sadly US5.33 cents to be paid in August 2011, passed away shortly afterwards following a subject to the approval of shareholders.
hard fought battle with cancer.
George had We are in the process of returning further been with Cable & Wireless since 2004 and capital to shareholders through a US$100 provided a wealth of corporate experience million share buyback programme, launched and common sense.
His wise counsel was Increase in profit in February.
The buyback is an effective, and valued by all of the senior executives at Cable beforetax risk-free, use of our cash, saving a dividend & Wireless and CWC, particularly myself as payment on the shares we purchase.
The Board of Directors felt a deep sense of loss of such a fine colleague.
Our demerger has also brought increased The CWC Board has continued the rigorous focus to our business, particularly at Board level.
Prior to separation, Board discussion approach to corporate governance employed by Cable & Wireless prior to its demerger.
was dominated by the turnaround of Cable & Wireless Worldwide and the demerger itself.
Our approach to governance is focused on driving good behaviours within the business.
The focus of the Board, and management, is now on ensuring that CWC captures the Our Independent Directors report page 42 Recommended full year dividend emerging growth opportunities for full outlines this approach, which includes our service telecoms businesses, particularly four behavioural questions for measuring the mobile data, enterprise and carrier services.
effectiveness of our corporate governance.
Our businesses are well placed to do so.
This model rightly places the Board of Directors as the stewards of the business, We are seeing a good response to our mobile working on behalf of shareholders.
data and fixed and mobile broadband services, particularly in Panama and Macau.
Demand The continued success of our business for our data centre and hosting services is reflects the efforts of our 7,000 colleagues, growing and we are expanding our subsea who are spread across four continents.
cable infrastructure to meet demand in the I would like to thank them for their carrier market.
We are also building our commitment to, and pride in, this Company.
capability in providing social telecoms We have made a positive start as an services to governments and managed independent Group and will continue building services to large corporate customers, such the foundations for the Companys future as the large casino resort operators in Macau.
Shareholders should feel confident We also made progress on our reshaping of the that our business is well positioned to Group, disposing of our operations in Bermuda exploit the exciting new opportunities and purchasing a majority shareholding in which are emerging.
the Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC, the leading operator in The Bahamas Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE 04 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Introduction We have made a positive start as an independent Group and will continue building the foundations for future success.
Shareholders should feel confident that our business is well positioned to exploit the exciting new opportunities which are emerging.
Sir Richard Lapthorne Chairman Cable & Wireless Communications 05 The needs of telecoms customers are changing.
We are in the midst of a shift towards more data-centric services.
Wewill be diverting a far greater proportion of our investment into mobile data capacity and launching new products that tap the customer demand for data services.
Tony Rice Chief Executive 06 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Introduction
