I could have wished for a less eventful The final element was the need to And I am pleased to report that we continue firstyear of independence for Jim and the simultaneously manage the price erosion to lead the UK industry in our deployment Executive team to manage.
Individually the evident in some of our markets whilst also ofunique cloud and virtualisation service events were not that uncommon but as they creating the room to invest in the growth offerings.
In March we made Flexible occurred in close proximity they created areas of hosting and cloud services.
It is Computing available to all our Multi Service Platform customers, effectively cloudtheir own story.
anexciting time in telecommunications as new technologies and customer needs drive enabling them instantly.
Whilst disappointing, its not that unusual a new set of products and services.
for there to be personnel changes in the That this is a business facing a demanding set of challenges is undoubtedly true, but Executive team.
Sometimes the recruitment To be faced with issues across all three process just doesnt work out for either levels the team, the business and the itis also a business that is well equipped toface into and overcome those challenges.
Tim Weller leaves with our best industry is a particularly tough assignment wishes for the future and we are lucky to in year one of the new business.
As that set We already have one of the largest and most capable data centre and hosting have such an experienced and able deputy of issues crystallised, external confidence in Ian Gibson to step into the Chief Financial inthe business and its prospects was operations in Europe, a leading product set in cloud and converged services and an Officer role.
Whilst that was understandable I do not believe it was entirely justified.
The senior teamand all colleagues in the business are Were also not the only company to haveexperienced consequences of the The business trends all speak to the clear about what needs to be done and determined in their resolve to execute Coalitions necessary determination to importance and clarity of our long reduce public spending: a situation that articulated strategy namely to move theirplans.
arrived in a lump at the beginning of the purposefully into Communications year and is still with us.
As governments Integration activity a land dominated by As we deliver against those ambitions we should see the wider perception of our focus shifts from the short-term control of the management of the applications that sit spending to the longer-term deployment in the cloud or in the network as opposed business change.
oftechnology that reduces back-office to simply providing the infrastructure.
costs and improves service delivery we maysee further opportunities for the That journey was never going to be a short business.
And during the year we won new one: it is measured in years not months, as government business from the Foreign and that is the pace of travel of our customers.
Commonwealth office and the Department During this transitional phase we continue John Pluthero for International Development.
to improve the business operational and Chairman service capabilities as well as more actively managing the end of life areas such as traditional voice.
