CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement Performance Earnings and Dividend In the year to 30 April 2011 the net asset value total return, with Earnings per share were 4.06p compared with 4.02p last year, an borrowings at fair value, was 11.2% and the share price total return increase of 1.0%.
Income from investments rose despite a reduction was 16.7% while the FTSE World Index in sterling terms returned in income from bonds owing to purchases of high yielding equities.
For our portfolio the gains were relatively evenly spread This was, however, largely offset by higher payments arising from between the first and second halves of the year with a bias to the increased borrowings and a rise in other costs.
Monks invests with first half, while changes to the comparative index showed a different the aim of achieving capital growth rather than income and all costs pattern, falling in the first half and rising in the second.
During the are charged to the Revenue Account.
first half of the year net asset value per share rose by 5.9%, while The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.50p, which the comparative index fell by 2.1%, and during the second half net together with the interim 0.50p already paid, would make the total asset value per share rose by a further 4.7% and the index rose by dividend for the year 3.00p, unchanged from last year.
The share price ended the Companys year at 364p, 16.3% higher than at the end of the previous year.
Over the five years to 30 Long Term Borrowing April 2011 the net asset value total return was 33.6% and the share During the year we borrowed an additional 40m for a three year price total return was 33.8% while the comparative index returned term at a fixed rate of 3.57%.
We also rolled over shorter term 30.3%.
borrowings of the same amount taken out last year in combination with a thirty year interest rate swap.
While the rate paid under the There were a number of events during the Companys year that one thirty year swap agreement is fixed, there is some variability in the might have expected to have had a major negative effect on overall rate paid on the combination of swap and shorter term markets.
These included the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear borrowings arising from changes in margin and the current rate is accident in Japan, revolutions in the Arab world, and sovereign debt 5.1% compared to 5.4% at this time last year.
The 11% debenture crises necessitating bailouts within the eurozone.
The Japanese stock will mature in 2012 and the 6% debenture stock in 2023 market fell sharply in March and has yet to recover to its pre-disaster and the new borrowings undertaken this year and last reflect a level, but other markets suffered only transient reversals in response strategic view of the Companys capital structure and the attraction to these events.
Monetary policy appears to have been a more of locking in interest rates that are low relative to history, rather than powerful influence and in this respect the most important event of the a desire to increase the gearing of the Company.
The new year was a speech by the chairman of the US Federal Reserve in borrowings have been largely invested in equities whose current August 2010 in which he announced that the US Central Bank yields in aggregate more than cover the interest paid and the would engage in a new round of quantitative easing.
Prior to that additional exposure to general movements in share prices has been point the trend in markets was downwards, after it the trend was hedged out through the sale of index futures.
upwards, notwithstanding the potential shocks noted above.
Elsewhere in the world the direction of monetary policy was towards Investment Activity tightening, either in response to the problems of excessive growth Over the course of the year there was a net investment of 34.1m, of and inflation in the case of major emerging economies such as which 31.2m was in equities.
There were net sales of equities in North China, India and Brazil, or in order to pre-empt inflation in the case America and non-Asian Emerging Markets and net purchases in all other of the eurozone and countries such as Sweden and Australia.
We also purchased call options on the Japanese market and Possibly in response, international investors withdrew funds from sold futures on United Kingdom, American and eurozone markets.
emerging markets during the later part of the year, leading to relative The call options enable us to participate in future capital appreciation underperformance of these markets compared to those of the United of the Japanese market for a modest initial outlay and potential losses States, Europe and the United Kingdom.
Given our significant are capped at this amount.
We purchased the first of these options in exposure to Brazil and other Emerging Markets, this had an adverse November and added to the position in March, following the effect on performance during this period.
We currently hold options maturing in The Managers Report on pages 6 to 8 contains more detail on the December 2011 and December 2012.
The purchase of call options individual investments that made the greatest positive and negative introduces a form of gearing, as their market value varies more than contributions to performance.
Of particular note is the positive that of the underlying Japanese index, and this is taken into account contribution of our investments in Japan during a period when the when setting policy for the overall level of gearing.
Japanese market fell in sterling terms.
The sale of futures reduces the sensitivity of the net asset value to changes in the level of the United Kingdom, American and eurozone markets while changes in the value of our holdings in these markets relative to the market indices covered by the futures contracts become a more important factor.
In this way the sale of futures reduces gearing to general moves in markets and so acts to mitigate the gearing introduced by investing additional borrowed funds and holding call options.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
4 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT At the year end, holdings of equities amounted to 103.7% of On a more positive note, corporate profitability has increased shareholders funds and holdings of equities and bonds together to greatly in recent years in many countries and borrowing costs for 112.5% but when the effects of holding options and selling futures those companies with access to bond markets are extremely low.
If are taken into account the effective gearing was equivalent to 10% these conditions are sustained, companies are likely to pay higher of shareholders funds.
dividends, repurchase shares and take each other over, all activities which are normally associated with good returns for equity investors.
Discount and Buybacks One risk to this scenario is that of rising inflation.
This has already The discount at fair value narrowed to 9.9% from 14.0% over the become an issue in some of the leading Emerging Market course of the year.
The Board considers the level of discount and has economies and there are indications of similar pressures elsewhere.
authorised the repurchase of shares when this will be of benefit to Another is the rather precarious finances of various governments, not continuing shareholders as well as being in the interest of those only in Europe but also at various different administrative levels in the shareholders who may need to sell some or all of their shares.
So far governments have responded in different ways, order to assist it with the control of the discount and the but some are now exploring the limits of tolerance of the markets, communication of the Companys objectives and positioning the their populations or their neighbours.
Board has engaged Cannacord Genuity.
Looking further ahead it seems likely that the pattern of the closing During the year to 30 April 2011 807,000 was spent on the years of the last century and the first years of this will continue.
Since the power to buy back shares Global economic growth has been accelerating as more rapidly was first granted in 1999, 127.2m shares have been bought back growing parts of the world come to account for more of total and cancelled, representing 33% of the share capital at the start of economic activity and technological developments have created that period.
The Board will continue to buy back shares if suitable huge new markets for things that did not exist before.
creates opportunities for investment in new areas, it also leads to greater pressure on scarce resources and rising demand for many Outlook traditional products.
Supplying that rising demand remains one of the Whatever ones view of the aggressive buying of bonds and other main themes within our portfolio.
financial assets by central banks that is known as quantitative easing, one immediate and intended consequence of this process is AGM that the prices of financial assets are higher than they would have I hope shareholders will come to the Annual General Meeting, been had central banks not been buying.
One therefore has to which will be held on 2 August 2011 at 11.00am at the Institute of wonder what will happen when they stop.
An optimist would Directors see map on page 49.
Our manager will give a short probably argue that quantitative easing will only end if the economic presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
recovery is well established with the financial system well on its way back to robust health and that, if these conditions are in place, asset prices can be driven higher by the usual processes of credit growth and saving.
A pessimist would argue that the withdrawal of buyers whose aim has been to boost the price of the assets they are purchasing will lead to a sharp correction.
These fears are voiced most clearly with respect to government bonds but, given the way James Ferguson money flows between different asset classes, all financial investments 13 June 2011 are likely to be affected to a greater or lesser extent.
It seems likely that we will find out which side is right fairly soon and until the answer is clearer it seems prudent to adopt a cautious attitude with respect to changes in the general level of markets and to focus on creating value through the selection of individual investments.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5
