Chairmans Statement Performance The year to the end of June 2011, your Companys financial year, continued the pattern of attractive returns seen in 2010.
Overall, on a total return basis, the net asset value per share rose by 28.1%, the share price by 29.4% while the FTSE-All Share Index rose by 25.6%.
As a result, the Company enjoyed good absolute returns as well as a pleasing Patrick Gifford degree of outperformance of its benchmark.
In contrast to Chairman 2010, the bulk of the return was earned in the first half of the year, which saw a return of 21.4% compared with one of Highlights 5.5% in the second half.
The NAV per share at the year end was, however, still 16.3% below its year-end peak in June Total Dividend increased by 2.7% to 28.75p 2007 although there has been a positive total return Net Asset Value Total Return 28.1% between those two dates, taking dividends into account, of Share Price Total Return 29.4% 0.9%.
The revenue account, which is discussed further below, saw considerable improvement for a number of reasons, so that earnings per share rose by 21.7%.
This has enabled us to propose a final dividend of 12.25p, which will give a full year dividend increase of 2.7%.
The last two years have seen a considerable improvement in profits world wide as corporate cost-cutting in response to the extreme events of 2008 came together with a recovery in demand.
This has been the primary reason for the strength of equity markets, which have performed very well in the face of continuing problems in the economic and political environment.
Your portfolio has itself performed well against this background, being largely characterised by companies with strong market positions and balance sheets and a low exposure to consumer cyclical and financial companies.
As mentioned above, the Companys revenue account improved by 21.7%.
This was produced by a 7.6% increase in income from securities as companies felt secure and profitable enough to raise dividends.
It was also helped by a large increase in income from option writing.
This does carry within it the risk of damaging capital performance.
However, our Managers have always been careful to integrate option writing with investment policy so that it has in fact helped to adjust portfolio structure while yielding a very helpful income.
This policy has continued into the current year and is likely to remain a feature of the Company unless the pricing of options becomes unattractive.
The Company also received 1.4million from HMRC, representing interest on VAT which the Company has now been refunded.
This will not be a recurring source of income though we are grateful for it.
This conjunction has enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend for 2010-11, covered by net revenue, of 12.25p per share.
We have, however, been cautious in this recommendation because forecasts for the current year indicate that the level of earnings is not sustainable, principally because of the absence of VAT repayments.
We expect at least to be able to maintain this level of total dividend and the pattern of payment throughout the year ending 30 June 2012.
We are also keen to ensure that the 4 Murray Income Trust PLC quality of the portfolio and particularly its ability to grow indicator of an oversold position it isnt difficult to see what dividends is not prejudiced by an over-emphasis on current is worrying them.
It is very unclear how the situation within yield.
the Eurozone will resolve itself.
The one thing that is clear is that, whether in an organised or disorganised way, the The macro-economic and political concerns of the last two creditors of the most indebted countries are going to lose, or years havent changed very much.
The crisis of 2007-8 was have already lost, considerable sums of money.
Whether the principally caused by excess debt in the developed world held losers will be taxpayers, bondholders, convalescent by households and an under-capitalised banking sector.
The commercial banks or the European Central Bank is not clear.
recent past has seen the household sector trying to reduce its Ultimately it will be a cost to the richer countries.
It is also indebtedness and the corporate sector continuing to unclear whether competitiveness can be restored for the accumulate funds with the result that government has come weaker economies without the collapse of the Euro, though under extreme pressure as its indebtedness rises.
This in its the political capital invested in its survival makes this a turn has caused investors to worry more about longer-term worry.
Meanwhile, both the US and the UK are competitiveness because, at a national level, without it struggling with slow growth and the political cost of it, growth and the ability to service debt must be doubtful.
The expressed in riots in the UK and extreme levels of political last year has seen national tensions rise considerably in vitriol in the US.
Asia and the other major emerging markets Europe without convincing political solutions at the same present a rather more encouraging picture in which inflation time that the US has suffered from extreme paralysis of its tends to be the most concerning short-term problem.
political system leading to the farcical soap opera of the However their predisposition to mercantilist policies, argument over the Federal government debt ceiling.
The UK especially in China, does slow down the rate of adjustment in has remained a bystander, protected by its ability to devalue the global economy.
All these influences have raised the risk its currency but still with a slow rate of growth though an of an avoidable further recession in which policy responses impressive rate of inflation which does mean that nominal are inadequate.
growth of the economy is considerably higher than the interest rate on government borrowing.
The corporate sector, through the equity market, continues to look like a relatively safe haven.
In contrast to high quality Board and Management Changes bond markets it does offer current yield, whereas bond The composition of the Board was unchanged throughout markets are priced at previously unseen low levels of yield the year under review.
more representative of an ongoing depression.
However, corporate profits are high as a share of National Income and During February 2011, Anne Richards, Aberdeen's Chief some decline in this proportion does seem likely.
The brunt Investment Officer, stepped back from day to day of any shift seems likely to be taken by cyclical consumer responsibility for the Company.
The Company will continue companies and banks.
An aggregation of our portfolio to be managed by Charles Luke with the support of the produces an estimated long-term growth rate in corporate Manager's Pan European Equity Team.
The Board wishes to earnings of 8%, significantly ahead of likely economic growth thank Anne for her work on behalf of the Company and looks and a similar growth rate for dividends.
In a world in which forward to continuing to work with Charles.
uncertainties seem greater than usual this strength continues to give us confidence in the prospects for your Company.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Glasgow Patrick Gifford Royal Concert Hall, 2 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow, G2 3NY Chairman on Tuesday, 25 October 2011 at 12.30 p. m. The Notice of 9 September 2011 Annual General Meeting is on pages 56 to 59.
It is the Boards intention also to hold the 2012 Annual General Meeting in Glasgow.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation by the Managers and an opportunity to meet the Directors over lunch following the AGM.
Outlook The brief period since the year end has decisively ended the relative calm of equity markets.
The Companys NAV is down 9.5% at the date of writing from the year end, and markets have become very neurotic.
While this is certainly an Murray Income Trust PLC 5
