During periods of heightened anxiety and rising risk aversion, equities sold off sharply.
Late summer proved particularly problematic for markets as Greece edged closer to insolvency, but fragile confidence was restored by the year end to keep the European Union intact, at least for now.
Asia, Latin America and Emerging Markets faced different issues: trying to restrain growth and tame inflationary pressures.
Using straightforward orthodox monetary and Kevin Carter fiscal policies, objectives were largely achieved, leaving such Chairman regions well positioned to grow and prosper over the coming years.
Unfortunately, prevailing negative sentiment meant Highlights such progress was largely ignored.
By emphasising solid Net Asset Value Total Return of -0.1% business fundamentals and good quality balance sheets in Benchmark Total Return of -4.6% portfolio holdings, the Company managed to preserve capital Total Ordinary dividend increased by 15.6% compared with and grow its dividend receipts.
In a world where positive 2010 financial returns were hard to come by, this can be viewed as Shares trading at a premium to net asset value per a satisfactory result.
Ordinary share for the whole year 72m of new shares issued at a premium during the year Dividends In 2011 we were able to continue the trend of increasing the Performance level of dividends paid and three interim dividends of 8.0p Against a backdrop of slowing global growth and widespread were declared 2010: three interims of 6.8p.
Your Board is credit concerns, the main investment management priority now recommending a final dividend of 13.0p 2010: 11.6p that evolved during the year was simply to preserve capital.
final and special dividend of 2.5p which, subject to the The total return on net asset value of -0.1% just about approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will achieved this objective and was superior to the return on the be paid on 16 May 2012 to shareholders on the register on benchmark of -4.6%.
The share price total return was 10 April 2012.
Subject to the approval of the final dividend, 1.3%, reflecting a slight increase in the premium to net the total Ordinary dividend for the year will amount to asset value per share.
The Investment Managers Review in 37.0p, an increase of 15.6% from last year 2010: 32p, this Report contains an attribution analysis, which shows the excluding last years special interim dividend.
B Ordinary factors affecting net asset performance.
The key positive shares will receive their capitalisation issue of B Ordinary influence was strong stock selection across the board which shares at the same time as each dividend is paid.
more than offset predominantly negative contributions from Accordingly, subject to approval at the Annual General regional asset allocation.
Meeting, B Ordinary shareholders will be issued on 16 May 2012 with new B Ordinary shares equivalent in Net Asset Background Value to the recommended final dividend for the year just ended.
What on the surface looked like a fairly small decline in equity markets in 2011 actually concealed a period of Gearing intense financial market volatility.
Persistent negative sentiment and anaemic growth in the developed world, At the year end total borrowings amounted to the equivalent combined with escalating fears over sovereign solvency in of 171.8 million all drawn in Yen representing 17.2% of net many European nations, caused widespread uncertainty.
At the year end the proportion of net assets invested Further angst was generated by a credit quality downgrade in equities was 105% 2010 - 104%.
of United States debt, although, in the context of graver concerns elsewhere, this event failed to undermine the Issue of New Shares predominant flow of money into dollar based assets.
At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2011 Somewhat paradoxically, given the precarious state of shareholders authorised Directors to issue up to 10% of the prevailing fiscal fundamentals in the United States, US bonds Companys issued share capital for cash at a premium to the and equities performed relatively well as investors sought prevailing asset value at the time of each issue.
During the refuge in familiar asset classes.
Very little progress was made year we have continued to see a steady and strong demand towards resolving the developed worlds debt crisis as for the Companys shares resulting in the issue of 7.9 million policymakers baulked at the prospective pain of austerity new Ordinary shares representing 7.7% of the Ordinary packages.
New initiatives largely centred on printing more shares in issue at the start of the year.
Given the continuing money or issuing more debt, essentially just trying to buy demand for the Companys shares, the Board will be seeking Murray International Trust PLC 7 Chairmans Statement continued approval from shareholders to renew the authority to issue new shares for cash in 2012.
As in previous years, to avoid diluting the asset value of existing shareholders, new shares will only be issued at a premium to net asset value.
Resolutions to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors strongly encourage shareholders to support this proposal.
Directorate As stated in the Half-Yearly Report last August, during the year Mr Peter Dunscombe and Ms Ella Brown joined the Board and Mr John Trott retired as Chairman and as a Director.
Ms Ella Brown subsequently resigned in June in order to pursue a career opportunity overseas.
I would like to reiterate the Boards thanks to Mr Trott for his valuable contribution to the Company over many years.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held in London on 26 April 2012 at 12.30 p. m. at the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 33 Queen Street, London EC4R 1AP.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager and ask questions.
I would be grateful if you would confirm your attendance by completing the notice that will accompany the Annual Report and returning it together with an indication of any particular questions.
Outlook These are disturbing times for international financial markets.
Given the chronic structural indebtedness of the developed world, it is not difficult to envisage a protracted period of low growth as problems are slowly addressed.
Dependence on external financing to maintain solvency in those countries worst affected suggests markets may remain vulnerably exposed to changing sentiment.
Against this backdrop, trying to forecast future returns is futile.
Capital preservation and dividend growth remain core to the management philosophy for the Companys portfolio, so despite widespread uncertainty, nothing has changed in that respect.
The investment strategy will continue to focus on holding high quality, globally diversified companies that offer solid growth prospects.
Kevin Carter Chairman 28 February 2012 8 Murray International Trust PLC
