Business Review Chairmans Statement We can now look forward with confidence, excitement and ambition to building the future of the Company in new strategic directions from a position of significant strength.
SiR Bill Gammell Chairman 22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information ast year represented a watershed Greenland Outlook in Cairns corporate history.
The sale Cairn operates approximately 40% of the Cairns vision is to become the exploration L of the majority of our holding in CIL currently contracted exploration acreage company of choice for governments and to Vedanta in December 2011 marked the in Greenland.
Several of the worlds major investors by offering transformational culmination of an effective twenty year oil companies now have a presence in exploration potential within a well balanced association with the economic growth of the the country including Shell, Exxon, Statoil, exploration and production portfolio.
We can now look forward with Chevron, Conoco, Maersk and GdF.
Of the confidence, excitement and ambition to building 14 wells that have been drilled by the industry The completion of the transaction with the future of the Company in new strategic in Greenland to date, eight have been drilled Vedanta crystallises the significant value directions from a position of significant strength.
we have delivered from the Indian business, allowing us to return approximately $4.5 billion Following the Rajasthan discoveries in 2004, Whilst we have to date not established to shareholders over the last five years.
With Cairn elected to float its Indian business on commercial quantities of hydrocarbon, we a strong balance sheet and the first Greenland the Bombay Stock Exchange and National remain convinced that all of the ingredients farm-down completed, Cairn is well-positioned Stock Exchange of India in 2007, thereby for success in Greenland are present and we to access new opportunities and further growth establishing CIL as a majority owned but listed are delighted to welcome Statoil as a partner in 2012 and beyond.
Proceeds from the IPO in the Pitu Block.
enabled approximately $1 billion to be returned to shareholders, demonstrating the Companys All of the first stage work programme Sir Bill Gammell focus on not just creating, but also crystallising commitments have been fulfilled on our Chairman value, while a further $1 billion was re-invested acreage throughout Greenland and we are 23 March 2012 in the business.
The Company ceded control well placed to seek partners in selected areas of its Indian business late in 2011, when we in the future.
completed the sale of 40% of CIL to Vedanta.
The net proceeds of the Vedanta sale were Board approximately $5.4 billion, allowing a cash A number of changes to the composition of the return of $3.5 billion to shareholders in February Board of Directors took effect from 1 July 2011.
This brings the total cash returned to shareholders in the past five years to Norman Murray decided to stand down approximately $4.5 billion.
and turn his energies and attention to new challenges following 12 years on the Board, The remaining 22% shareholding in CIL, nine as Chairman.
Norman contributed currently valued at $2.9 billion by the Indian enormously to the growth of Cairn during market, along with current cash of $1.2 billion, this time, providing constructive challenges, provides financial flexibility and an excellent wise counsel and valuable guidance.
platform for Cairn to pursue future growth opportunities.
Malcolm Thoms, Chief Operating Officer, and Philip Tracy, Group Engineering and India Operations Director, also stepped down Cairns success in South Asia has created from the Board.
Both Malcolm and Phil significant value for shareholders and Cairn made substantial contributions to the India has one of the fastest growing production success of Cairn over the last 22 years.
profiles of any company in the world.
In particular, the desert site at Mangala has In Normans place, the Board decided that been transformed by the construction of the I should become Chairman and Simon Thomson MPT, hundreds of wells have been drilled and should be appointed Chief Executive.
infrastructure is now in place, including the longest heated pipeline in the world, to take Simon has been with Cairn for more than the Mangala and other crude to market.
15 years and has played an instrumental role in the delivery of Cairns strategy, including A significant consequence of concluding accessing the opportunities that Greenland the Vedanta transaction is that the Rajasthan offers as well as delivering value from Cairns JV is now aligned around a vision to increase interests in South Asia.
Simons energy and substantially production from the Rajasthan abilities are of outstanding value to Cairn and fields.
Achieving this vision will require further he has made a hugely positive impact in capital investments, partner and regulatory leading the business in his new role.
approvals as well as the cooperation of the Government of India GoI.
Jann Brown became Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer in light of widening It is a great source of pride that Cairn has made responsibilities including Human Resources, a difference wherever it has operated across Corporate Affairs and Company Secretarial.
the sub-continent and its success is testament to a longstanding vision that a well-balanced Dr Mike Watts continues in his role as Deputy exploration and production portfolio could be Chief Executive.
The executive team of Simon, Jann and Mike The oil output from Rajasthan helps the is well-placed to lead the Group into the future Indian economy as it reduces imports and and continue the strategic focus of delivering generates revenue for the Government, while significant growth potential in new directions.
the investment made by CIL and its partner, The Cairn Board continues to pursue diversity ONGC, into the exploration and development among its directors and senior executives: of the area has provided work for thousands currently two of its nine board members of people, and provided significant community are female.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 23
