BUSINESS OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT It is very satisfying to report to you that, having committed ourselves to a significant re-shaping of our Group and improved financial performance, 2011 marks a milestone in the achievement of those goals.
Our asset disposal programme not only allows us to South African business world will be directly relevant to our restructure and substantially strengthen our balance strategy to grow our emerging markets businesses and I sheet, but also to deliver real shareholder value welcome her to the Board.
Her appointment, along with through the proposed special dividend to be paid once thatof Eva Castillo which I reported last year, has helped the sale of our Nordic business has been completed.
usalready to achieve our 2013 year-end target for gender Reflecting the progress that has been made, diversity on the Board.
particularly during the last year, your company was, Dividends and share consolidation as the year began, the best performing insurance stock in the FTSE 100 Index in terms of total shareholder As well as the 18p per share special dividend that is to be return over the past three years.
paid followingthe completion of the Nordic sale, we have announced a significantly increased final dividend for the During 2011, we completed the sale of our US Life operation yearof 3.5p per existing share, equivalent to 4.0p per new and the closure of our Swiss business, in line with the ordinary share once our shares have been consolidated.
The commitments to simplify the Group that we gave to final dividend will be paid on 7 June 2012 at the same time as shareholders and our wider stakeholder interest group the special dividend and I would draw to your attention the in2010.
We are on track to complete the disposal of our full timetable for the final and special dividends and the share Nordic businesses later this month.
We have recently consolidation, which is set out in the Shareholder Information announced the sale of our business in Finland and of section of this document.
We anticipate further progression Dwight, one of our US Asset Management affiliates.
We inour ordinary dividends over the coming years.
In light of have also repaid 0.6 billion of debt to date as we move thecomplexity involved in our share consolidation, we have tocomplete our 1.5 billion debt repayment programme decided not to offer a scrip dividend alternative for this years bythe end of the current year.
final dividend and the Board will decide later this year whether to offer such an alternative for the 2012 interim dividend.
While AOP IFRS earnings per share grew to 15.7p from 14.3p after taking account of our Nordic operations being Annual General Meeting treated as discontinued, our net result after tax and Our AGM will be held in London on 10 May 2012 and will minorities recorded a profit of 667 million following a loss again be webcast.
There will also be an opportunity for of 282 million in 2010.
With the benefit of the forthcoming shareholders to submit questions to be dealt with at the receipt of the proceeds of sale from our Nordic operations, meeting.
The shareholder circular relating to the AGM we have indicated our intention to increase our overall debt includes further details of these matters.
repayment target by a further 200 million beyond the Shareholder communications previously-targeted figure of 1.5 billion in due course.
We are seeking to improve the efficiency with which The Companys recovery and progress during the wecommunicate with shareholders and to reduce our pastthree years are reflected in the remuneration of environmental footprint.
To this end, we will be moving, seniormanagement, as described in more detail in the laterin 2012, towards using electronic communications Remuneration Report, showing that we have successfully toagreater extent than currently.
Over 50,000 of our aligned management incentives with the delivery of shareholders already use electronic communications and we shareholder value.
I am pleased to note that the value anticipate that significant savings can be achieved through a created will also benefit the many participants around more general migration to electronic communications as the theGroup in our various employee share schemes.
Further details of what is involved including an option to continue to receive physical documents will be Board sent to shareholders later this year.
We have continued the process of refreshing the Board, with the retirements of Rudi Bogni and Nigel Andrews at Other matters last years AGM and the recruitment, announced today, of I am conscious of the role that companies like ours need Nku Nyembezi-Heita.
We believe that her experience of the to play in the wider communities in which we operate.
I am 10 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financial statements Shareholder information therefore particularly pleased to see the success of our Infrastructure, Housing and Agricultural funds in Africa and As we complete our threethe real difference these are making to local people.
year turnaround plan this I would like to express my and the Boards appreciation for the exceptional work that employees of the Group have done year, we look to the future during the year.
Our recovery and current strength are due to the continuing efforts of all of our staff around the world.
with confidence that we Future will continue to grow value The Group enjoys a much stronger balance sheet and for shareholders, while greater strategic focus as a result of the achievements of the past year.
The strength of our businesses in South Africa meeting our obligations encourages the Group to explore new African markets selectively, while we are also aiming to improve our wealth to all our stakeholders.
management businesses so that they will succeed in the ever more demanding developed markets driven by regulatory changes.
As we complete our three-year turnaround plan thisyear, we look to the future with confidence that we will continue to grow value for shareholders, while meeting our obligations to all ourstakeholders.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman 9 March 2012 Old Mutual plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
