Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement The Group has made considerable progress during the year ended 30 September 2011, with new investments in portfolios, new servicing contracts, new buy-to-let lending and strong credit performance and customer retention contributing to a significant increase in profits.
Since the year end, a further, significant, portfolio acquisition and the Groups first securitisation since 2007 have been completed.
The Group is well placed for future growth.
During the year ended 30 September 2011 the Group earned a profit of 80.8 million before taxation 2010: 71.8 million after exceptional gains on debt repurchase, an increase of 12.5%.
Underlying profit, before exceptional and fair value items, increased by 22.7% to 81.1 million for the year 2010: 66.1 million.
Earnings per share were 20.2p 2010: 18.3p, the increase from last year reecting the improved profits earned by the Group.
The Groups strategic focus has remained unchanged, to deliver value to shareholders by close management of the existing loan portfolio, which continued to perform well in the year, and by exploiting new opportunities, principally through investment in loan portfolios and through the re-establishment of our buy-to-let origination franchise.
These new developments have been of particular signicance this year.
Idem Capital, our dedicated investment subsidiary, has successfully built on the two portfolios purchased in prior years with three further investments during the financial year and another substantial portfolio purchase shortly after the year end.
Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust, our buy-to-let origination brands, have also re-established themselves in the lending market, supported by the 200.0 million warehouse facility signed in September 2010.
New loans of 127.0 million were advanced and a strong pipeline of business was in place at the end of the year.
In view of the results achieved and in line with the progressive dividend policy outlined in prior years, the Board has declared a final dividend of 2.65p per share 2010: 2.40p which, when added to the interim dividend of 1.35p, gives a total dividend of 4.00p per share for the year 2010: 3.60p, an increase of 11.1%.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 9 February 2012, the dividend will be paid on 13 February 2012, by reference to a record date of 13 January 2012.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Groups cash ow has been strong during the year, leading to an increase in free cash balances to 195.0 million at the year-end 30 September 2010: 147.8 million after investments to support new buy-to-let originations and acquisitions by Idem Capital.
The Company sees opportunities going forward to deploy capital for new lending activities, which should grow over time, and to invest in loan portfolios, through Idem Capital, as banks and other financial institutions fide-leverage in the coming years.
These cash balances, together with net cash receipts going forward, will support the Groups investments in these areas.
Consistent with our aim to follow a progressive dividend policy, the Company has declared a final dividend for the year of 2.65p per share which, when added to the interim dividend, makes a total dividend of 4.00p per share.
The Company will keep under review the appropriate level of capital for the business to meet its operational requirements and strategic development objectives.
In accordance with our usual practice, we will be proposing at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a special resolution seeking authority from shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 29.9 million of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital.
It is customary for companies to seek such authority but we would not expect to utilise the authority unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, we consider that to do so would enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Given the operational and strategic opportunities described above, the Board has no current intention of using this authority.
Chairmans statement 5 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010.
A detailed explanation of how those principles are applied is given in the Corporate Governance section on page 39 to 43 of this annual report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS On 11 February 2011, Peter Hartill was appointed by the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Mr Hartill, a Chartered Accountant, is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Deeley Group and a Non-Executive Director of Scott Bader Limited.
Previously, he spent 40 years with Deloitte, becoming a Senior Audit Partner and a Business Advisor with experience across a wide range of industries and business issues.
Specically he has considerable experience in acquisitions and disposals, capital raising, risk control and corporate governance in the financial services sector.
On 27 July 2011 Terry Eccles, who remains on the Board, stepped down from his previous position as Senior Independent Director and Christopher Newell stepped down as Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
They were replaced by Ted Tilly and Peter Hartill respectively.
Alan Fletcher replaced Ted Tilly as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
On 31 October 2011 Christopher Newell resigned from the Board of Directors after ten years of service.
The Board would like to record its gratitude for his considerable support during the years he has been a Director.
STAFF The excellent progress we have made during the year would not have been achieved without the hard work and dedication of our staff and my fellow directors.
I thank them all for their efforts.
CONCLUSION During the year the Group has successfully pursued its strategy to deliver shareholder value through purchasing portfolios, recommencing new lending, entering into new servicing agreements and continuing the careful management of the extant portfolios.
Since the year-end the Group has completed a further, substantial, portfolio acquisition and successfully executed a 163.8 million securitisation under difficult market conditions, the Groups first since 2007.
The current difficulties in the Eurozone create serious uncertainties for the future course of the UK economy, with continued weakness being likely for some considerable time.
However, Paragon continues to manage, actively and prudently, its portfolio of high quality originated assets, whilst looking to extract value from the acquired assets and use its strong liquidity for new lending and portfolio investment opportunities.
We believe that the opportunities being created by the fide-leveraging activities of the larger banks and financial institutions will create acquisition and servicing opportunities for the Group, where our proven experience and expertise in taking over the running of portfolios and extracting value makes Paragon a natural partner or co-investor for larger transactions.
Sound foundations are therefore in place for further growth in the present financial year.
ROBERT G DENCH Chairman 22 November 2011 6 Chairmans statement
