02 About Your Company Chairmans Statement CHAIRMANS STATeMeNT Richard Wakeling Your Company has enjoyed a good year Review of the year and performance The technology sector was the object of growing media Your Company has enjoyed a good year to 30 April 2011 in and investor attention as the year progressed.
Notwithstanding the weakness of our much of this focussed on the spectacular growth of primary investment currency, the US Dollar, the Net Asset social networking and on Apples transformation of the Value per share rose by 17.0%.
In doing so, it substantially computing and mobile communications landscapes, outperformed the 4.7% sterling adjusted return of the Dow our own attentions were equally drawn by the growing Jones Technology Index.
evidence that our new cycle thesis was well founded.
The reorientation of corporate technology spending, the high The Companys shares experienced a further rerating prices paid by last generation technology companies and ended the year at a modest premium to NAV.
This to secure strategic next generation technology and enabled us to make a one for five subscription share the continuing and dramatic growth in the earnings of issue in February and also to issue new ordinary shares the better positioned companies all bore witness to for the first time in five years.
Our share price return the existence of a new cycle.
Over the last year, we over the financial year of 21.7% compares favourably observed a growing polarisation in the performance with equity returns in most major markets and we have and valuation of technology companies, one that derived much encouragement from the many positive helped our manager to outperform our benchmark.
developments in the technology industry over the year.
Fees After the exceptional equity market returns of the At the year end, our NAV per share had returned previous year, we had anticipated that it would be harder to the level prevailing at the end of April 2000, to make progress in 2010-11.
After a difficult start to notwithstanding the 50% decline in the Index since our year, stock markets moved higher over the balance then.
Accordingly, the Directors are pleased to report of the period, gaining considerable momentum with that the good performance of the Company has confirmation of the US Federal Reserves decision to resulted in the payment of a performance fee for the extend quantitative easing.
However, the year was first time in 10 years.
Bull markets are often described as climbing a wall of worry but it might be more accurate Outlook Few of the sources of last years anxiety have gone to describe this one as scrambling up a veritable Eiger of angst.
Each quarter saw new woes drive anxious investors away.
Indeed, macro concerns persist and there is growing apprehension about the implications of towards the sanctuaries of cash, gold and pharmaceutical supplements.
Greek debt, oil spills in the Gulf of Mexico, the suspension of quantitative easing at the end of June 2011, particularly so as, in a number of countries, Irish bankruptcy, Euro contagion, the prospect of an economic double dip, Chinese tightening in the face monetary and fiscal policy tightening are set to coincide.
Inflationary concerns have not yet fed through to wage of gathering inflation and a rising tide of commodity prices, political unrest in the Arab world and, most inflation outside the emerging markets but rising input prices may mean that corporate profit margins are at or momentously and tragically, the Japanese earthquake all took their toll.
Yet, the combination of expansionary very close to their peak.
If so, then revenue growth will increasingly be the critical differentiator of corporate monetary policy, a lack of competing attractions for investors cash and some remarkable corporate performance and the micro outlook, while still positive, is likely to prove less of a driver for share prices over earnings growth more than outweighed these issues.
However, corporate cash flows are Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 About Your Company Chairmans Statement 03 exceptionally strong, increasing the likelihood of more Board merger and acquisition activity and an extended period Following my decision to retire at the end of this years of robust capital spending.
Moreover, valuations remain AGM the Board initiated a search for a new director using modest and equities are not facing stiff competition an external recruitment agency.
The search was very for investors cash.
Consequently, we expect the grind successful and we decided to look ahead and appoint two higher to continue over the next year but would not be new directors who will join the Board on 30 June.
Peter surprised to encounter some tense and testing periods Hames and Sarah Bates offer a number of different skills of share price weakness during the months ahead.
all of which we believe will make them excellent additions to the Board.
Within technology, we face an interesting dilemma.
The new generation of technology companies continues There is never a perfect moment to step down as to offer very strong earnings growth but could not be Chairman but I am pleased to be able to do so from a considered cheap on conventional valuation yardsticks.
position of corporate strength and following a period of In contrast, the very large capitalisation and generally strong asset growth.
I am delighted that the Board have older companies promise little or no growth but are appointed Michael Moule to succeed me and I wish him unquestionably inexpensive.
They are also, partly out and our new Directors great success in their new roles.
of exasperation with the lack of interest they have been I would like to extend the same good wishes to the rest attracting from investors, becoming more active in of the team that manage the Company and thank buying back shares and raising their dividends.
While it shareholders for their support over the last nearly is a challenge for our Manager to balance the portfolio fifteen years.
correctly between the very different attractions of these AGM two technology groups, it is also likely to produce exciting We will hold our AGM at the RAC Club in Pall Mall, opportunities.
Certainly, we expect the new cycle trends to London on 4August 2011 at 12 noon and hope that broaden further and penetrate deeper over the next year.
Just as the 1990s witnessed a sustained increase in the Finally, I would like to congratulate the Manager on proportion of capital spending devoted to technology, so winning the Techmark 2010 Award as Technology Fund now we are seeing a similar trend as companies focus on Manager of the Year for the second year in succession.
the application of technology to enhance productivity.
Given the strength and positive outlook for corporate cash flows, and hence spending, we expect to see our Richard Wakeling sector enjoy material benefits over the years ahead.
15 June 2011 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 AbouT YouR ComPAnY
