14 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CHAIRMANS STATEMENT chairmans statement Our mission is to be the leading non-standard lender in the UK and Ireland, acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the communities we serve.
We aim to be successful, but also to be a good corporate citizen.
John van Kuffeler, Chairman Vanquis Bank has delivered an excellent The group's funding group results performance in 2011 with profits up 65.5% The group has reported a good set of results and liquidiTy posiTion to 44.2m 2010: 26.7m.
This was ahead with pre-tax profit up 12.2% to 162.1m 1 of managements internal plans due to the 2010: 144.5m, reflecting a sound is exTremely robusT, strength of the delinquency performance.
The performance in the Consumer Credit Division wiTh The balance sheeT step-up in the growth rate from the second CCD and continued strong growth in half of 2010 has been maintained throughout Vanquis Bank.
Earnings per share of 89.6p reflecTing sTable 1 2011, supported by heavy investment in the 2010: 78.6p grew by 14.0%, a marginally gearing of 3.2 Times customer acquisition programme.
As a result, faster rate than pre-tax earnings reflecting the year-on-year customer growth of 27.0% and fall in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% 2010: 3.3 Times and a average receivables growth of 35.3% was to 26% on 1 April 2011. significanT surplus of achieved against unchanged underwriting Home Credit delivered profits of 127.5m, standards.
Delinquency levels have remained regulaTory capiTal.
which is stated after the one-off cost of stable at record lows for the business due to 2m from implementing the requirements the strong underlying quality of the receivables of the EU Consumer Credit Directive 2010: book.
This has allowed Vanquis Bank to deliver 129.1m, which included a 2m benefit from a risk-adjusted margin of 35.0% in 2011 an extra trading week.
Throughout 2011, 2010: 33.9%, as well as a post-tax return managements focus has remained on serving on equity in excess of the threshold set for good-quality existing customers as a response the business of 30%.
to the continuing pressure on household The groups funding and liquidity position incomes from under-employment and the is extremely robust, with the balance sheet rising cost of food, fuel and utility bills.
The reflecting stable gearing of 3.2 times 2010: proportion of credit issued to new customers 3.3 times and a significant surplus of was reduced through tighter underwriting regulatory capital.
The retail deposits introduced at the start of 2011.
As a result, programme at Vanquis Bank is now fully customer numbers declined by 1.9% in the established and running ahead of plan.
As year whilst strong credit quality supported at 31 December 2011, 140m of fixed-rate average receivables growth of 4.0%.
deposits had been taken at rates of between A strong collections performance assisted 3.15% and 4.65%.
Vanquis Banks retail by enhancements made to the agents deposits programme is well on track to commission scheme earlier in the year achieve its target of funding up to 80% of produced a reduction in the ratio of its receivables book with deposits by the end impairment to revenue from 32.9% at of 2012.
The group has recently entered into December 2010 to 32.1% at December 2011. a new 382.5m syndicated bank facility maturing in May 2015 and has cancelled 1 2010 earnings stated before an exceptional cost of 2.5m.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 15 all existing committed bank facilities.
The We announced in our Interim Management new facility carries a very similar all-in cost Statement in October that we supported the of funds to the previous facility.
Headroom Davies Review Women on Boards together on the groups committed debt facilities at with the Financial Reporting Councils 31December 2011 amounted to 288m Statement on proposed changes to the Code which, together with the recent renewal relating to gender diversity on boards.
The of bank facilities and the retail deposits board recognises the need to increase the programme at Vanquis Bank, is sufficient population of female employees at the most to fund maturities and projected growth senior levels in the company whilst always in the business until May 2015. seeking to recruit individuals that create the right mix of knowledge, experience and skills The group generated capital of 110.1m and therefore it will aim to reach a target of 25% in 2011, significantly exceeding dividends women on the board by 2015, currently 14% payable in respect of 2011 of 93.2m.
and a target of 25% of women within the wider Vanquis Bank is now generating surplus capital senior management group by the same date.
over and above that required to fund its own remuneration growth and maintain its regulatory capital Our Remuneration Committee established the base.
This surplus is available for distribution remuneration policy for 2011 by adopting an to Provident Financial plc and amounted to approach which was fundamentally consistent 14.8m in 2011.
Accordingly, Vanquis Bank with the 2010 remuneration policy, designed paid its first dividend of 5m to Provident following consultation with key shareholders Financial plc in July and is due to pay a further in 2010.
In 2011, executive director salaries dividend in respect of 2011 of 5m in were increased by a similar percentage to that March 2012. which was applied to our general workforce The proposed final dividend has been and we made no changes to the operation increased by 11.0% to 42.3p 2010: 38.1p of our long-term incentive schemes, save for which, together with the 5.1% increase in the the introduction of a claw-back provision.
Our interim dividend, represents an 8.7% increase Remuneration Committee, with the assistance in the total dividend per share to 69.0p of our Risk Advisory Committee, carried out 2010: 63.5p.
Dividend cover for 2011 a detailed review of the risks that affect or may increased to 1.30 times 2010: 1.24 times affect our remuneration policy in light of the which is consistent with the groups target recommendations set out in the Financial of maintaining annual dividend cover of at Service Authoritys FSA Remuneration Code least 1.25 times.
The increase in the full-year and in the Walker Review.
It established a dividend is supported by the growth in remuneration framework risk assessment earnings and strong capital generation.
process and on the basis of this assessment, including in particular the internal controls governance operated by the company and the balanced In 2011, we fully embraced the principles approach taken to target setting under the of the UK Corporate Governance Code the companys long-term incentive schemes, Code, taking the opportunity to implement was satisfied that no undue risk-taking was certain of its provisions in advance of their being encouraged.
In particular, all of our directors retired at the AGM in May and were duly Our Remuneration Committee has continued re-elected and we used an external facilitator to to work with our Risk Advisory Committee carry out our annual board evaluation in 2010. throughout 2011 to keep the remuneration policy under review.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 16 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW AND MANAGEMENT REPORT: CHAIRMANS STATEMENT chairmans statement Further details of how we approach the issue corporate responsiBility of Corporate Responsibility can be found on boTh businesses enTer Our mission is to be the leading non-standard pages 26 to 32 of this report and in the lender in the UK and Ireland, acting 2012 wiTh The benefiT Corporate Responsibility report which is responsibly in all our relationships and playing published separately each year.
a positive role in the communities we serve.
of very sound crediT We aim to be successful, but also to be a good risk management qualiTy resulTing from corporate citizen.
In 2011, we continued to embed our risk The applicaTion of TighT management framework into our business Our commitment to corporate responsibility operations.
The effective management of manifests itself in many ways.
We seek to lend crediT sTandards and the key risks facing our business, which are responsibly to our customers and do so by a sTrong operaTional summarised on pages 73 to 75 is integral providing them with products that meet their to the achievement of our business plans needs for small sums and high levels of performance in 2011. and strategic objectives.
contact with our staff and agents.
We want to be a force for good in our industry and so we During 2011 we have: generally participate whenever the Government effectively managed our credit risk with or regulators request input on issues both businesses performing well despite concerning our sector.
We provide financial help to the money advice Vanquis Bank maintained its tight sector to support it in its important work of underwriting approach and CCD tightened helping people who are struggling with debt.
the underwriting criteria for new customers We want to protect the environment and so we and re-serving existing customers as its work hard to manage our use of energy, water focus has been on reinforcing the quality and paper.
And we want the communities we of the receivables book: serve to be safe and vibrant places in which further diversified our sources of funding, to live and work and so we invest in our Good mitigating the capital and liquidity risks Neighbour programme.
This programme facing the group.
We successfully launched provides financial support, and help from our our retail deposits programme within Vanquis staff, to organisations based in the communities Bank and after the year end we successfully we serve which are addressing issues such as renewed our syndicated bank facilities: and crime prevention, unemployment, low levels implemented the requirements of the EUs of educational attainment, and health and Consumer Credit Directive in our businesses well-being.
In all these ways, we try to live and continued to respond to consultations up to the responsibility agenda within our on proposed regulatory changes that corporate mission.
are affecting the broader financial The group is very proud to have received a services sector.
maximum rating score of 100 and be ranked joint first globally amongst financial services companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series which measures the environmental, social and governance ratings of over 2,300 publiclylisted companies worldwide.
This achievement reflects the continued investment that the group and its employees have made in embedding the corporate responsibility programme across all areas of the business.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review anD management report 17 regulation outlook The group implemented relevant parts of the Both businesses enter 2012 with the benefit Irresponsible Lending Guidance for Creditors of very sound credit quality resulting from and the EU Directive on Consumer Credit by the application of tight credit standards and the February 2011 deadline and a number a strong operational performance in 2011. of other pieces of new Office of Fair Trading Credit standards will remain unchanged whilst OFT guidance during 2011. pressure on customers disposable incomes continues in an employment market that On 1 November 2011, the FSA and OFT is displaying some weakness.
issued a joint consultation document on proposed guidance to firms in relation to The groups funding position is extremely payment protection products.
New medium-term debt funding builds on existing high-level guidance from totalling 190m was arranged in 2011, the FSA and reaffirms previous OFT guidance.
Vanquis Bank established its retail deposits The consultation is wide-ranging and covers programme which raised 140m during 2011 both insurance products regulated by the and the group recently renewed early its core FSA and non-insurance products generally bank facility of 382.5m through to May regulated by the OFT such as the Repayment 2015.
The group has funding to meet all Option Plan made available to Vanquis Bank contractual debt maturities and execute in full customers.
Final guidance is expected to be on its growth plan into 2015.
Importantly, the published by summer 2012. retail deposits programme has established stand-alone funding to allow Vanquis Bank On 21 November 2011, the Government to continue to invest in developing the growth published its response to the HM Treasury opportunity available in the non-standard BIS review of consumer credit and personal credit card market.
As part of its response, the Government announced that Bristol The focus in 2012 is to maintain tight credit Universitys Personal Finance Research standards whilst developing opportunities for Centre PFRC had been appointed to carry growth and greater operational effectiveness out research into the impact of introducing in CCD and continuing to invest heavily in a variable cap on the total cost of high cost the customer acquisition programme at credit.
An update on progress is expected Vanquis Bank.
in spring 2012 and the findings are due In the first two months of 2012, CCD has to be announced by summer 2012. seen a robust collections performance and On 27 January 2012, the Government Vanquis Bank has continued to trade strongly.
published the draft Financial Services Bill.
The group is in a position to make further good The Bill enables the creation of a new progress in 2012. regulatory architecture for financial services and the transfer of responsibility for regulating John van Kuffeler consumer credit from the OFT to the Financial Chairman Conduct Authority.
The Government has 28 February 2012 stated that the exercise of this power is subject to identifying the appropriate model for consumer credit regulation.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011
