02 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans statement These results demonstrate the strength Tim Eggar and quality of Capes business and its growth Chairman prospects.
The Group is targeting markets with strong fundamental growth drivers and has made significant investments in both hard assets and people in 2011 to ensure we are able to resource these opportunities.
I am pleased to report that Cape delivered a robust performance in 2011.
Despite the setback of a loss-making Governance one-off rig refurbishment contract previously announced in our IMS of 9 November 2011, these results demonstrate Cape is committed to achieving high the strength and quality of Capes business and its growth standards of business integrity, ethics and prospects.
Our strong revenue growth in the second half professionalism across its worldwide operations.
of the year provides evidence of the continuing progress we are making as we realise our vision of becoming the The Board leading specialist provider of our range of essential nonThe Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall mechanical services.
management and performance of the Group.
Cape continues to enjoy a well balanced revenue stream Audit Committee with 54% 2010: 56% of our revenues derived from The Audit Committee is responsible for internal control essential plant maintenance production support activities and risk management, financial reporting, internal audit and c. 40% derived from construction support services.
and external audit including auditor independence.
The fundamental dynamics driving the marketplace for our Go to page 36 for more information.
services are the essential operating expenditure opex on maintenance of ageing infrastructure assets, particularly in Remuneration Committee the UK, as well as committed spend on major energy and The Remuneration Committee determines the resources construction projects in our strategically selected remuneration and conditions of employment of markets internationally.
the Executive Directors and senior managers.
Go to page 22 for more information.
Results Group revenue increased 11.1% to 722.5 million 2010: 650.1 Nomination Committee million with adjusted profit before tax increasing to 69.4 million The Nomination Committee is responsible for monitoring 2010: 69.1 million.
The adjusted diluted earnings per share and formally reviewing the performance, composition, were 43.8p 2010: 42.6p and basic earnings per share were balance and expertise of the Board as a whole and 40.2p 2010: 42.6p.
These results include the full impact of appraising the contribution of individual Directors, the specific one-off charges and in particular a 4.1 million including a review of their time commitment and charge for the loss-making rig refurbishment contract in the attendance records.
UK which was completed in the first week of January 2012.
Go to page 37 for more information.
We saw strong double digit revenue growth in the second half in three of our four regions.
During 2011 we also saw the medium-term LNG opportunity in Australia become more clearly defined with a further five projects achieving FID Final Investment Decision in addition to the three already under construction.
We have also seen the commencement of several new downstream projects in the Gulf Middle East and the commencement of our works on the Sonatrach GL3-Z LNG project in Algeria.
These developments give us confidence that demand for our construction support services will continue to gain momentum in our chosen markets.
Further commentary on these results and the regional performances is contained in the Regional Business Review.
Rigging safety training at Capes training facility, The Philippines Overall our performance in the year demonstrates our proven ability to meet the exacting needs of our blue-chip customers both in terms of operational execution and 2011 Operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 03 Karachaganak site in Aksai, Kazakhstan safety.
This is being achieved through a combination of FSU, Eastern Europe and Russia for Intertek, which provides advantages including the outstanding quality of our people inspection, certification and testing services to clients in and the innovative solutions that Cape provides to meet oil & gas, power and other industries.
Brendan was previously customer requirements.
Chief Executive Officer of Moody International which was acquired by Intertek and prior to this, he spent more than We continue to pursue our well defined strategy of developing 25 years with Schlumberger.
the business through organic growth and targeted acquisitions in both existing and new geographies, while continuously Immediately following the announcement that Martin May improving the efficiency of our operations.
We completed two was standing down, Brendan was appointed acting Chief bolt-on acquisitions in 2011 and are actively progressing a Executive.
The Board is delighted that Brendan has agreed number of further opportunities which meet our specific criteria.
Brendan has made a big contribution since joining our Board and has extensive CEO and Dividend senior management experience in the Energy sector.
Cape The Board is pleased to recommend a Final Dividend of has a world-class business and is supported by excellent 9.5p 2010: 8.0p.
This brings the total dividend for the year management and hugely talented staff.
The Board remains committed Committee has commenced a search for a replacement to a progressive dividend policy, and will review the return and a permanent appointment will be made in due course.
of capital to shareholders during 2012 in conjunction with progress against our growth plans.
As previously announced, David McManus, who has served as a Non-Executive Director for 8 years, latterly as Chairman Corporate governance of the Remuneration Committee, will step down from the I am pleased to confirm that as at 31 December 2011 Cape Cape Board when a suitable replacement has been found.
was in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance His independent advice and significant contribution to our Code.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head success have been greatly appreciated and he will leave of the Company, and our Committees operate effectively the Board with our thanks and best wishes.
We will make through independent Non-Executives with a good balance of a further announcement in due course.
skills, experience and knowledge of the Company.
The Audit Committee is actively engaged in a review of the Groups risk I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the skills management processes and controls.
The work of the Board and dedication of employees throughout the Group, many of Committees is described more fully in the Corporate whom I have now had the opportunity to meet, who have once Governance report on page 30. again delivered a creditable performance.
Their skills, and the strength of the management team, are the real assets of Cape.
People On 29 March 2012, Cape announced that Martin May was Outlook and prospects standing down as Chief Executive and as a Director of the The Group is targeting markets with strong fundamental Company with immediate effect to pursue a new challenge.
growth drivers and has made significant investments in both hard assets, people and know-how in 2011.
Trading I would like to thank Martin for his leadership over the last 10 momentum has continued into the new year with excellent successful years at Cape, a period during which Martin turned visibility and the Board is confident that Cape is wellthe Company around and steered it to becoming a leader in positioned for continued growth.
the industrial access, insulation and coating sectors.
He has been at the forefront of Capes growth and value delivery and played a key role in expanding its international activities, work which contributed to Cape returning to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange in 2011 and its joining the FTSE 250 Tim Eggar index.
I would like to wish him every success for the future.
Chairman 13 April 2012 On 16 November 2011, I was pleased to invite Brendan Connolly to join the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Brendan is currently Regional President for the Middle East, Throughout this document, various non-statutory measures are used and referred to as adjusted.
These are defined and reconciled to their statutory equivalents in note 5 on page 60.
