Chairmans statement Mark Nicholls Governance, Board and senior management Chairman As chairman, I have to ensure that we have the best possible Board to give leadership to the business and that, through our non-executive directors, we can provide appropriate challenge to management.
My main priorities here have been to streamline the working of the Board and to prepare for the departure from an executive role of Richard Lanyon, our long-standing and highly regarded head of investment management.
I have been working closely with Andy Pomfret I became chairman in May 2011 and feel privileged to be and my other Board colleagues on all these areas.
The first the first chairman to be appointed from outside the firm.
decision we made was to appoint Paul Chavasse as successor I would like to thank my predecessor Mark Powell, who has to Richard Lanyon, which was announced on 1 July 2011.
Our made the transition very easy for me.
In this brief statement decision came after a rigorous review of our management I shall outline my areas of focus as a new chairman in the within the Group.
This review has, in turn, laid the foundations context of Rathbones as I see it today.
for a more structured development programme for our senior management, which is essential for good succession planning.
I have a background in financial services but not in private client investment management.
I have, therefore, spent a As a business in the financial sector in 2012 we must maintain considerable amount of time learning about the business.
The Board has recently I have found Rathbones to be a robust business which depends undertaken an evaluation of its own performance, of its on a number of factors: the high quality of our investment committees and individual directors.
Although the evaluation managers: the strong relationship between those investment was generally positive, a number of improvements have been managers and their clients: the value of our central investment suggested and these will be implemented.
I am delighted to say process and systems: and finally our collegiate culture and the discussions we have had as part of this important process embedded compliance practices.
All of these factors together have been refreshingly open and constructive.
represent a solid platform which has enabled us to build Our performance evaluation also concluded that we had an enviable reputation.
It is this we strive to preserve.
an appropriate balance of skills on the Board.
The Board continues to believe that, whilst the best qualified candidate Strategy review should be appointed to any role, a range of backgrounds, skills and experience is desirable.
Gender diversity plays Last October we held our annual strategy meeting involving an important part in this.
the Board and senior management where we focused our discussion on three areas: growing our core investment In accordance with best practice, all directors will be seeking management business: developing our tax, trust and family re-election at the AGM.
office business: and partnering with the IFA community.
The analysis and discussion at the meeting will help us develop our Shareholder engagement plans further and enhance the value of what we have built up over time.
We have a tradition at Rathbones of close engagement with our investors and, although this is largely carried out by Andy Pomfret and Paul Stockton, I have been delighted Risk to meet some of our largest shareholders to discuss our We have had several detailed discussions on risk at the mutual aspirations.
I look forward to a continuing dialogue Board.
We regard the greatest risks to Rathbones as threats with shareholders on the many issues that arise out of the to our reputation, regulatory intervention in our sector and challenges and opportunities we face.
the counterparty risk inherent in being a bank.
We have As you will see from Andy Pomfrets report, we produced added two non-executive directors to our risk management a solid performance in 2011 in difficult circumstances.
committee which also consists of the heads of all our major I hope you will find this years annual report provides a clear departments and have recently taken the decision to appoint account of how we run our business and what we have a non-executive director as chairman.
I am delighted that achieved during the year.
Kathryn Matthews has agreed to take on this important role from 1 March 2012.
Her wide experience of the investment Mark Nicholls management industry will be of great benefit to us.
Chairman 20 February 2012 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 3
