60 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance Chairmans report In order that the Board can ensure that the strategic direction and growth of the Corporate Group can continue successfully and with the appropriate risk oversight, I am pleased to present to you this report on the work of the Capita Group Board meetings are held between the Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance and governance report during 2011.
This section of the Report and Accounts pages 57 to 85 together the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Compliance Director and with the Business Review on pages 1 to 56 form the Directors Report.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee throughout the year as well as the normal I continue to be impressed by the Boards commitment to the highest standard scheduled meetings.
Risks are identified in a number of ways and are prioritised of corporate governance, and most importantly how this works within the and delegated in accordance with the risk ratings provided.
An additional structure of the whole organisation without being overly cumbersome.
meeting of the Audit Committee was held this year to review the risk profile It is vital that a Board balances its time between strategy and oversight, as this across the Group and to ensure that it reflected the Groups overall appetite responsibility is given to them by the shareholders, but consideration of all its for risk.
I believe that this balance is managed well within Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2011 Capita at Board, divisional and business unit level.
During the year the Boards discussions have been wide-ranging, including: Results for 2011 strategy, acquisitions, finance, corporate reporting, operational performance and When determining the Executive Directors remuneration for 2011 a stretching risk and business assurance.
An increased amount of time was spent on our target was agreed with them at the beginning of 2011. acquisitions due to the number we have completed this year.
The work of the Board is shown in the diagram below.
Although Capita has had a strong sales year securing new major contracts and has performed well in challenging trading conditions, achieving revenue growth 1 1.
Strategy 20% 8 of 7%, underlying operating profit growth of 8%, and an underlying EPS growth 7 2.
Risk 15% of 8%, the agreed stretching target was not met for the first time in over a 3.
In line with our policy of remuneration based upon meeting 4.
Operations 10% performance targets, no bonuses have been awarded to the Executive and 5.
Acquisitions 15% Divisional Directors for the period under review.
Corporate reporting 5% As explained in our 2010 reporting, in January 2011 we appointed Vic Gysin and 8.
Other 5% Andy Parker as Joint Chief Operating Officers and Simon Pilling stepped down from the Board.
I believe that we have a talented and strong team in place on the 3 Group Board and across our divisional management team to support our 5 continued growth as a Group.
4 During 2011 the Board discussed a range of items as well as the business as usual of strategy, risk and oversight of the Group.
The Group has undertaken a record number of acquisitions and had its best year on record for securing new and renewed major contracts.
The Board and committee meetings are structured and agendas drawn up accordingly to cover the wide range of matters that are brought to their attention and the meetings are aligned with the financial calendar of the Company: this ensures that appropriate focus can be given to the items brought to their attention.
