RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 4 It is an old market adage: bull markets climb a wall of worry.
The past year certainly saw a bull market develop once early 2010 market weakness was overcome.
But it just as certainly, also, reinforced a wall of worry.
In the year to 31 March 2011, your Companys net asset value per share NAV appreciated by 9.3% to 1,289.4p, marking a new high NAV level.
The MSCI World Index in Sterling, the most relevant benchmark, rose by 5.2% and the FTSE All-Share Index rose by 5.4% over this period.
Our focus remains unchanged: to deliver longer term gains while preserving shareholders capital.
Over the past 5 and 10 years our returns now stand at 31.2% Lord Rothschild and 166.2% as compared with MSCI World Index returns in Sterling of 8.2% and Chairman 11.1%.
The latest available NAV, at 20 May, was 1,265.4p.
The dominant investment development this past year has been the rise in commodity prices accompanied by a decline in the value of the US Dollar against most currencies.
The Thomson Reuters Jefferies CRB Index of commodities appreciated by over 30%, with gold and oil rising by almost 29% and 25% respectively, while the trade-weighted Dollar declined by more than 6%.
I pointed out last year that, with returns on cash negligible, money would seek higher-returning asset classes, and thus incur more risk.
So the continued advance in the prices of most financial assets has not come as a surprise.
There was renewed faith in the persistent growth of the BRICs Brazil, Russia, India and China.
But inflationary pressures grew there too.
Two things resulted from this: commodities and related equity sectors generated the highest returns.
Yet, overall, emerging markets appreciated only modestly more than developed markets because fear of inflation made valuations seem reasonably full.
The gathering flight from the Dollar served only to exacerbate the search for investment refuges safe from currency devaluation.
The very success of US and other governments policies in printing money to refloat financial assets has contributed to the strength of commodity prices and exacerbated inflationary pressures.
Whatever the current uncertainties, we remain clear as to what we will do.
We will stay liquid and nimble enough to respond to financial crises when they occur: and we will continue to seek out investments that create fundamental, lasting value.
To serve both these aims, in January we took out a US $400 million credit facility which we drew in full, locking in historically low borrowing rates.
ASSET ALLOCATION We set out below our asset allocation, shown as a percentage of your Companys total net assets.
% of net assets at % of net assets at 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 Quoted equities 14.7 19.5 Long equity funds 39.1 40.9 Hedge funds 6.4 7.8 Unquoted direct investments 11.6 10.2 Unquoted fund investments 11.0 10.5 Real assets 14.1 11.6 Absolute return, fixed income and currency 0.6 2.3 Liquidity 15.4 14.6 Borrowings 12.6 16.8 Other assets liabilities 0.3 0.6 Total net assets 100.0 100.0 5 Our level of public market exposure has stayed broadly between 50% and 70% over the year.
We maintained above-average exposure to the commodity and related sectors as well as a significant exposure to emerging markets, in particular to sectors aimed at growing domestic demand within these economies.
Some US-orientated growth and large capitalisation stock funds also performed well for us.
Recently, we have started to build modest exposure to frontier markets in the belief that many of the factors that made the BRICs attractive some years ago are today present in these markets.
Real assets too were a major contributor to performance with a return of around 28% on our average exposure of 13% to these strategies.
Funds invested in oil and gold shares, as well as exposure to gold and oil via futures, were the primary drivers of return.
More recently, we have made some reductions to our exposure in these areas.
The unquoted portfolio as a whole produced gains of a little over 15%.
Notable disposals in the period under review included our holding in The Economist Newspaper which was sold for 24.7 million in December 2010.
Taken together with dividends received of 15.1 million, this investment has generated a profit of 38.3 million for your Company over the years, compared with its original cost of 1.5 million in 1988.
This represents a multiple of 27x and an IRR of 21% over this 22-year period.
Shareholders may remember that we were cornerstone investors in a new private equity fund, Darwin, in 2007 which raised committed capital of 217 million, of which we represented 50 million.
In February 2011 Darwin realised their first investment, Maximuscle, at 2.7x their cost, representing an IRR of 37%.
The benefit to us of this transaction amounted to some 12 million.
Agora Oil and Gas has prospered due to its involvement in the Catcher field in the UK North Sea, where substantial resources of oil have been found.
Although the increased level of tax on UK North Sea profits is a negative factor, Agora will be focusing its exploration on the Norwegian sector of the North Sea.
Therefore, an important development for Agora is the exploration agreement it recently signed with Statoil the leading Norwegian oil company, to co-operate in the Norwegian and UK sectors of the North Sea.
Last year, I emphasised the importance that we place on managing our currency exposure and diversifying our exposure amongst currencies other than Sterling.
We continue to believe that this is the right approach.
However, as Sterling appreciated during the year against some other currencies, particularly the US Dollar, the value of non-Sterling investments suffered on translation back into Sterling.
Let me look now at the time ahead.
I reminded shareholders in my Chairmans Statement last year that our aim of preserving shareholders capital takes precedence over short-term capital growth if we feel that there remains above-average risk of capital loss.
There is, I believe, a growing awareness of the dangerous position which confronts many countries, particularly those in the developed world.
In spite of these concerns, we continue to take advantage of areas that we believe are attractive, but we will remain cautious in terms of the quantum of capital that we allocate.
For instance, your Company has benefited from the rise in commodity prices.
Yet a noted US strategist has pointed out that commodity returns relative to equity returns are at a 200-year high on a rolling 10-year basis.
We are not alone in having noted the attractive level of valuation of many quality companies, eclipsed till now by commodity and cyclical companies.
After a decade of commodity leadership, a shift to a new regime is a possibility: identifying a new trend, if indeed it comes to pass, will be a major factor in future investment performance.
The risks ahead are glaring and global.
The US recovery is fragile, with millions unable to find work.
The Dollar has diminished in value and the government deficit has ballooned.
In Europe, the fate of the Monetary Union is in doubt and growth is likely to slow as the European Union seeks to rein in government deficits and spending in a number of their member countries.
Japans challenge following the earthquake and tsunami is monumental.
The Middle East uprisings have led to a surge in oil prices.
Inflation is threatening in emerging markets.
African and other poor nations are suffering from grain prices which have risen by about 70%.
It is likely that the withdrawal of the fiscal and monetary stimuli which will surely come soon will have an impact on global growth: indeed there is already evidence of some slowing down since your Companys year-end of 31 March.
Stock market performance does not necessarily go hand in hand with economies.
Timing is crucial, at least in the short term, for investment RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 6 performance.
In these uncertain times it means retaining a good quota of liquidity and being eclectic in our investments, picking our stocks and situations well as we long have done.
By way of example, we decided a few years ago to increase our exposure to some of the BRIC countries.
On the unquoted side, our founder investment in Xander Real Estate in India continues to perform well.
In Brazil we have a close relationship with the money manager Sagarmatha, we were cornerstone investors in BR Properties, and we have invested alongside a number of the worlds leading sovereign wealth funds in Brazils premier investment bank, Pactual.
In February we announced the creation of a new alternative asset management and advisory company, Renshaw Bay.
Bill Winters, formerly Co-Chief Executive of JP Morgan Investment Bank, is Chairman and Chief Executive and a major shareholder in the new venture.
Our co-investor is Reinet Investments SCA, a private investment company connected with Compagnie Financire Richemont, which is chaired by Johann Rupert.
In March we announced our landmark joint venture with the CREAT Group of China, who aim, with help from us, to raise a fund of up to $750 million to invest in private equity opportunities outside China.
I believe that this is the first vehicle that will enable Chinese private sector investors to invest overseas through a private equity fund.
DIVIDEND We are intending to pay a dividend of 4.0p per share on 19 August 2011 to shareholders on the register at 5 August 2011.
The focus of your Company remains on achieving capital growth rather than increases in dividend income.
BOARD At the time of the announcement of our investment in Renshaw Bay, we indicated that Bill Winters would be joining our Board as a non-executive director, once his business had been launched.
John Elkann, given his commitments as Chairman of Fiat and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EXOR, has decided he should not seek re-election to the Board at the AGM.
We understand his decision and have been fortunate to have had the benefit of his insights and support on our Board for the last few years.
We are most grateful to him for the contribution he has made.
In December 2010 we announced the appointment of Rick Sopher as a non-executive director.
Rick is the Managing Director of LCF Edmond fide Rothschild Asset Management and is Chairman of the Board of Management of Leveraged Capital Holdings NV, the flagship investment vehicle of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group, as well as several related multi-manager funds.
On behalf of shareholders I would like to welcome him to the Board.
On the following pages our Investment Director, Micky Breuer-Weil, sets out his review of your Companys portfolio.
