Our business and our strategy Chairmans statement When I became your Chairman in 2009, our urgent task was to stabilise RBS and then to begin the job of rebuilding the company.
We have made good progress in three years.
The balance sheet has been reduced by over 00 billion from its peak.
Our reliance on short-term wholesale funding, which stood at 29 billion at the end of 200 has been cut to 102 billion.
We repaid more than 20 billion of governmentguaranteed debt in 2011.
%, our Core Tier 1 ratio is one of the strongest among our peers.
Our actions have made RBS safer So, we can adapt and we have adapted our customers and people live and work.
That is simply Last year, we: Achievements like these require hard work.
provided more than 40p in every 1 lent to Board is committed to restoring RBS to good health.
We also made comprehensive changes Other external forces affect banks in the UK UK small and medium-sized businesses: to the executive management team after 2008. and especially RBS.
opened nearly 120,000 new start-up I am confident that they, ably led by Stephen I have said often that we are grateful to, and are accounts across the UK: Hester, are the right people to rebuild RBS.
All well aware of the interest in the Group by UK provided an average of 4,000 business taxpayers.
We intend to repay them by loans each week: of us understand our duties and responsibilities and are determined to fulfil them diligently.
restoring RBS, allowing the bank to do its vital helped over 5,000 UK businesses back to job of serving our customers and being part of health through our Specialised Relationship It is the Boards view that running the business a vibrant and successful economy.
Management teams: and on commercial grounds is the best way to At present, we are an unusual company, recruited more than 8,000 16-24 year olds.
operating commercially, listed on the stock make the bank safer and more valuable for everyone who depends upon it.
I do not believe market but majority-owned by the UK These demonstrate the role we can and will there is a workable alternative if our aim is to government.
It is a challenge for all those play in serving and helping society and the provide the opportunity for the UK government involved to manage the complexities and economy.
Our Boardto sell its shares in the public markets in a occasional tensions in this structure.
The ability level Sustainability Committee is talking to our to run the company on a commercial basis can stakeholders about the elements of our business reasonable timescale.
be hindered by elements of the periodic that matter to them and in 2012 we will publish A sign that we have succeeded will be the debate on how to respond to such tensions, in demanding environmental targets that will drive desire of private investors to acquire the UK the media and elsewhere.
The Board believes it a reduction in our carbon footprint.
While these investors hold is important to remain commercially focussed, recognising where we can the political context The Board only 18% of our shares today, their view of our performance, leadership and strategy is crucial.
We were pleased to welcome three new All being well, they will own the majority of the independent non-executive directors to the equity capital of the company in future years.
I understand peoples anger and anxiety about Board: Alison Davis, Tony Di Iorio and Baroness inequalities in pay at a time when the economy Noakes.
They bring a wealth of experience, is weak and many people are finding things along with a strong global perspective.
They In the meantime, the job of rebuilding the Group is far from complete.
RBS alone cannot fix these wider issues have already made a significant contribution to address the legacy of losses in a number of if we are to achieve what is asked of us the work of the Board since they joined.
businesses means that the Group is not yet commercially.
But we have led the way in profitable, although in 2011 our core changing how we pay our people.
We asked Colin Buchan retired as a director in August our shareholders how they expect us to set 2011 and John McFarlane will step down in businesses earned a profit of 6 billion and a return on tangible equity of 10.5%.
In response, we have aligned the March 2012.
We have greatly appreciated the longer-term rewards our people receive with experience, commitment and knowledge they During 2011, we faced weak and deteriorating our shareholders interests.
When we reward brought to the Board.
We dealt with good performance, the amount paid in cash is minimal, with most of it paid in shares and Thanks those.
For example, we accelerated our NonCore run-down, reduced risk concentrations bonds.
If the subsequent results so warrant, we Finally, I wish to thank our employees.
They and strengthened our liquidity and funding can claw back awards.
I am confident that our are rebuilding RBS each day by serving our position.
The Independent Commission on practices will stand favourable comparison with customers.
They did that very well indeed in Banking published its findings and the UK others.
2011, even as many faced major uncertainties.
government responded with its plans.
We have begun to deal with its far-reaching implications.
Fullling our wider responsibilities In January 2012, we announced how we will As we rebuild RBS, we are fulfilling our Philip Hampton reshape our international wholesale business.
responsibilities to the communities in which our Chairman RBS Group 2011 9
