CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED PROGRESS IN A CHALLENGING YEAR On a global basis, 2011 was a The financial highlights of what was with Lloyds Banking Group.
We were challenging year for the insurance a challenging year included pleased to be able to confirm at our results industry.
It was the costliest Good premium growth of 9% driven announcement in February that we had year ever in terms of natural by both acquisition and organic growth appointed Richard Houghton, currently catastrophes, earthquakes Strong operating results with the CFO of Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited, and weather events.
COR moving from 96.4% to 94.9% who will commence his role in June.
Richard against a background of continuing brings wide operational and financial An estimated US$380 billion of global global weather events experience of the insurance world.
economic losses were incurred, 60% higher Increased underwriting performance Accordingly, we have agreed to release than the previous record year in 2005, by maintaining our discipline in pricing, George to take up his new position after the of which $105 billion were insured losses.
risk and sustainable profit Annual General Meeting in May.
This will allow Without insurance, there would have been Improved investment result reflecting the him to be present at the Lloyds AGM later even greater havoc and significant further careful management of our portfolio to that month.
impacts on world financial markets.
As an lessen the impact of low interest rates industry, we play an essential role in the without diluting investment quality The RSA of today has been rebuilt in terms world economy and at a household level The maintenance of a strong IGD surplus of service, reputation and management since within society, which is why our industry at 1.3 billion giving a 2x coverage.
2003, when the old Royal and Sun Alliance was will be around for another 300 years.
still effectively two separate businesses, The main non-financial event in the year, was as that name denoted.
They were in danger of How did we perform in this demanding year?
the announcement, at the interims in August, being overwhelmed by losses, a major capital Whilst we had exposures on a global basis in of Andy Haste leaving as CEO and his formal deficit and had massive exposures in the USA.
Japan, Australia, NewZealand and Thailand, departure in December.
We had a well The strategies to refinance the Company and our insured losses were minimised due to developed succession plan in place and with remove the risks of the USA business were not our developed global risk and exposure the added involvement of an externally-led without risk.
strategies linked to careful use of reinsurance.
Board selection process we were pleased to We did less well in a few areas, with appoint Simon Lee, the previous Head of our After the rescue, the more unspoken part increases in more conventional exposures International Division, as Group CEO.
of the task was to radically improve all RSA including weather impacts in Denmark activities and operations, upgrade risk appetite and Ireland and large losses in a number of The effective transition of responsibility processes, underwriting practices and focus on territories.
Adverse weather, following the had occurred by the end of October.
and develop a coherent portfolio of businesses severe freeze in 2010, although less in total, The employment of Simon has led to an that could generate a sustainable profit.
This was still significant in 2011. opportunity to strengthen our Executive has required significant investment in expertise, Committee and expand the role of key management and computing technology and Combined operating ratio % managers, Mike Holliday-Williams in services.
The ongoing business has performed Scandinavia and Rowan Saunders in Canada.
well and been skilfully piloted in recent difficult They both have had great success in running times, but is not immune from the effect of 96.4 these operations within the International uncertain financial markets, recessionary effects 94.9 94.9 94.6 94.5 Division and will continue to report separately on growth and monetary policy aspects to Simon as CEO.
depressing financial returns on our 15 billion investment portfolio, necessarily held in the A further announcement was made in most secure type of financial assets so as to November concerning our CFO George effectively match future liabilities.
Culmers intent to take up future employment 6 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 INTRODUCTION Over the last three years, insurers have faced more difficult times.
However, even if you take a comparison close to today, what has been achieved since 2003 is still remarkable.
Market capitalisation up from 1.7 billion to 3.9 billion A negative EPS of 19.6p to positive 11.9p Losses of 363 thousand to profits of 427 million ROE of minus 17.8% to plus 11.6%.
Given these outcomes, the Board wishes We continue to be well placed to deal Andy and George every success in the with current global economic and financial future.
They both leave with the thanks and circumstances and drive this company forward.
Their departure terms reflect the goodwill of us all, the Board John Napier, Chairman and hopefully the shareholders, in marking a job well done.
The Boards actions on succession planning have ensured the company maintains an ongoing depth and strength Net written premiums m Dividend for the year p of management in all areas.
We continue to be well placed to deal with current 8,138 9.16 8.82 7,455 global economic and financial circumstances 8.25 7.71 6,737 6,462 7.01 and drive this company forward.
5,837 Moving to other Board matters, as first indicated in 2009, our strategy is to add to the Board to ensure continuity of corporate knowledge and experience when we move to a phase of Board recruitments and retirements.
As part of this plan, we have Net written premium growth Dividend increase added two new Non-Executive Directors and an Executive Director.
The Non-Executive Directors are Jos Streppel, who joins us from 9% 4% Holland, our first non-domiciled Non-Executive Director.
Jos has joined the Remuneration Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 7 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Alastair Barbour joins us from a All are appointed on merit.
We will continue more scrutiny because of their massive scale.
professional audit career and will formally to adopt this approach as being in the best Responsibility for these issues rests elsewhere.
take over the Audit Committee Chair interests of the effective management of from Edward Lea after the AGM.
the Company and in the interests of our I think it essential, however, that every public shareholders.
We are a regulated company company plays its role and undertakes to Both Jos and Alastair have extensive and as such, all senior appointments including review its pay and remuneration practices.
At international insurance industry experience.
Non-Executive Directors have to meet FSA RSA, we plan such a review in 2012 to ensure requirements.
The basis of selection allowed is, that our philosophy of closely aligning reward On the executive front, Adrian Brown who therefore, different than for an average structures with the longer term interests of has been responsible for our UK business non-regulated plc.
shareholders remains a continuing guideline will now take up additional responsibility in principle and in practice.
Adrian has had 23 years In recent times, executive pay, particularly experience at RSA and brings additional annual performance bonuses, has dominated I am pleased to report that Simon Lee, our front line experience to the Board.
This is understandable in the new CEO, has made a strong start and has wake of the anecdotal evidence that excessive hit the road running.
He has completed A comprehensive external review of Board bonuses may have played a major role in the a reorganisation which has deepened and effectiveness in 2010 was also an integral banking crisis, the related obligation put on increased our Executive Committee and part of our succession planning and this is taxpayers to support the banking sector further strengthened some aspects of the reflected by the appointments made and the and the averaged statistical evidence of RSA operational and strategic approach.
effective replacements of the CEO and CFO.
an increased disconnect between senior He brings an outward-facing client focus At the end of the year, the Board carried out management pay generally and FTSE and value-added approach to the business a further internal review of our effectiveness companies performance over recent years.
which complements the strong pricing and consistent with the requirements of the risk disciplines we have embedded in the Corporate Governance Code.
It also decided There is a need for more objective analysis business.
Our objective is to make sustainable now would be an appropriate time to follow and action by individual companies, by industry and satisfactory returns for shareholders the new guidelines on re-electing all directors and by sector.
There is no simple generalisation by increasing revenue and profitability.
annually and as such, all directors will stand that all bonuses are bad and no bonus is good.
The vilification of people doing important and demanding tasks on behalf of taxpayers should Much has been spoken and written externally be silenced by strong government support in Shareholders funds m on diversity.
This is a complex and sometimes those situations where they themselves have divisive subject.
My empirical view is that appointed people to such positions.
3,839 3,801 3,766 diversity in all its aspects has been a key 3,491 3,077 component of the success of the RSA The words excess or unsustainability should Board and the Company.
Diversity is not be restricted to directors and senior about much more than a gender debate.
management in the corporate sector.
The trends in the absolute and relative pay and At RSA, we encompass all aspects conditions, comparative investment, inputs, of diversity including a relatively high relative outputs and efficiency of the public ratio of women non-executives and sector compared to the private sector demand senior executives within the Company.
8 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 INTRODUCTION That brings me to the outlook and dividend.
I am particularly In the more mature economies in Europe, indebted to the contribution made by my we face a slower rate of growth with general colleagues on the Board.
I would like also uncertainty over potential sovereign debt to thank everyone, our managers and impacts still remaining.
Despite a reduced rate employees, for their continuing efforts of global growth, we expect to continue to to improve the service standards and make progress.
We will maintain a prudent performance of the Company.
We expect reserving and investment approach, continue 2012 in market terms to be as challenging as to leverage our strong global footprint and 2011, but we plan to make further progress.
leading market positions with expert risk pricing, claims handling and execution, and plan to achieve further forward momentum.
Much of our essential focus remains unchanged.
On the dividend, while current economic and investment conditions persist, it is prudent to John Napier grow the divided at a more modest rate.
The Chairman Board is recommending an increase in the final divided of 2% to 5.82p, which will give a total dividend of 9.16p up 4% on the prior year.
Going forward, the Group is well placed to return to a higher level of dividend growth when investment yields move to more normal levels and economic growth returns.
In conclusion, therefore, 2011 has been an interesting, busy and successful year for the 2011 net written premiums % 8.1bn Overseas 64 UK 36 visit www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 9
