Chairmans Statement Performance Income Over the year to 31 October 2011, the net asset value per Total income increased by 10.2% to 21.5m, including share NAV total return with borrowings at market value 1.8m of special dividends, reflecting good dividend was -2.4% which compares with the -0.3% sterling total growth and a higher dividend yield achieved on investment return of the global FTSE All-World Index and 0.6% from purchases than on investment sales.
Expenses rose by the UK FTSE All-Share Index.
The companys global equity 3.7%, a rate below the level of UK inflation.
With a lower portfolio achieved a total return of 1.6% which was ahead average number of shares outstanding following share of both of the companys global and UK comparator indices.
buybacks, net income per share rose by 21.2% on the year to 12.43p 2010: 10.26p.
The companys NAV with borrowings taken at market value was 2.3 percentage points behind the companys NAV with Dividend borrowings taken at par, which was unchanged and just The board is recommending a final dividend of 5.80p per ahead of the global index.
This differential was due to the share 2010: 5.60p.
Taken together with the interim dividend increase in the market value of the borrowings caused by of 4.60p per share 2010: 4.45p, this would result in an the sharp decline in UK gilt yields, which are now much increase of 3.5% in the total dividend for the year to 10.40p lower than the yield on good quality corporate bonds.
per share 2010: 10.05p which compares with October UK CPI inflation of 5.0% and RPI of 5.4%.
If the proposal is The company has for several years estimated the market approved, the company will have increased its dividend in value of its borrowings using an assumption of a one each of the last 28 years.
percentage point spread above the relevant benchmark gilts.
The persistent drop in gilt yields has inflated the value Share Price, Buybacks and Discount of the borrowings and lowered the NAV.
Given the current The share price fell by 3.7% over the year and the discount to gulf between government and corporate bond yields, the ex-income NAV with borrowings at market value tightened board believes that it is appropriate to adopt a new basis for to 8.2% from 9.0% at the previous year-end.
The companys valuing borrowings from the beginning of the new financial buyback policy is intended to keep the discount to ex-income year which will give a less distorted measure of the market NAV with borrowings at market value at or below 9.0%.
Under value of the borrowings.
The new valuation basis is set out the policy, 3.9m 2010: 8.1m shares were repurchased for in the directors report.
Had the new valuation methodology cancellation over the financial year, utilising 2.24% of the been in force over the year, the market NAV performance 14.99% authority renewed at the January 2011 AGM.
The would have been 1.5 percentage points better than on the shares were repurchased at an estimated average discount prevailing valuation basis.
of 10.0% and at a cost of 19.3m 2010: 36.0m inclusive of dealing expenses.
The buybacks were funded from sales Global equity returns over the year were driven by North of equity investments.
The average discount over the year America, which accounts for almost half of the FTSE was 9.2% and the average between the introduction of the All-World Index and achieved a total return of 6.1% scheme in February 2006 and the year end was 8.6%.
compared to a total return for the rest of the world of around -5%.
Despite our relative under-exposure to North The companys savings schemes, ISA and SIPP operated America, the global portfolio outperformed owing to strong by its regulated subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, continued to regional stock selection, with all six of the overseas regional provide steady net demand for the companys shares over sub-portfolios beating the local indices.
especially strong absolute and relative sterling total returns from our Japanese investments which returned 25.0% AGM Alteration to Companys Articles against a Japan market return of -2.3% and from our North The companys Articles of Association currently prohibit America holdings which returned 10.4%, ahead of the index the company from entering into contracts giving rise to return 6.1%.
While our Asia Pacific ex Japan holdings an unlimited liability.
Consequently, it has been unable to were down 0.6% in total return terms, they exceeded the sell futures contracts to allow efficient implementation of -4.7% regional market return.
Latin America, Europe ex UK infrequent large changes to equity exposure hitherto the and Middle East & Africa regions all outperformed while company has had to sell equity holdings.
While the sale our UK holdings, down 0.7%, fell behind the UK index, of equity futures contracts gives rise to an unlimited liability up 0.4%.
On an industry sector analysis of performance, owing to the unknown price to be paid on delivery or on stock selection and global industry positioning both early settlement of the contract, in practical terms this contributed positively.
liability would always be capped by the companys diverse holdings of highly liquid international listed equities in the Gearing regions in which the futures contracts would be sold.
Over the year, effective equity gearing was lowered from Consequently, the practical risk of an unlimited liability around 110% to around 94% with borrowings at market arising from such futures contract sales is extremely remote.
value, partly in response to the eurozone crisis.
Potential gearing with borrowings at market value at the year end amounted to 124%.
4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2011 Chairmans Statement continued Moreover, it is intended that the sale of equity futures contracts would be infrequent and only when specifically authorised by the board.
The directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the proposed amendment to the Articles which is resolution 11 on the AGM Notice of Meeting.
Outlook The near term outlook for equity markets remains clouded by the credit crisis within the eurozone.
Globally, corporate balance sheets are generally healthy and profit growth has remained robust, albeit with profit margins at elevated levels.
While conventional valuation measures such as current PE ratios may make equity markets appear cheap, near term earnings growth forecasts are being reined in around the world, especially in cyclical industries.
At end-November, the companys global portfolio was standing at a valuation of approximately 11x historic earnings with a dividend yield of 3%, which is a lower valuation than that of the global market.
The eurozone credit crisis shows worrying signs of spreading to the core members and is likely to lead to further austerity measures which will raise the risk of recession there and in surrounding areas, while it is possible that the common currency will break up, with unpredictable consequences for markets around the world.
Though the US economy appears more robust, it is still very subdued, further stimulus from the authorities is not assured and the fractious political system is failing to cope with the excessive budget deficit.
Consequently, the board has opted to keep effective gearing at a low level with a view to deploying the substantial liquidity to hand, amounting to over 25% of shareholders funds, should stockmarkets drop materially.
Douglas McDougall Chairman 16 December 2011 Report & Accounts 2011 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 5
