CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement As pointed out in previous years, Scottish Mortgage does not Investment Performance attempt to track any index and as we have seen its performance is The past year has again been a good one for Scottish Mortgage: therefore likely to diverge from the benchmark we have adopted as net asset value NAV per share rose by 18% and the share price most suitable for a global growth fund.
There will be some years by 22%, both well ahead of the 6% increase in our benchmark the when relative returns are negative as well as years when returns are FTSE All World Index in sterling terms.
Closing at 742 pence, the positive but when the index does better than the Company.
That is share price set a new record for the year end.
Despite the reverses the characteristic of Scottish Mortgages investment proposition and, seen in the wake of the 2008 Lehman-precipitated financial crisis in the Directors view, the shares are an investment for those who our five year figures, too, are excellent.
These in many ways are can tolerate this volatility and who consequently are likely to be long more important to shareholders and at 31 March 2011 the five term holders.
year total return capital and dividends was 58% in share price terms 53% in NAV while the benchmark total return was 35%.
World View While shareholders should remember that not every year will be as The past twelve months have been marked by continued recovery in good as the period just ended, it is pleasing to report that Scottish equity markets as, notwithstanding earthquakes, well explosions and Mortgage was the top performing trust in the Global Growth Sector revolutions, confidence has largely been maintained.
Companies over five years in NAV terms as shown by the Association of generally have performed well, the financial system has been Investment Companies rankings at 31 March 2011. relatively stable as banks strengthen their balance sheets and, in the public sector in some countries notably the UK, attention has turned Investment Philosophy to cutting government expenditure and debt.
Interest rates in the US The Managers investment philosophy has not changed and remains and Europe have stayed low, many economies have been subject to one to which the Directors fully subscribe.
Companies are analysed continued stimulus through quantitative easing and other measures by the Managers using a process which includes appraisal of: the while inflation, though present, has not generally proved strength of management, competitive position, the customer problematic.
perspective, the prospects for sales and margins and the current and potential valuation.
Also of particular importance to the Managers The strength of the German economy has been particularly view is establishing how their assessment differs from the market and impressive while those who feared a double dip recession in the trying to answer the question what will happen after five years?.
US and other parts of the developed world have been spared such The approach and perspective is neither short term nor market led.
Peripheral parts of Europe have struggled Instead considerable effort is made to identify major changes in considerably and are likely to require support from the centre for trends that might take place within intervals of decades rather than some time yet.
However bleak the current financial outlook for individual years.
The Managers Review that follows gives an several troubled Eurozone states, for now the indications from original view of the investment perspective and provides insight into particularly Germany are that the bail-outs required by Greece, Baillie Giffords modus operandi and investment process, both of Ireland and Portugal are a price that has to be paid to defend the which are central to what this Trust offers its owners.
integrity of the Euro and to protect the balance sheets of those banks whose lending to other Eurozone countries has perhaps verged on The Managers also fully support the Boards desire to maintain the imprudent.
Scottish Mortgages low cost advantage.
At 0.51%, the total expense ratio is amongst the lowest of similar international funds.
Low costs significantly boost cumulative long term returns.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
04 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT That great engine of growth, the Chinese economy, has been At the Meeting, James Anderson, your Manager, and his Deputy, restrained somewhat by central policy tightening, a welcome Tom Slater, will make short presentations on the investments.
The necessity given earlier fears of overheating.
Nonetheless, in 2010 Directors very much hope that we will meet you then.
Chinese growth was still a remarkable 10.3% and the year will be Outlook remembered as the one when China overtook Japan to become the We are living in times of extraordinary economic change and any worlds second largest economy.
Many developing nations continue coherent investment strategy needs to take account of the growing to enjoy good growth rates and have increasingly stable financial, importance of China and the rapid economic development of social and political systems as well as a rapidly expanding class of countries such as Brazil and India: and at the same time the relative consumers.
stagnation of so many economies in what used to be called the Gearing developed world.
In the past 20 years, the Chinese economy has We continue to believe in the use of gearing as a tool to enhance grown over sixfold far outstripping the US and Japan.
shareholder returns, particularly when we are able to access The Managers remain enthusiastic about the long term outlook and borrowings at low cost, assisted by the Companys Aaa long term currently find an abundance of interesting long term investment credit rating.
Throughout the period Scottish Mortgages gearing propositions.
Two familiar and important contentions suggest that this ratios have been maintained at a broadly constant level.
As asset is a good time to take a long term view of markets.
First, many prices rose, this entailed additional borrowings and a further countries are growing rapidly and developing a large, mainly urban 61million was taken out during the year.
At the year end gross and consumption driven, middle class.
Secondly, we appear to be assets totalled 2,500 million and borrowings of 370 million in a phase of accelerating technological discovery, the impact of represented 15% of that total.
If the value of our cash deposits and which is likely to be felt beyond the traditionally defined technology bond portfolio is taken into account, net gearing was approximately sector including, amongst others, in the fields of healthcare, biotech, 10%.
robotics, artificial intelligence, agriculture and alternative energy.
These themes are developed in the Managers Review that follows.
Earnings and Dividend Concurrent with these economic changes, the interested investor has Earnings at 13.3p per share were buoyant, increasing 19% on the a dazzling array of schemes and opportunities to have money previous year and a final dividend of 6.2p 2010 5.8p is managed in ever more exotic, ostensibly scientific and often proposed.
This will give a total for the year of 12p, a 6.2% increase expensive manners.
Yet it is far from clear that any of these on last years 11.3p and an increase over the past five years of approaches has, on a reasonably consistent basis, outperformed the 41%.
If approved by shareholders, this provides a doubling of the entirely straight forward approach that Scottish Mortgage pursues.
dividend in ten years and will represent for the 29th successive year Indeed, once high and often multiple levels of management fees are a dividend increase greater than the prevailing rate of UK inflation.
taken into account in these more complex approaches, it is rarely the Discount and Buybacks investor who comes out in front.
The discount has narrowed during the year: while the Board finds So, this is a good moment to reflect on what Scottish Mortgage is this gratifying, we often wonder, given the remarkable changes seeking to offer its shareholders: 99% of our equity exposure is which this Company has seen in the past decade and the achieved by holding the shares of companies individually selected performance record achieved, why our shares trade at a discount by our Managers, as distinct from investing in other funds or at all.
The Managers continue to focus their marketing efforts on derivatives.
Our aim is to provide a long term transparent, low cost maintaining a good flow of relevant information to existing and tradeable investment vehicle which captures exposure to a shareholders and potential shareholders.
Attracting new generations diversified portfolio of companies around the world, capable of of long term owners is important for our future and Scottish Mortgage delivering returns that exceed both inflation and the market average.
continues to invest in this project.
By any measure, our Managers have succeeded in recent years and As in previous years, when supply exceeded immediate demand I know that shareholders will join me in congratulating them on their shares were bought back.
Over the year 3 million shares were continuing success.
re-purchased considerably fewer than the 12.6 million re-purchased in the preceding year and were transferred into treasury, thus enhancing NAV per share by 1.1p.
AGM The Annual General Meeting will be held in Edinburgh at Baillie Giffords offices at 4.30pm on 30th June there is a map contained within the Notice of the Meeting towards the end of the Report.
JOHN SCOTT One resolution to be put to the Meeting is a request to increase the Chairman limit on Directors fees.
Although the current level remains within the 12 May 2011 allowed ceiling authorised by the Companys Articles, the Resolution seeks to replace specific limits with an aggregate limit for all Directors which will provide flexibility in future years.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05
