Chairmans Statement This is my first statement to shareholders since I assumed the Chair of the Board at the start of 2012 and I would like to start by saying how delighted and privileged I am to be Chairman of St. Jamess Place plc one of the pre-eminent wealth management companies in the UK.
My second task must be to thank Mike Wilson, on behalf of shareholders and the St. Jamess Place community for his Chairmanship over the last seven years.
Along with Sir Mark Weinberg, Mike founded the Group 20 years ago, and so it is entirely fitting that he is appointed Joint Life President alongside Sir Mark.
Mike has made an invaluable contribution to St. Jamess Place during the last 20 years and Im delighted that he will continue to be involved with the Group as an adviser to the St. Jamess Place Academy and as the Chairman of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
As Chairman I am responsible for ensuring that the Board operates effectively.
During the year, the outgoing Chairman Mike Wilson and I undertook a number of actions to enhance further the governance structure and thereby improve the Boards effectiveness.
These included: Succession Planning After many years service on the Board, Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin retired from the Board at the end of Charles Gregson Chairman the year and I would like to thank both of them on behalf of the Board and shareholders for their wise counsel and support during their tenure as Non-executive Directors.
During 2011, two new independent Non-executive Directors joined the Board, VivianBazalgette and Iain Cornish.
Vivian succeeded Sir Mark Weinberg as Chairman of the Investment Committee in July 2011 and Iains appointment in October brought deeper levels of financial services experience to the table, as well as ensuring continuity of financial expertise on the Audit Committee.
Both Vivian and Iain bring a wealth of relevant experience to St. Jamess Place and they are already making a valuable contribution to the Group.
2 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review At this years Annual General Meeting, Roger Walsom will The Future be stepping down after nearly seven years on the Board and Looking ahead, some of my priorities include making sure we thank him for his excellent contribution also.
In we bed in the various recommendations made during the anticipation of this, I am delighted to inform shareholders Board evaluation process and planning the continued that we will be appointing Baroness Patience Wheatcroft development of talent within the Group to ensure we have as an independent Non-executive Director in April.
the right skills around the table to drive forward the Patience has substantial business, board and media continued success of the Group.
experience, so will further strengthen the wide range of skills on the Board.
Turning to the business, the overall results were once again very strong with good growth in all the key performance Further details of our succession planning process can be indicators, as David covers in his report.
Despite a found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 57. challenging economic environment, St. Jamess Place has continued to grow with funds under management, the size Board Effectiveness Review of the Partnership and operating profits all rising over the In 2011, we appointed Independent Audit to facilitate an year.
Particularly encouraging for shareholders is the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its ongoing increase in the emergence of cash, up 39%, which Committees.
Independent Audit conducted interviews together with our confidence in the outlook for the with all Board members, various members of the senior business, enables the Board to fulfil its commitment of a management team and a number of advisers, following significant increase in the full year dividend of 33%.
which they prepared a report and led a Board discussion regarding their observations.
It was particularly useful to Looking forward, having established the Group as a well gain the external perspective provided by Independent respected and trusted provider of good quality advice and Audit and a number of actions to improve the Boards wealth management services in recent years, we now need effectiveness have already been implemented.
A summary to build on that success in the years ahead.
Critical to that of the findings and recommendations of the Board is the continued development and growth of the Partnership effectiveness review can be found on page 58. and the Groups investment proposition, whilst remaining focused on our core business principles, and the values Developments in Corporate Governance and culture that have stood the Group in such good stead We continue to monitor the changes to the corporate thus far.
We were early adopters of the annual re-election requirement of the UK Corporate I look forward to working with the Board in achieving Governance Code.
We also reviewed the these aspirations.
recommendations of the Davies Report on diversity and further details of the Boards position on diversity can be found of page 61.
Charles Gregson Chairman 21 February 2012 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
