SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 08 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report anotheryear of progress forSVGCapital.
I am pleased to report another year of progress for SVG Capital.
We have laid the We have laid the foundations of the Companys future strategy: and, against a backdrop of market uncertainty and volatility, we are able to report a positive set of results.
Our NAV per share foundations ofthe excluding the value of SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers increased by 12.8% Companys future to 337.1p over the year, which compares to a fall in the FTSE All-Share TR of 3.5% over the same period.
This has been driven by continued strong performance from the underlying strategy: and, against Permira funds portfolio companies, which has outweighed the negative impact of lower comparable earnings multiples over the year.
Including the 13.1p unaudited Directors abackdrop of market valuation for SVG Advisers and SVG Investment Managers our NAVper share at year end uncertainty and was 350.2p, a 10.9% increase.
volatility, weare able At the end of 2011, following consultation with our shareholders, we set out our intentions with regards to the future strategy of the Company.
Throughout the downturn our to report a positive over-riding priority has been to maintain a strong balance sheet.
The actions taken by the management team over the last three years have signicantly strengthened the balance setof results.
Coupled with the growth in the asset value, this has resulted in net debt having 1 fallen from 70.1% at the end of 2008 to 12.3% at December 2011.
With the material distributions from the portfolio in the latter half of 2011, the Companys liquidity position has improved signicantly, which in turn has given us increased exibility.
The Board is clearly focused on improving shareholder returns.
In the short term, we believe these can be maximised by returning capital to shareholders, and we propose toreturn up to 170 million through a series of market buy-backs and tender offers.
1 31 December 2008 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 09 Looking to the longer term, while our relationship with Permira remains an important one, we propose to evolve from a concentrated, single manager investor to one that ismore diversied, in order to achieve wider asset diversity and better exibility in the management of the Companys cash ows.
We will therefore look to add to our Permira portfolio through commitments to a limited number of other leading private equity funds.
In time, we may also potentially make co-investments alongside funds.
This proposed investment strategy will build upon SVG Capitals heritage as an investor in management buyout funds and upon SVG Advisers core strengths of private equity fund selection.
ACircular will be sent to shareholders in due course seeking approval at a general meeting for both the series oftender offers and for an amendment to our investment objective to allow for more diversication.
In 2011 the private equity industry experienced a year of two halves: while investment activity and nancing conditions improved in the first half, market volatility and increased risk aversion in the second half of the year has clouded the outlook, and hampered activity.
Private equity managers are more cautious about near-term deal ow and disposals.
However, we believe that our underlying portfolio of Permira investments are well-diversied, high quality companies with global reach and will continue to return value to our investors over time.
SVG Capital remains fully committed to the asset class, and we believe the competitive dynamics will continue to improve and play to private equity strengths.
We are mindful of the uncertain macroeconomic backdrop and the impact this may have on private equity activity in the near-term.
That said, we are in a very different place to 24months ago: corporate balance sheets are much healthier and most private equity backed companies are much stronger following the action taken by managers and their underlying management teams through the downturn.
Listed private equity plays a pivotal role in providing access to the asset class for those investors who value and need liquidity.
SVG Capital is a leading London-listed private equity investor underpinned by a strong balance sheet and armed with increased exibility following another positive year.
We believe that we are in a good position to capitalise on investment opportunities as they arise, and that our portfolio and future strategy for the Company can unlock and create value for our shareholders across business cycles.
Nicholas Ferguson Chairman 15 February 2012 Overview
