4 Chairmans statement underlying operating profits down 29.2% to 6.8m.
Against this background, we have taken a number of management actions to adapt the product proposition whilst retaining competitiveness in the market.
These have been completed alongside activities to address the cost base and to review the shape and size of our future store estate.
Further details of these initiatives and of the performance of our businesses can be found in the accompanying Operational and Financial Review.
In June 2011, the Group completed a refinancing arrangement of its principal facilities, providing approximately 90m of debt capacity split between amortising term loans, a revolving credit facility and overdrafts in a mixture of Sterling and Euro currencies.
The term loans and revolving credit facilities mature in July 2015.
Looking forward, I see no respite from the challenging environment over the next year.
That said, I remain confident the Group is well positioned to deliver future profitable sales growth once consumer demand improves.
There have been a number of changes to the composition of the Board since the last Annual Report.
Christian Sollesse stepped down from the Board in early June 2011.
I would like to thank Christian for the contribution he has made to the Group over the past 16 years In my statement last year I said I expected consumer demand to and wish him well for the future.
Geoff Brady and Simon Metcalf remain subdued in the coming year and this indeed proved to both retired as Non-Executive Directors during the year after three be the case.
As a result, the Group faced very challenging trading and seven years service respectively.
I would like to thank them for conditions in the year under review, with fragile consumer their valued contributions to the Group.
I was deeply saddened by confidence producing a weak floor coverings market, leading Simons untimely death shortly after stepping down from the Board.
to a reduction in sales volume and profitability.
He is greatly missed by his former Board colleagues and everyone Total revenue for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011 decreased by who knew him at Carpetright.
Underlying profit before tax I was delighted to welcome Claire Balmforth, Andy Corden, decreased by 40.1% to 16.9m 2010: 28.2m.
After the impact Alan Dickinson and Sandra Turner to the Board.
of exceptional items, reported profit before tax decreased to 6.6m 2010: 22.3m.
Underlying earnings per share have fallen by 43.0% Claire and Andy are the Operations Directors for the UK and to 18.0p 2010: 31.6p and basic earnings per share decreased to Europe respectively.
Claires role incorporates her previous 6.8p 2010: 23.5p.
responsibilities for our customer and people strategies, and she also brings substantial retail and management experience from Whilst the Group has remained cash generative and profitable in other organisations.
Andy has been with the Group for 17 years.
these most challenging of market conditions, profits for the year He moved to Europe as Sales Director in 2003, and has been reduced substantially and short term economic conditions remain responsible for our European operations since 2008. uncertain.
Against this background, and being mindful of retaining financial flexibility to respond to potential opportunities, the Board Alan and Sandra joined the Board in October 2010 as Nonfeels it is prudent not to pay a final dividend for this financial year.
Alan spent more than 35 years in banking Having previously paid an interim dividend of 8.0p per share the as a former Chief Executive of the Royal Bank of Scotlands total dividend for the period will therefore be 8.0p per share, a UK Corporate Banking business.
Sandra was part of the senior decrease of 50% on the prior year.
The Board recognises the management team that made Tesco the outstanding retail success importance of dividends to shareholders and will seek to restore a story of the last two decades, holding senior commercial and higher level of dividend when a sustained recovery is evident and operational roles in the UK and Ireland.
Alan and Sandra have reflected in the financial results of the Group.
At the same time, the made an extremely valuable contribution to the Board since Board expects to rebalance the dividend to a lower interim relative their appointment.
to the final, toreflect more accurately the balance of profits earned Finally, I would like to thank all our employees for their continued throughout the year.
The Board believe this is in the best interests commitment, contribution and loyalty throughout the year.
The of the business and will continue to review the dividend policy on role of all our staff, who consistently provide excellent customer a bi-annual basis service, remains critically important.
It is their efforts that really Our businesses in the UK and the Republic of Ireland have been make the difference.
operating in very difficult markets, with underlying operating profits down 45.0% to 14.4m.
This has been acute in the Republic of Ireland, where sales have fallen over 50% in the last four years.
In the Rest of Europe, our businesses in The Netherlands and Lord Harris of Peckham Belgium have been under similar economic pressures with Chairman and Chief Executive Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2011
