THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement Peter Salsbury BSc Chairman 10 June 2011 Introduction In a year of sharp short term changes in Stock Market sentiment, Pan European property shares produced both a decent absolute total return and a good one relative to the major market indices.
In the twelve months to the end of March 2011, their average Sterling total return was 15.2%, and this beat the Sterling total returns from both the UK All Share Index 9.3% and the Stoxx 600 Index 7.5%.
Macro events led property share markets on a regular theme park ride.
Two periods of savage price declines of 18% and 17% were caused by fears for the global economy and Eurozone sovereign debt problems.
Each decline was followed by a strong share price recovery of 31% and 17% respectively resulting from better than expected economic numbers and by central bank action or rather inaction on lending rates.
The NAV return performance for both share classes was closely in line with their benchmarks.
The revenue results were better than anticipated and I am pleased to report that this has enabled the Board to propose restoring growth to the dividends for both share classes.
In last years statement I announced that Chris Turner would retire on 31 March this year and paid tribute to his achievements as senior fund manager since 1995.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge became senior fund manager of the Trust with direct responsibility for the Ordinary Share class, supported by James Wilkinson, fund manager of the Sigma Share Class.
Marcus and James have worked with Chris for 14 and 9 years respectively.
The execution of the transition has seen a pleasing degree of continuity, both before and after the year end.
6 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued Ten year performance price only Ordinary Share Class 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Composite Benchmark Index TR Property Share Price TR Property Net Asset Value In my remarks last year I thanked Chris not only for his The Sigma share class NAV total return was 16.45% financial results but also for his courage and judgement in compared to its benchmark total return of 16.86%.
More making big decisions, developing a great relationship with details of the absolute and relative returns are set out at shareholders and building an outstanding team to the start of each share class report and commented on succeed him.
I will add one further observation.
Chris has by the fund managers.
a philosophy of fund management which requires that investment decisions always analyse the quality of Revenue Results management as well as assets to add shareholder value.
As anticipated in my interim report, the revenue results There is constructive self-criticism when there are errors of for both share classes have shown a substantial judgement, and markets are not slavishly followed.
improvement over our managers original expectations for the year.
The most significant change has been to the This set of principles has been consistently applied and revenue tax charge which has fallen sharply due to our has formed a reference point to enable significant overseas income being taxed at source but no longer changes of policy which respond to new opportunities subject to UK corporation tax.
Both share classes also and situations.
Well-judged changes of policy have benefited from higher than anticipated dividend receipts.
positively changed the shape of the Trust over the years More detailed comment on the revenue and taxation and have added superior value to shareholders.
The clear position is included in managers reports for their distinction between the application of principle and policy respective share classes.
In summary the Ordinary is too rarely applied in business.
revenue earnings per share rose 34% to a record 6.94p and the Sigma revenue earnings, which were anticipated I am confident that Marcus will continue to apply good to decline by 25%, showed only a 16% decline to 2.57p.
judgement within the principles of good fund management and that he, James and the team will move Dividends investment policy forward, making educated decisions to Ordinary Share Class Dividend add shareholder value.
The Board is proposing to shareholders an Ordinary share NAV and Share Price Performance class final dividend of 3.70p which compares with the The Ordinary share class showed an NAV total return of second interim dividend of 3.45p paid last year.
Taken 15.40% versus its benchmark total return of 15.17%.
together with the unchanged interim dividend of 2.30p TR Property Investment Trust 7 THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued already paid, this will bring the full year payout to 6.00p, renewed last November on improved terms and since the an increase of 4.3% over the 5.75p per share paid last year end we have signed an agreement with ING for a year.
In addition we have also started to utilise CFDs in a Sigma Share Class Dividend The Board is proposing to shareholders a Sigma share class modest way as an additional means to access final dividend of 1.25p which compares with the second competitively priced gearing.
interim dividend of 1.10p paid last year.
Taken together Currencies with the unchanged interim dividend of 0.90p already paid, this will bring the full year payout to 2.15p, an increase of As in previous years the portfolios exposure to foreign 7.5% over the 2.00p per share paid last year.
currencies was not hedged to the base currency, Sterling, at either the asset or the income level.
The managers also Revenue Outlook monitor currency exposure against the benchmark.
They Details of the revenue outlook for both share classes are have discretion to adjust currency exposure as they deem appropriate.
noted in the managers reports.
In summary our managers are advising the Board that, subject to Over the second half of the year Sterling appreciated unforeseen circumstances, they expect that net revenue against the Euro by some 3%, but depreciated against per share for the Ordinary share class will be in the order the Swiss Franc and the Swedish Krona by a similar of 6.40p, a decline of 8% relative to the year to amount.
March 2011, and that the Sigma share class is expected to have net revenue of 2.40p, a decline of 7% relative to Discount and Share Repurchases last year.
The Ordinary share discount to capital only net asset value averaged 10.7% over the year with a range of 2.1% Performance since Inception to 16.9%.
The Sigma share discount to capital only net Sigma Share Class Price only rebased asset value averaged 23.7% over the year with a range of 105 19.2% to 27.8%.
A total of 500,000 Ordinary shares 95 were repurchased in October 2010 at 164.25p per share.
85 75 Outlook 65 In my opening paragraph, I highlighted the fact that panEuropean property shares had outperformed the broader 55 European equity markets over the year taken as a whole.
45 This relative outperformance widened in the first quarter 35 of 2011 and has continued into the new financial year.
What are investors now beginning to focus on?
European economic health is, at the national level, a mixture of Benchmark TR Property Sigma Share Price abounding vitality Germany and the Nordics, continuing TR Property Sigma NAV sickness Southern Europe and convalescence the remainder including the UK.
Whilst those pockets of health are to be welcomed, the prescription of continued Net Debt and Gearing Throughout the year both share classes have continued to very low policy rates and the need within the Eurozone for intra regional monetary support continues to leave be run with modest gearing ranging from 6% to 13%.
The Ordinary share class started the year with 36m of investors with a nagging doubt about the trajectory of net debt and finished the period with 37m.
The economic recovery as well as the unknown longer term comparable figures for the Sigma share class were 13m consequences of this exceptional remedy.
The 50m one year variable multi-currency banks strategy so far has been to keep policy rates and borrowing facility with the Royal Bank of Scotland was bond yields far below historical levels with savers 8 TR Property Investment Trust Jun 07 Sep 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 08 Dec 08 Mar 09 Jun 09 Sep 09 Dec 09 Mar 10 Jun 10 Sep 10 Dec 10 Mar 11 THE GROUP COMPANY Chairmans Statement continued paying the price.
Cash deposits always offered a very low return but this has now turned negative in real terms.
Property, a real asset with a rental revenue stream that has traditionally exceeded inflation, looks attractive.
Listed companies across Europe are, in the main, well financed and expect to maintain their current levels of earnings into next year.
So stable and inflation-protected earnings are sought after investment attributes that provide broad support to the asset class.
Whilst the consequences of the central banks policy decisions look to be beneficial to the asset class in the broadest sense, I must sound a note of caution.
Real estate, with its recurring cashflow, is a strong candidate for leverage and this was its undoing in the financial crisis.
Whilst listed property corporates are once again on a stable footing, a healthy banking sector is a requirement for a healthy property market.
It is clear that much remains to be done to complete the rehabilitation and unwinding of the complex relationship between governments, central banks and the banking sector as a whole.
Both the Ordinary and Sigma share classes have an element of gearing and this reflects the managers positive stance.
With the economic machinery running at a multitude of different speeds across Europe, they anticipate a widening in the divergence of returns within the asset class.
Focusing the portfolios to capture more of the growth within healthy and convalescing markets remains the central task but always with one eye on the state of the credit cycle.
Peter Salsbury Chairman TR Property Investment Trust 9
