The second exceptional item of 11.5m relates to the restructuring actions that the Company has taken, in the light of the market and Chairmans competitive conditions, to reduce costs and to maintain exibility in the cost base.
Further actions will be taken in the first half of Statement 2012.
The Company has a good record on cost management, and on addressing the cost base to support future pro tability when circumstances require it.
Dividends and shareholder returns The Companys overall objective is to maximise returns to shareholders over the medium to long term through managing and developing the business.
The Company has taken a realistic and open approach to the challenges arising since the start of the worlds financial and After a good performance in 2010, total shareholder return for economic problems in 2008.
It has maintained its objective of 2011 was 27% negative which is in line with the return from the maximising returns to shareholders over the medium to long term, General Financials sector index, but worse than the return from the at an acceptable level of risk.
Its strategy is to focus on providing FTSE 250 index of 10% negative.
This re ected an increased level of valuable services as an intermediary in wholesale over-the-counter uncertainty around the prospects for financial services businesses markets and it has continued to invest and develop where it can in the current environment.
We will continue to focus on the achieve good returns.
It is well run and conservatively nanced.
fundamentals of the business rather than the short term share price, although the Board recognises that the earnings multiple Results currently applied to the Company remains relatively low.
The results are explained in detail in the Business Review.
The financial results for 2011 demonstrate the strength of the business The Board recognises that dividends are an important element of in challenging market and competitive conditions.
shareholder return and is recommending a final dividend of 11.25p per share, making the total dividend for the year 16.5p per share, an Revenue for the year of 910.2m was in line with that reported for increase of 5% on the 15.75p per share paid for 2010.
Revenue was 2% higher using constant exchange rates, and dividend will be payable on 17 May 2012 to shareholders on the adjusting for Conveno which was acquired in August 2011, and register on 27 April 2012. for the satellite of ces in the Americas which were closed or exited during the second half of 2010.
As market activity in 2011 was Strategy and return on capital lower overall than in 2010, this was a good performance re ecting Our strategy is to focus on providing services as an intermediary in the bene t of continued investment.
wholesale OTC markets, and to build a business with the scale and breadth to deliver superior performance and returns, whilst Underlying operating pro t of 148.4m was 7% lower than for maintaining strong financial management disciplines.
2010 with the underlying operating margin at 16.3% compared to 17.6% for 2010.
The reduction in operating margin is primarily Over the last few years investment has been made to build and driven by the increase in broker compensation costs as a develop the business and to respond to the various regulatory percentage of broking revenue to 59.6% due to the increased costs changes affecting our markets.
As a result the level of capital of employment, re ecting the highly competitive market for employed in the business has increased, although this has been brokers and the signi cant investment that has been made in well managed and amounts to only 40m since 2007.
We will rebuilding the business in the Americas.
continue to invest in the development of the business and in broadening its activities as an inter-dealer broker and in the related Financing costs were slightly higher in 2011 than in 2010, and the areas of information sales and risk management services.
These underlying pro t before tax of 136.1m compares with 149.0m investments will focus on those areas of business in which we have in 2010.
With a reduction in the effective tax rate on underlying a strong advantage and the opportunity to make good returns.
pro t before tax to 27.1%, underlying basic earnings per share They will be assessed on the basis of cash generation and cash were 8% lower than last year at 46.1p.
The business has again generated a strong cash ow.
Operating The return on capital employed in 2011 was 37%.
cash ow for the year was 136.8m, representing 92% of underlying operating pro t, and at the end of the year net funds Business model and risk amounted to 107.1m, an increase in the year of 39.3m.
The Companys business model is based on generating a return from providing a facilitation service to clients, enabling them to Exceptional items trade ef ciently and effectively.
This service can be provided, and In order to give clarity to the operating performance of the good returns can be generated, without actively taking credit and business, the results are presented showing charges relating to market risk.
exceptional items separately from the underlying results.
There are two areas in which the Company has incurred exceptional items The business acts only as an intermediary in the financial markets, during the year.
which means that the risk inherent in its activities is low.
We are willing to accept an unavoidable limited amount of risk as a The first exceptional item with a net charge of 6.6m relates to consequence of our broking activities, but the business does not major legal actions that the Company is engaged in with BGC, take any trading risk and does not hold principal trading positions.
one of the businesss competitors.
The legal actions that the The majority of broking activities are on a Name Give-Up basis Company has brought against BGC relate to the raids by BGC on where the business is not at any time a counterparty to the trade.
the Companys operations in London and North America in 2009.
In Matched Principal activities the business only holds financial The Company has a duty to shareholders to seek to enforce its instruments for identi ed buyers and sellers in matching trades.
contractual rights, and although legal action can be protracted Such transactions are settled rapidly through settlement agents and expensive it is appropriate to take action in order to do so.
who deliver the instruments against payment.
The business does The action in the UK has concluded satisfactorily and the actions not retain any contingent risks.
in North America are continuing.
The charge also includes the costs of defending, and provision for the estimated cost of resolution of, The Board and the Audit Committee have again thoroughly a claim brought by BGC Market Data against the Company.
analysed the risks faced by the business and the controls in place to mitigate and manage them.
This work is supported by a programme of Internal Audit activities.
Our risk management Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 02 governance, principles and policies, and risk pro le, are discussed Board composition and governance in detail in the Business Review.
An area of focus this year has been The Company bene ts from having a strong and experienced the heightened exposure to potential counterparty credit risk, Board of directors who work well together.
Following review of the particularly due to events in the Eurozone, and we have reviewed composition of the Board, the Nominations Committee speci ed and monitored the processes and procedures to mitigate risk in this the qualities it sought for two additional non-executive directors area.
We have also reviewed the strategic and business risks arising to reinforce the Board, and as part of its succession planning.
both from regulatory changes that directly impact the business, and the indirect impact that regulatory developments and Angela Knight and Stephen Pull joined the Board as independent deteriorating market conditions could have on our customers.
non-executive directors with effect from 1 September 2011.
As planned, Angela Knight took over as Senior Independent Director Regulatory developments in February 2012.
I am delighted that we have been able to attract Progress has been made in the process of agreeing and introducing non-executive directors of their quality and experience to reforms designed to strengthen the financial system and to the Company.
improve the operation of the financial markets.
Richard Kilsby retired from the Board at the end of 2011 having We agree with the objectives and support the direction of these served as a non-executive director of the Company and reforms.
We believe that their introduction will be positive for our Chairman of the Audit Committee since the Company became business as the proposals formalise the role of the intermediary in an independent PLC in 2006.
On behalf of the Board, I would the OTC markets.
like to thank Richard for his contribution.
David Clark, who has considerable knowledge of the activities of the sector, agreed to Financing take over the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Company is conservatively nanced.
The Companys total gross cash balances at the end of the year were 373m, compared to the We are currently in the process of recruiting a further non- 270m of gross debt outstanding.
The Companys bank facilities at executive director with the expertise to chair the Audit Committee.
the end of the year comprised an amortising term loan of 120m David Clark has kindly agreed to the Boards request to defer his and a 115m committed revolving credit facility that remained planned retirement until we have completed that recruitment and undrawn throughout the year.
These facilities mature in February an effective handover.
The Companys only other signi cant borrowing is through a 141m bond that matures in 2016.
The Company has an attractive The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, debt maturity pro le and signi cant financial exibility.
which includes the provision that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The bene t of the Companys conservative approach to the All the directors are therefore standing for election or re-election at nancing and investment strategy of its two closed fide ned bene t the AGM this year, and we are also seeking shareholder approval to pension schemes in the UK has been demonstrated by an increase amend the Articles of Association to include the requirement that in the accounting surplus in the schemes since last year end, directors seek annual re-election.
despite the reduction in the discount rate used in the valuation of the liabilities.
The triennial actuarial valuations of the schemes Outlook which were completed in early 2011 show signi cant funding Market and competitive conditions are expected to continue to surpluses, and the Company is now only making contributions to be challenging.
The worlds financial markets remain unsettled, meet the expenses of the schemes.
however, and it seems reasonable to expect that there will be some periods of market volatility and heightened activity during Remuneration 2012, as well as periods of more subdued activity.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 38 to 43.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by my colleague The business has made a reasonable start to the year.
in the first two months of 2012, at constant exchange rates and excluding the recent acquisitions of Conveno and Chapdelaine, The inter-dealer broking sector has high levels of remuneration is 1% lower than in the same period last year.
Actions have been and the retention and recruitment of broking staff has remained taken to reduce costs and to maintain exibility in the cost base, subject to strong competitive pressure.
In North America it has although the business does face increased costs relating to also been necessary to rebuild the business through recruitment.
electronic platform developments and impending regulatory changes.
The FSAs Remuneration Code came into effect for the Company on 1 January 2011.
The main principle of the Code is that The enduring strength of the business is the valuable service it remuneration policies must be consistent with and promote sound provides to clients through its ability to create liquidity through and effective risk management.
The low risk nature of the business price and volume discovery to facilitate trading in a wide range of is recognised in our classi cation as a Tier Four rm for the financial instruments.
We agree with the objectives and support purposes of the application of the Code.
As a listed company with the direction of the reforms designed to strengthen the financial an existing governance structure exercising strong oversight of system and to improve the operation of the financial markets.
remuneration within the business, no major changes were required We consider that the introduction of these reforms will be positive for our business as the proposals formalise the role of the to our remuneration policies or governance arrangements in order intermediary in the OTC markets.
We believe that we are well for us to comply with the Code.
positioned to continue to provide a valuable service to clients and that our offering can be developed to meet the various new OTC The management has to overcome challenges in this area because market regulations that will be introduced.
most of our major competitors are not EU headquartered and are therefore not subject to the requirements of the Code.
Keith Hamill Chairman The Remuneration Committee approves the remuneration for 6 March 2012 the senior management of the business and determines the remuneration for the executive directors.
The arrangements relating to executive directors are on a basis on which the main shareholders have been consulted over a number of years.
In exercising its responsibility the Remuneration Committee works to the principle of being sensitive to returns to shareholders in reviewing and determining levels of remuneration.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 03 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Chairmans Statement & Business Review Business Review In this section: 05 Objectives, Strategy, Business Model and Risk Pro le 06 Overview 08 Operating Review 10 Restructuring Costs 10 Litigation 11 Financial Review 15 OTC Market Regulation 15 Risk Management 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 04
