02 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 C HAIRMANS STATEMENT Economic headwinds continue to prevail as we enter 2012 but I remain con dent that the management are both appropriately skilled and suitably determined to meet the challenges that lie ahead.
continued to invest more than 25million Whilst the upstream team were securing REVIEW OF THE YEAR during the year in academies and the Groups future energy requirements, 2011 was a year of turbulence and apprenticeships, helping to train the the downstream team continued to work challenge.
At the beginning of the year young and re-skill older employees.
with customers to help reduce there was little indication how dramatically consumption.
events would unfold for the world in general In parallel, we focused on securing long-term or for Centrica in particular.
supplies of gas to provide security of supply Household surveys and home insulation for our customers.
This was achieved by were provided free of charge to British Gas The Japanese nuclear power disaster at the completion of a ground breaking customers and new smart meters helped Fukushima in March cast a shadow over lique ed natural gas LNG agreement with people monitor and manage their energy the industry as nuclear plants across the Qatar, the acquisition of new gas elds for usage.
We continue to pay particular globe were shut down, driving up demand exploration and production and towards care to the more vulnerable members for gas and resulting in higher wholesale the end of the year, a long-term supply of society.
Events in the Middle East agreement with Statoil in Norway.
and North Africa created further political As in ation increased and economic and economic uncertainty as the unrest In March however, our investment plans conditions became more dif cult, energy spread in the spring and energy prices for the UK sector of the North Sea were companies found themselves the target of reacted again to the increased risk undermined by the sudden imposition of public criticism.
British Gas, as the largest tosupplies.
higher taxes on production of oil and, most UK supplier, was at the forefront of the harmfully, gas.
In spite of the representations debate.
The scale of price increases, driven In the wake of a 30% increase in wholesale made by ourselves and the rest of the by factors entirely beyond the control of gas prices and escalating losses in British industry to Government, no change was the energy suppliers, were considered by Gas, we were faced with the need to forthcoming to this damaging decision.
much of the public to be unsupportable implement a signi cant price increase, in whatever the rationale for the increase.
the knowledge that any rise in the cost of Centrica, together with other members of living would be very dif cult for hard pressed the industry, made it clear to Government It was for this reason that BritishGas customers, already struggling in a severe ministers that capital intensive industries decided to embark on its honest economic downturn.
must have long-term certainty of both conversation campaign with customers regulatory and tax regimes if they are to in the late autumn.
In an effort to mitigate the scale of the be major investors in the UK energy increase, whilst preserving a 6% pre-tax The campaign sought to explain the infrastructure.
Our own major shareholders residential energy pro t margin for the factors that have given rise to increases echoed this view.
As one of the UKs largest year, management conducted a thorough in the energy bill, which are faced by all taxpayers, with Centrica contributing around reappraisal of the cost structure of the energy suppliers.
We also reiterated 800 million a year to the Treasury, it is Group.
With considerable cooperation from Ofgems findings that there is no collusion hoped that our case has been heard.
employees and unions, we were able to in the sector and our view that pre-tax improve engineers rostering and customer On a more positive note, we have welcomed pro ts averaging 6-7% through the cycle service, lower future pension costs and the Governments proposals for electricity are both modest and necessary to sustain reduce overheads through the loss of market reform and the carbon oor price, the multi-billion pound investment some 2,300 roles across the Group.
This as well as its commitment to the new nuclear programme required to secure UK energy was painful but necessary to support our programme.
However, the detail still needs supplies and deliver energy ef ciency.
In competitive position in challenging markets.
to be agreed, the pace of progress needs parallel, British Gas led the way in to accelerate and economic returns must tariffsimpli cation.
Maintaining an ef cient cost structure, be in keeping with our commitment to however, was not done at the expense of shareholder value.
building talent for the future.
BritishGas Continued on pg 04 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03 OUR ROBUST GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE For more information on our approach to Governance, go to page 44 ENSURING THE BUSINESS IS RUN THE RIGHT WAY Sir Roger Carr Sam Laidlaw Dame Helen Alexander Phil Bentley DBE Margherita Della Valle Mary Francis CBE Mark Hana n Lesley Knox Nick Luff Andrew Mackenzie Ian Meakins Paul Rayner Chris Weston Grant Dawson Jill Shedden Catherine May Sound corporate governance the building blocks to ongoing success In late 2010, we were pleased to recruit material contribution to the Group, both The composition of the Board Ian Meakins, the CEO of Wolseley plc, to as a Director and as Chairman of the continues to evolve.
Recently bring seasoned operational experience Remuneration Committee, and will be appointed members are at the highest level to the Board.
subsequently appointed Margherita already bringing new dynamics We were particularly fortunate, however, DellaValle, the Group Financial Controller to the Board and, together to recruit Lesley Knox, an experienced of Vodafone Group Plc, with an invaluable non-executive director and current with the existing Directors, history of both finance and consumer Chairman of Alliance Trust Plc, to replace have formed a diverse and brand marketing in a world class business.
DameHelen as both a Director and as The appointments proved to be excellent dedicated team who take their Chairman of the Remuneration Committee additions bringing both current operational .
Lesley experience and fresh perspectives to brings a wealth of strategic and financial Board discussion.
experience across a range of businesses In December 2011, after nine years, which will help in the delivery of Centricas DameHelen Alexander stepped down strategicobjectives.
Dame Helen made a Board Members Senior Executives 04 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED There are signs that these actions are excluding the Chairman, being equally starting to resonate with the public and balanced between male andfemale.
I hope that all commentators and the The Executive Committee that operates Regulator will take a more balanced one level beneath the Board has one view in the year to come.
female member and it is our ambition We ended the year in the UK with the over time that both the Board and warmest last quarter on record which Executive Committee will have a more reduced consumption and meant that balanced executive gender mix.
average customer bills for the year were Earlier in the year we con rmed our lower than 2010, despite the higher unit support for the recommendation made by prices.
Inevitably, there was also an Lord Davies following his review into Women adverse impact on British Gas pro ts.
on Boards which set an aspirational target The challenges in the UK were different of 25% of Board positions of FTSE 100 from those faced in North America, where companies to be lled by women by 2015.
OUR BUSINESS the increase in production of shale gas has Whilst it is our intention to maintain or dramatically reduced wholesale gas prices PRINCIPLES exceed this ratio, we are, however, against and unusual weather patterns also caused the implementation of quotas.
We recognise high volatility in electricity prices.
A change Our Group-wide business principles the bene ts of greater diversity, not just in attitude to deregulation eroded our create a framework to help us make gender speci c, however, appointments position in Ontario but we continued to decisions in line with a consistent set within Centrica will continue to be made increase market share and expanded our ofoperating behaviours based on trust, onmerit.
services business in the United States, integrity and openness.
while deploying our upstream capability Looking forward at our Board composition, 1.
Demonstrating integrity in to good effect.
our plan will be to re ect the increasing corporateconduct.
upstream content of our business mix In spite of everything, through a mixture 2.
with the recruitment of a Non-Executive of tenacity, innovation and endeavour, the Director who has both upstream and management team, led by Sam Laidlaw, 3.
operating experience in North America.
Enhancing customer experiences Longer term, we will seek to replace two earnings which facilitated a further 8% and business partnerships.
further members of the Board who will increase in the full-year dividend to our complete their nine year term in 2013. shareholders of 15.4 pence per share.
According to circumstances at that time, Against that background, I am enormously 6.
Focusing on health, safety we may choose to stagger their departure grateful to all the employees of Centrica and security.
to ensure we retain appropriate corporate for their commitment, exibility and memory and a gradual infusion of 7.
considerable effort in a testing period.
I also appreciate the continued support 8.
of our shareholders in an uncertain Economic headwinds continue to prevail Our ongoing campaign to environment and the loyalty of our as we enter 2012 but I remain con dent communicate these principles will help customers who we continue to serve that the management are both appropriately our employees, business partners with dedicated resolve, providing total skilled and suitably determined to meet the and external audiences understand service with a competitive edge.
We are closely the standards we expect.
For more focused on delivering cost ef ciencies, for During the course of the year, I have information, go to www.
the bene t of both our customers and our taken measures to refresh the Board, com businessprinciples.
shareholders, while maintaining high levels review its effectiveness and ensure of service and innovation.
In parallel we will continued achievement of the highest continue to invest for the future, driving corporate standards.
Earnings and operating pro t numbers are stated, long-term growth across the Group.
throughout the Annual Report, before depreciation of Following the departure of DameHelen fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Alexander, the Board will have a total of Strategic Investments and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements where applicable see 12directors of which five are Executive note 2 for fide nitions.
In addition, all references to pro t and loss are stated before share of joint venture and six Non-Executive, in addition to and associate interest and tax.
The Directors believe myself as Chairman.
The skill set of the these measures assist with better understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
The equivalent Non-Executive Directors includes financial, amounts after exceptional items and certain reconsumer, marketing and upstream energy measurements are reconciled at Group level in the Group Income Statement.
Exceptional items and certain expertise.
Non-Executive nationalities re-measurements are described in note 7.
Adjusted Sir Roger Carr include British, Australian and Italian.
earnings and adjusted basic earnings per share are reconciled to their statutory equivalents in note 11.
All Chairman Twentyfive per cent of the Board are current financial results listed are for the year ended 23 February 2012 31December 2011.
All references to the prior period, women, with Non-Executive Directors, the prior year, 2010 and last year mean the year ended 31 December 2010 unless otherwise speci ed.
