$244m $218m $170m $112m $117m $93m FY09 FY10 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY11 SOFTWARE LICENSE REVENUE TOTAL REVENUE The fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 was marked by the disposal of our hardware business, thereby completing our strategic shift to becoming a software and solutions company.
Three years ago we set out to make significant investments in our software business by changing our go to market strategy, better focusing our research and development efforts and making acquisitions to serve the needs of our customers and gain competitive advantage.
This year has seen the acquisition of Atalasoft and benefits of our previous acquisition of 170 Systems as well as the investment of some 13% of our software revenues in research and development of our existing and new products.
As a result, we have increased our market share and have an expectation of continuing to do so.
Our financial performance for the year was pleasing, with record revenues and profits, significantly faster revenue growth than our primary competitors, improved profit margins and very strong positive cash flow.
There was a pronounced difference in our growth rates in the two halves of the year, with slower growth in the second half.
While some of this is attributable to an easier year over year comparison in the first half, in the second half we were undoubtedly affected by the economic and political turmoil evident in the United States, Europe and Middle East.
We are not alone in this experience and are responding with plans and budgets that reflect continuing uncertainty but once again target gaining market share and growing faster than our primary competitors.
We are now clearly a software and solutions business, confident CHAIRMANS STATEMENT in our offerings and their future potential.
We have a strong and experienced management team, committed and talented employees Greg Lock and loyal and ambitious customers demanding larger and more comprehensive deployments of our offerings.
We seek to help them be more competitive and in so doing be more successful ourselves.
I thank all of our employees for their efforts and our results with which we are pleased but not yet satisfied.
There is always room for $40m $26m improvement and we will endeavor to deliver on that opportunity.
$14m FY09 FY10 FY11 ADJUSTED EBITA Greg Lock 16.4% Chairman of the Board 12.0% October 3, 2011 8.1% FY09 FY10 FY11 ADJUSTED EBITA MARGIN 2 Chairmans Statement
