4 Business overview Statement by the Chairman The Group has pursued a strategy of combining signi cant organic growth from its existing businesses with a successful programme of acquisitions which have contributed further to the Groups growth.
Chemring produced another year of growth two potential acquisitions.
We went ahead Highlights in pro ts and earnings, although both were with the purchase of Chemring Detection affected in the last month by a slippage of Systems but did not, in the end, proceed Revenue up 25% to 745.3 million deliveries into the current financial year.
with the other potential opportunity, as Underlying operating pro t up 3% to Revenue was 745.3 million, an increase further investigation indicated that it would 141.8 million of 25%, and this generated an underlying not generate suf cient value.
In the light operating pro t of 141.8 million, up 3%.
of this, the Board has reviewed the balance Underlying pro t before tax up 6% to Underlying pro t before tax increased by sheet to determine the appropriate levels 125.6 million 6% to 125.6 million, producing underlying of debt and gearing for the Group in the Underlying earnings per share up 5% earnings per share of 52.1p, 5% above future.
We have taken a cautious view in the at 52.1p last year.
The Board is recommending a light of the worlds economic and financial Pro t before tax 90.8 million final dividend of 10.8p per share which uncertainties and will continue reducing will provide a full year dividend of 14.8p, debt levels when appropriate.
However, we Basic earnings per share 39.8p an increase of 25% over last year.
have also concluded that we should consider Total dividend per share for the year up returning surplus capital to shareholders The order intake for the Group was 25% at 14.8p whilst maintaining the strength of the 819.1 million, which was slightly lower balance sheet.
Accordingly, we will seek Key information than last year.
We saw strong order book approval at the forthcoming Annual General growth in our Counter-IED and Munitions Underlying pro t before tax Meeting to renew our authority to buy back businesses, which was offset by a downturn shares, when it is considered appropriate, in orders received in the Countermeasures over the course of the next year.
We would 125.6m and Pyrotechnics divisions.
These two only expect to exercise this authority for a divisions suffered from reduced customer buyback of up to 50 million of shares.
6% demand, which was driven, in the main, by government scal and budgetary The Board also considered its long term Underlying earnings per share controls.
The closing order book reached dividend policy as part of this balance sheet 878.3 million, which was 9% above last year.
For many years, the Group has 52.1p adopted a policy of maintaining dividend In July the Group acquired the Detection cover at around four times.
With our strong Systems business of General Dynamics 5% annual cash generation, we believe it would Armament and Technical Products for a be appropriate to reduce the cover to three Dividend per ordinary share total cash consideration of 56.1 million.
As part of this The business, which is now operating as move, the proposed total dividend for 2011 Chemring Detection Systems, Inc. is a US 14.8p will be covered 3.5 times by underlying after leader in chemical and biological threat tax earnings, compared with 4.2 times detection and has an advanced capability in 25% last year.
stand-off detection of improvised explosive Before non-underlying items see Note 6 devices.
The acquisition greatly enhances Group strategy the capabilities of our Counter-IED division, Over a number of years, the Group and has already made a good contribution has pursued a strategy of combining to the Groups earnings.
signi cant organic growth from its existing businesses with a successful programme of Balance sheet, cash ow and debt acquisitions which have contributed further The Group generated an underlying to the Groups growth.
This has enabled us operating cash ow of 124.6 million, to develop new products and technologies, which was 88% of underlying operating and utilise our market positions to exploit pro t. At the end of the year, net debt opportunities.
The acquisitions have was 262.7 million compared with usually been relatively modest in size, 307.5 million last year.
but have demonstrated a strong potential In April 2011, approximately 112 million for expansion.
Whilst there are none of new equity was raised in order to fund Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 5 planned at the current time, we operate in Prospects markets where consolidation may become During the last year, many governments attractive, and we will therefore continue have struggled with increasing fide cits and to consider opportunities when they arise lower economic growth.
This has affected and pursue them only if there is a clear defence procurement, leading to volume opportunity to enhance shareholder value.
The continuing We see long term growth coming from our problems of the Eurozone and the impact existing businesses but there will be times of possible sequestration in the US indicate when acquisitions may be appropriate to that our traditional markets will not be any supplement and enhance our portfolio.
We continue to pursue our policy of reducing our dependence on Board of directors these markets, and will actively seek more During the year, there have been some business from elsewhere.
It is encouraging changes in the composition of the Board.
to note that 44% of todays order book Two new directors were appointed during emanates from these non-NATO markets, 2011.
Sarah Ellard, who has been head compared with 33% at the same time of the Groups legal affairs for fourteen last year.
We see further good growth years, joined the Board in October as prospects in these markets and will pursue Legal Director.
On 1 November 2011, the opportunities they offer.
I am con dent Vanda Murray, who has a number of that we have the products, the management non-executive appointments, was appointed and technological skills to achieve our to the Board as a non-executive director.
objectives and provide the foundation for I welcome them both to the Board.
David Evans, who has been a director since 1988, first as Chief Executive and for the last seven years as a non-executive director, has indicated his intention to retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in March.
During his time with the Group, David has made a major contribution to its development, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank him on behalf of the Board and wish him well in the future.
P C F Hickson Chairman Dividends 24 January 2012 In line with the revised long term dividend policy outlined above, the Board is recommending a final dividend for the year of 10.8p 2010: 8.4p.
With the interim dividend paid of 4p 2010: 3.4p, this gives a total dividend for 2011 of 14.8p 2010: 11.8p, an increase of 25%.
The dividend is covered 3.5 times by underlying after tax earnings, and with a solid balance sheet and cash ow, the Group remains well positioned to increase its return to shareholders.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
