Growth Opportunity Banking We have spent the last decade developing the market leading Santander have joined our core banking syndicate during the year, Big Yellow brand with a current store network of 63 stores, largely taking 25 million of the 325 million facility.
HSBC have increased focussed on London and the South East, where the drivers for self their participation in the year from 25 million to 50 million of the storage are strongest and barriers to entry are at their highest.
We have a supportive group of banks who understand the We believe that this is the most resilient and dynamic part of the self storage sector: Lloyds, HSBC, Santander and HSH Nordbank.
economy and will be less affected by the proposed public spending I would like to thank them for their support.
Our stores outside London and the South East are in the larger Our People metropolitan cities in the South West, Midlands and the North, where The efforts of the Big Yellow team, both at head office and in the similar characteristics can be found.
One outcome from the recent stores, have delivered this performance and they remain pivotal to economic downturn has been a significant slowdown in self storage the achievement of our key medium term objectives of driving openings, with very few stores expected to open in 2011, particularly occupancy, revenue, and cash flow growth.
in these large urban conurbations.
Indeed in some of our markets, capacity has reduced marginally as smaller operators have closed Board down and sold their customer base to other operators.
We have strengthened the Board during the year with the appointment 71% of our current revenue derives from within the M25: for London of Steve Johnson as a Non-Executive Director.
Steve has significant and the South East, the proportion of current revenue rises to 89%.
experience in marketing and retail and I believe he will add considerable We would expect the proportion of revenue from London to increase value to the Board.
over time as 72% of the current available vacant capacity in the wholly owned stores is in London, where the average net rent per Outlook sq ft is also higher.
It is of no surprise to us that the recovery in the UK economy is so muted, given the combined effects of the fiscal consolidation, the We believe that the value creation opportunity in this business for pressure on disposable incomes, and the constrained lending to shareholders will in the medium term be driven mainly from leasing businesses and individuals.
The next step change in the recovery of up stores to drive revenue, the vast majority of which flows through the wider economy and hence self storage is unlikely to occur until to the bottom line given that our operating costs are already largely some of these pressures are alleviated.
We have increased occupancy of the wholly owned stores from 55.7% to 59.3% in the year, and this has translated into a 4.0 We therefore expect that the performance of this business will million increase in our annualised store revenue and a 4.4 million continue to show steady progress, however at some point we would increase in the Groups operating cash flow after finance costs.
anticipate seeing a change in economic pace which will feed directly into the growth rate of our business.
Dividend In the meantime, our exposure to London, dominant brand, REIT regulatory requirements determine the level of Property Income innovative marketing, internet presence, quality of stores and Dividend PID payable by the Group.
On the basis of the distributable customer service, coupled with our strong balance sheet and reserves for PID purposes, a PID of 4 pence per share is payable for financial position, gives us a significant advantage.
the year, of which 2 pence per share will be paid as part of the final dividend in addition to the 2 pence per share paid in December 2010 31 March 2010: PID of nil pence per share.
The Board has reviewed our anticipated capital expenditure over the medium term, our forecast operating cash flow and the resultant levels of debt, balance sheet gearing and income cover.
Following this review the Board is recommending the payment of a discretionary ordinary final dividend of 3 pence per share, taking the proposed final dividend to 5 pence per share and the total dividend declared Nicholas Vetch for the year to 9 pence per share.
Chairman The cash dividend payment is two times covered by our free cash flow.
23 May 2011 09 We give businesses room to grow because our storage services are tailored to their exact requirements.
