Understanding British Land Strategy Our portfolio Financing strategy Corporate responsibility Pages 0109 Pages 1123 Pages 2557 Pages 5961 Pages 6370 8231 2 Report 2011 01 to 70 Amedned URLs Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:45 Page 03 We derive huge benefit from CHAIRMANS STATEMENT the scale of our operations and pass this benefit on to our partners in terms of knowledge, experience and opportunity.
1 At British Land, we are facing the future with Recent research shows that we contributed almost 900 million of Gross Value Added to the UK economy in 2009 10 through confidence.
Our London office portfolio comprises our direct operations and supplier expenditure.
Our occupiers modern, flexible buildings that meet evolving contributed an additional 10.6 billion through their own business occupier needs and we own some of the best activities at our properties.
We estimate consumers spent around 4.7 billion in department stores and superstores on our retail assets in the UK, where consumers want to sites during 2010, and sales across our entire retail estate are shop and retailers trade efficiently and profitably.
Total employment enabled by British Land is estimated to be around 142,000 jobs, including those While, as a nation, we have moved from Recession to the Age of directly generated by our occupiers and indirectly through their Austerity, consumers are still shopping and good businesses are supplier expenditure.
British Land has been well served by the quality, location and sustainability of our portfolio.
Our size and substance demands a responsible approach to business: a duty we take willingly and seriously.
This year we Concentrated leasing activity across our portfolio, a decisive and reviewed our corporate responsibility strategy, consulting experts significant commitment to Central London office development, on a range of issues, evaluating best practice and benchmarking and a series of retail acquisitions, all contributed to a strong our performance.
performance over an active year as we delivered improvements throughout our business.
We continued to see a good recovery We believe leadership on issues such as sustainability help drive in the value of our assets and achieved rental growth with our performance and are core to our aim of building the best REIT continued demand for space from key retailers and office in Europe.
It is difficult to measure their precise value but occupiers occupiers.
These achievements were recognised at the annual are increasingly looking for efficiency and want premises that Property Week Awards in April 2011, when we were delighted express their own corporate commitments.
Ropemaker Place, to be named Property Company of the Year.
completed in May 2009, remains one of the Citys most sustainable buildings.
Despite a challenging occupational market it is now fully We reported very pleasing results for the year to 31 March 2011. let: a testament to its quality and a good example of our approach.
Underlying pre-tax profits at 256 million were 9.9% up excluding a credit provision release in 2009.
The value of our property In March, we announced the promotion of Lucinda Bell to the portfolio increased by 6.9% to 9.6 billion with NAV per share Board to succeed Graham Roberts as Finance Director.
The Board is proposing a fourth quarter welcome Lucinda and thank Graham for his excellent contribution dividend of 6.5 pence, bringing the total dividend per share for to the Group over many years and for his strong stewardship the full year to 26 pence representing a 91% payout in respect and leadership of the finance function.
We also appointed two of underlying earnings.
For the coming year, it is our intention that Non-executive Directors in Simon Borrows, Chairman of Greenhill the dividend is maintained at 26 pence with quarterly dividends & Co International LLP, and William Jackson, Chief Executive of 6.5 pence.
Both have further strengthened our Board following the retirement of Clive Cowdery.
Earlier in the year, Our finances remain strong and over the last 18 months Robert Swannell retired from the Board after 11 years during we successfully refinanced over 1.1 billion debt and revolving which time he served as Audit Committee Chairman and Senior facilities.
Finance is clearly available for well positioned UK Independent Director.
We thank both Robert and Clive for their businesses and the strength and quality of our properties and strong contributions to the Board.
their rental income, continue to underpin our ability to secure competitive funding successfully.
I also thank everyone at British Land and our many business partners whose hard work has helped our business grow over During the year, we started a number of projects to create the past 12 months.
The business had a strong 2010 11 and what is currently Central Londons largest committed office is performing well and we remain confident about the prospects development programme.
We recognised, early on, the opportunity for the business.
provided by a new major office cycle in Central London and will deliver 2.2 million sq ft of high-quality space, between 2012 and 2014, into a constrained market with rising rents and capital values.
An investment of 1.6 billion, of which our share totals 1.1 billion, spans six separate sites including a 700,000 sq ft building for Chris Gibson-Smith UBS at Broadgate, the 610,000 sq ft Leadenhall Building in Chairman Londons insurance district and the 500,000 sq ft NEQ building, 22 May 2011 completing our Regents Place estate.
1 British Land Economic Footprinting Study, April 2011, carried out by .
British Lands economic footprint is large: we derive huge benefit from the scale of our operations and pass this benefit on to our partners in terms of knowledge, experience and opportunity.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03
