Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 14 Annual Report 2011 Chairmans statement CSC has assets of uniquely high quality overall, a considerable capital base and a committed and resilient management team Introduction Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC is well placed to deal with the challenges and opportunities arising from the current weak economic climate in the UK which is further hampered by wider uncertainties.
Adverse conditions do not last forever and represent precisely the time when those who can, should be laying the foundations for future growth and we are among them.
CSC has assets of uniquely high quality overall, a considerable capital base and a committed and resilient management team.
We aim to use the creative energy of the organisation to improve CSCs competitive Patrick Burgess position in the shopping centre industry over the next few years.
Chairman Strengths of CSC Let me enlarge on these strengths of CSC.
We have in 2011 been building a pipeline of active management projects and growth options, detailed in the Operating Review which follows.
This includes planning applications and acquisitions, such as the Broadmarsh Centre, Nottingham, a transaction which should unlock the opportunity for CSC to upgrade the retail off er of Nottingham city centre after a long period of stalemate.
We have bene tted from the transformational acquisition of The Traff ord Centre at the beginning of 2011, not only because of the high quality income stream but also from the successful integration into CSC of its management and ideas.
By any measure, we are robust operationally, with 97 per cent occupancy and three consecutive years of overall footfall increases at our centres.
75 per cent of our investment properties are wholly-owned and mostly freehold, underpinning our 3.5 billion of shareholders funds, with our top quality properties providing a two-fold assurance.
First, the leading retailers want to occupy, and shoppers to visit them: secondly, as a result, theperformance of the assets comes under less pressure in adverse conditions.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 15 and strategy review review responsibility information The successful completion in late 2011 of a new 375 million revolving credit facility with vebanks is testimony to the solidity of our financial position and capacity for growth.
So is the evident attractiveness of CSC as a potential partner for long term investors looking to participate in individual assets.
While banks may be withdrawing for regulatory reasons from UK property lending, we see an encouraging range of other providers of debt and equity stepping forward to take their place for quality assets.
CSC shopping centres continue to attract All of this means that we are con dent about the companys ability a growing number of shoppers each year.
tomanage the key operational risks confronting CSC, as addressed in theOperating review, of tenant failure and lease expiries.
We are positioning the business to emerge powerfully from the next two years during which the UK and Eurozone economies may be expected to be at best subdued.
Results for the year We are pleased to have recorded in 2011 a creditable 3.6 per cent increase in like-for-like netrental income and a 7 per cent increase in underlying earnings per share.
While capital valueshave been in eff ect stable, the Traff ord Centre acquisition and related capital raising have substantially strengthened the Groups balance sheet, and interest cover has notably improved in the year.
People Everywhere, people are of the utmost importance to CSC: the customers who visit our shopping centres, our tenants, the retailers, and their staff, the teams who run the centres and CSCs head offi ce employees.
We provide an uplifting experience for those who visit our centres and for those who work in the Group a stimulating context for all they do.
I want to thank all our employees for the contribution they have made to the attractiveness ofour centres and the success of our activities.
Our thanks are also due to our executive team who have engineered the smooth absorption of The Traff ord Centre into our operations and, in particular, we welcome Mike Butterworth as Chief Operating Offi cer.
I am also grateful to all my fellow Directors whose contributions to our strategy and approach have been very valuable.
We have greatly appreciated the important contribution across our entire business with stimulating ideas for many of our centres from John Whittaker in the role of Deputy Chairman since January last year.
In September, we were delighted to welcome Lady Patten to the Board as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 16 Annual Report 2011 Chairmans statement continued Kay Chaldecott stood down as an Executive Director of CSC, on 30September 2011, after 27 years with the Group.
Kay played an instrumental part in the development and success ofthe Groups 15 p shopping centre business.
I would like to thank Kay very warmly on Dividend behalf ofusall for her years of dedication and role as a member of the executive team.
I also want to express particular thanks to Ian Henderson who is standing down from the Board at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting, after seven years as a Non-Executive Director including a period as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Ian also played an important role in the demerger from CSC ofCapital & Counties, taking on the role of Deputy Chairman of that business in May 2010.
Over the next two years, it is our intention to comply with Lord Davies recommendations asto the composition of Boards.
Remuneration CSC has always been a cost conscious organisation in all facets of its activities.
In the case ofexecutives, the Remuneration Committee aims for a balance with base salary set below median and a greater emphasis on performance related pay, commensurate with CSCs business objectives and risk pro le, to provide an appropriately positioned overall level ofremuneration.
Economic contribution and corporate responsibility We have in 2011 commissioned a third party exercise to assess the economic contribution ofCSCs regional shopping centres.
For example, we now estimate some 80,000 people are directly employed in our shopping centres with around a further 25,000 indirect jobs also supported in the local economies.
80,000 Corporate responsibility is woven into the fabric of our business.
people employed within our shopping centres We are active in all the communities in which we are located and address with them many local concerns, particularly focusing on youth, education and health issues.
These local engagements extend to a national level in terms of our eff orts to meet a number of environmental targets eff orts that havebeen recognised in a number of important national awards.
Over the last five years, we have reduced our energy use on a like-for-like basis by a signi cant 18 per cent while we have increased recycling as a percentage of all waste from 33 per cent to an impressive 75 per cent.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 17 and strategy review review responsibility information Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.0 pence per share bringing the amount paid and payable in respect of 2011 to 15.0 pence, the same as 2010 and covered by the underlying earnings per share for 2011 of 16.5 pence.
2.5 pence of the final dividend 2010 5.0 pence will be paid as a Property Income Distribution PID, subject to withholding tax as appropriate.
As previously highlighted, the rules governing UK REITs were recently amended and scrip dividends are now eligible to be classi ed as a PID.
To give the company the additional exibility this would provide, a resolution will be proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM in April 2012 to establish a scrip dividend scheme.
If approved by the AGM, and dependent on the stock market conditions at the time, the Board could choose to off er a scrip alternative for an individual dividend, including for the 2011 final dividend.
In particular, the level of the share price relative to the net asset value per share would be taken into consideration.
Prospects CSC has made very considerable progress in 2011, the first full year since the demerger of Capital & Counties in May 2010, and we are well placed to continue to develop the overall business.
As the retail market evolves, the scarcity value of CSCs high quality assets is increasing, together with the value of CSCs operating skills.
Our large scale in the industry continues to be a bene t as we strengthen our key relationships with retailers and improve our operating performance.
CSC is a single minded organisation, focused on one industry, in which a long-term approach iscrucial to be a successful participant.
Our challenge for 2012 and beyond is to continue to optimise the performance of existing assets while seizing opportunities to enhance returns further by creating new income streams whether organically or by acquisition.
Patrick Burgess Chairman 23 February 2012 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 18 Annual Report 2011 Business model Our focus, scale and quality set us apart allowing us to create value for shoppers, retailers and shareholders... We are the only pure UK prime shopping centre REIT.
We provide people with We own and operate 14 regional the perfect shopping centres in the strongest shopping locations right across the country experience more than any other operator.
With shopping centres in the best locations 10 2 3 across the country of the top 25 UK shopping centres of the population live within a 45 minute drive of a CSC centre And by developing and actively managing Ownership of major UK shopping centres these centres to provide the right mix of retail, 16 14 leisure and catering 14 12 9 10 8 5 6 4 333 4 2222 2 Enabled by the following CSC qualities...
Number of shopping centres 400,000 sq.
ft. in 50 highest rented locations where owner has at least 33 per cent share.
Source: PMA 2011 Number of shopping centres CSC Hammerson Land Securities Henderson PruPIM Aviva Westeld Standard Life British Land GIC Canada Pension Plan Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 19 and strategy review review responsibility information Allowing us Which delivers And generates to establish long-term returns for enduring growth for shareholders relationships CSC with retailers The powerful footfall This ensures that Our thriving centres that results is a occupancy remains are sought-after compelling attraction strong investments, supporting for retailers access to capital And drives rental income and creating value While we demonstrate over the long term for shareholders operating excellence, managing our centres to provide the right trading environment A robust capital structure A balanced approach to risk Astute financial management to maximise funding options for disciplined Risk management is underpinned by rigorous analysis in the context and shrewd investment.
of potential threats to strategic objectives.
See Financial review pages 41 to 47 Key risks and uncertainties pages 24 and 25 Talented employees A long-term focus Professional, motivated and empowered teams, specialists in their eld, Creative and collaborative approach to long-term investment and focused on creating mutually-bene cial opportunities and relationships growth, facilitated by development expertise and community focus.
See Corporate responsibility pages 48 to 53 See People page 53 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 20 Annual Report 2011 Strategy We have clear strategic objectives to ensure the business model is put into action effectively Business model We provide people with the perfect shopping experience M arketing has worked N ext has had a longstanding brilliantly for us.
We had relationship with CSC and Strategic objective amazing results from the has worked with them over Jean Genie campaign.
the years to create excellent To provide compelling shops in the right locations.
destinations for shoppers Fashion retailer Our recent relocation to Eldon Lakeside How we are delivering on Square Newcastle where we our strategy created a major store in the prime retail area is a proven Finding and showcasing the best mix of retailers example of that relationship.
The most accessible locations Andrew Varley for shopping and socialising Group Property Director Next Excellent service, security and facilities Marketing events that create theatre and experience Strategy in action 33 new brands to CSC centres in 2011, including Boux Avenue, Forever 21, Gilly Hicks and Banana Republic See Operating review pages 34 to 40 35 million visitors to TheTraff ordCentre See The Traff ord Centre page 3 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 21 and strategy review review responsibility information Allowing us to Which delivers And generates establish enduring long-term growth returns for relationships for CSC shareholders with retailers To be the landlord that To create long-term To generate superior retailers want to do and sustainable growth shareholder returns business with in net rental income through dividend growth and capital appreciation Highest footfall locations Astute investment in Tight cost control and lean across the UK improvements operation Specialist and collaborative Specialist knowledge of emerging Effi cient use of debt markets approach to retail change occupier and management trends Creative involvement of Impeccable yet cost eff ective Non-rental income from non-equity partners facilities management shoppingcentres Consistently deliver creative Long-term partnerships with developments local authorities and communities Innovative and eff ective marketing Real Service retailer survey Impressive new Next agship store Improved operating margin shows overall satisfaction level at Eldon Square out-performing See Operating review page 37 3 percentage points above former high street location and N ew revolving credit facility benchmark, a third successive driving further demand secures increased bank yearof improvement See panel on left commitment at a lower margin Inno vative Style Pod events U nique Facilities Alliance in a challenging market demonstrably increasing sales partnership encouraging operational See Financial review page 45 of featured products innovation and improving property See panel on left management effi ciency See Operating review pages 34 to40 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 22 Annual Report 2011 Key performance indicators We measure progress against strategic objectives using the following financial and nonfinancial performance measures 1.
To provide compelling destinations for shoppers Footfall Why is this important?
Footfall is an important measure Footfall numbers across CSCs Despite tough economic of a centres popularity with centres, including those managed conditions during 2011 footfall customers.
Retailers use by our partners, are captured has increased by over 2 per this measure as a key part of using a combination of person centin the year con rming their decision making process or car counting cameras located the continuing attractiveness onwhere to locate their stores.
at speci c entrance and exit to the public of our quality 3% 3% points within the centre.
To be the landlord that retailers want to do business with Occupancy Why is this important?
CSC aims to maximise The passing rent of the Groups The attractiveness of the 97.8% 97.7% theoccupancy of its properties properties currently occupied Groupsproperties to retailers 96.7% asvacant spacewill adversely expressed as a percentage of the isevidenced by the continued impacton a centres passing rent of occupied and the above average occupancy levels.
The small reduction in 2011 94.6% wasdue to a number of tenant administrations in December 2011.
To create long-term and sustainable growth in net rental income Why is this important?
Like-for-like net rental income Measures the organic growth Removes from the year-on-year After the downturn in the inincome generated from the movement in net rental income commercial property market 3.6% Groups properties in the year.
the impact of acquisitions, in 2009, the Group returned to 2.1% developments and disposals.
positive like-for-like net rental income growth in 2010, with a further increase in the growth level achieved in 2011.
3.4% 2009 2010 2011 Current year Historic comparative Benchmark comparative Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 23 and strategy review review responsibility information 4.
To generate superior shareholders returns through dividend growth and capital appreciation Why is this important?
Shareholder return Combines share price movement Uses the movement in share REIT share prices fell in 2011 as 7% and dividends to produce a direct price during the yearplus did the general UKstock market.
measure of the movement in dividends paid intheyear.
CSC marginally under performed shareholder value intheyear.
the REIT index due to a relatively stronger performance from those companies in the index focused on the London propertymarket.
13% 14% 2010 2011 FTSE REIT Index Why is this important?
Total financial return This is a measurement of the Uses the movement in adjusted Although net asset value per total return movement in the net asset value plus the impact share increased in theyear Groups balance sheet value of dividends paid in the year.
due to property valuation 20% through the change inthe gains thereturn was aff ected Groups property valuations by exceptional costs incurred andits capital structure.
Income performance The measure gives the underlying Uses underlying earnings per Underlying earnings pershare 16.5p income generated in the year share, which excludes property has grown in 2011due to whichgives an indication ofthe and derivative valuation improved like-for-like net rental 15.4p 15.1p Groups ability to paydividends.
movements andexceptional income and tight costcontrol.
2009 2010 2011 Prime property assets Why is this important?
Measures the capital return on Includes the capital growth from The UK commercial property 11% the Groups property assets and the Groups properties.
market experienced more compares thiswith the IPD index, diffi cult conditions following arecognised industry benchmark.
the signi cant rebound in 1.0% valuesin 2010.
The Group 0.6% continued to outperform its benchmark in2011.
9.8% 2009 2010 2011 IPD monthly index retail Data source: Bloomberg.
Uses the CSC share price on 11 January 2011 as the opening value being the day on which Simon Property Group announced they had no intention to make a rmoff er for the Group.
This is consistent with methodology used in 2010.
No peer group comparable data is provided due to the lack of available data on a comparable time period.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 24 Annual Report 2011 Key risks and uncertainties CSC recognises that it faces a number of risks in achieving its strategic objectives Eff ective identi cation and management of risks is a major factor Operational reviews performed by each team focus on the impact in CSCs ability to deliver strategic objectives.
The risk management ofchanging risks on the functions key objectives and, along with framework targets the early identi cation of key risks and the reviewsof current controls and the resulting action plans, are subject formation of plans to remove or mitigate them.
The executive team also conducts a strategic on managing these risks to maximise returns and minimise review which considers changes in the overall environment, which may negative impacts.
hinder the business in achieving its objectives.
Combined action plans are subject to a detailed review and challenge process, including by the The CSC Board has overall responsibility for managing risk across Audit Committee.
Progress on implementation of actions is regularly the Group.
The process as designed, which is illustrated below, monitored and informs the next phase of identi cation and analysis.
involvesidenti cation and review of risk involving all areas of the business and resulting in appropriate action plans.
Identify Strategic and operational riskreviews R eviews undertaken by shoppingcentre teams, facilitiesmanagement partners and corporate functions Executive Director and Board level challenge Output risk list Strategic Implement objectives Analyse Plan allocates responsibilities Compelling destinations Review of existing controls for implementation forshoppers Prioritisation based on impact R isk and Internal Audit oversight The landlord that retailers and likelihood of aff ecting wantto do business with strategic objectives Progress reporting to AuditCommittee Long-term and sustainable Output prioritised risk register growth in net rental income Output improved risk pro le S uperior shareholderreturns Action R ange of options considered mitigate, avoid, transfer oraccept Audit Committee review and challenge Output risk register action plan Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 25 and strategy review review responsibility information Risk and Impact Mitigation Change 2011 commentary Fo cus on prime assets D espite macro concerns and reducing consumer con dence Property market from early summer 2011, positive valuation movement Co venant headroom Macro environment weakness of 1 per cent for the year re ecting prime nature of assets could undermine rental income monitored and stress tested See Business review pages 28 to 30 levels and property values, Regular monitoring of tenant reducing return on investment Covenant headroom on individual properties increased strength and diversity and covenant headroom during 2011 Re gular reporting to Board Re newed uncertainty in banking and debt markets.
Financing of current and projected However CSCs position supported by capital raising, Reduced availability of funds could funding position acquisition of long-dated Traff ord Centre debt and new limit liquidity leading to restriction broader-based corporate revolving credit facility Eff ective treasury management of investing and operating See Financial review page 45 activities and or increase in aimed at balancing long debt maturity pro le and funding cost diversi cation of sources of finance St rong business process and Ro ll out of group policy and best practice post Traff ord Operations procedures supported by acquisition complete Accident, system failure or regular training and exercises external factors could threaten Seamless transition to Facilities Alliance, CSCs innovative Annual audits of operational property management partnership, with effi ciency savings the safe and secure environment provided for shoppers and standards carried out by reinvested in fabric improvements internal and external retailers, leading to financial and Mid year riots provided test of existing procedures: or reputational loss consultants generally well managed, learning points implemented Culture of visitor safety including new policies on monitoring and use of social media Retailer liaison and brie ngs Re gulatory change: good ranking in Carbon Reduction Appropriate levels of insurance Commitment early action metrics Annual strategic review by Focus on optimising performance of pre-eminent centres Strategy and Board informed by external to bene t from ongoing structural shift in UK retail, execution research and advice including broader off er of leisure and catering and inclusion of theatre Misjudged or poorly executed Board and management team strategy fails to create experienced in shopping centre Fr esh perspective from new directors management shareholder value and broader retail industry has enhanced debate while maintaining our long term sustainable growth objective Engagement with national and See Chairmans statement page 14 international retailers Ke y staff succession planning, performance-based incentives Capital Projects Committee I ncreased focus on pre-let space before committing Development reviews detailed appraisals capital to projects and acquisitions before and monitors progress Unprecedented number of planning applications including during signi cant projects Misjudged or poorly executed local consultations, positioning the Group for next phase project results in increased cost Research and third party due of growth or income foregone, hence fails diligence undertaken for See Operating review page 34 to create shareholder value transactions
