Directors report | Overview | Chairmans statement Chairmans statement We assessed the optimum allocation of Focus on income growth We had an active year bringing tenants into our portfolio above the capital and how we could best exploit our estimated rental levels, and have reduced vacancy further.
In conjunction skills to generate attractive long-term returns with specific asset management initiatives, these have helped us to grow income from the portfolio again in 2011. for shareholders.
The conclusion of our review Trends in retail property mean that in order for a landlord to differentiate of strategy was that Hammerson should be itself and thrive, it must operate in the best locations but also be a specialist retail REIT focused on successful innovative and imaginative in responding to changing consumer requirements and technological trends.
This is We focus relentlessly on improving our customers sales.
We have explained further in the Chief Executives made good progress over the last eighteen months reshaping our report on page 2. business so that it is aligned with our tenants.
We continue to measure our success in this area with an annual survey.
High quality property We are constantly looking to improve the returns from our portfolio by either acquiring, improving or developing new properties.
This gives us the ability to create the modern, flexible assets in the best locations which attract consumers and so help our tenants thrive.
At the same time, we maintain a discipline to match acquisitions and developments with sales of assets which no longer offer such compelling returns, for example the sale of 60 Threadneedle Street above valuation at the end of last year.
We also bring capital into the portfolio by selling stakes to investment partners who value our skills as managers of complex retail property.
This enables us to maintain scale whilst putting our expertise to best use.
Results We have a vigorous approach to managing all areas of the business, and I am pleased that this generated strong results in 2011, as evidenced by the operational and financial metrics.
Occupancy increased further to 97.9%, like-for-like net rental income increased by 2.5%, and the net asset value per share increased to 5.30. Financing Hammerson is in a strong financial position.
In 2011 we signed two revolving credit facilities worth a total of 655 million, further improving our financial flexibility.
At 31 December 2011 net debt was 2.0 billion 30 June 2011: 2.2 billion.
Loan-to-value and gearing ratios are among the lowest in the sector at 34% and 52% respectively, and cash and committed unutilised bank facilities totalled more than 700 million.
4 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Overview | Chairmans statement Dividend I am pleased to report that the combination of our strong performance coupled with our revised strategy gives us confidence to recommend a final dividend of 9.3 pence per share, an increase of 5.7% on the 2010 final dividend.
Together with the interim dividend of 7.3 pence per share, the 2011 total dividend is therefore 16.6 pence, up 4.1% compared with the 2010 total dividend.
Looking forward, our revised strategy will enhance the focus on income growth and efficiency, and therefore we anticipate being able to grow dividends at a rate higher than recent historic levels.
Board changes Simon Melliss, who had been Chief Financial Officer since 1995, retired at the end of June.
I thank him for his enormous contribution to the Company over a twenty-year period.
We are very pleased to welcome Timon Drakesmith, who joined Hammerson as CFO in June, bringing both sector and wider industry expertise.
Also in May, we appointed Judy Gibbons as a Non-Executive Director.
Judy has a background in technology businesses, and her experience will help us develop further our understanding of the opportunities and challenges that multi-channel retailing presents to a landlord.
Outlook Global macro economic uncertainty and fiscal tightening will continue to have a major influence on our property markets.
We believe that occupier and investor demand for retail space will be concentrated on modern, well-maintained properties in the very best locations, such as those owned by Hammerson.
Properties without these attributes may experience rental and capital value declines in 2012.
Despite a challenging retail backdrop in both the UK and France, we are successfully growing net rental income in our retail portfolio, and will benefit from positive indexation in France.
Our regionally dominant shopping centres and convenient retail parks continue to generate demand from successful retailers.
We will increase our focus and scale in our chosen retail markets to capitalise further on structural changes in consumer behaviour.
John Nelson Chairman Top: Bercy 2, Paris Bottom: Bullring, Birmingham Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 5
