CHAIRMANS STATEMENT untila new CEO is appointed.
The HIGHLIGHTS process forfinding areplacement ismaking progress.
Increased focus on chosen markets, each Alison Wood joined the Board as a with advantages of scale Non-executive Director in July 2011. and differentiation Alison brings to the Board deep insight Expansion of of defence and security markets as well transformational as related technology issues through operational improvement her17 year career at BAE Systems, programme and increased priorto becoming Global Director efficiencies Corporate Development & Strategy Recommended 33% forNationalGrid plc.
increase in full year dividend Peter Hooley retired as a Non-executive JOHN DEVANEY CHAIRMAN Director at the conclusion of Cobhams Annual General Meeting in May 2011, after nine years service.
I would like to Corporate development business and pay a progressive dividend thank Peter for his wise counsel and We have continued to make good to shareholders.
Our free cash flow was assured contribution as Chairman of the progress in our strategy of focusing on excellent, with strong operating cash Audit Committee.
Michael Wareing has chosen markets where we have scale conversion of 95%.
taken over as Chairman of the Audit and differentiation, completing the Committee, drawing on his considerable planned divestment of the non-core Shareholder distributions financial experience as a former Chief Analytic Solutions business for In March 2011 we announced a Executive of KPMG International.
In addition we invested some programme to return surplus capital to US$280m in acquisitions, bringing us shareholders through a share buy-back Outlook complementary and differentiated of up to 150m.
This share buy-back We have made significant steps towards technologies.
We are increasingly programme was completed in focusing the portfolio on markets where prioritising investments which bring November with a total of 76m we have technical differentiation and more balance between our defence sharespurchased.
Excellence in Delivery security and commercial markets, with has achieved real operational focus on products which can be applied Cobham has high dividend cover, FULL YEAR DIVIDEND improvements and better-thanto multiple end markets, as this increases astrong balance sheet after the share expected efficiency savings and we have return on investment.
buy-back and a highly cash generative 8.0p 33% a strong balance sheet and a highly cash business model.
As a demonstration 2010: 6.0p generative business model, giving us the I am pleased to say that Excellence in ofconfidence in the Groups future flexibility to examine attractive Delivery, our transformation programme, prospects, the Board has decided acquisition opportunities and increase has produced improved operational tomake a one-off step change to shareholder distributions.
The US performance and significant efficiency the2011 ordinary dividend and is Government has confirmed defence improvements, in part driving an recommending a final dividend of 6.20 andsecurity priorities that favour increase in underlying EPSof12%.
Together Cobham and has made some progress Weintend to expand the programme with an interim dividend of 1.80 pence inreconcilling these to budgetary and we estimate that the run rate of 2010: 1.628 pence, this will result in a imperatives.
The continued delivery of efficiency savings at the endof 2013 total dividend of 8.0 pence 2010: 6.0 the strategy gives the Board confidence willincrease from 65m to75m.
pence per share, an increase of 33% that we will continue to make progress onthe prior year.
Underlining our ongoing commitment totechnology investment, we invested The Board 129m on Research and Development We announced in November 2011 that inour core businesses, including 70m Andy Stevens, Cobham Chief Executive of company funded investment or Officer CEO, had decided to take Private Venture, representing 5.2% earlyretirement due to the recurrence ofrevenue.
of a long term serious back injury.
Ihavetemporarily assumed the It is our ability to generate cash which positionof Executive Chairman, with provides us with the funds to continue Andy remaining on the Board to assist John Devaney, Executive Chairman our significant investment in the with the management of the Group 6 March 2012 Business overview 6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
