Our Chairmans message Alison Carnwath, Chairman Our approach to development shows we have confidence in our view of the market and we are not afraid to press ahead while others hold back.
In 2009 the Board of Land Securities put in place a clear plan for how Total Shareholder Returns Table 13 Over one we would address the property market through the next cycle.
I am year to pleased to report that we have made strong progress against this plan, 31 March 2011 and the Company is well positioned to deliver value for shareholders Land Securities 116.04 in the conditions we see ahead.
FTSE 100 109.43 The rise in our net asset value over the last 12 months confirms FTSE 350 Real Estate 115.49 that we are once again generating attractive growth, and this is reected Historical TSR performance for a hypothetical investment of 100. in the total return delivered by the business.
Our Total Shareholder Source: Datastream.
Return dividend and growth in share price was 16.0%, and our Total Business Return dividend and growth in net asset value was 23.6%.
As your Board sees total return as the Companys key financial metric, Given the dynamics in the UK commercial property market, the most these are very positive statistics.
successful businesses are likely to be those that take a highly active As our results show, we are generating strong forward approach to creating value in their portfolio, and do not just rely on momentum in the context of the early stages of a recovery in the UK market movements.
In the results you will see that the actions we commercial property market.
Across the economy as a whole we have took to secure 67m of lettings have contributed to earnings growth seen some return to normality but a number of questions remain.
We also bought and sold assets to The future of the UK banking industry is uncertain, for example, and it capitalise on yield differentials, selling properties on a lower yield and is not clear what effect a turn in interest rates will have on commercial buying those on a higher yield.
We expect to see fewer such opportunities property, particularly as much of the sector remains dependent on in the year ahead, but we will act wherever we spot them.
substantial renancing arrangements being put in place over the The Company has also been particularly active in the area medium term.
We also wait to see whether Government austerity of development, with a substantial programme that is funded off our measures serve to strengthen the long-term health of the economy.
own balance sheet and of a scale that few property companies can I expect these dynamics to play out in full over a number of years.
Construction has started at a number of sites, including 2 In the meantime, your Board will stay alert to conditions as they 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, our 64,520m tower development being unfold, and we will take early action as required.
undertaken with Canary Wharf Group in the City, and at Trinity Leeds, 2 We were heartened that the March 2011 budget recognised which will provide up to 75,900m of new retail space.
We believe our the role property has to play in economic growth and that the sector developments represent the best way for us to capture growth in rental deserves to be prioritised.
Naturally, the devil is in the detail, and we values and to boost earnings, given that like-for-like rental income look forward to working with Government on practical next steps growth on existing assets is likely to be modest in the near term.
We have around planning and other areas.
taken active steps to increase the proportion of our assets in development While there is uncertainty around the economy, our market and the pipeline of expected developments could deliver up to 2 sectors provide rather more cheer.
Despite competition from the 596,990m of new space, if market conditions remain stable.
Far East and the Continent, London remains a desirable and popular The Board continues to rene the Companys business model place for multi-national organisations to locate their businesses.
and risk management to ensure we are well prepared for the conditions We also see the emergence of a supply constrained market for ofce we see ahead.
We normally operate within a targeted loan-to-value ratio space in London.
In Retail, we are keeping a close eye on fast-changing of 35%45%, drawing on our facilities when needed, and the extent of conditions, with the impact of the internet on retailing a key agenda the development programme is determined by the Boards risk appetite.
While some in the sector take a pessimistic view, we see good Currently, developments and acquisitions are funded from property potential for income opportunities as the more resilient retailers look to sales while dividends are funded from revenue profit.
As I said last year, develop a multi-channel approach that combines online and physical our job is to steer the best course between caution and enthusiasm.
In our shopping centres we are using technology to help drive Our approach to development shows we have confidence in our view of footfall and enhance experiences by targeting customers effectively.
the market and we are not afraid to press ahead while others hold back.
Over the following pages we provide further commentary on our two This year demonstrated once again that our scale and debt structure business divisions.
provide us with competitive advantage.
30 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Our Chairmans message The Board also ensures it keeps abreast of all structural and major I thank our people for their exceptional work.
The Company also operational issues affecting the Company so we can debate the key issues continues to full its commitments on Corporate Responsibility across with management.
For instance, the recent Board away day included community relations, employment, our marketplace and sustainability.
sessions from experts on the global performance of REITs, digital For example, we are making important investments in innovative marketing and Londons position as a global business and financial environmental engineering, helping to set new standards for the centre.
We think it important that each Board member continues industry as we do so.
to develop relevant knowledge and skills.
As usual, during the year Looking ahead, our objective is to be the best performing REIT I saw a number of our large shareholders on my own as part of my in the UK, delivering attractive levels of shareholder return through the commitment to shareholder engagement.
We expect our markets evolution to gather pace, and this will extremely valuable.
benefit those who are alive to change.
We will continue to gain strategic We refresh the Board as required, and this year Simon Palley advantages from our scale and financial repower, along with our joined us.
Simons outstanding track record of investing in and ability to understand customers needs, our leadership on Corporate managing a wide range of businesses is providing the Board with Responsibility and our ability to attract and develop the best people.
The forthcoming AGM will be the last for We will be disciplined in the pursuit of our plan, and I am con dent we Bo Lerenius and Sir Christopher Bland, both of whom have provided have the portfolio, people and capabilities required to make the most support and incisive questioning during a challenging period for the of the opportunities ahead.
I thank them very much for their contribution.
Over the next 12 months we aim to add one new Non-executive Director to the Board, using a search rm to provide a wide range of candidates.
Published in February 2011, Lord Davies of Abersochs Alison Carnwath report into Women on Boards has highlighted the value of effective Chairman diversity policies.
We also expect European legislation on this subject to appear shortly.
Our Nominations Committee is already well attuned to the benets of diversity, as well as experience, when appointing Board members.
It is our intention that by 2015 at least 25% of our Board will constitute women.
However, my foremost priority as Chairman is to ensure that Land Securities continues to have the strongest possible leadership, and we will appoint only the most appropriate candidates.
The Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees have worked effectively during the year.
A recurring consideration is whether we are providing sufficient motivation to employees.
We have concluded that remuneration does impact positively on performance so long as management and employees are given clear objectives and have a reasonable chance of achieving them.
In addition, we continue to deliberately reward high performance on an individual basis.
We align remuneration to shareholders interests by basing rewards on Total Shareholder Return and performance relative to the IPD Quarterly Universe.
Executives receive exceptional rewards only when the Company achieves exceptional results.
Investment and disposals m Chart 14 Investment 400.1 249.2 649.3 Disposals 614.0 Acquisitions Capital expenditure We believe that our executives should run the business in pursuit of a clear strategic plan set by the full Board.
This year we have stuck to our plan and in March 2011 we refreshed our objectives for the current year and beyond.
Land Securities is now ring on all cylinders.
Good planning and top class execution at senior level is motivating for all of our employees, whose contribution this year has been magni cent.
