London & Stamford Property Plc Report and Accounts 2011 03 Chairmans statement Overview I am delighted to present our During the year we continued to deliver on our objectives of annual report for the year ended investing equity well and adding shareholder value through the implementation of asset management initiatives and realising 31 March 2011. gains on the disposal of assets where we consider it appropriate.
This was all achieved whilst having undertaken significant organisational change.
Investments Following the success of our investment at Highbury, we have acquired a portfolio of 58 apartments at Battersea Reach inLondon for 27.9 million.
We have expanded our distribution involvement considerably by the purchase of three portfolios ofprime logistical warehouses for 413.5 million.
We have completed the disposal of the Racecourse Retail Park at Aintree for 101.5 million, representing a total return on ourequity of 127% over 15 months of ownership.
An analysis ofourasset management initiatives is included in the Operating andfinancial review on pages 8 to 16.
Since the year end, we have exchanged contracts to acquire avery well positioned office building at Carter Lane in the City ofLondon for 75 million, reflecting an attractive net initial yield of7.3% which currently provides a short-term income benefit andrepresents an excellent refurbishment opportunity if the tenant decides to exercise a break option in March 2013.
Optimised corporate structure On 1 October 2010, we successfully elected for UK REIT status, internalised the management of the Group and moved onto thepremium listing segment of the Official List to trade on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Since then, the Company has been promoted to the FTSE 250 and is listed onthe EPRA Index.
Management remain material shareholders with c. 9% of the issued share capital of the Company which fully aligns their interest with the shareholders.
Raymond Mould Executive Chairman Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview London & Stamford Property Plc 04 Report and Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement Results Our acquisition of Carter Lane demonstrates that opportunities for outperformance do exist in the Central London office market, The Group generated a profit for the year of 43.3 million, where a constrained development pipeline and falling vacancies incorporating an underlying profit, as described on page 9 support potential for real rental growth.
Similarly, we see oftheOperating and financial review, of 20.1 million opportunities in theCentral London residential market for 2010:7.7million loss.
This is a strong improvement to continuing rental growth as first time buyers are kept out of the therecurring profitability of the Group, particularly during the investment market by the need for higher mortgage deposits secondhalf of theyear driven by creating sustainable and than was historically the case.
We intend to increase our growing rental income.
exposure to rented residential accommodation in Central London Net assets at 31 March 2011 were 668.7 million 2010: aimed at that market of potential occupiers.
600.6million, equivalent to 122.5p per share 2010: 120.1p We continue to focus on the distribution sector where the lack pershare, achieved while there has also been a 9.2% increase ofsupply is creating the opportunity for lease extensions and inthe number of shares in issue.
rental growth in prime locations in the south east and in the The Board has proposed a final dividend of 3.3p per share Golden Triangle between the M6 M1 and M54 motorways, tobepaid on 7 July 2011, the cost of which is fully covered where our existing investments are located.
byunderlying profit in the six months to 31 March 2011 which, We are very happy with our investment in Meadowhall which whentaken with the interim dividend of 3p per share paid on exemplifies the retailing trend away from the high street and 20December 2010, comprises a total dividend in respect of the secondary locations towards super regional and internet year of 6.3p per share, an increase of 43% on the 2010 dividend.
We will continue to seek retail investment opportunities Outlook where we see value and we shall fully support our co-owner, TheBritish Land Company Plc, in developing surplus land Our own strong cash resources and the added scale provided aroundMeadowhall.
byour jointventure partner produces total investment firepower of c. 1billion, which puts us in an excellent position to take I would like to thank everyone at London & Stamford and our advantage ofopportunities in the future.
business partners whose hard work has helped our business grow over the past twelve months.
With the prospect of increasing interest rates and inflation and continuing concerns around Eurozone Sovereign debt issues, weare cautious and still have concerns over the fragile nature ofthe occupational market.
Therefore, we continue to be carefulin our investment strategy and will maintain our discipline Raymond Mould in seeking well priced reliable income streams from well Executive Chairman locatedassets.
26 May 2011 Although we are seeing more opportunities, many of which arebank led, they are, in a number of cases, mispriced by our analysis and may be better priced in the near future.
We regard not being fully invested as an opportunity at this time.
