06 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We believe the strategic and operational benefits from being purely focused on media and digital activities are significant We are confident that we are moving in the John Napier right strategic and Chairman, Aegis Group plc operational direction It has been a busy year for your Board and Company and a successful one.
In his first full year our capable Chief Executive, Jerry Buhlmann, has planned and executed a series of acquisitions, business development and strategic reshaping of your Company into a focused media and digital service provider with an enhanced global footprint.
At the same time we have continued to add to our range of products and services and maintain significant new business and organic growth momentum.
In short, the major achievements include: Increasing the rate of group organic revenue growth on a like for like basis, up to 9.9% in the full year compared to 2010 Achieving new business wins at record levels in 2011 Announcing in January 2012 our appointment as the global media partner for General Motors Co, a major business win Integrating and delivering the benefits of the Mitchell acquisition in Australia, completed in November 2010 Continuing our programme of geographic in-fill and product Given our confidence in the and service innovations by related acquisitions, spending Companys future prospects, around 75m in initial consideration with a balance the Board maintains a dependent on results achieved progressive dividend policy Successfully selling our Synovate market research business, allowing us to return 200m to shareholders via a special dividend and further strengthening our balance sheet.
07 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In terms of overall 2011 financial performance we have not been Going forward we believe the strategic and operational benefits immune from the varying economic circumstances of the global from being purely focused on media and digital activities are economy.
For Aegis, this broadly divides into three geographic significant.
We will continue to push forward and accelerate our sectors faster-growing regions, North America and the digital profile, service and new product capability across all traditional Western European trading block, of which the regions.
We plan to increase our exposure to faster-growing UK is part.
In general, we have: regions and North America.
Continued to increase our exposure to faster-growing regions Our new business success and growth is built on focusing on and North America what our media and digital services clients need in changing economic, competitive and demanding markets in order to Further increased the proportion of our revenues from optimise expenditure and consumer response in a changing digital activities media world.
Our strategy is further evidenced by the Across EMEA offset the effect of below prior year announcement made in February of the acquisition of performances in certain Western European markets with Roundarch in North America.
This acquisition will further other improved regional results to increase our overall level add products and services and increase our digital profile.
Apart from revenue growth the scope for improved margins arises with changes in work mix and with an expected recovery Given the sale of Synovate and our focus on media and digital in certain Western European operations.
We have already solutions it is appropriate to restate the 2010 results on what is announced the very significant new business award from called for 2011 a Retained Group basis.
This allows our 2010 General Motors which will come into effect in 2012.
We have an performance to be made comparable to 2011 and will be the expectation that underlying operating profit will improve further ongoing basis for the business in the future.
On that basis, and in 2012, subject to a necessary qualification that if there is in challenging global market circumstances, we have performed further unexpected economic turbulence and instability it will very well.
The detailed results are set out more fully in the Chief be more difficult.
Putting aside that consideration our outlook Executives, Business and Financial Review sections of this is to continue to grow relatively and outperform the market.
To give some headline numbers on underlying results: Group operating profit up 30.6% Given our confidence in the Companys future prospects, the Board maintains a progressive dividend policy and has Pre-tax profit up 32.3% recommended a total dividend of 3.20p per share for 2011, excluding the special dividend paid on 2 November 2011, Diluted EPS up 29.5%.
This dividend increase reflects We have also further strengthened our balance sheet position, the progression in our underlying pro forma diluted earnings despite acquisition spend of around 75m, due to the sale of per share in 2011.
Our net debt position of 128.4m at year end improved from 331.3m at the end of 2010.
We also remain comfortably In conclusion I would like to close by personally endorsing the within our financial covenants, with undrawn facilities totalling thanks made to our clients and our people on behalf of the 450m at the end of the year.
Board and the management team by the CEO.
We remain dedicated to the concept of being the leading player in this There has been one Board change in the year with the global marketplace.
We are confident that we are moving in retirement of Robert Philpott who was the Executive Director the right strategic and operational direction.
In the end, responsible for our Synovate market research business.
Over the however, it is the recognition from our clients and their last three years Robert has done an outstanding job in difficult willingness to do business with us that will determine the and demanding circumstances.
In that time he was responsible success of our strategies and actions.
Our clients, our people for improving and developing Synovate into an attractive and our shareholders will continue to be our key focus.
He retires from the Company with the best wishes of the Board for his future success on the basis of a job well done.
John Napier Chairman, Aegis Group plc BUSINESS REVIEW
