OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT RESHAPING OUR BUSINESS It remains a challenging market in both the INTRODUCTION UK and the rest of Europe for industrial property 2011 was a year of change for SEGRO with companies because many of our tenants face the appointment of a new Chief Executive in their own challenges.
However, we have David Sleath.
David took over in April on the managed to improve our occupancy and have retirement of Ian Coull.
Clearly, he knew the not suffered from too many insolvencies of Company well, having been Finance Director tenants.
As a result of property disposals our for the previous five years, but nonetheless he rental income for the year marginally decreased quickly embarked on a detailed review of the but our EPRA profits increased, enabling the business.
Your Board was conscious that over the Board to recommend a 14.8 pence full-year past few years the Company has underperformed dividend, an increase of 3.5 per cent on the in terms of shareholder value.
EPRA NAV per share decreased by were a factor in this, the Board felt that we 9.6 per cent, reecting valuation declines, mainly needed to do more to improve our performance.
within the more secondary properties earmarked for disposal following the strategic review.
The Chief Executives review was completed in the last quarter of the year and, following We go into 2012 determined to execute Board approval of the proposals, these were our strategy and have made a good start to communicated to the market in November.
reshaping our portfolio with the completion The strategy is to improve shareholders returns since the year end of the acquisition of the UK through Disciplined Capital Allocation and Logistics Fund in conjunction with a partner and Operational Excellence.
Historically we have the disposal of a portfolio of non-core holdings managed our properties well, but we see in the UK.
Our investment team is also very room for improved performance.
We have focused on a disposal programme of non-core been less good at capital allocation and there assets, which have been partly responsible for is a considerable opportunity for improvement, our underperformance.
This will also help to especially with a more proactive approach lower our loan to value ratio over time.
Our new strategy is the basis on which we expect to generate value for shareholders over the longer term.
David will elaborate on this in his review.
FOCUSED ON SUSTAINABILITY We have continued to make progress this year on our journey to embed sustainability into every aspect of our business.
Our review of performance begins on page 34.
Find out more online by visiting www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 www.
com Overview 53.6 million 2010: 197.2 million, including 2012 is likely to be no less challenging than MANAGEMENT CHANGES a 187.0 million write-down in the second half 2011 for the economies in which we operate, Following David Sleaths promotion to Chief of the year on the assets which were identied with consumer confidence low and industrial Executive, the Board undertook a search for as non-core in the strategic review.
We remain alert to the potential a new Finance Director.
In August, Justin Read financial and operational risks to the business was appointed Finance Director and joined arising from a further deterioration in the the Board.
Justin was previously Finance The Board is grateful to all our employees for Eurozone crisis, but nearly all our assets in Director at Speedy Hire plc.
the delivery of the results for the past year.
Continental Europe are concentrated in the stronger metropolitan areas of Germany, As part of the business review, David looked at The decrease in capital value of our portfolio France, Poland and the Benelux countries.
his management structure and decided to create of properties, including joint ventures at Group These potential risks, together with the actions two important new positions of Chief Operating share, amounted to 255 million and EPRA net being taken to mitigate our exposure to them, officer and Chief Investment officer.
Andy asset value per share was, therefore, 340 pence are set out in more detail in the Financial Gulliford and Phil Redding were appointed to 2010: 376 pence.
Review and in the discussion of principal risks these positions respectively in November.
We believe that in the These were both internal promotions.
The final dividend payment will consist of a longer term our focus on Disciplined Capital 7.0 pence Property Income Distribution PID Allocation and Operational Excellence, together OVERVIEW OF PERFORMANCE and a 2.9 pence ordinary cash dividend.
The with the commitment of our employees to The EPRA profit before tax was 138.5 million Board is offering a Dividend Reinvestment Plan the strategy, will deliver signicantly better 2010: 127.3 million on net rental income of DRIP on the PID for the 2011 final dividend.
EPRA earnings per share increased by 7.6 per cent The Board stated in November that it expected NIGEL RICH CBE to 18.4 pence, compared with 17.1 pence in to at least maintain the dividend throughout CHAIRMAN 2010, reecting the continued focus on driving the reshaping process, and is committed to a down both vacancy and the total cost ratio.
progressive dividend policy in the longer term.
On an unadjusted basis, profit before tax was THE GROUP HAS MADE GOOD PROGRESS IN 2011, WE ARE NOW LOOKING FORWARD TO TRANSFORMING OUR BUSINESS FOR THE FUTURE NIGEL RICH CBE CHAIRMAN Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 www.
