Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 13 Chairmans statement WE LEAD We value success and strive to be the best In a challenging environment the Board is pleased that our broadly based business has delivered increased pre-exceptional profits and reduced borrowings.
We are encouraged by the progress we have made executing our strategy, in particular the growth of our key brands.
Our people and our dairy farmers Strategy Corporate responsibility At the end of my first full year as Chairman Our strategy has four parts: Dairy Crest is a responsible business.
We I would like to thank all of the people have made significant progress in this area who work with us for their important over recent years and will continue to do To build market-leading contribution over the past year.
I include all so going forward.
Looking forward our aim positions in branded and the efforts made by the 1,330 dairy farmers is to ensure that we align commercial and added value markets: who supply their milk to us.
The long-term corporate responsibility strategies for the commitment of our employees, franchisee benefit of all our stakeholders.
milkmen and dairy farmers has allowed To focus on cost us to move successfully our business to Board changes reduction and efficiency a broadly based, added value dairy food During the year Richard Macdonald and improvements: company with a significant profit stream Stephen Alexander have been appointed from continental Europe.
This leaves us as Non-executive Directors, replacing Neil To improve quality of well positioned for the future.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Neil and earnings and reduce risk: Market background Carole for their important contributions The markets in which we operate remain and to welcome Richard and Stephen to To generate organic challenging and consumers are coming the Board.
growth and to make under increasing financial pressure.
Although we produce staple foods we acquisitions and disposals Summary have been very conscious of the need to While we expect that the market where they will generate provide consumers with good value and environment will remain challenging, value.
great quality at the right cost.
We have Dairy Crest is an increasingly robust also spent more on advertising to promote business.
We have a good customer the benefits of our key brands.
base, strong brands and a wide portfolio At the same time we have seen higher As shown throughout this statement we of products.
We believe the strategy input prices for milk, ingredients, packaging have made progress in all these areas over to develop our leading brands and our and distribution.
By driving efficiencies the year.
continued focus on efficiency remains the throughout our business we have Innovation plays a key role in building best way forward.
successfully reduced the cost increases we added value sales and driving efficiencies.
have needed to pass onto our customers.
We have increased our focus on innovation in recent years by adapting our Increased dividend recommended culture, improving systems and increasing Adjusted profit before tax was up 5% and as resources.
I am pleased that this focus a result the Board is recommending a final has started to make a real difference to dividend of 14.2 pence per share, making a the business.
full year dividend of 19.7 pence, an increase We believe this strategy remains of 4.2% over the previous year.
This dividend appropriate for todays economic Anthony Fry Chairman is covered 2.4 times by adjusted basic environment.
18 May 2011 earnings per share in line with our policy for dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
