AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C CHA HAIIRM RMAN AN S S S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT T SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION This year more The Viscount Rothermere Chairman than ever, my fathers decision to diversify DMGT has proved to have been a masterful move.
a record number of copies, BUSINESS CONTINUED GROWTH IN B2B producing record advertising I am pleased to report a solid I again hail my fathers revenue and record profits.
set of results, driven by a strong decision to diversify the DMGT performance from our portfolio.
This year it has MailOnline is now a global international B2B companies.
The name and is set, I believe, These results were achieved percentage of operating profit to become the worlds most despite the impact on our UK derived from B2B is now 74% of popular English language consumer businesses from the total up from 67% last newspaper website.
In sharply higher newsprint prices year and continues to October 2011, it recorded 79 and a weaker advertising strengthen.
A couple of million unique visits of which environment.
highlights: RMS continues to 25.7 million were in America lead their sector and this year where, with the opening of We have continued to refine they launched their new North a New York office, we have our portfolio to optimise our America Hurricane and expanded our operations.
Europe Windstorm models Meanwhile, MailOnlines In September we sold George that supply seamless coverage iPhone app is showing very Little Management, as part across 15 countries.
exciting growth in both visitors of our continuing drive to dmg::events has expanded its and revenue.
improve returns and in July presence in Saudi Arabia.
we made our first significant At Northcliffe, the future of four Euromoney remains the acquisition for several years, of our smallest dailies has been game-changer in their backing Euromoney in its safeguarded by launching industry: in August Singapore purchase of an initial 85% them as weeklies.
This has Mercantile Exchange interest of Ned Davis Research resulted in a 50% increase launched the worlds first Group.
DMGT is strong both in circulation with earnings globally tradable iron ore operationally and financially.
totalling almost as much as futures contract, based on Our debt has fallen further was produced by the daily Euromoneys MBIO index.
through strong operating cash papers they replaced.
My flow and disposals, leaving us Meanwhile, our newspaper colleagues across the well placed to weather the division remains resilient.
In a consumer businesses share uncertainties of the current difficult twelve months, the my determination to see more Eurozone climate.
We continue Daily Mail produced the such progress and innovation to build value and to grow strongest circulation across all our titles.
performance of all national daily newspapers despite having increased its cover price.
The Mail on Sunday became the largest-selling national Sunday newspaper following the closure of The News of the World.
A revamped Metro is distributing 10 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION of digital progression, boasting the representation of women PRESS FREEDOM But for a free press, some of the most sophisticated in positions elsewhere within The criminality at The News of many recent scandals software in the sector.
As a major the World has cast a shadow are just a few of our exciting international employer, we over the whole of the would not have been digital initiatives.
are pleased that below Board newspaper industry and, I exposed.
level women account for a believe, poses a greater threat INNOVATION AND significant portion of our to press freedom than has TECHNOLOGY workforce in some businesses, existed at any time in my life.
Innovation and the for more than half of our staff, Press freedom, of course, deployment of new including senior leadership also demands ethical and technology are the key pillars positions.
responsible journalism of DMGTs exciting future.
something, I know, the The year has seen changes on Supporting this, A&N Media Editor-in-Chief of Associated the Board.
In January, we hosted its inaugural Newspapers is committed welcomed Stephen Daintith, technology summer school to.
In the ensuing battle over our new Finance Director to at Cambridge University.
press regulation which I firmly the Company and in February, Delegates finished the believe should result in a we were fortunate to be joined week proposing ways that strengthened version of on the Board by Dominique we might invest in innovation.
self-regulation it is important Trempont, whose appointment Management teams across not to forget that, but for a free has brought considerable the Group are considering all press, many scandals in recent technology and international suggestions.
This forms part of years, including MPs expenses Innovation and new experience to it.
In March we a wider initiative whereby we and phone hacking, would not said goodbye to Peter Williams, are investing in, supporting technology are key to have been exposed.
For my our Finance Director since and promoting innovative part, I continue to highlight our future.
Charles Dunstone has ideas and innovative people.
the Companys commitment indicated that he will not stand Innovation and technology to the importance of that for re-election to the Board at will provide the focal point for freedom and the publics right the AGM in February.
He has discussion at the Chairmans to know something that my provided us with sound advice Conference 2012 and the family has been dedicated to over his ten years as an resulting ideas will be spread for over a hundred years and independent non-executive across the Group.
We have which I passionately believe is Director.
launched DMGT Chatter, a cornerstone of democracy.
a business networking and At DMGT, we believe that DIGITAL collaboration tool, which is our people are our future.
We transforming the way our Digital evolution continues have the right people to make talented employees can share in our B2B as well as B2C that future a success.
ideas with colleagues across companies.
there have been more than The Viscount Rothermere 2.9 million downloads of their OUR PEOPLE, OUR CULTURE Chairman mobile apps and more than Selecting and retaining the 11% of Jobsite traffic comes via best talent is something we mobile.
Our digital innovations can ensure.
At RMS we have go from strength to strength at revolutionised the recruitment Hobsons where this year they process, using video content launched the College and engaging explanations Confidential mobile app.
Over about prospective positions 50,000 downloads in the first with a live chat function eight months impressively answering candidates reinforces Hobsons status questions on a real-time as the most popular online basis.
Using this outstanding college discussion forum.
In technology will help us to our B2B portfolio, Quest, part attract outstanding talent.
of the Landmark Information The Nominations Committee Group, is revolutionising the already considers the benefits speed and efficiency of of diversity, including gender, mortgage valuations with its when suggesting Board new tablet technology.
The RMS remains at the vanguard appointment of women is one issue.
Of equal importance is DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 11
