Chairmans statement Making good progress We are continuing to invest in the UK to provide our customers with the best possible shopping experience, whether instore or through one of our growing range of multi-channel access points.
Nigel Northridge, Chairman Debenhams made good progress in 2011 despite what has undoubtedly been one of the most difficult years in the retail sector for some time.
We achieved growth in sales and profit before tax, made a further substantial reduction in net debt and reinstated the dividend for the first time since 2009.
Board succession Reintroducing the dividend One of the most important functions for the board of any company is succession planning.
It was announced in April that Rob Templeman The board was pleased to be able to reinstate dividend payments would retire as Chief Executive of Debenhams at the end of the 2011 during the course of 2011 for the first time since 2009.
Rob led Debenhams for nearly eight years and the testament to the significant reduction in net debt that has been board and all his colleagues would like to thank him for the enormous achieved over the past three years and the strongly cash generative contribution he has made.
The initial dividend cover is three times earnings.
An interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid At the same time we were delighted to announce that Michael Sharp to shareholders in July.
A final dividend payment of 2.0 pence would succeed Rob as Chief Executive and he did so on 5 September per share has been proposed which will be paid in January 2012.
Michael has worked for Debenhams or its predecessor the Thetotal dividend for the year is therefore 3.0 pence per share.
After serving as Chief Operating Officer between 2004 and 2008, he became Deputy Chief Executive in November 2008.
Michaels commitment to and knowledge of Debenhams is therefore second to none and he has played a key role in managing the business at the highest level as Deputy Chief Executive.
We look forward to the Companys continued success under Michaels leadership.
2 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts You can read about Michaels plans for the future strategy of Earnings per share Debenhams in detail starting on page 8.
As a board, we believe there are many opportunities for growth across the business, both in our home market in the UK and in our growing international business.
9.1p Investing in the UK A 21.3% increase over last year Our UK operations are the cornerstone of our business.
We are continuing to invest in the UK to provide our 11.5 million store customers and many millions more multi-channel customers with the best possible shopping experience, whether instore or through one of the growing range of multi-channel access points.
We are Dividend per share investing in UK infrastructure and over the past five years we have created over 3,000 jobs in the UK through our new store opening plan, including three new stores in 2011 which employ a total of 3.0p 350 people.
The pace of our store modernisation programme is Reinstated in April 2011 accelerating so that all of our customers will have a local store they and we can be proud of: this too is creating much-needed jobs around the country.
We are investing in technology and logistics for both customer facing and back of house systems to create atruly multi-channel business.
And of course we are investing inBritish design talent through the highly successful Designers atDebenhamsprogramme.
Expanding our global reach At the same time we are taking advantage of opportunities to expand our global reach as we know that our exclusive own brands are just as attractive to overseas consumers as they are in the UK.
Our Danish business Magasin du Nord has had a very good year and has met all expectations since we acquired it in 2009.
We have ambitious plans to increase the number of international franchise stores from the current 65 in 25 countries.
The number of countries we deliver to using the UK online infrastructure is increasing from seven to 67 and a number of local language, local currency websites will be introduced over the next year.
A sustainable future During the year we have begun work on a major sustainability project that aligns the long-term interests of our business with those of the environment, our employees and our communities.
You can read Gaining share in health & beauty more about this work from Martina King, who is chairing the project, One of the biggest areas of market share growth in 2011 was on pages 38 to 40. in health and beauty where our share of the premium market increased to 28.5%, aided by our Beauty Club loyalty scheme The board and governance which now has 1 million members.
We have a strong and diverse board which is well equipped to meet itsobligations to shareholders and to drive the business forward.
During the year Mark Rolfe joined the board as a non-executive director and of course Rob Templeman retired from the board when he stepped down as Chief Executive on 4 September 2011.
The board welcomes the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Inaccordance with the Code, all the directors will offer themselves forre-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 January 2012.
You can find the boards corporate governance report, including the reports of the boards committees, on pages 42 to 60 of this annualreport.
To summarise, whilst it has been a difficult year in the retail sector, weare pleased with the performance of Debenhams.
Quite clearly this has only been achieved through the dedication and hard work ofall our employees.
They have had a lot to contend with over the past 12months, not least struggling to get to work in some of the worst winter weather for years and coping admirably with the challenges presented by the August 2011 riots.
The board thanks them for their ongoing support and commitment.
We all look forward toasuccessful year under the leadership of our new Chief Executive.
Nigel Northridge Chairman Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3
