Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Chairmans statement of moving dividends in line with underlying Financial highlights earnings, whilst taking into account the On a continuing operations basis revenue future prospects and cash requirements of was 227.7 million in 2011 2010: 213.6 the business.
The performance in the second half of the year Business showed an improvement over the first half The global market for collagen casings with revenue growing by 10.6% in H2 continues to grow, driven by economic compared to 2.4% in H1.
Growth in sales to expansion and increased meat consumption Russia and Eastern Europe and the success in emerging markets.
High sheep gut prices of Select in Japan and Europe have and limited availability are also providing particularly contributed to this continued more opportunities in developed markets for improvement.
Operating profit before exceptional items Our Select range of products, which was increased by 15.5% to 42.7 million 2010: launched last year specifically to replace 37.0 million.
The operating margin sheep gut in premium sausages, has made increased from 17.3% to 18.7% which excellent progress in Japan and Northern reflects our focus on higher value sales and Europe.
Sales have increased month by more efficient manufacturing.
month and represented 4.3% of total sales in 2011.
Additional trials are under way and Basic earnings per share was 20.8 pence, Select presents an excellent opportunity for up by 22.4% compared with 17.0 pence in Steve Hannam Chairman further growth in 2012.
I am delighted to report that In developing markets, we saw further good As expected, net debt rose to 22.7 million sales growth in Latin America, Eastern at the end of 2011 2010: 12.2 million due 2011 was a year of further Europe and Russia.
During the year the to significant capital expenditure in 2011. growth in the business, sales team in Hong Kong was strengthened improved financial and a representative office was opened in The business renegotiated its banking Beijing.
The increased focus has already performance and significant facilities in September 2011 and has new produced higher sales in South East Asia 5 year revolving facilities of 51 million.
and a number of customer trials are Compared with 2010, underway in China.
Discontinued operation refers to the sale operating profit before of Devro GmbH which was completed on The year was very much one of two halves 30 September 2011. exceptional items increased with earthquakes, floods and severe 15.5% and strong cash flow weather affecting the markets and Profit before tax and exceptionals rose by generation enabled net debt production performance in several regions in 22.4% to 43.0 million 2010: 35.2 million.
to be kept to 22.7 million the first half.
These were not a factor in the In 2010 there was an exceptional gain of second half and the business had a strong 18.8 million due to changes to the UK despite significant investment finish to the year.
Yield improvement and pension scheme.
in capital expenditure during cost reduction programmes have continued the year.
The continued strong to produce benefits and each of our sites Dividend has been accredited to FS22000, the new performance has allowed the The Board is proposing a final dividend of global standard for food hygiene 5.5 pence per share 2010: 5.0 pence, Board to recommend a final management.
bringing the total for the year to 8.0 pence dividend of 5.5 pence per per share 2010: 7.0 pence.
The dividend share, bringing the full year To concentrate further on our core business will be paid on 4 May 2012 to those on the of collagen casings and to strengthen sales register on 30 March 2012.
The increase in dividend to 8.0 pence per activities in Europe, Devro GmbH was sold the dividend reflects the Boards confidence share, a 14.3% increase.
to ViskoTeepak Holdings Ab Ltd on 30 in the group and its financial strength.
This disposal will improve group margins by virtually eliminating future The Board retains its policy of reviewing the sales of low margin distributed products.
amount distributed annually with the intent 03 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Chairmans statement continued been Chairman of the Audit Committee during Capital expenditure Employees that time and both in this role, and as a 2011 was a significant year for capital The rate of growth and change in the group director, he has made a valuable and projects with total expenditure of 43.4 requires the continuing commitment and committed contribution to the group.
flexibility of all Devro employees.
I am like to thank Stuart for his efforts over the delighted to say that they have risen to this years, particularly as he has held full time The majority of the expenditure has been challenge.
From locations across the globe, executive roles throughout this time.
on replacing old manufacturing lines in colleagues have worked as one team to Scotland with our latest high speed lines successfully install the new ERP system.
I am delighted to say that Jane Lodge joined and preparing an older manufacturing During the year we have seen manufacturing the Board on 1 March 2012.
Until recently building in the Czech Republic for line teams from the USA and Scotland spending Jane was a senior audit partner with replacement through 2012.
The full benefit time in the Czech Republic for training Deloitte, where she spent over 25 years of this will be available in 2013. on the new production lines, and teams advising global manufacturing companies.
from the Czech Republic helping with Jane will assume the post of Chair of the During the year we have also installed a commissioning in the USA and Scotland.
Audit Committee following the forthcoming high speed line in the USA.
This has been Annual General Meeting, when Stuart commissioned and is currently trialling The scale of some of the capital projects Paterson stands down.
products suited to the Americas region.
If carried out on sites that continue to successful, we would have the opportunity to manufacture has presented new challenges Our approach to Board level recruitment, upgrade our USA production with these lines.
for our staff, not least in the area of safe following the publication of the Davies working.
Their approach to these challenges Report last year, is set out in the Corporate This approach of replacing older lines with has been commendable.
Governance report on pages 22 to 27. more efficient modern lines is cost effective and low risk.
Projects are justified on the cost A single Continental European sales Outlook savings made on existing volumes, whilst organisation has been put in place to The fundamental growth prospects for our providing additional volumes at low cost.
establish a uniform marketing approach global markets remain encouraging.
With and single point of contact for customers.
our evolving product range and strategic Two other investments that were This required changes in working practices capital investment programme, we are successfully completed during the year and close contact between various parts of well placed to take advantage of this include the project to convert Devro to a the group.
The strong performance single ERP system.
This well managed in the second half of 2011 and the project will now allow us to build on our The Board would like to thank all the Devro continuing strength of the balance base systems to provide real time team for their continuing efforts and sheet give us confidence for the future.
commitment as we continue to raise our standards and create a truly global In Australia a natural gas powered company.
co-generation plant has been installed which will reduce energy costs and carbon Board changes emissions.
As announced last year, Simon Webb joined the Board on 17 January 2011 and took Steve Hannam Safety over as Group Finance Director from Peter Chairman The Board has continued to place a Williams who retired on 6 April 2011. considerable emphasis on safety with the Health and Safety Committee having On 28 April 2011, Paul Withers was regular direct contact with the Safety appointed as an additional Non-Executive Committees at each of our sites.
Paul is an experienced Nonto two sites the whole Board participated in Executive Director who has a technical behavioural audits.
There is great commitment marketing background with considerable to safety across the group and during the year exposure to emerging markets, gained we operated without lost day incidents for during his 20 years with BPB plc.
periods of up to six months.
It therefore continues to be disappointing that a number After six years with Devro, Stuart Paterson will of small incidents resulted in 287 lost days, not be standing for re-election at the Annual albeit a substantial improvement on last year.
