Diageo Annual Report 2011 8 Performance summary Chairmans statement At the end of another year of significant achievement, the board has a high level of confidence in our business and its future prospects.
Diageo is growing stronger Once again, though the 12 months ended 30 June 2011 have posed Over the next decade, the significant challenges, Diageo has emerged strongly and is growing companies which prosper will stronger.
It is now clear that for the foreseeable future the business will have to operate in a global environment with wide variations in be those which most successfully economic conditions and considerable volatility.
For these reasons meet the widely differing it is a major advantage that we operate in over 180 markets, with an outstanding collection of brands, a flexible organisation, and very demands of developed and talented people.
emerging markets and at the As Paul Walsh notes in this report we have taken the decision this year to change the shape of our organisation.
same time are able to continue However, we recognise that in a world of highly variable economic to enjoy the active support of growth rates there is a vital need for agility and flexibility in our capacity to respond to changing conditions.
Over the next decade, the their customers, consumers companies which prosper will be those which most successfully meet and suppliers, together with the widely differing demands of developed and emerging markets and at the same time are able to continue to enjoy the active support the confidence of their of their customers, consumers and suppliers, together with the other stakeholders.
confidence of their other stakeholders.
We are most determined that Diageo will be such a success story.
Yet, however varied the conditions in which we trade there can be no compromise on our values and standards of integrity.
In the last three years we have devoted much time and energy to ensure that all our employees understand that Diageo must have complete compliance with the high standards of behaviour laid out in our Code ofConduct.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Chairmans statement 9 Global volume share of 1 premium spirits % 1 Diageo 27% Diageo scored a Gold Class 2 Company 2 18% rating in the SAM Sustainability 3 Company 3 11% Yearbook 2011 4 Company 4 6% 5 Company 5 6% The SAM Sustainability Yearbook measures more than 2,500 of the 6 Other 32% worlds largest companies in terms 2 of their impact on the triple bottom Source: Impact Databank 6 line economic, social and Top 100 Premium Spirits environmental performance.
5 4 3 We are also clear that Diageo must play its role in leading our industry in interactions with governments and supra-national bodies, including the World Health Organisation.
We know that the beverage alcohol business continues to be under considerable scrutiny from regulators.
To have credibility in our discussions with them we must continue to promote responsible drinking and our wider social responsibility agenda with the same vigour that we employ to support our wonderfulbrands.
At the end of another year of significant achievement, the board has a high level of confidence in our business and its future prospects.
That is why we continue to invest in acquisitions, in our brands, and in our people for the long term.
It is why, once again, we are recommending a substantial increase in our dividend.
We look forward to the year to come with optimism and with the expectation that it will mark further progress for Diageo.
