In March this year we launched the KNOWHOW brand in the UK Directors Report which encompasses all our after-sales services.
KNOWHOW Business Overview clearly puts the customer at the heart of everything we do and empowers all our colleagues to focus determinedly on our Chairmans Statement customers.
Our KNOWHOW distribution and repair centre in John Allan Newark is world class.
The logistics, distribution, repair and services areas are far better than many of our competitors.
The efficient operation illustrates how far we have progressed in getting it right for customers first time.
During the early part of the financial year we successfully issued a 150 million bond due 2015, which enabled us to repurchase just under half of the Groups existing 2012 Bonds as well as extend the maturity of the Groups working capital facility to 2013.
This gives the Group a much more appropriate maturity profile on its debt facilities.
We have made significant progress in transforming our stores with over 360 stores now in the Groups new format, including 65 Megastores across the Group.
With a solid base of stores now transformed and significant improvements having been made to the Groups operational processes we can now manage our capital expenditure carefully to ensure the Group has adequate capital to repay the remaining 2012 Bonds irrespective of the Delivering a better trading environment.
experience for Recognising challenging conditions in some of our markets, and the ongoing business restructuring under the Renewal and customers will Transformation plan, we have reviewed the balance sheet and made impairment and other non-underlying charges totalling position the Group for 309.4 million.
The additional cash impact of these charges is estimated as 39 million, of which approximately 8 million was significant progress incurred in 2010 11. when the economic This year, the Group selected two national charities to support, Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which help to provide environment recovers access to technology for disadvantaged children or those with disabilities.
I am very proud of our colleagues, who have organised so many fundraising activities throughout the year for both these charities as well as a number of charities local to the communities in which our stores operate.
This year we welcomed Dharmash Mistry to the Board as a non-executive director, who has substantial retail experience in consumer-facing and internet businesses.
This has been a year when the economic environment has The year ahead remains a challenging one, particularly in the UK, remained particularly challenging in many of the markets in Greece and Italy.
Your Board is confident that the changes that which we operate.
The Group has, however, remained focused have been, and are being, made to the Group will enable it to on delivering a better experience for customers, which will navigate the difficult environment ahead in a better shape than it position the business for significant progress when the has ever been.
I would like to thank the management team led by economic environment improves.
John Browett, and in addition all of our colleagues across the Group, for their persistent hard work.
I am convinced that we will I am conscious that the Group has made only limited progress in emerge increasingly as a winner in the electricals and services financial returns year on year, but I can assure you that the Board is market as the economy recovers.
alive to the need to improve returns for shareholders.
The work under the Renewal and Transformation plan has continued which will make the business better for our customers, simpler for our colleagues to manage and cheaper to run.
This has started to show encouraging developments with improvements in customer satisfaction measures: we have maintained gross margins over the last two years in the face of competitive and challenging markets: John Allan our operations in the Nordics continue to go from strength to Chairman strength with sales up eight per cent.
over the last year: we have taken decisive action in Spain to close our operations in a market where we saw little opportunity for short to medium term profitable recovery: and we have reduced costs by 50 million in the year.
Dixons Retail plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
