Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 06 cHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report that the Group has achieved record annual sales of 314.1 million, an increase of 5 per cent.
Annual underlying pretax profits of 59.5 million were also a record.
Net cash flow from operating activities before taxation was 51.1 million.
Domino has increased its dividends in each of the 26 years since it was floated on the London Stock Exchange in 1985.
This year we are proposing to increase the dividends to 18.75 pence per share, up from 15.62 pence last year, an increase of 20 per cent.
The Group has maintained its strong investment in research and Development at 15.3 million, approximately 5 per cent of sales.
Thishas enabled the Group to extend the range of new products announced last year and to progress plans for the rationalisation ofoperating platforms.
Investment has also been made in the development of the range of inks and other fluids available to customers to meet new requirements, to be more environmentally friendly and to meet the challenges of the cessation of manufacture PETER BYROM CHAIrMAN ofcertain constituents.
The Group has also made an investment of $50 million in TEN The success of the Group is a tribute to Mediato participate in the new opportunities for egg coding in the the endeavour of the 2,200 employees of United States.
The Board has approved plans for the expansion of our manufacturing facilities in both China and India to meet growing market requirements.
The manufacturing facilities in Cambridge are close to capacity and a planning application has been made to build a new factory adjacent the existing facility at Bar Hill.
All these investments are expected to be met from the Groups own cash resources and existing debt facilities.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 07 We introduced three new product lines during 2011 and have seen progressive take-up.
Products introduced in the year represented 20 per cent of total equipment sales.
During the year we increased the headcount of the Group.
The majority of new staff are in our sales channels, in particular in Asia.
PETER BYROM CHAIrMAN During the year the Group recruited extra personnel, principally in the strongly-growing markets of Asia.
The success of the Group is a tribute to the endeavour of the 2,200 employees of the business in 17countries.
59.5m ANNUAL UNDERLYING PRETAX PROFITS There have been no changes to the membership of the Board.
Inlinewith previous plans, Philip ruffles has stood down as Senior Independent Director and as Chairman of the remuneration Committee.
The Board is indebted to him for his contribution inthese roles.
Sir Mark Wrightson has been appointed Senior 26 years Independent Director and Sir David Brown Chairman of the OF INcREASED DIVIDENDS SINcE remuneration Committee.
FLOATATION ON THE LONDON STOckEXcHANGE The Group is mindful of the effects on its markets of the general economic slowdown, as reflected in the changing pattern of sales in 2011, but the combination of new products and strong global reach mean we are well positioned to benefit from the available opportunities in this more uncertain climate.
15.3m THE GROUP HAS MAINTAINED ITS STRONG INVESTMENT IN RESEARcH AND DEVELOPMENT 2,200 PETER BYROM CHAIrMAN THE SUccESS OF THE GROUP IS A TRIBUTE 12 December 2011 TO THE ENDEAVOUR OF THE EMPLOYEES OF THE BUSINESS BUSINESS REVIEw 10 C hief Executives Operating and Business review 16 Domino Strategy 18 key Performance Indicators 22 Financial review 28 risk Management 34 Corporate Social responsibility report 40 Board of Directors
