fide Chairmans statement Key highlights System sales 9.3% 2010: 19.3% Adjusted profit before tax 10.9% 2010: 27.3% Dividend per share 20.6% 2010: 31.6% 04 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Overview | Chairmans statement The underlying strengths of our business continue to be innovation inboth our product range and our marketing approach, excellent franchisees running profitable businesses with exceptional customer service, and strong cash generation with a focus on operating margins.
t gives me great pleasure to be reporting another robust set of We completed the first year of our support for the Pennies initiative figures.
Its been a good year for Dominos with profit before tax during the year encouraging customers to round up their online and exceptional items rising by 10.9% to 42.2m 2010: 38.0m orders to the nearest pound, with the difference going to charity.
The results have been superb and our customers, through this In addition, adjusted diluted earnings per share has risen by 14.9% simple system, donated over 185,000.
The money is split between to 19.24p 2010: 16.75p.
Among the many highlights of 2011, we a number of charities, but the bulk of it is allocated to our corporate acquired the Master Franchise Agreement for Germany, achieved a charity, Special Olympics Great Britain, which benefited from record 62 new store openings and took over 1m in a single day solely 120,000 of this money giving it the opportunity to complete a through online sales a feat we have now repeated many times.
We are very proud to have been the launch partner for Pennies and we will continue to support the initiative The underlying strengths of our business continue to be innovation going forward.
in both our product range and our marketing approach, excellent franchisees running profitable businesses with exceptional customer service, and strong cash generation with a focus on operating margins, highlighting the healthy underlying operational gearing of the business.
We have now completed all of the current major capital expenditure programmes with the opening of our new I have been impressed by head office and, together with the strong underlying cash generation, the seamless handover this will allow us to more aggressively pursue our policy of returning cash not required in the business to shareholders in future years.
and how quickly Lance We continue to lead the rest of the Dominos global system in terms has found his feet, got to of sales, with our market having eight of the top 10 international stores.
But sales are not the end of the story and I was delighted know the business and the that all three of our commissaries received a five star audit rating the top grade by assessors from Dominos Inc. Of the 120 franchisees and started to commissaries around the world, only 17 have five stars and add his own elements to we own three of them.
We are also measured through the OER operations evaluation review used to audit the standards in the Companys strategy.
Dominos stores across the globe.
The UK has the highest average OER of any of the major global markets and it reinforces the fact that we dont compromise standards as we grow our business.
Finally, it just remains for me to thank our franchisees, our store We are excited to be taking this winning ethos into Germany.
staff and all our employees for their hard work and dedication.
Although, at present, we only have six stores there, we are looking The economic climate may be harsh but adversity motivates to treble this during the next year.
We have a strong team in place those who work in the Dominos system.
I must also pay tribute and it is an incredible opportunity to be able to expand across to one particular person Chris Moore, who stepped down as a brand new country.
As well as starting to recruit German Chief Executive on 26 December 2011.
I would like to take this franchisees, we are delighted that many of our UK franchisees opportunity to publicly thank Chris for his terrific contribution are also showing an interest in expanding their businesses in to this great brand and for the legacy he created.
In the 87 quarters the German market while continuing to develop in the UK.
during which Chris worked at Dominos, 86 delivered positive sales growth.
Thats quite an achievement and sets a high During 2011, we made good progress on shaping the Board for benchmark for his successor, Lance Batchelor.
the future, recruiting Syl Saller and Helen Keays as Non-Executive Directors.
Both have proven track records in industry and add a Lance has been with Dominos, in an executive capacity, for eight good balance to the existing skills on our Board.
During the year, months now and for another year before that as a Non-Executive Peter Klauber decided to step down from the Board and I thank him Director.
I have been impressed by the seamless handover and for his support and wise counsel during his tenure.
I would like to how quickly Lance has found his feet, got to know the business take this opportunity to thank all of our Non-Executive Directors and the franchisees and started to add his own elements to the for their support and advice throughout the year.
We are committed Companys strategy.
to developing both our Board and executive governance structures Stephen Hemsley in order to maintain high standards of conduct, good governance Non-Executive Chairman and transparency.
15 February 2012 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 05 www.
Without doubt, 2011 was the year of the Dominos Stuffed This year saw two Crust.
This new product, using traditional Dominos classic major new product dough, was launched in June and has been well received launches... by Dominos fans across the UK.
Stuffed Crust had been the most requested product not on the Dominos menu and theproduct was supported by the irreverent Get Stuffed advertising campaign.
Themarketing activity included advertising on bus sides, which was named Outdoor Campaign of the Month by Marketing magazine.
