02 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Chairmans introduction During 2011, we delivered strong operational performance across the business.
Although we experienced a good deal of uncertainty in the power-related commodity markets, I am pleased to report earnings EBITDA for 2011 of 334 million 2010: 392 million and an operating profit of 366 million 2010: 279 million.
In accordance with our dividend policy, the Board proposes a final dividend in respect of 2011 of 11.8 pence per share, equivalent to 43 million.
This would give a total dividend for the year of 27.8 pence per share 2010: 32.0 pence per share.
We continue to make progress in reducing our carbon footprint, something which is now well embedded in and central to our business strategy.
In just a matter of weeks we will embark on the last stage of the largest steam turbine modernisation programme in UK history, which brings with it a carbon dioxide emissions saving of one million tonnes a year.
Haven Power Limited, our electricity retail company serving business customers, made good progress implementing its IT business platform which is critical to realising its growth ambitions.
We are delighted with the growth achieved in 2011 and the real value that the Group is now deriving from the companys success.
It complements well our existing trading capabilities and provides a credit efficient, direct sales channel for an increasing proportion of our power.
Electricity generation from sustainable biomass remains our focus and we continue to believe that this technology has considerable potential and an important role as a low carbon, cost effective, reliable and exible source of renewable power for the UK.
I am delighted to say that our view is being echoed by those in Government and elsewhere, which is encouraging.
We have continued to work with the Government throughout the year to advance the case for sustainable biomass and secure an appropriate level of support.
We have welcomed the dialogue that we have been afforded and appreciate the extensive work undertaken by the Government on the biomass agenda.
Earnings demonstrate good The UKs largest ever steam business performance despite turbine modernisation programme uncertainty in the power-related nearing completion commodity markets 334m Earnings EBITDA profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, 2010: 392m gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts 03 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 We have enhanced our technical and commercial expertise in the emerging biomass energy sector and we are ready to increase greatly our electricity generation from sustainable biomass.
However, we will only do so if the regulatory regime, including the economics of the support offered, is attractive for our shareholders.
On more governance-related matters and in line with the guidance given in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, I should like to comment on how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between myself as Chairman and our Chief Executive, Dorothy Thompson.
We have a clear statement on which matters are reserved for the Board and those which are delegated, and these are reviewed at least annually.
Our non-executive directors play a major role in challenging constructively the Groups management, particularly on matters of strategy and its development.
In recent years through our formal, rigorous and transparent selection process, we have endeavoured to ensure that those appointed to the Board have complementary skills, experience and knowledge in order to improve the quality of the Board and its decision making.
Following publication of the Davies Report, Women on Boards, in February 2011, the Board considered the recommendations of both the Davies Report and the Financial Reporting Council consultation on possible changes to the Code.
Consequently, we established a policy to ensure that gender diversity is one of the factors taken into account when considering future appointments to the Board and other senior appointments.
Details of the Board, its function, performance and effectiveness can be found in the Corporate governance section of this report.
Throughout the business I believe we have made significant progress during 2011 and my sincere thanks go to all Group staff for their hard work and commitment, without which none of this y ye ear ars s ac achie hiev vemen ements w ts wo ould ha uld hav five e been possible.
Charles Berry Chairman 20 February 2012 Haven Power has made good Electricity generation from Staff continue to underpin progress, implementing its sustainable biomass remains the Groups achievements IT business platform for growth a key focus for the business Financials Governance Business review
