8 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Business review Chairmans statement Geoff Cooper Chairman The Boards confidence in the continuing cash generation of the business is reflected in our proposal to reduce dividend cover to the bottom of our target range at 2.5x.
The most recent financial year has been It is the Boards intention to grow future Our key strengths a challenging period for most non-food dividends in line with earnings.
In addition, UKs largest specialist retailers.
In the context of subdued customer the Board will continue to review the capital demand for homewares, it was a satisfactory structure of the Group, returning excess homewares retailer achievement for Dunelm to deliver capital if appropriate.
like-for-like LFL sales growth in two of Portfolio of established outthe four quarters, with only a small decline Since taking over as Chief Executive from of-town superstores, average in LFL sales over the year as a whole.
With Will Adderley in the course of the year, Nick sales area approximately continuing progress on gross margin and Wharton has assumed full responsibility for good contribution from stores opened in running Dunelm.
Will continues to provide 30,000 square feet the last 24 months, the Group was able to support to Nick on key trading issues such Simply Value for Money deliver a highly creditable 9.0% increase in as managing the effects of cotton price profit before tax.
increases, and will be able to allocate his proposition: time increasingly to development activities.
Good quality products We have continued to generate very strong Great prices operating cash flows.
This enabled the Looking ahead, we have a range of exciting Group to fund out of current cash flow development initiatives and attractive Industry leading choice a record year of capital investment in the network expansion opportunities.
Despite Deep availability business, including new stores, a larger seeing no major catalyst for significant short Friendly knowledgeable refit programme and also key infrastructure term growth in the homewares market, we service investments comprising a doubling of space are confident in our SImply Value for Money at the central warehouse in Stoke and the offer and look forward to further growth in On-line store featuring 20,000 creation of a new head office facility.
products The Boards confidence in the continuing cash generation of the business is reflected in Geoff Cooper Owner of Dorma brand Chairman our proposal to reduce dividend cover to the Robust, scalable infrastructure 15 September 2011 bottom of our target range at 2.5x, leading to a recommended 60% increase in the final Experienced management dividend to 8.0p per share 2010 5.0p.
This would bring full year dividends to 11.5p per team, entrepreneurial culture share 2010 8.0p, an increase of 43.8%.
Highly cash generative Strong balance sheet Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 9
