Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 03 easyJet plc Annual report Chairmans introduction and accounts 2011 I am pleased to report that your Company has easyJet is well placed and the Board is confident in delivered a good financial performance this year conrming our first ever dividend of 45 million for andthe business has strengthened.
financial year 2011 and a special dividend of 150 million.
Progress this year Industry regulation In its first full year in charge the management team It is important that our industry ensures that we play hasmade excellent progress inimplementing the our part in tackling climate change.
However, if this is strategy laid out in last years annual report and driving done through only constraining demand the economic improvement in processes and capability.
and social benets of travel will be put at risk.
In the UK alone aviation contributes 11 billion to GDP.
As a result both unit revenues andcosts have improved to drive a substantial improvement in profitability and Environmental measures must deliver real gains in returns.
environmental efficiency and cannot be used as a way to simply tax passengers.
easyJet continues to support We have refreshed the Board with the appointments aviations entry to EU ETS, however we are disappointed ofCharles Gurassa as Deputy Chairman and Senior by the UK Governments proposal to increase the tax on Independent Director, Andy Martin and Adele Anderson short-haul travel and reduce it for long-haul travel.
This and strengthened the Boards capabilities in the areas proposal will reduce growth and jobs, as the majority of of aviation, and risk and financial management.
the UKs tourists come from Europe, and it will increase emissions, as long-haul ights are responsible for much Returns to shareholders greater emissions than short-haul ights.
The Board is committed to delivering returns in excess of the cost of capital and returning excess capital to We are also concerned about the apparent lack of shareholders.
In the past year, earnings per share has Government commitment to expanding runway increased by 24.1 pence to 52.5 pence and Return on capacity in the South East.
This will have negative Capital Employed improved by 3.9 percentage points consequences for the London and wider UK economy to 12.7%.
and easyJet supports projects, such as a second runway at Gatwick, the most congested runway The weak consumer environment with rising fuel costs inEurope.
and taxation will continue to present challenges for the aviation industry.
We have proactively put in place Finally, we call for the end of inconsistent application actions to ensure the business navigates a difficult ofconsumer rules across Europe.
We are proud of environment by maintaining a strong balance sheet ourcommitment to ensuring our passengers receive and by curtailing growth over winter 2012 and 2013. the support they deserve if they are disrupted, and This combined with our strong network and focus on thatourwebsite provides clear and transparent improving revenues and cost control means that information on fares.
easyJet led the way in Europe in providing passengers with simple fares.
However, we Sir Michael Rake have seen regulators across Europe applying the rules Non Executive Chairman in different ways, and making inconsistent demands on us and so we are campaigning to ensure there is a level playing eld across Europe.
Conclusion Finally I would like to thank all of easyJets people for their efforts in the past year, their commitment and enthusiasm is core to easyJets success.
Sir Michael Rake Non Executive Chairman
