I am pleased to report that our company takes its responsibility to the many communities in which it operates very seriously.
We Chairmans report have a strong focus on the health and safety of all our employees and a strategy to ensure their full engagement in the business.
Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good index and in the UK we are a Standard Bearer for the Carbon Trust.
This year Important strategic milestones were we became a Patron of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children NSPCC in the UK thanks to our employee reached in 2011 including sales payroll donation programme and regular charitable events.
exceeding 1bn for the first time.
In my first year I have been fortunate to travel around much of the Group and meet many of our employees and what I have found has truly impressed me.
There is a tremendous appetite amongst our people to embrace challenge and a desire to exceed our customers needs.
There are numerous examples I could cite of this tremendous spirit, but I was particularly struck by our Allied business in North America: it is a great example of a committed, This is my first annual report as Chairman of Electrocomponents customer focused and sales-led business.
Similarly, what has been and I am delighted to have joined at such an exciting time.
achieved by the European region in restructuring the leadership The past year has been one of record revenues and growing into a single management team in a matter of months was profitability.
The Group has a clear strategy, strong business impressive and the results speak for themselves, sales growth model and infrastructure to capture the significant structural in excess of 20% and high employee engagement scores.
I am growth opportunities that exist across its worldwide markets.
also very pleased with the commitment of the UK team which Our strategy has enabled Electrocomponents to capitalise on the delivered double digit sales growth and contribution over 100m improving market conditions experienced over the past year and for the year, now above pre-recession levels.
deliver a strong financial performance in 2011.
Group revenues As well as reporting excellent results, the business has were 1,182m an underlying increase of 21%, headline profit addressed many challenges and interruptions.
These included before tax was 114m, an increase of 53% and headline earnings earthquakes in New Zealand and Northern Japan, floods in per share were 18.0 pence, an increase of 53%.
The increase Australia and snowstorms in the UK.
Throughout these testing in profits was driven by double digit sales growth across all our times, the response by our employees has been magnificent.
regions combined with cost leverage as sales recovered.
During March, our Japanese business continued to operate and Peter Johnson, Chairman Performance over the past year has benefited from the meet our customers needs despite the enormous logistical and continued implementation of the Groups strategic initiatives.
infrastructure challenges caused by the earthquake.
All of our The strategic development of the business during the year, 130 employees there should be applauded for their can do and our strategy going forward, are covered in more detail in attitude and they are a tremendous credit to the Japanese spirit.
I am pleased to have joined a strong and effective Board which A number of important strategic milestones were reached in 2011 has a clear view of its own role and purpose.
On their behalf, including sales exceeding 1bn for the first time in the Groups I would like to thank my predecessor, Helmut Mamsch who history, the International business share of Group sales reaching chaired Electrocomponents from September 2006 to 2010 and 70% and eCommerce representing over 50% of Group sales.
especially for his calm stewardship of the business in the severe recession.
The Board intends to recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.5p per share to be paid on 22 July 2011 representing an 8% Finally, and on behalf of the Electrocomponents Board, may increase.
As a result the total dividend for the financial year will I extend our gratitude to all employees for delivering this years be increased by 5% to 11.5p per share.
We maintained a high level of pay out during the recession recognising the importance of dividends to shareholders.
As a result of the strong financial performance of the business and our confidence in the Groups prospects, the Board is proposing to recommend an increased final dividend for the year.
The business has significant opportunities to invest for growth and therefore we intend to maintain a strong balance sheet.
4 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview I am pleased to report that our company takes its responsibility The company takes its to the many communities in which it operates very seriously.
We Chairmans report responsibilities to the have a strong focus on the health and safety of all our employees communities in which it and a strategy to ensure their full engagement in the business.
Electrocomponents is a member of the FTSE4Good index and in operates very seriously.
the UK we are a Standard Bearer for the Carbon Trust.
This year Important strategic milestones were we became a Patron of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children NSPCC in the UK thanks to our employee reached in 2011 including sales This year, we became a Patron of the payroll donation programme and regular charitable events.
National Society for the Prevention In my first year I have been fortunate to travel around much of the of Cruelty to Children NSPCC in the Group and meet many of our employees and what I have found UK thanks to our employee payroll has truly impressed me.
There is a tremendous appetite amongst donation programme and regular our people to embrace challenge and a desire to exceed our charitable events.
During March, our Japanese business continued to operate and Performance over the past year has benefited from the meet our customers needs despite the enormous logistical and continued implementation of the Groups strategic initiatives.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5
