chaIRmans statEmEnt chaIRmans statEmEnt market conditions Overview In 2011, EnQuests average realised I am pleased to report that EnQuest oil price, net of hedging, was $107.6 per barrel, up from $81.3 per barrel in delivered another strong performance in 2010.
Production was up 12.5% on 2010 and oil price in 2011 was $111.8 per barrel.
reserves replacement, at a ratio of over Oil prices, although volatile, 400%, was well ahead of the targets set nonetheless stayed above $100 per out at the time of EnQuests IPO.
This was due operational capabilities of the EnQuest partly to a general tightness in the markets for crude oil, exacerbated by organisation have grown significantly increased levels of producer domestic during the year.
EnQuests basic earnings consumption and by supply disruption per share were 7.6 cents in 2011, up by from North Africa and the Middle East, in particular Libya and Iran.
EnQuest is continuing to uncertainties in the global economy deliver on the plans it laid out at the time which continue today, it seems clear that following the Arab Spring, there of its inception.
have been structural increases in the level of social costs in Middle Eastern Dr James Buckee countries.
Maintaining oil prices at high chairman levels will be critical if Middle Eastern countries are to meet these increased costs.
High prices have not stimulated a dramatic supply expansion and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries has adjusted its price targets.
EnQuest PLC 6 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BusInEss REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EnQuest, along with the industry, has down from the Board.
Alexandre Earnings per share been actively engaged in working Schneiter will duly be retiring at the Cents with the uK Government to promote Annual General Meeting on 30 May changes in the fiscal structure and 2012.
The Board and I would like to is encouraged by the uK North Sea thank Alexandre for his important 90% investment incentive measures recently contribution to the successful announced in the 2012 Budget.
establishment and subsequent Earnings per share development of EnQuest.
The Board Macroeconomic concerns have again plans to appoint a new independent 2011 7.6 focused attention on the challenges non-executive director in due course.
2010 4.0 companies face in accessing capital to fund developments and In July 2011, I was delighted to acquisitions.
EnQuest is fortunate welcome Clare Spottiswoode to The Board remains as to be differentiated by the strength the Board as a new EnQuest nonexcited and confident as of its balance sheet and its cash executive director.
Clares wealth of flow and consequently by the scale experience, from within and beyond ever of EnQuests very of the borrowing facilities it can the energy industry, makes her a considerable potential secure, as demonstrated by its valuable addition to the Board.
In these difficult markets, EnQuests The Board would like to thank Delivering sustainable growth technical skills, operational scale and EnQuests employees for their 2011 was an important year for considerable financial strength are continuing commitment, enthusiasm EnQuest, one of both consolidation substantial competitive advantages.
EnQuests values are and growth, bedding in and developing critical to our success: respect, focus, the organisation we launched in 2010 the EnQuest model agility, creativity, passion, collaboration and putting in place the people and EnQuests development and and empowerment.
EnQuest people structures to execute our long term production model is focused on live and breathe these values and this growth plans.
EnQuests focus on realising the untapped potential in has been essential to the delivery of the hubs delivered strong production mature assets and undeveloped achievements we are reporting today.
growth, as well as the sanction of oil fields.
EnQuest concentrates on Alma and Galia.
We had an active production hubs, on near field appraisal the updated EnQuest code business development programme and and exploration, and on business ofConduct consolidated our positions in Broom, development.
Members of the Board In 2010, EnQuest launched its Code Crawford and Porter and we also and I have had considerable experience of Conduct, setting out the behaviour farmed in to the Kildrummy discovery.
of successfully deploying this model.
EnQuest expects of its directors, The strong 2011 reserves and resources Reassessing and developing fields is managers and employees, of our performance has already been a relatively low risk way of steadily suppliers, contractors, agents and materially augmented in 2012, with the generating shareholder value.
EnQuest is committed acquisition of a 45% stake in the Kraken years post IPO, we believe it has been to complying with the applicable discovery.
The macro environment successfully established at EnQuest.
legal requirements, to upholding has thrown up challenges, but also Indeed EnQuest has created a powerful the highest ethical standards and opportunities, and the EnQuest team new force in integrated development.
to acting with complete integrity at has been able to respond quickly and This has enabled us to sanction all times.
The EnQuest Board remains the Alma and Galia development, an updated version of the Code of as excited and confident as ever of EnQuests fourth hub and a substantial Conduct.
While the majority of the EnQuests very considerable potential.
contributor to our expected production existing code remains in place, we have growth.
Formal field development augmented the sections dealing with plan FDP approval for Alma Galia business ethics, in particular those is anticipated in the coming weeks.
impacted by the uK Bribery Act, these include sections on business gifts and the EnQuest Board entertainment, as well as facilitation During EnQuests critical early days payments and how EnQuest must it was invaluable to have Alexandre deal with partners and suppliers.
The Schneiter as a non-executive director, integrity of EnQuests employees and given his knowledge of the Heather everyone we work with underpins Broom and Thistle Deveron hubs our future progress and success.
through his association with Lundin Petroleum AB.
Alexandre was however not independent for the purposes of the uK Corporate Governance Code, and therefore EnQuest undertook that he would in due course stand EnQuest PLC 7 Annual Report 2011
