46 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans Letter 2011 Board key activities Focused on the development of the Vision2015 strategy Approved the acquisition of Reid Supply Approved the acquisition of Richco, Inc. Approved new five-year revolving credit banking facilities Reviewed senior management succession planning Approved a new Group Risk Policy Endorsed the establishment of the Group Management Committee Documented the responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director JEFF HARRIS Chairman On behalf of the Board I am pleased The Board has taken steps to facilitate the better use of its time, avoiding the default to lengthy formal presentations which restrict to present the Corporate Governance the opportunity for challenge and discussion, while Board papers are Report for 2011 kept increasingly concise and clearly focused on key points.
There is an increased onus on Board members to be well prepared and ready to contribute positively and challenge constructively, during the Review of 2011 increased opportunities for strategic debate.
With the appointment of Colin Day as Chief Executive in April 2011, In response to the new UK Corporate Governance Code during the there has been a clear acceleration in the pace of change within Filtrona year there was a formal documented clarification of the division of as the Company focuses on the delivery of the growth objectives outlined responsibilities for the key Board positions of Chairman, Chief Executive in the Vision 2015 strategy initiated by Colin.
The Board has continued to and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and these can be devote time to its usual responsibilities such as the monitoring of financial found on the Company website www.
and operational performance and approving the plan and targets for the year ahead.
However, a significant amount of the Boards discussions Board evaluation during 2011 centred on the development of the Vision 2015 strategy, which was introduced to shareholders with the half year results in Given the Chief Executive transition during the first half of the year, it was August 2011.
In addition, the Board reviewed other key initiatives, such decided to proceed with an internal Board review during 2011 as opposed as the acquisitions of Reid Supply and Richco, Inc. and the development to the external exercise originally intended.
The review consisted of the of and investment in growth opportunities across new markets and Directors responding to questionnaires relating to the performance of the in newgeographies.
Board as a whole and its various Committees.
The positive feedback from the questionnaires was the subject of detailed discussion both within the Corporate governance development formality of the Boardroom and in separate informal meetings.
An external review will be conducted during 2012 as we seek to further enhance the Good governance, based on an effective Board, supports the delivery of effectiveness of the Filtrona Board performance.
sustainable long-term value for Filtrona shareholders.
This includes proper internal controls and processes, a comprehensive understanding of risk Talent, succession planning and diversity and opportunity, a rigorous approach to performance management and strict commitment to transparency and integrity.
While the Nomination Committee primarily focuses on Board succession, the Boards role includes reviewing the quality of the executive management I am satisfied that the Board is well balanced in its mix of skills, experience and the processes for finding and developing future talent.
Filtrona has and knowledge, to manage theCompany and lead it through to the an experienced management team, but securing sustained future growth Vision2015 objectives.
However, we shall pay close attention to the Lord of the Company will be dependent in part on the creation of a mobile Davies' Report which encourages Board diversity and we shall look international talent base.
It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive to work towards those objectives as Board rotation occurs.
to ensure the best senior executives are appointed to support him in the management of the Company, but the oversight of the management succession plans is an important part of the Boards remit.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance | Chairmans Letter 47 BOARD DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE 2012 Board objectives Members Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Strategy Drive further progress 2 Jeff Harris 8 8 3 3 towards Vision 2015 1 Colin Day 6 6 Financial performance Meet 2012 financial targets and deliver sustainable Steve Crummett 8 8 growth in shareholder value 2 Paul Drechsler 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 Succession Develop an 2 Lars Emilson 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 international, mobile talent base 2 Terry Twigger 8 8 4 4 4 4 3 3 Risk Operate within clearly defined 3 risk parameters Mark Harper 2 2 Compliance Ensure high standards of governance and compliance Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011 2 Non-Executive Director 3 Resigned from the Board on 14 April 2011 JEFF HARRIS Chairman In seeking to further develop the roles and responsibilities of senior legal and regulatory developments, the Board evaluation identified that executives within the Company, during the year the Board approved the increasing levels of compliance risk impacting any international the Chief Executives initiative to adopt a new executive management business such as Filtrona necessitate the Board having a clear structure which took effect from 1 January 2012.
The Executive Committee understanding of the potential issues impacting the Company.
and the Group Operating Committee have been superseded by the Accordingly, it is intended that during 2012 Board agendas will Group Management Committee which has agreed levels of authority include further detailed presentations from specialist external advisers.
delegated to it by the Board.
In addition, the Company has developed the Group Leadership Team which comprises the most senior managers The work of the Audit Committee has continued to focus on the from across the Group who are collectively charged with driving the integrity of financial reporting and the oversight of risk management achievement of Vision 2015. and internal controls across the Group.
During the year the Company continued to develop a new Assurance function, covering internal audit, An effective relationship between the Board and members of the Group risk management and compliance activities, and it is anticipated that Leadership Team is important in assisting the Board in managing risk the benefits of the new structure will emerge strongly during 2012. and formulating strategy, and such engagement also serves to improve succession planning and the oversight of human resource issues.
The As the Board seeks to drive opportunities for the long-term growth Board evaluation reiterated the benefits of ensuring the visibility of the of Filtrona, including the development of innovative new products for Board and the communication of its work throughout the Company as introduction into new markets in new geographies, the requirements well as improving the development of management.
As a result, further for sound risk management, including a well-defined risk appetite, site visits by the Board including opportunities to engage directly with and the clarity of risk reporting take on ever-increasing importance.
the next generation of internal talent are planned for 2012 and beyond.
The strength of the Companys corporate values, its reputation and its ability to deliver the Vision 2015 strategy and provide sustainable Supporting the motivation, attraction and retention of the key talent base, value in the longer term, all depend in part on the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee has continued to balance the interests Filtronas corporate governance and the Board is committed to of shareholders with the adoption of appropriate incentives designed achieving the highest standards.
to drive the sustained creation of value.
The Remuneration Committee has focused on the appropriate management of remuneration policy Jeff Harris Chairman risk and the alignment of management and shareholder interests with 22 February 2012 the development of proposals based on an increased commitment to individual shareholdings by members of the Group Leadership Team and the adoption of increasingly stretching performance conditions.
Assurance The implementation of the Bribery Act in the UK provided further focus on all areas of compliance across the Group, with policy and guidance materials being supported by training programmes and externally facilitated reviews.
Whilst the Board receives regular briefings on key
