4 Unlocking Value Chairmans Statement It gives me great pleasure to be addressing you for the first time as Chairman of your Company, at what is a time of significant opportunity for ENRC.
Mr Mehmet Dalman, Chairman I have been an independent Director of Progress in the development of our assets ENRC is committed to fulfilling the highest ENRC since the initial public offering in 2007, in Africa has reinforced the Groups confident standards of corporate responsibility and and the Board appointed me as Chairman view on the future of our business in the governance.
We made significant important following the resignation of Dr Johannes region.
We are well positioned in Africa to steps this year, notably completing our Sittard in early February 2012.
I would like to progress our projects and increase corporate governance review in September take this opportunity to thank him, on behalf production.
Notably we have finalised the 2011.
This established a stronger Board of the Board, for his extensive and lasting acquisition of some high quality copper structure in line with UK corporate contribution to the Company, first as Chief assets in the Democratic Republic of the governance best practice, with a Executive Officer and then as Chairman.
Congo DRC and completed a legal composition and expertise that will best Your Company greatly benefited from his settlement with First Quantum Minerals support the Group through the next phase commitment, vision and clear strategic Limited FQM.
Through our assets in the of its growth.
However, this is not an area in perspective.
We wish him all the best DRC we are set to become a significant which we can stand still.
We have continued in his future endeavours.
global copper producer over the next five to review Board composition, mindful of the years.
The suite of our African assets in other need to progressively refresh the Board, Against a turbulent economic backdrop commodities represents a solid platform for with a view to affording it with talented and and a volatile commodity pricing the Companys future growth.
dedicated Directors exhibiting, amongst environment, ENRC performed solidly, other qualifications, domain knowledge, owing to the underlying strengths of the In line with international best practice, long experience of best-in-class corporate Group, notably the quality of its tier one we have improved our reporting on fatalities governance practices, as well as corporate assets in Kazakhstan.
These world-class to provide additional information to reflect finance and strategy.
It is our intention that assets remain the bedrock on which our on-site non work-related fatality cases, the ENRC Board, representing your interests, expansion programme is based.
We are rolling maintains a clear value-focused strategy significant acquisitions in preceding years, out best practice safety initiatives across and exercises pronounced duty of care and management focus in 2011 was very much the Group.
We will continue to do all we can oversight over the execution of such strategy on the development of assets in order to to improve the safety of our operations with unlock value for our shareholders.
the aim of achieving a zero-fatality result on a long-term basis.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 www.
com Chairmans Statement ENRC employs over 70,000 people throughout its operations.
We are committed to maintaining a safe working environment for each and every one of them.
Employees at Kazchrome by your management team.
I will lead this We are pleased to recommend to effort and I will be in a position to report shareholders a final dividend of US 11 cents back to you on our progress in the not per ordinary share to be paid on 21 June too distant future.
2012 to all shareholders on the register on 30 March 2012.
We are also continuing to ensure that our internal compliance controls are robust and In my role as Chairman I will lead the Groups we now have dedicated regional heads of strategy which will be focused in 2012 on compliance in Kazakhstan, Africa and Brazil.
the development of our assets and unlocking their value.
We anticipate a consistently We will issue our first comprehensive strong operational performance across our Sustainable Development Report in 2012 diversified range of commodities in 2012 detailing our activities in this area.
and, while the market remains volatile and the pricing environment uncertain, we have During 2011 we saw the departure of Mr a compelling mix of a low-cost production Eduard Utepov, Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev, base coupled with diverse world-class Sir Richard Sykes and Mr Kenneth Olisa.
assets which leaves the Group well placed I thank them all for their commitment to the going forward.
Company and for the contribution they have made.
We also welcomed Mr Terence Wilkinson to the Board.
Mr Wilkinson has a strong mining background with particular experience in Africa and, as an independent non-executive Director, is already providing a strong contribution.
