Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Chairmans Statement Padraic Fallon In 2012 your company is expected to pass a significant milestone in its We have, as we said we would, continued with the strategy of developing longer-term strategy to increase the quality of its earnings, when revenues as a robust and tightly focused global online information business from subscriptions will exceed half of the total.
What is more, much of the with a strong emphasis on emerging markets.
This involves increasing growth in subscriptions is expected to arise from products that are delivered the proportion of revenues derived from subscription products: using electronically, and that generate higher margins.
technology efficiently to assist the online migration of the groups print products as well as developing new electronic information services: Our margin was remarkably stable at 30% in the year to September 30 investing in products of the highest quality that customers will value last in spite of a heavy investment programme.
We also generated more in tough times as well as good: eliminating products with a low margin cash than ever, achieved record adjusted profits and record revenues, and or too high a dependence on advertising: maintaining tight cost hit the Capital Appreciation Plans profit target two years ahead of plan, control at all times: retaining and fostering an entrepreneurial culture: clear signals that our strategy has been working well.
The recommended and using a healthy balance sheet and strong cash flows to fund selective final dividend, if you approve it, will increase the total by 4% to 18.75p acquisitions.
During 2011 the group continued its ambitious programme of investing in The operating climate for many of our businesses, though, remains harsh.
new technology and content delivery platforms, particularly for the mobile Some markets look more volatile than ever and some revenue streams user, and in new digital information products, as part of its migration are flat or weak.
In spite of that, the immediate trading outlook is fairly to a global online information business.
Over the year the group spent positive, while the balance sheet is strong and getting stronger.
We are more than 9 million enhancing its existing products, all of it expensed also pleased that the integration of Ned Davis Research, acquired in from profits, and expects a similar level of investment in 2012.
In addition, August last for 65 million in cash, has so far gone according to plan.
the group has undertaken a substantial investment programme at two of its most important electronic information businesses, BCA Research and CEIC Data, with a view to building rapidly the quality and coverage of their products and expanding their global sales resources.
In 2012, the company intends to continue to pursue its successful strategy of tight cost control while investing in digital publishing and selective acquisitions of specialist online information businesses to drive further long-term revenue growth.
In August the group completed the acquisition of Ned Davis Research NDR.
NDR produces data, financial models, charts and independent market commentary to help clients execute their asset allocation strategies.
All of NDRs content is published online and the acquisition is expected to increase the proportion of the groups revenues derived from subscriptions to more than 50% for the first time.
Euromoney intends to apply a similar investment strategy to NDR as it has done so successfully with its other independent research business, BCA Research, and build a range of new international products and drive revenue growth through an expanded global sales team.
The early signs of trading at NDR are encouraging, and the board believes that the acquisition strengthens the companys quality of earnings.
Highlights and recommended final dividend Group adjusted profit before tax rose to 92.7 million for the year to September 30 2011, against 86.6 million in 2010.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share were 56.1p 2010: 53.5p.
The Directors recommend 04 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com a 6% increase in the final dividend to 12.50p, giving a total for the year For 2012, the group plans to continue its programme of investing in the of 18.75p 2010: 18.0p, to be paid to shareholders on February 9 2012. digital transformation of its businesses, and in improving the quality of the products and expanding the sales resources of its research and data These record results mean the group has achieved the profit target under businesses including the recently acquired NDR.
Total investment costs are its Capital Appreciation Plan two years earlier than first expected.
Although expected to be similar to those expensed in financial year 2011 which, individual awards under the plan cannot vest more than one year early, the combined with tight cost control, will help underpin the groups objective satisfaction of the performance test triggers an additional accelerated longto maintain its adjusted operating margin close to 30%.
term incentive expense of 6.6 million, with a corresponding reduction in the expense in future years.
This additional accelerated expense has been Succession excluded from adjusted profit before tax and the adjusted diluted earnings In August the doctors told me I had cancer, and as announced I will retire a share figure used for setting the final dividend.
as chairman at the AGM in January 2013 after 21 years in the chair and 38 with the company.
I am very confident that my successor will have the The groups performance in the second half has broadly matched that same strong support from you, the shareholders, and from our colleagues of the first, although markets have become more challenging as the and the board as I have.
Double digit growth in subscription revenues was maintained throughout the year while the quality of the groups event Our people across the world have done a wonderful job to deliver such portfolio has been demonstrated by the 20% growth in sponsorship a good result in a year that has been notable for the levels of political revenues.
Total revenues for the year increased by 10% to 363.1 million attention focused on financial markets, particularly in Europe, and for the and this revenue growth, combined with tight control of headcount, degree of uncertainty across the world economy generally.
I thank them helped the group maintain its adjusted operating margin at 30% in spite on your behalf and on mine, and I wish them well in the times ahead.
of significant investment in new products and technology.
Net debt at September 30 was 119.2 million compared with 102.7 million at March 31, following the acquisition of NDR in August for a cash consideration of 64.8 million.
Excluding acquisitions, net debt fell by Padraic Fallon Chairman approximately 50 million in the second half, reflecting the groups strong November 9 2011 cash flows and an operating cash conversion rate in excess of 100%.
The groups net debt to EBITDA ratio at year end was 1.0 times, leaving plenty The operating cash conversion rate is the percentage by which cash generated of headroom for the group to pursue its selective acquisition strategy.
from operations covers adjusted operating profit.
Outlook Financial markets continue to suffer from concerns over increased fiscal risk, particularly in the Eurozone, and weaker prospects for global economic growth.
Nevertheless, the outlook for the first quarter of the new financial year is reasonably positive.
Subscriptions increased at an underlying rate of 10% in the fourth quarter of financial year 2011, which provides good momentum for further revenue growth.
Delegate bookings for the groups training and event businesses have also held up well.
In contrast, as announced in September, sales of advertising, and to a lesser degree event sponsorship, have shown signs of weakness since the summer.
The board expects the trading environment for the rest of financial year 2012 to be more challenging and, as usual at this time, forward revenue visibility beyond the first quarter is limited other than for subscriptions.
05 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Chairmans Statement Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
