12 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Chairmans Statement Alexander Abramov The Premium Listing of shares of EVRAZ plc on the London Stock Exchange in November 2011 was clearly a major development and an important milestone on a journey which began six years earlier when Evraz Group S. A. s Global Depository Receipts began trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Alexander Abramov Chairman That the group was able to deliver such a The Listing Dear Stakeholders, resilient performance in a year characterised The Premium Listing of shares of EVRAZ plc by global economic uncertainty is testament on the London Stock Exchange in November 2011 was a landmark year in the to the power of our integrated business model, 2011 was clearly a major development and an development of EVRAZ.
We produced the sustainability of our strategy and the important milestone on a journey which began a robust operating performance efforts of our management team and six years earlier when EVRAZ Group S. A. s in volatile markets, posted strong employees.
Global Depository Receipts began trading financial results, delivered against on the London Stock Exchange.
Health, Safety and Environment key management objectives, As a global organisation, our undertaking We received overwhelming support from obtained a Premium Listing on is to make the world stronger, safer and Evraz Group S. A. shareholders who almost the London Stock Exchange and cleaner and to this end we are increasing unanimously accepted the offer to exchange entered the FTSE 100 Index.
our emphasis on the health, safety and their GDRs for shares in EVRAZ plc.
As the environmental management of the Group.
only steel stock in the UK FTSE All-Share index, EVRAZ enables investors to gain direct The safety of our employees remains our top exposure to this important global sector.
priority and the Board is absolutely focused on improving our safety record.
Our disciplined Although the new company, EVRAZ plc, approach is beginning to deliver results, represents the same underlying assets as and I am pleased to say that our overall HSE EVRAZ Group S. A. the Listing enabled us to performance has improved again in 2011, broaden our shareholder base, improve the with our key indicators all showing liquidity of the Company shares, and provide improvement on the previous year.
better access to the international capital markets.
Importantly, the Listing also shows EVRAZs commitment to the highest standards of governance, transparency and information disclosure.
Our strategy as a global vertically integrated business is clear.
We want EVRAZ to strengthen its position as a world class steel and mining company and as the partner of choice for our infrastructure customers.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Strategy Governance In 2011 driven by our vertically integrated, Our strategy as a global vertically integrated EVRAZ is committed to ensuring our global business model, we improved our business is clear.
We want EVRAZ to governance arrangements meet with the competitiveness, maintained our share in key strengthen its position as a world class steel highest applicable governance standards.
markets and further improved our cost base.
and mining company and as the partner of During 2011 we continued to review and Whilst the immediate outlook for our markets choice for our infrastructure customers.
strengthen our governance, at Board and remains uncertain, EVRAZ has good overall at executive level, as part of the process for momentum and we see opportunities to These priorities are supported by a set of admission to the London Stock Exchange as enhance our performance on many fronts.
strategic pillars that underpin our growth: a Premium listed company.
The independent I am confident EVRAZ is well positioned to health, safety and environment: people: directors of EVRAZ plc are led by Sir Michael create value for shareholders in 2012 and customer focus and the EVRAZ Business Peat, the Senior Independent Non-Executive to continue its record of growth.
We have made major investments Director.
In addition, on 28 February 2012, in each of these areas in 2011, helping to Alexander Izosimov was appointed to the Strong results, especially in an industry support our platform for growth.
Board as an additional non-executive director.
as competitive as ours, are not the result As a result, the independent directors now of chance but more the product of the The EVRAZ Business System encompasses constitute half the Board of EVRAZ plc.
accumulated efforts, dedication and hard a Group-wide philosophy which aims to work of our approximately 112,000 transform the way the organisation conducts Dividend employees.
On behalf of the Board I would its business.
A key feature of this approach In 2011, the Board approved a new dividend like to thank all our management and staff to value creation through greater employee policy targeting a long-term average payout whose hard work and commitment contributed 1 engagement is the incorporation of Lean ratio of at least 25% of consolidated net so much to our performance in 2011. business principles to create a culture of profits excluding one-off and non-cash items.
The outcomes of this We believe that this is a sensible level which approach are benefits for customers in terms rewards shareholders whilst retaining of product quality and costs: an improved sufficient capital for the Groups future working environment for the workforce and investment needs.
greater flexibility for the Group to respond to market change as it occurs.
On the back of our strong financial results, Alexander Abramov Evraz Group S. A. made the first dividend Chairman The CEO Statement and Strategy sections payment since 2008 during 2011 and paid EVRAZ plc of this Report provide significant additional an interim dividend of US$0.60 per share 24 April 2012 detail but, in essence, EVRAZ aims to attract, of Evraz Group S. A. US$0.20 per GDR develop and retain the best people at every and a special dividend of US$2.70 per share level throughout the Company.
The Board has declared we renewed our commitment to training a cash final dividend for 2011 of US$0.17 per and development including the EVRAZ New ordinary share of EVRAZ plc.
This gives a total Leaders Programme designed to develop ordinary dividend for 2011 of US$317 million, the next generation of senior management which represents 50% of net profit adjusted within the Company.
Conclusion In 2012, EVRAZ will be 20 years old.
As a founder of the company, I am very proud of what we have achieved over the intervening years from our beginnings as a small steel trader, to our current position as a world class vertically integrated steel and mining company.
We are among the top 20 global steel producers, the worlds largest producer of rails, Russias leading steel manufacturer and an international leader in infrastructure and construction products.
1 For more information on Lean please refer to pages 32-33 of the report.
