Introduction Chairmans statement 3 Experian has delivered its tenth consecutive year of record earnings before interest and tax, representing a major milestone in the companys history.
The Group remains focused on a clear strategy for growth and is making strong progress against its strategic priorities.
The opportunities for Experian today are immense and the Group is in great shape to capitalise on them.
Chairmans statement Each of our regions and four principal we are helping a health care provider to Our employees are drawn from as business activities delivered organic improve the collection of payments from wide a pool as possible and we strive growth last year, enabling us to create patients across Southeast Louisiana.
to ensure that Experians leaders of significant value for shareholders the future reflect the rich diversity of through our strong financial We are also expanding Experians our workforce.
Our talent forums and performance, a 22% dividend increase to geographic boundaries by taking our leadership development programmes 28 US cents per share for the full year and expertise and products into some of now run in all major locations and 70% of a programme of share repurchases.
the worlds great emerging consumer our leadership appointments are internal economies.
10 Experian continues to fuel progress our revenue comes from outside our through a combination of innovation and traditional core markets of the US and 50 Corporate responsibility is a high priority the development of new global products, UK.
Our new credit bureau in India for our employees and was an area of expanding into new customer segments opened for business during the year, in increasing focus this year.
We have taken and extending its capabilities into new partnership with seven of the countrys stock and reviewed everything from how geographies.
Since then, we manage our responsibilities to how we have reached agreement to acquire we describe this particular aspect of our Product innovation is the lifeblood of the a controlling interest in Computec, business.
We view it not as a separate business and we are constantly looking which will extend our bureau presence function, but as simply our approach to for new and better ways to provide fresh to Colombia, Peru and Venezuela.
We how we do business, ensuring that we take insights into the challenges faced by our have also continued to roll out global careful account of the impact we have on clients.
Each year we invest in people, products such as CheetahMail, our email all those who are touched by our activities.
data and technology to make this happen marketing service, and Hunter, which and this year was no exception.
I am detects fraudulent credit applications.
In this regard, our key objectives are to proud of the advances made by Experian apply Experians core skills to projects with products such as BusinessIQ, which It is clear that there is no shortage with specific social benefits: to focus makes it easier for businesses to manage of opportunities for Experian.
The our community projects on financial their relationships with commercial credit management team remains firmly education and entrepreneurship and, customers, and Diversity Monitor, which focused on the best of these and is above all, to embed consideration for helps organisations to build workforces putting all necessary resources behind the wider society in our basic business that truly reflect the ethnic diversity of them.
In this they are backed by a deeply processes.
This year we have seen strong local communities and customers.
engaged and supportive Board, whose progress in all three areas and we are experience and insight continues to reaping the benefits as our employees Most of the problems we solve, such sharpen our strategy.
become more engaged, our carbon as helping clients to prevent fraud or impacts fall and we begin to be recognised to get closer to their customers, are Our success, of course, ultimately for our ability to tackle serious issues such universal.
So, while our origins may depends upon the hard work of 15,000 as financial exclusion.
lie in the financial services sector, we Experian people, whose commitment continue to expand into other areas to the business is perhaps our greatest This has been another good year for such as telecommunications, utilities, asset.
Experians third global people Experian.
The business is growing government and healthcare.
In this report survey achieved 88% employee strongly on all fronts and continues to you can read how we are working with participation in 2010 and has been build a commanding lead in its chosen a mobile communications company followed by action plans at a regional and markets.
Experian feels today like a to improve the experience of millions global level.
Particularly encouraging business firmly in charge of its destiny of customers around the world, how was that our strongest results this time and I congratulate the entire team on an we are enabling a betting company to were in areas identified as a priority for excellent performance.
authenticate subscribers to its fast improvement last time.
developing online business and how
