Overview Chairmans Statement SUBSTANTIAL GROWTH ACHIEVED Chairman IN OUR 150TH ANNIVERSARY YEAR, I AM DELIGHTED TO REPORT ON A Mark Abrahams SUCCESSFUL YEAR OF TRADING AND A RECORD FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
OUR ROBUST BUSINESS STRATEGY, WITH CUSTOMER FOCUSED OPERATIONS, HAS ENABLED STRONG ORGANIC GROWTH ACROSS THE GROUP.
THIS HAS BEEN COMPLEMENTED BY THREE ACQUISITIONS DURING THE YEAR AND A FURTHER ACQUISITION SHORTLY AFTER THE YEAR END.
products in our seals operations, we have Financial highlights Overview continued to develop our product offering into Revenue increased by 30% to 718.3m with Our business strategy focuses on providing a the more resilient aftermarket sectors.
In April range of performance critical products and strong demand levels from our core business 2011, we acquired Multiseals in Singapore services from strategic locations where the segments.
From this, we were able to deliver which provides access to the expanding Asian business drivers offer resilience and profitable a record underlying operating profit with an aftermarket for oil and gas products.
The performance increase of 60% to 91.4m.
Operating profit September 2011, after the year end, Transeals delivered in the year reflects the continuing increased by 67% to 82.5m.
This provides an buoyancy in energy and mineral extraction aftermarket presence in the buoyant mining Underlying earnings per share increased by sectors and our ability to respond to and oil and gas segments of Western Australia.
57% to 28.1p and basic earnings per share customers increasingly sophisticated needs.
Positive market conditions with sustainable People Free cash flow generated amounted to fundamentals have facilitated a strong trading On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 53.7m, sufficient to fund the acquisition performance in the Engineered Conveyor all Fenners employees for their hard work programme yet still reduce debt.
Our closing Solutions Division formerly referred to as the and dedication over the last year.
In November 2010, net debt was 101.8m 2010 110.4m after Special recognition goes to Richard Perry, we acquired the related operations: Belle funding acquisitions of 31.1m.
the Group Finance Director, who was named Banne Victoria and Leading Edge Conveyor The Board is recommending an increase in FTSE 250 Finance Director of the Year in May Solutions.
This was followed by the acquisition the final dividend to 5.35p per share which 2011. of Statewide Belting Service in July 2011.
These gives a total dividend for the year of 8.0p per Australian acquisitions will broaden our reach Colin Cooke, who had been the Chairman share 2010 7.2p.
and reinforce our position as the leading for 17 years, retired from the Board on provider of engineered conveyor solutions to During the year, US$200m of private 28 February 2011.
The Board is very grateful the mining and resource markets.
placement loan notes were secured with to him for his guidance and counsel over this maturities of 10 and 12 years at an average period in which the Group has changed much The Advanced Engineered Products Division coupon of 5.3%.
These notes have allowed us and grown substantially.
After consultation has made excellent progress with high demand to expand our funding sources and extend our for our niche, performance critical products.
To with major shareholders and investor groups, debt maturity profile.
balance our exposure to original equipment I succeeded Colin as Chairman.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 3 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Chairmans Statement Business Review Governance Remuneration Nicholas Hobson was appointed as my independence of the Board will be enhanced successor as Chief Executive Officer on by the appointment of Vanda Murray.
Nick, who has been with the Governance standards will be maintained and Group for over 20 years, is an engineer by continue to be a focus and responsibility of the background and has successfully overseen Board.
the growth and strong performance of the Advanced Engineered Products Division.
Outlook The directors were saddened to announce the The new year has begun with our businesses sudden death of David Campbell in November performing well.
While we note the uncertainty 2010.
David had been a non-executive director over the global economic outlook, trading in and Chairman of the Remuneration our core businesses remains in line with our Committee since November 2005.
Given the fundamental drivers was subsequently appointed Chairman of the of end user markets and our ability to respond Remuneration Committee.
to the external environment, the prospects for the Group remain good.
In October 2011, we were pleased to announce the forthcoming appointment of Vanda Murray as non-executive director with effect from the conclusion of the January 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Vanda will become Mark Abrahams the Senior Independent Director, replacing Chairman David Buttfield who will remain as a nonexecutive director.
Governance The Board believes in upholding high standards of corporate governance and has embraced the principles embodied in the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
As Chairman, I carried out a Board evaluation during the year and was in turn assessed by the independent non-executive directors.
Following that exercise, it is our belief that the quality, skills and breadth of experience of the Board means that we have a robust and eminently capable Board.
The composition and Group revenue Underlying operating profit 718.3m 91.4m 30% 60% 2010 552.5m 2010 57.0m Financial performance measures described as underlying within this statement are before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and, where applicable, notional interest.
Underlying earnings per share is based on the basic weighted average number of shares in issue.
