Chairmans Statement Strong financial results and an increased focus on sustainability 2011 was an exceptional year for precious metals miners.
Gold and silver prices increased by 28.1% and 74.4% respectively over 2010 gures as a result of strong investment demand for both metals, aswell as growing industrial uses for silver.
While the latter part of the year saw greater volatility and concern about the fundamentals supporting these prices, I believe that global financial instability and demand for silver in technology applications is likely to support continued demand.
Against this backdrop of a favourable price environment, Fresnillo plc continued to strengthen its operations and deliver on development projects, resulting in increased gold and stable silver production.
This included the start-up of the Saucito mine, which was delivered on schedule and under budget.
In July the President of Mexico, FelipeCaldern, joined in the dedication of this new mine, which willbecome an important contributor to the growth of Fresnillo plc.
Cost control measures and efficiency gains in the year also contributed to our competitive cash-cost position.
Substantial progress was made at exploration projects, enhancing our already robust resource base.
The Groups production and project delivery schedule is on track to meet our revised growth targets.
Having already exceeded our original goal for attributable Alberto Baillres gold production, set at the time of the IPO, of 400,000 ounces by Non-executive Chairman 2018, our aim now is to grow this level of production to 500,000 attributable ounces of gold by that time, as well as 65 million The Groups strategy is aligned with our attributable ounces of silver, with 5.0 million ounces of gold and valuesof responsible and sustainable business 650million ounces of silver in reserves.
Reserve replenishment and exploration thepotential contribution from Orisyvo, an advanced exploration project in Chihuahua, that while large and promising has special will continue to underpin our long-term growth, technical and logistical challenges.
while operational developments will be bolstered 4 Fresnillo plc achieved adjusted revenue of US$2,307.4 million, by a stronger safety framework and the full 5 up56.6% over 2010, and EBITDA of US$1,538.5 million, up 62.8%.
integration of our new Enterprise Risk Attributable net profit, excluding the Silverstream revaluation Management approach.
The Board is committed to prudent financial policies to ensure sufficient investment capital even under more conservative price scenarios.
With US$684.9 million in cash and no debt on the balance sheet as of 31 December 2011, our capital funding options remain exible for exploration and development, pursuing potential acquisitions and returning dividends to shareholders.
Metals prices will remain volatile until global macroeconomic imbalances are properly addressed.
The approach of our Board is totake the long view, with a value creation strategy that does not change with unpredictable short-term shifts in the market.
Thus investing across price cycles will continue to be a hallmark of our strategy, as will the disciplined development of new, value-creating projects.
Fundamental to this strategy is the social license to operate, which is earned by a profound and unwavering commitment to sustainable development and to the wellbeing of our workforce.
06 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements Overview Dividend Investment in safety US$786.9m 311.8% US$5.2m 20.9% 2010: US$191.1m 2010: US$4.3m As Chairman I consider my greatest responsibilities to be ensuring at theBoard level, and this objective will be given due consideration that Fresnillo plc is governed with transparency and in the interest in future appointments.
ofall shareholders, and that the Groups strategy is aligned with The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 40.0 US cents ourvalues of responsible and sustainable business practices.
per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 23 May 2012 to shareholders Ifocused on a number of governance issues this year, as laid out on the register on 27 April 2012.
The dividend will be paid in UK inthis Report, but none more important than in the areas of safety pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
This is in addition to the US$300 million second interim dividend, The Board and I are deeply concerned and saddened to report the equivalent to 41.85 US cents per Ordinary Share, declared in fatalities that occurred during the year.
We see this as a serious December 2011 following a close review of the Groups financial andunacceptable situation.
In addition to the actions taken by liquidity and future cash requirements.
management, which are discussed in detail on pages 6869, safety Looking ahead to 2012, despite uncertainty in the financial and issues continue to receive Board priority and we consider it of critical commodity markets, we anticipate that Fresnillo plc will continue importance that the entire organisation reinforces its commitment tostrengthen its precious metals position with the commissioning to the target of zero fatalities.
The Boards Health, Safety, Environment ofthe new Noche Buena gold mine, the construction of the and Community Relations HSECR Committee oversaw the dynamic leaching plant at Herradura and the ramp-up of silver investigation of the accidents, including the appointment of production at Saucito.
While our ore resource inventory is strong, third-party reviews.
The Committee also re-examined the Groups reserve replenishment and exploration of new projects will continue safety policies and training procedures, made recommendations to underpin our long-term growth strategy.
Operational developments tothe Executive Committee, and is monitoring the implementation will be bolstered by a stronger safety and sustainability framework, of new practices.
While progress is clearly being made, one fatality as well as the full integration of our new Enterprise Risk has already been reported in 2012: we must continue to work Management approach.
diligently to improve our performance.
The Board has authorised a risk capital investment in exploration I have always believed that the pursuit of profits can never justify budget of US$360.4 million for 2012, which is a 36.5% increase over unethical business practices.
I fully endorse the anti-corruption the original guidance for 2012, and 101.3% greater than the 2011 policies adopted by the Board this year in anticipation of the expenditure, reecting our confidence that such investments today requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
Management have been are vital to the long-term growth of the Group.
putting in place the necessary procedures and policies, including amendments to our Code of Conduct.
I would like to thank my fellow Board members for their service andcontribution in the year.
And on behalf of the Board I extend my Partly in response to the new requirements of the UK Corporate deepest gratitude to our people for their hard work and commitment Governance Code and partly to embed a new Enterprise Risk to delivering results year after year.
Management approach into the Fresnillo Group, we undertook an extensive review to explicitly define our risk appetite and tolerance in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
I am pleased to see broad support for this process across the organisation as I believe itstrengthens our controls and risk-awareness culture.
This year the Board also commissioned an independent review of Board effectiveness, conducted by Independent Audit Ltd. as part of our own continuous progress.
The report was positive in general Alberto Baillres and we are evaluating the findings to improve future board practice.
Non-executive Chairman The sustained success of our business is dependent on having theright people on our team at all levels of the organisation: thosewiththe skills, experience, responsibility and determination tohelp the Company achieve its goals.
Fresnillo plc has been at the 4 Adjusted revenue is revenue as disclosed in the income statement forefront of opening the doors of employment to people in Mexico, adjusted to exclude treatment and rening charges.
including women, who have not traditionally held jobs in the mining 5 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA industry.
Increasing the diversity of our workforce on the basis of iscalculated as gross profit plus depreciation less administrative, selling merit, as we have done over the past ten years, demonstrates and exploration expenses.
I am also committed to greater diversity Information on the revaluation effects of the Silverstream Contract can be found on page 86.
07 08 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Strategic Review Strategic Review With world-class assetsand a strong organic growth pipeline, weare positioned to capitalise on continued demand for silver and gold, delivering value across precious metals cycles and maintaining our position as a leading precious metals producer.
Chief Executive Ofcers Report 10 Market Overview 16 Our Business Model 20 Our Strategy and KPIs 26 Our Risk Management Framework 36 Fresnillo Our agship Fresnillo mine has been in near continuous operation since 1554 and is the worlds largest primary silver mine, producing approximately 2.8% of global silver output in 2011.
Wecontinue to maximise the potential of this operation in a sustainable way.
