Overview Strategic review Performance Overview Chairmans statement Delivering a strong performance In January I announced my intention to retire this year, so this will be my last Since the companys formation, we have chairmans statement.
I am extremely proud to have had the opportunity delivered significant compound annual growth tochair the board since 2006 and to have played a part in the companys development since its creation in 2004.
I will of course be sad to be ending rates across a range of key financial metrics, my long relationship with the group, but I also know that now is the right including 18% annual PBITA growth and 13% time to hand over the reins to a successor who will have an opportunity tochair a strong and vibrant board which oversees an exciting and annual adjusted EPS growth.
Also since 2004, G4S has generated an average total shareholder return of 14% peryear.
Financial performance The groups results in 2011 are commented on in great detail elsewhere in 20042011 share price performance this report, so I will not repeat them here, other than to say that it is pleasing Value p to be able to report a good performance in a year when the economic 280 environment became ever tougher in many parts of the world.
In these circumstances increased revenues and a significant increase in organic growth are signs of the resilience of the groups business model and the success 220 ofthe groups strategy.
The directors propose a final dividend of 5.11p DKK0.4544 per share, payable on 15 June 2012.
With an interim dividend 160 of 3.42p DKK 0.2928 per share paid on 14 October 2011, the total dividend for theyear will amount to 8.53p DKK 0.7472 per share.
This represents an 8% increase on thetotal dividend for 2010 and reflects the 100 boards confidence in the ability of the company to continue to perform 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 G4S FTSE 100 index strongly despite the difficult macro-economic conditions.
The performance in 2011 means that since the companys formation, we I would like to thank my fellow board have delivered significant compound annual growth rates across a range of members, the employees of G4S and the key financial metrics, including 18% annual PBITA growth and 13% annual adjusted EPS growth.
companys shareholders for their invaluable support throughout my involvement with thegroup.
G4S plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Proposed ISS acquisition The board Our attempt to acquire ISS was undeniably one of the more significant Last year I confirmed that it was the desire of the board to increase its events for the company and the board during the year.
It involved a lengthy gender diversity.
This was partly in response to Lord Davies report of course, and detailed process and the board as a whole decided to proceed with the but it has been part of our criteria for director selection for some time.
bid only after careful consideration, and following consultation with a number Ourintention is to ensure that the widest range of talents and experience of our major shareholders, in the belief that it was in the best interests of the isrepresented on the board so that the company is best equipped to company and its shareholders.
Too late in the process, it became clear that a meetall the challenges which it faces.
There have been no changes to the significant proportion of our shareholders were either not willing or not able membership of the board during the year, but my own departure during to support the transaction and the funding it required.
That we were unable 2012 will mean at least one change is on the horizon and the Nomination to obtain that feedback at an earlier stage is a matter of regret for me and Committee considers succession planning for all board roles on a regular therest of the board.
The ability of boards to have detailed dialogue with basis.
The current directors already represent a wide range of backgrounds, shareholders about such matters is something which requires further experiences, cultures and nationalities and it is our intention that this should consideration and we are keen to promote a debate on this issue.
continue, whilst ensuring that we always recruit the best people.
Integrated facilities services The future Our withdrawal from the proposed acquisition of ISS does not mean 2012 is an Olympic year of course, and there will be much focus on the however that we will simply forget about integrated facilities services.
Where London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, and on the services which the there is demand for such services, and where we can make good returns group will provide as part of the efforts to ensure the Games are safe and providing them, we will continue to look at ways to broaden our offering enjoyable for all involved.
But there is more to the future than just this one, tomeet our customers needs.
The group will continue to grow and evolve but theheart of this development will always be serving the interests of our customers and looking after our employees.
In this way we will also continue Contracts to act in the best interests of our shareholders.
It is pleasing to be able to report that the group has won a number of Finally, I would like to thank my fellow board members, the employees of verysignificant contracts in recent months.
Again, the details are dealt with G4S and the companys shareholders for their invaluable support throughout elsewhere in this report, but it is noticeable that some of our largest potential my involvement with the group.
customers, especially in developed markets, see the value in outsourcing arange of solutions in which we have particular expertise.
We believe this trend is likely to continue given the need for such customers to obtain the best value for money in what is likely to remain a testing economic climate.
Alf Duch-Pedersen Chairman G4S plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
