Genus plc Annual Report 2011 02 Company Overview Chairmans Statement Bob Lawson I am pleased to report strong business performance and sound underlying strategic progress.
I was very proud to become Chairman of Genus last provider of improved genetics.
The Boards recognition of November and, in this my first statement to you as the importance of this is reflected in the emphasis placed shareholders, I am pleased to report strong business on the workings of the Groups Science Committee and the performance and sound underlying strategic progress.
regular reporting of progress to the Board.
The Science Committee is chaired by Professor Barry Furr and oversees Results the allocation of research funds to projects based on their Genus achieved good results for the year ended 30 June importance and likelihood of commercial success as well 2011.
Revenue rose 9%, compared with only 2% growth as monitoring progress in global research and product last year, as customer demand for genetics began to development activities.
The results to date are impressive, recover post the agricultural recession.
Adjusted pre-tax with industry leading performance in both our porcine and profits rose 19% to 39.0m and adjusted earnings per bovine product ranges.
To further enhance our competitive share were up 22% at 44.8p.
position, we plan to continue to increase our investment in research and product development in the current year.
With the major capital investment programme, started two years ago, to increase product development capacity now Genus has an extensive global sales and distribution network complete, cash generation was also strong with net debt through which to distribute its products.
As reported by reducing by 12.1m to 67.9m.
Richard, much attention is being placed on extending this network to take advantage of the opportunities available in Strategy fast growing emerging markets.
The strength of the Groups strategy lies in the combination of the underlying fundamental growth inherent in the markets in Dividend which the Group operates, the strength of the Groups global The Board is recommending an increase in the final sales and distribution network and perhaps most importantly dividend for the year ended 30 June 2011 of 10% to of all, the success of its research and product development in 13.3 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval ensuring the Groups products remain market leading.
at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2011, this dividend will be paid on Global population growth and increasing urbanisation are 25 November 2011 to shareholders on the register driving increased demand for food and protein in diets.
The at the close of business on 11 November 2011. growth in demand for Genus products that this creates is further enhanced by the need for farming to become more As the Group has now completed its major investment efficient.
Improved animal genetics is a key component in programme to expand its product development and meeting these demands.
production facilities and has returned to being strongly cash generative, the Board has reviewed its dividend policy.
Against this background, the success of Genus research It has concluded that it will introduce an interim dividend.
and product development programme is vital to ensuring As a result, the final dividend for the year just ended is being that the Group maintains its leading position as the natural brought forward from January 2012 to November 2011, Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 03 Karim Bitar and Richard Wood and the Board expects to pay an interim dividend in April My impressions are: 2012 of approximately one third of the total dividend for 1.
The Group operates in a global segment that has the year.
Demand for quality food efficiently produced to meet the growing population needs will Directors and Employees underpin the Groups future growth and development.
During the last year, a key task for me and my Board 2.
Genus has excellent standards of animal husbandry.
The colleagues has been to manage the succession of our animals are well housed and looked after by committed Chief Executive Richard Wood as he approached retirement.
Significant expertise resides in the research activities I am pleased to welcome Karim Bitar to the Board.
For us, our primary competitive advantage joined the Board on 1 September 2011 and will become Chief is market leading genetics and these genetics have to Executive on Richards retirement on 30 September 2011. match the needs of individual countries as well as specific customers.
I have been most impressed by the Karim, a biochemist by training, has an outstanding expertise that we have within the organisation and our reputation for delivering international growth with marketcommitment to provide superior products at attractive leading pharmaceutical products.
The Board believes that prices directly from the research activities.
his extensive experience combined with his commitment 4.
We have a global footprint and an increasingly credible and enthusiasm for innovation will provide further impetus presence in the important emerging markets.
These will be to Genus development.
the significant profit drivers for the Group in the years ahead.
The lasting impression is of the professionalism and Richard has led Genus as Chief Executive for over 14 years.
commitment of everyone in all spheres of activity that I During this period Genus has been transformed from a small have met.
This team of people operating in 30 countries UK operation into a truly global business with growth driven provides a service to customers which you as owners of by its in-house research and development and worldwide Genus can justifiably be proud.
On behalf of the Board, distribution.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I would like to thank them all for their hard work and I would like to thank Richard for the huge commitment and support in continuing to deliver best in class service to contribution that he has made to Genus and wish him a long customers and another year of record profits.
I am confident that the Groups global footprint, investment As you know, John Hawkins, my predecessor, stepped in research and product development and industry leading down at last years AGM and I would like to record my product portfolio leaves Genus well placed to continue the thanks to John for an exemplary handover and for all his progress made in the last year and to benefit from the hard work for Genus during his ten years as a Director.
long-term growth available in its global markets.
In my first year as Chairman, I have begun to visit our key Bob Lawson operations and met many of our people.
