10 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review Chairmans statement Our management team has driven Late in 2011 we also received very On behalf of the Board, fundamental change to the business promising first data for our malaria I am very pleased to over the last 3 years to improve vaccine which, if proved successful has growth prospects, reduce risk and the potential to prevent the deaths of report that GSK has made deliver enhanced financial performance.
millions of African children from this There is now demonstrable evidence terrible disease.
considerable progress that this strategy is starting to deliver Maintaining good corporate governance in 2011, despite the and positively differentiate GSKs outlook is a key priority and I am pleased to from other companies in the sector.
challenging economic introduce our Corporate Governance I would particularly like to recognise report on page 82, which sets out here Sir Andrews vision and leadership environment.
our approach to the regulations and in identifying early on the scale of change guidelines underpinning our decision that was needed and in successfully making.
We are very mindful of the starting to execute that change.
current environment around executive Ultimately the aim of our strategy is to remuneration and we remain committed deliver sustainable improved long-term to linking pay to the delivery of value and returns to shareholders.
We set out more details During the year, we returned 5.6 billion on our approach in our Remuneration to our shareholders in dividends and Report on page 106. share buy-backs an increase of 75% There have been several changes to versus 2010. the Board in 2011.
Simon Dingemans In the current uncertain economic succeeded Julian Heslop as Chief environment, management of risk Financial officer and Judy Lewent and remains a key focus for the Board and Stacey Cartwright were appointed as senior executive team.
Judy and Stacey reached an agreement in principle to have brought a wealth of experience from settle the Groups outstanding litigation business and finance and their respective with the US Government on historic sales knowledge of the pharmaceutical and marketing practices.
This agreement industry and consumer brands represents adds to settlements made for other strong additions to the Board.
Going outstanding litigation and signicantly forward, James Murdoch has decided reduces our overall legal exposure.
to step down from the Board at this years AGM and will not be offering himself for The Board will continue to focus re-election.
I would like to thank James on strengthening governance and for his contribution to the Board over compliance procedures to help reduce the past three years.
future litigation and minimise other risk for shareholders.
Through the Audit We are committed to continuing to and Risk Committee, we retain good improve diversity at Board level and have visibility of the issues and challenges an aspiration to have more than 25% faced by management and their work female representation by 2013. to address them.
In 2011, for example, Finally, the Board was pleased that we completed a thorough review of the Sir Andrew was knighted in the 2012 Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABAC New Years Honours for his services to programme and associated training the economy and the pharmaceutical developed so as to ensure compliance industry.
This is a well-deserved with the 2010 UK Bribery Act.
recognition of Sir Andrews contribution It remains our strong belief that not only to GSK but also to the economy.
operating in a responsible and ethical way is essential for the success of GSK.
As Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, I was pleased to see the progress we made during the year to improve global access to our medicines, including agreements to supply large quantities of a number of our vaccines to the poorest countries in Sir Christopher Gent the world at a fraction of Western prices.
