1.2 | Chairmans statement In May 2011, Glencore welcomed new shareholders on the occasion of the listing of the company on the London and Hong Kong stock exchanges.
Before the Initial Public Offering, Glencore appointed a new Board which I am proud to lead as Chairman.
Each Non-Executive Director has an excellent track record in an area of expertise directly relevant to Glencores operations.
2011 was a year of achievement for Glencore, despite the economic challenges that the world faced in the period.
The development and urbanisation of China, India and other higher growth countries continues.
The desire of hundreds of millions of people to improve their living standards, and the challenges of growing supply to meet that the resulting demand, underpin the fundamentals of global markets for commodities in the long term.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors and I visited some of Glencores key assets.
We were very impressed by the high quality of the operations and the commitment of Glencore people around the world.
We will improve the already high standards as to ensure an even better performance in the future.
Glencore believes that sustainability must be an integral part of everything we do, enhancing the well-being of our employees, surrounding communities and local environments.
In September 2011, Glencore published its first ever sustainability report.
In recent years the company has established stringent global standards for Health, Safety, Environmental and Community HSEC relations performance under the Glencore Corporate Practice programme.
During 2011, we also announced our membership of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, a global effort to help Governments use funds generated from natural resources in a responsible manner.
In many cases, our industrial operations have already exceeded these standards.
Challenges that remain, have the full focus of the HSEC Committee and Glencores Board.
We will report our progress in subsequent sustainability reports.
On 7February2012, the Boards of Glencore and Xstrata agreed an all-share merger of equals, to create a unique $90billion natural resources group.
The Board has unanimously agreed that the merger is in the best interests of Glencore Shareholders.
It builds upon the long-standing relationship between Xstrata and Glencore to the greater benefit of both companies and their shareholders.
Since Xstrata was created by Glencore and then spun-out in 2002, these two entrepreneurial companies have grown separately into leaders in the commodity industry, each with a different but highly complementary focus.
Together these two companies will create a group with the capabilities and scale to play a leading role in meeting the growing global demand for commodities, whilst helping resource holding countries create value from their natural endowments.
On 20March 2012, Glencore announced a CAD6.1billion acquisition of Viterra, one of the worlds leading global agri-businesses and food ingredients companies with major operations across Canada and Australia.
The transaction was announced in partnership with Agrium and Richardson International who have agreed to acquire part of Viterras Canadian operations for CAD2.6billion.
The acquisition is our first major investment in the North American agricultural sector and reflects Glencores strong belief in the importance and future potential of the Canadian and Australian grain markets.
It will also allow us to be well placed to participate in future growth opportunities across the North American market.
It is an exciting time for Glencore and for you, our shareholders.
Simon Murray Chairman 12 | Annual Report 2011 |
