ChAIRMANS STATEMENT Strength acroSS buS and rail operationS We have seen continued I am pleased with the performance of the Group this year.
Despite facing challenging economic conditions in the last 12 months and growth in the financial year, the adverse weather in the first half of the year, all of our operations have seen growth in like-for-like passenger revenue and passenger demonstrating resilience in journeys.
We have worked hard to continue providing a high quality, our core business in what value for money service to our customers and have made good progress in understanding who our customers are and what their continues to be a difficult priorities are.
economic environment In the first half of the year, we disposed of the remainder of our aviation services division and began operating our first contracts through our yellow school bus joint venture in North America.
The second half of the year saw the acquisition of the Thames Travel bus business.
We welcomed the findings of the McNulty review in May and are working closely with the Government and key organisations within the rail industry to shape the future of rail franchising.
We have refinanced our main bank facilities during the year and maintained our investment grade credit ratings.
We remain in good financial shape and continue to believe in the fundamental strengths of public transport having seen an evident modal shift from private car usage to public transport over the last 12 months.
Overall, revenue increased by 129.7m, or 6.0%, to 2,297.0m 2010: 2,167.3m, with increases in our deregulated bus division and our rail division more than offsetting a slight reduction in our regulated bus division.
Operating profit was up 14.0% to 115.1m, in line with our expectations 2010: 101.0m.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 6.5% to 135.2p 2010: 126.9p.
Basic earnings per share, including exceptional items and discontinued operations, was 157.1p 2010: 40.1p and profit attributable to members was 67.4m 2010: 17.2m.
Business development and acquisitions This year has seen us dispose of the remainder of our aviation services division.
The residual operations disposed in the first half of the year are classified as discontinued and are excluded from the results discussed throughout this report.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Our North American yellow school bus joint venture operations Our approach to corporate responsibility covers five main areas: have been running successfully for a year, having started with two safety, environment, passengers, employees and community.
The contracts in St Louis, Missouri in August 2010.
We have established safety and security of our passengers, our people and the general ourselves as a reliable and credible operator in the market.
public is an absolute priority for the Group and we continually strive to improve our already high safety performance.
We are Towards the end of the financial year we acquired Thames Travel, committed to improving the energy efficiency of our bus and a small bus company based in Oxfordshire.
This demonstrates our rail operations as this not only has important environmental commitment to acquisitive growth through bolt-on acquisitions benefits, but also helps to reduce operating costs.
Our Driving in our deregulated bus business.
Energy Further initiatives, aimed at reducing our CO emissions 2 per passenger journey by 20% by 2015, have continued this year.
Dividends Investment, innovation and the commitment of our employees We know that our dividend policy is key to the investment means we have made good progress against our target, achieving a decision for many shareholders.
The Board remains committed 12% reduction against our 2007 08 baseline a 3% improvement to maintaining the dividend per share which is supported by the on last year.
Groups strong balance sheet and cash generation.
The Board is employees proposing a final dividend of 55.5p per share 2010: 30.0p to maintain the total dividend for the year at 81.0p 2010: 81.0p.
The average number of employees in the Group for the financial The final dividend is payable on 18 November 2011 to registered year was 22,201, below last years average of 22,570, primarily due shareholders at the close of business on 4 November 2011. to the disposal of the remainder of our aviation services division.
I would like to thank our employees for their continuing dedication The Board of Directors and Governance and hard work through these challenging economic conditions to Following a 40 year career in the transport industry, Keith ensure that we remain a strong and successful Group.
Ludeman retired as Group Chief Executive in July 2011.
It has been a pleasure to work with Keith and I wish him well Outlook in his retirement.
Our bus and rail operations remain fundamentally strong and have benefited from passengers leaving their cars at home and I am delighted to welcome David Brown and Keith Down to the Board of Go-Ahead.
Both David and Keith bring new strengths to choosing better value public transport alternatives.
Whilst we are encouraged by our performance this year, we remain cautious on the Board and are committed to continuing the excellent progress the medium term wider economic outlook.
we are making in line with our strategy.
Our outlook for the next financial year has not changed since David Brown was appointed to the Board in April 2011 as Deputy Group Chief Executive and following a handover period he our trading update in June 2011.
We are assuming that the broad underlying operating trends experienced in the financial year will became Group Chief Executive on 3 July 2011, following Keith continue throughout the financial year to 30 June 2012 and that Ludemans retirement.
Keith Down was appointed to the Board as around 13m of the rail contract management benefits achieved Group Finance Director in March 2011.
Both David and Keith will in 2011 will not recur.
stand for election at the Annual General Meeting AGM in October 2011.
In bus, we anticipate that the performance of the business will remain strong despite the reduction in the Bus Service Operators In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council issued a new Grant BSOG in April 2012 which will impact on the last edition of the Combined Code, called the UK Corporate quarter of the next financial year.
Our fuel requirements are Governance Code, which outlined a number of changes designed to reinforce Board quality, focus on risk and improve accountability fully hedged for the next year at 41p per litre, in line with the cost in the financial year just ended.
In rail, we will continue to to shareholders.
The Board has implemented changes accordingly, drive revenue and control costs to help offset the challenges including all Directors being subject to annual election by of reduced subsidies increased premia in our franchises.
shareholders at the AGM, which took effect from October 2010.
In addition to this, we acknowledged the Financial Reporting Our balance sheet, cash flow and financing are strong and we continue to view the maintenance of the dividend as a priority.
Councils new guidance on Board Effectiveness and changes to the code following the Financial Reporting Councils consultation on We have started the new financial year well and trading has gender diversity on Boards.
been in line with the Boards expectations.
Corporate responsibility For Go-Ahead, corporate responsibility is about operating our trains and buses safely, reducing the impact of our operations on the environment and being passenger focused.
It also means developing our staff and enriching our local communities while growing our business profitably for our shareholders.
Environmental Sir Patrick Brown, Chairman and social issues have continued to play an important role this year.
31 August 2011 These issues are at the heart of our business and we work closely Before amortisation and exceptional items.
with our many stakeholder groups to innovate so we remain at the forefront of our sector.
Our aim is to provide passengers with quality bus and rail services which are sustainable and meet the requirements of the communities in which we operate.
