review of the year chairmans statement Results Then, in April, we acquired Realpubs for We have had a very successful year with 52.2m.
This group comprised 14 premium record results and strong growth across local pubs in London.
For the first time, our turnover further 13 sites for 22.8m and exchanged for the year has topped the billion pound on eight greenfield sites.
mark at 1,042.7m, up 6.0% on last year, with operating profit up 5.1% to 222.0m.
Disposals Profitbefore tax and exceptional items also During the year, we disposed of 108 reached a record level, up 13.8% on last year non-core pubs and other properties for to 140.0m, with earnings per share up 27.8m, ahead of book value.
Board Dividend In March, we bid farewell to Jane Scriven, who As a result of the companys strong had served on our board as a non-executive earningsgrowth and cash generation, director for six years.
I express my thanks to theboard is able to recommend a final her for the sound and reliable contribution she dividend payment of 16.8p per share.
made at board and committee meetings over Summary of Thiswill take the total dividend payment that time.
We wish Jane well in the future.
Chairmansstatement for the year to 23.1p per share, up 7.4% on last year.
The final dividend is expected I would also like to thank Ian Bull, our tobe paid on 12September 2011 to those group finance director for the last five years, shareholders onthe register at the close who is leaving us at the end of June.
He has For the first time, our turnover ofbusiness on 12August 2011. played a most important role in driving our for the year has topped the billion performance and continued success and he pound mark.
Acquisitions leaves us in a strong position, both financially The companys strategy is focused on and operationally, with our best wishes for The total dividend payment for driving long-term growth and profitability the future.
theyear will be 23.1p, up 7.4% by expanding and continuing to improve the onlastyear.
quality of the Retail estate.
In line with this We have appointed Matthew Fearn as group strategy, in January we acquired Cloverleaf finance director to replace Ian and he will We acquired Cloverleaf Restaurants Restaurants for 55.7m.
At the time, Cloverleaf be joining us at the beginning of September.
and Realpubs during the year as part had eleven food-led sites trading in the of our retail expansion strategy.
North of England and the Midlands.
We have since opened a twelfth site and have a healthy pipeline of further sites.
As throughout this document, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
Acquired Cloverleaf Restaurants 55.7m At the time of acquisition, Cloverleaf had eleven food-led sites trading in the North of England and theMidlands.
4 4 Gr Greene King plc Annual R eene King plc Annual Report 2011 eport 2011 www www.
greeneking eeneking.. co co. uk.
uk Review of the year People I would like to welcome all those who We operate, rent and lease havejoined us during the year, not least those who were working in the businesses pubs and restaurants we have acquired.
We look forward to benefiting from the skills they bring and throughout England, wish them every success with the company.
May I also extend my thanks to everyone atGreene King for the important part theyhave played, and continue to play, in With our base in Suffolk, we serve over 1,800 helpingus to deliver these record results, particularly given the challenging conditions communities throughout mainland Britain.
We have a strong team and we Our place at the heart of those communities want to be the best.
is as important to us as our reputation withour shareholders forconsistently Tim Bridge Chairman delivering industry-leading results.
29 June 2011 northern scotland 3% central scotland 10% borders 1% north east 2% lancashire 4% yorkshire 5% Acquired Realpubs midlands 52.2m east 17% This group comprised 14 premium local pubs in wales and west London.
Wealso acquired a further 13 sites for 23% 22.8m and exchanged on eight greenfield sites.
london 3% 19% south 12% south west 1% www www.
uk Gr Greene King plc Annual R eene King plc Annual R eport 2011 eport 2011 5 5
