4 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors report and business review The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and the audited accounts for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2011.
The comparative period is the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2011.
The directors report and business review is set out on pages 4 to 39.
Chairmans statement Greggs performed well in 2011 in what was a very challenging time for the economy and the consumer.
We have continued to make good progress towards our strategic objectives with a record number of shop openings across the UK, and investment in two major new bakeries in Newcastle and Cumbria.
Our financial performance The Board remains committed to causes, including an amazing 1 pursuing a progressive dividend million for the BBC Children in We have delivered another Need appeal.
policy that pays due regard to strong set of results.
Continued the growth of earnings per share We received the lifetime sales growth combined with cost over the medium term, the cashachievement award at the efficiency savings, offsetting some generative nature of our growing Sandwich Industry Awards and of the major inflationary pressures business and our continuing were also named Corporate facing the business, helped to determination to deliver value to Foundation of the Year at the deliver pre-tax profits of 53.1 our shareholders.
Business Charity Awards, million before exceptional items demonstrating that our values are Our values 2010: 52.5 million on sales of recognised throughout the industry.
Our values lie at the very heart of I would like to pay tribute to the what we do and in our relationships The Board recommends an tremendous efforts of our 20,000 with our staff, customers and increased final dividend of 13.5 people over the past year.
In such difficult pence per share, making a total continued passion and dedication economic times customers expect dividend for the year of 19.3 pence have been rewarded through our us to continue providing great 2010: 18.2 pence.
This is an profit sharing scheme, in which tasting products at great value increase of 6.0 per cent, reflecting 10 per cent of profits are shared prices: but they also expect us to the growth of diluted earnings per among our staff.
do even more to help those who share before exceptional items.
are most disadvantaged within The Board This is Greggs 27th consecutive the community.
year of increased dividends since Ian Durant joined us as an the company floated on the stock In 2011 we raised record amounts independent non-executive director market in 1984. of money for a wide variety of on 5 October 2011.
5 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 We have delivered another strong set of results.
Ian is Chairman of Capital and and Iain Ferguson becoming Counties Properties PLC and a Chairman of the Remuneration non-executive director of Greene Committee in place of Julie King plc and Home Retail Group Baddeley.
Ian brings extensive financial Prospects and commercial experience, While we expect 2012 to be particularly in the property field.
another year of significant Bob Bennett, a non-executive challenge for UK consumers we director since 2003, will retire from believe that we are well placed the Board at our AGM in May.
Bob to deliver further progress.
In the was, until recently, Chairman of the current year we will continue our Audit Committee and our Senior accelerated expansion with the Independent Director.
We are opening of around 90 net new indebted to him for his service to shops and further development of Greggs and wish him a very long new channels to market.
This, and and happy retirement.
our determination to deliver further In view of Bobs impending cost savings, reinforces our belief retirement we made a number of that the business continues to offer changes to Board responsibilities substantial opportunities for long at the beginning of 2012, with term, profitable growth.
Julie Baddeley succeeding Bob Derek Netherton as Senior Independent Director, Chairman Ian Durant taking his place as 14 March 2012 Chairman of the Audit Committee In 2011, we rolled out fresh bean to cup Fairtrade coffee to all our shops.
We sold over 17 million cups, an increase of 15% from 2010.
