Directors report | business review chairmans statement rebuilding group profitability alan tHomson ChAirmAn Paul harrison, our current Audit Committee Chairman, will replace 2011 has been a year of recovery and Lesley as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director following the AGM.
strong positive organic growth for the I am pleased to welcome victoria Jarman to the Board as a nonGroup, following two years in which executive director from 1 October 2011 and as Chairman of the Audit difficult economic conditions adversely Committee following the AGM.
victoria, who is a Chartered Accountant, was previously Chief Operating Officer of Lazards London and Middle impacted our performance.
victoria is a non-executive director of fide La Rue plc 1 and a member of its audit and nomination committees.
Group net fees increased by 18% as we capitalised on improving market conditions across most of our operations.
We have also focused people on rebuilding the Groups profitability and I am pleased to report that in I am proud to report that this year we have recruited a significant 1 2 2011 we delivered operating profit growth of 33%, earnings per share number of new professionals into the business, across a variety of roles, 2 growth of 60% and a good cash flow performance.
We have, and we continue to invest going forward.
This is an exciting time in the however, continued to carefully balance rebuilding the Groups Groups development and I am confident that the high level of profitability with making the investment necessary to ensure we professionalism and enterprise within each business, together with the capture the long-term opportunities forgrowth.
long-term opportunities that we offer, will provide each individual with Since joining hays as Chairman in November 2010 I have been greatly a strong environment within which to develop and build their careers.
impressed by the management teams unwavering commitment to I would also like to thank all of our people for their hard work and building a business capable of delivering long-term growth and commitment through the year.
Since joining hays I have spent rewarding shareholders appropriately.
We have an excellent track record considerable time getting to know many people from around the and have now built a broad platform across 31 countries from which business.
I have been impressed by the ingenuity, enterprise, we intend to capitalise on the excellent structural growth opportunities commitment and effort shown by all our staff.
We have also undertaken substantial investment in our technology systems, people training and development programme, corporate responsibility and brand identity.
These investments lay the foundations necessary to Our approach to corporate responsibility covers a broad range of support long-term growth.
Again this year we have, as an organisation, undertaken numerous events to raise money for charity.
dividend For example, a group of 13 hays employees climbed Kilimanjaro in April, The Boards current priorities for our free cash flow are to fund Group contributing to the 250,000 raised in support of our nominated UK development, maintain the strength of the balance sheet and support charity, Action for Children.
Our Asia Pacific division organised a a sustainable dividend policy.
After taking account of the improvement fundraising day for the Queensland Flood Appeal, raising a total of in trading during the financial year, the Boards current view on trading 40,000 for the cause.
These represent just two of many events which and the strength of the Groups balance sheet, the Board proposes to took place during the year, but which characterise and pay testament maintain the final dividend at last years level of 3.95 pence per share, to the generosity and spirit that exists within the organisation.
giving an unchanged full year dividend of 5.80 pence per share.
summary governance The Group has made significant progress in 2011 and has balanced the Bob Lawson retired as Chairman earlier this year after 12 years on the need to rebuild profitability with the investment necessary to build a Board, including nine as Chairman.
During this time he oversaw the business with excellent long-term prospects.
however, professional restructuring of the Group and its emergence as a focused and leading recruitment is a cyclical industry, which is highly sensitive to underlying professional recruitment company.
his wise counsel and determination macroeconomic conditions and levels of business and consumer to drive the Group forward will be a hard act to follow.
This was clearly demonstrated in 2009 and 2010 by the impact that the global recession had on our business.
Whilst trading As announced in May, Lesley Knox will step down from the Board continues to be positive across most of the countries in which operate, following the 2011 Annual General Meeting in November.
Lesley has been we remain alert to the economic and political uncertainties currently a tower of strength on the Board for the past nine years, latterly as facing many of the worlds major nations, and to any adverse impact Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent this may have on our business going forward.
her incisive insight and contribution to strategic and operational debate has been crucial to the repositioning of the Group.
alan thomson Chairman 1 L FL like-for-like growth represents organic growth for continuing activities at constant currency.
