CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MICHAEL J. HIBBERD CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, Last year I commented on developments in corporate governance practices including the introduction of the new 2010 Code, Stewardship Code and the UK Bribery Act.
During the year we have responded to these developments and have committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethics and governance.
Responsible business practices are a way of doing business T H E 2 0 10 U K C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E within Heritage rather than an isolated exercise and this is CODE underpinned by how our Board and Committees operate.
The 2010 Code, introduced in June 2010, applied to Heritage has established a corporate governance Heritage with effect from 1 January 2011.
I am pleased to framework which supports an enterprising management report that the Board considers the Company has complied team, whilst also managing risks that are inherent in with the provisions of the 2010 Code, save in two areas running an international business.
The active maintenance detailed later in this report which the Board believes are of open and effective communication between our not appropriate for the Company to apply at this time for Executive and Non-Executive Directors is one of the the reasons set out.
strengths that enables us to actively monitor activities and make informed decisions in a decisive manner.
Following publication of the Davies Report Women on Boards, the Financial Reporting Council the FRC has Areas that we have considered during the year are outlined announced its intention to amend the 2010 Code with effect below along with areas of our expected governance focus from October 2012 to require companies to report on the in 2012.
The Nomination Committee fully supports the importance of having diversity of thought and representation on its Board and I am pleased to report that we appointed Carmen Rodriguez to the Board in March 2012.
Ms. Rodriguez brings with her considerable corporate experience and knowledge of international finance and investment in partcular which will be invaluable to Heritage HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 02 as it expands over the coming years, and she will be a key OUR FOCUS IN 2012 member of the Board.
We operate equal opportunities Two areas in particular will receive our attention this year.
policies in all areas of activity and seek to encourage the These are executive remuneration and the continued employment of women.
I am pleased to report that Heritage development of our approach to managing risk.
Executive does employ women in senior posts throughout the remuneration has received a great deal of negative attention Company.
Further information is provided within the and publicity over the last year or so in the UK and it is section on diversity and gender in the Report of the possible that the government will introduce legislation to Nomination Committee on page 30. tackle some of the issues that have arisen.
We are committed to ensuring that our executives are fairly THE UK BRIBERY ACT rewarded for their services and will ensure that our We have responded robustly to the introduction of the UK remuneration practices support our long-term strategy and Bribery Act which became effective 1 July 2011 with a do not reward excessive risk taking.
We intend to continue comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption programme, to provide clear information on executive pay to enable further details of which may be found within this report, investors to make an informed decision and engage with including the establishment of a Board level Anti-Bribery the Company as required.
and Corruption Committee and an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code of Conduct.
We will examine and continue to refine our risk procedures in 2012 in line with the expectation of We have always adopted a zero tolerance approach to increased focus under the 2010 Code on risk.
Further bribery and corruption and are committed to carrying out information on this is detailed in the Report of the Audit our business activities fairly, honestly and openly.
It is to Committee on pages 16 to 19. this end that we have established corporate governance policies which include the prohibition of facilitation I support encouragement of open and constructive payments in accordance with the UK Bribery Act.
Gifts or dialogue with all of our shareholders on governance, entertainment may only be offered to a third party if they strategy and executive remuneration and welcome any are consistent with usual business practice in the relevant feedback.
territory, are modest in value, and cannot be interpreted as a form of inducement.
These policies extend to all of our MICHAEL J. HIBBERD agents, employees, partners and contractors.
CHAIRMAN HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 03
