6 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 C H a I R m a n s s tat E m E n t a ROBust pERfORmanCE WE dElIVEREd a ROBust pERfORmanCE In a CHallEnGInG EnVIROnmEnt samih darwazah Non-Executive Chairman GrouP overview 7 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER HIKMA RETURN FROM PHARMACEUTICALS 150 JANUARY 2006 PLC % FTSE 350 Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 100 63% FTSE 250 50 0 JAN 06 JAN 07 JAN 08 JAN 09 JAN 10 JAN 11 JAN 12 from 1 January 2006 through to the end of Hikmas success continues to be underpinned as always, we remain committed to upholding by its diverse business model, which combines the highest standards of quality and integrity 2011, we have delivered atotal shareholder return of 63%.
we are delighted with this an extensive presence and experience in the in everything we do.
i was extremely proud middle east and North africa meNa markets, that these efforts were recognised when we performance, which exceeds that of the ftse 250 index andtheftse Pharmaceuticals index, a fast growing global injectables business and won the Hermes transparency in Governance an oral generics business in theus.
award for Best ftse 250 audit report, which which gave a total shareholder return of 36% at the outset of 2011, delivering growth and 41% respectively, over thesameperiod.
highlighted our commitment toclear and in the meNa region looked challenging, given open stakeholder communication.
we have the strength of our global, diversified the significant disruptions we were seeing in business model has enabled us to deliver a continued to develop our approach to some markets particularly in egypt, tunisia reporting during the year in order to increase robust performance in 2011. we are confident and libya as a result of the arab spring.
that the business is positioned to deliver stakeholder understanding of the wayour yetthe resilience of our local operations and business isgoverned.
continued growth in the short, medium the dedication of our employees enabled us to andlong-term.
during the year we also strengthened manage these disruptions with minimal impact ourBoard, welcoming robert Pickering as to our business and we were extremely anindependent Non-executive director.
pleased to deliver double-digit growth in the robertbrings extensive experience in advising meNa region for the full year.
high growth companies on issues relating to during 2011, we remained focused on financing, corporate governance, strategy ourgoal to be a global leader in generic andglobal operations.
robert spent 23 years samih darwazah injectables.
we delivered an excellent performance at cazenove & co. becoming the first chief Non-Executive Chairman in our organic injectables business with strong executive of cazenove Group Plc in 2001 and growth across the us, europe and meNa.
subsequently of JP morgan cazenove, the in may, we completed theacquisition of joint venture partnership, until retiring in 2008.
Baxter Healthcares us multi-source injectables the Board is recommending a final business msi, doubling the size of our dividend of7.5 cents per share approximately existing injectables business and bringing 4.6 pence per share, which will make a together a broad product portfolio, strong dividend for the full year of 13.0 cents per sales platform, customer relationships and us share, in line with 2010. the proposed final manufacturing facility with Hikmas growing dividend will be paid on 24 may 2012 to pipeline and high quality manufacturing shareholders on the register on 20 april 2012, facilities in europe anextremely powerful subject to approval by shareholders at the combination.
