Hochschild Mining plc 02 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Chairmans statement Our management team has utilised 2011 to firmly embed the exploration strategy within the Company.
andthe Board is therefore pleased to recommend a 20% 2011 Overview increase in the total dividend for the year, to 6 cents per share, Hochschild Mining has once again delivered a resilient which confirms the confidence we have in the business going performance in the wake of continuing global economic forward and the ongoing strength of our balance sheet.
Thanks to the dedication and skills of our whole team, we have been able to meet expectations on our key Our management team has utilised 2011 to firmly embed the 2011objectives, including the completion of feasibility studies exploration strategy within the Company.
During the year, for two of our Advanced Projects, the achievement of our Hochschild has completed over 315,000 metres of drilling annual operating targets and the ongoing evolution of our withthis number expected to increase by approximately exploration based strategy.
Importantly, we are also generating 5%in2012, reflecting the increased exploration budget further opportunities to add to our already considerable of$90million, representing another record for the growth plans as well as having the financial firepower to Company.
Our team has also appointed key new exploration execute on attractive prospects.
managers aswell as increased the number of geologists to 92.
A strong precious metals market again played its part in Thissignificant commitment has begun to bear fruit with the Hochschilds record financial performance in 2011, allowing Company further optimising the life-of-mine of our core assets us to significantly increase profits in the year whilst selectively in 2011.
In addition, we have swiftly brought two Advanced mining lower ore grades in order to enable us to produce Projects through the pipeline to feasibility and continue to longer term stable future growth in uncertain markets.
widen the number of drill targets and prospects, which in turn Despitesignificant increases in cyclical costs such as royalties, is considerably strengthening the Hochschild project pipeline.
the Company recorded a considerable EBITDA increase I firmly believe that this strategy will deliver profitable of42% to $563 million on the back of revenue of almost long-term production growth to our shareholders.
Earnings per share was up by 75% to 49 cents Work in progress atPallancata Employees at the Arcata plant Overview 03 A geologist at the InmaculadaAdvanced Project Precious metals markets volatility became a more prominent On the issue of safety, while a year-on-year reduction in feature in 2011 than ever before with silver in particular theGroups accident frequency rate was achieved, it is with displaying very large swings in price.
The high of almost deepestregret that we report three fatalities during 2011.
$50 oz was reached in May with investment demand Operations were suspended immediately after each incident becoming the main driver, but by December, silver while investigations were carried out.
We ensured that any priceshadfallen by some 44% to below $30 oz again.
resulting recommendations were immediately acted upon Withtemperamental commodity markets reflecting broader andthat the affected families were supported.
Our ongoing globaleconomic concerns, the mining sector in the UK goalof zero fatalities remains our highest operational priority.
However, we believe that long-term fundamentals for gold and silver remain strong and are Board composition confident that our business is well underpinned for the future.
During the year, there were a number of changes to the Board.
In light of Dionisio Romeros decision to retire as a Outlook Non-Executive Director at the AGM this May and Sir Malcolm Over the next year, we expect to see the first crucial steps in the Field retiring at the end of 2012, we moved swiftly to appoint construction phase of our two exciting projects at Inmaculada Dr Graham Birch and Rupert Pennant-Rea to ensure the and Crespo which have the potential to increase our silver continued independent presence on the Board.
Both of these equivalent production by 50%, or 10 million profitable Directors have brought with them extensive and relevant ounces.
The Board remains confident that Hochschild has the experience in the natural resource industry.
I would also like financial flexibility to continue pursuing high return investment toexpress my sincere gratitude to both Malcolm and Dionisio opportunities whether in brownfield expansion at our existing for their counsel and invaluable contributions to the Company mines, value enhancing acquisitions or adding to our since joining the Hochschild Board back in 2006. exploration investment.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the entire talented Hochschild team for another year of strong performance, Corporate responsibility and our shareholders for your continued support.
I am proud to report that Hochschild Mining has continued tomake progress in the key area of Corporate Responsibility.
Eduardo Hochschild During 2011, the Groups environmental management Executive Chairman systemsat all active operations were ISO14001 accredited.
Anenhanced Community Relations strategy was also 19 March 2012 formulated, underpinning our collective commitment to providing education as well as promoting health, nutrition and sustainable development in our local communities.
A number of initiatives were launched during the year, most notably the Maestro Lder Leading Teacher and Mdico fide Cabecera Travelling Doctor programmes.
