Chairmans statement ResUlTs In a climate of continuing economic Against this background, the Board uncertainty, Howdens significantly has decided to resume payment of I am pleased to report that in 2011 outperformed the market, delivering the dividend, and is recommending Howden Joinery Groups continuing increases in sales, profit, earnings a final dividend of 0.5 pence per focus on its distinctive business per share and cash at the year end.
In reaching this decision, model, and its willingness to invest the Board has taken account of in its growth and development, were a number of factors, including again reflected in good results.
its desire to signal its confidence In a climate of continuing economic in the longer term prospects uncertainty, Howdens significantly of the business and to reward outperformed the market, delivering shareholders.
In recommending this increases in sales, profit, earnings prudent level of dividend, we have per share and cash at year end.
taken into account the opportunities Despite market conditions the we see to invest in the growth of the business succeeded in maintaining business through the opening of a strong gross margin of 59.5% new depots and investment in our 2010: 59.8%.
UK manufacturing operation, and fund deals to terminate leases on The inherent profitability of legacy properties, both of which Howdens business model should deliver good returns: the described in the coloured section need to contribute to the legacy at the front of this Report and in the pension deficit: and our desire to 08 Chief executives review and the maintain a strong balance sheet ability of the Group to generate cash given prevailing economic are the keys to its resilience, and to conditions, all of which we believe its prospects.
to be in the best interest of shareholders.
It is expected that As a growing business in an similar considerations will influence increasingly complex and the Boards approach to the sophisticating market, reinvestment dividend in respect of the current is a strategic priority for Howdens.
At the same time, the Group also still has significant, ongoing legacy BOaRd commitments relating both to In May 2011 we welcomed Mark Allen, pension deficit funding and to the CEO of Dairy Crest Group plc, to the rent and rates associated with a Board as a non-executive director.
diminishing number of leases of Mark succeeds Ian Smith, who made unoccupied properties.
Taken an important contribution to the together, these legacy Board for which we are very grateful.
commitments, together with sums paid to terminate leases, required a The Board welcomes the increased 63 million cash contribution from focus on the appointment of women the business during 2011. to board and senior management roles in public companies that Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 maNaGemeNT aNd sTaFF accompanied the publication of the The inherent profitability of Davies Report.
We believe that it is in Howdens business model The results that we are reporting the interests of Howden Joinery and the ability of the Group to for 2011 are a tribute to the Group and of its shareholders for us generate cash are the keys to its judgement and decisiveness of our to build a stable, cohesive and resilience, and to its prospects.
management team and to the hard representative Board: and our work and commitment of every Nominations Committee will continue member of our staff.
I would like to seek diversity of mindset as well to take this opportunity to thank as of gender and background when them all on behalf of the Board.
The respect for service and consideration for others that lie at the develOPmeNT aNd emPlOymeNT heart of Howdens are also exemplified Howdens management team have by our staff in their lives beyond the identified many opportunities for depot, office or factory gate.
Over the coming extremely proud to record that, in years we plan to continue to expand 2011, the many and varied efforts of the depot network, to improve our employees raised approximately individual depot performance and 814,000 for over 2,000 different to take advantage of our causes in their local communities manufacturing skills and capacity across the country.
09 OUTlOOK Even in a challenging economic environment Howdens has been able For the rest of 2012, we expect to grow and create jobs, especially market conditions to continue to be in areas associated with new depot challenging and we remain cautious openings and the development of about the outlook.
As in recent years, new product.
It is in the nature of our we will quickly and appropriately business to value the technical and adapt to the market and economic commercial skills that are practised conditions we encounter.
by local builders and tradespeople.
Whilst mindful of the challenges We actively seek to promote the presented by the external development of these skills in the environment and by the ongoing workplace and interest in them in the obligations of the business, the wider community.
To this end, we Board is confident that the business have taken on 168 apprentices: a is well positioned to take advantage further 29 are currently being of the many opportunities for further recruited.
We also believe that it is growth and improvement that will important to support young people undoubtedly arise.
who want to learn traditional joinery skills.
To this end we funded Will samuel bursaries for 20 apprentice joiners in Chairman 2011, as well as offering structured support to a number of colleges 29 February 2012 offering relevant NVQ courses.
