Job: ChairmanXsXstatement v21 Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Chairmans Statement Making significant strides The Group has once again produced excellent We are well results in a year of continuing expansion.
Profit placed to take before tax from continuing operations and before amortisation and exceptional items in 2011 was advantage of this 79.8m 2010 47.0m, a 70% increase.
After growth and look amortisation and exceptional items, profit before forward to the tax from continuing operations was 38.8m 2010 33.0m.
Outstanding acquisition opportunities arose andthe Group took advantage of these, with the support of our banks and equity shareholders, aswell as existing cash, to buy four companies Titan being the largest purchase we have ever made.
Despite this and the continuing investment in our manufacturing plants and service facilities, the balance sheet remains strong and healthy.
Industry trends identified in previous years continued in 2011, with high oil prices, low natural gas prices at least in North America andan even more emphatic rush to develop unconventional, especially shale, resources.
Global financial worries have not seriously impacted the demand for energy in most of our markets, so that customers have continued with their development and investment programmes leading to high demand for our products.
Activity levels in the Gulf of Mexico, an important market for us, are beginning to recoverto somewhere near their pre-2010 levels.
Meanwhile, the abundant resources available in shale deposits onshore in the United States and elsewhere are being tapped at an increasing rate, with the emphasis moving to liquids for reasons of price.
02 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 ChairmanXsXstatement v21.
indd 2 09 03 2012 19:56 Job: ChairmanXsXstatement v21 Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul Date: 9 March 2012 7:40 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS George Helland, a non-executive Director since A higher proportion of wells than ever before are Customers have being drilled horizontally and the Group has a 2001, retired from the Company during the year.
continued with The Board thanks him for his thorough and comprehensive suite of products to support this trend.
Our 2011 acquisitions give us even more constructive work, particularly in the role of their development Remuneration Committee Chairman.
strength in MWD  and investment and LWD  applications, Andrew Szescila, a US citizen and former Chief programmes while the growing demand for fracturing shale deposits is well served by Hunting Titan, the Operating Officer of Baker Hughes, joined the leading to high largest acquisition.
David Barr, demand for who had been appointed a non-executive Director at the beginning of the year, left us The Well Construction operations of our principal ourproducts.
operating company, Hunting Energy Services, totake up an executive position elsewhere.
contributed strongly in a very much improved year while the largest activity, Well Completion, Your Company has had another excellent year again performed magnificently.
Well Intervention andis considerably larger than before.
The markets had another profitable year.
It is notable that it serves seem poised to continue to grow as Asian activities and markets became ever more standards of living and energy consumption per important to us.
head increase in much of the world.
We have continued our capital spending We are well placed to take advantage of this programme in all areas of Hunting Energy growth and look forward to the opportunities Services activity, with a particular emphasis on andchallenges ahead.
advanced production machinery to improve efficiency and to reduce costs.
I am grateful to our staff throughout the world for their fine contribution to our success.
Outside the Hunting Energy Services stable, Gibson Shipbrokers had a successful year in highly volatile markets.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional items, were 38.7p, an increase of 70% on the Richard Hunting C. B. E. previous year.
Reported diluted earnings per Chairman share from continuing operations were 20.3p 8 March 2012 2010 15.4p.
We are recommending a final dividend for 2011 of11.0p per share, payable on 2 July 2012 to Recent acquisitions have added shareholders on the register on 8 June 2012, giving skills and scale to MWD LWD a total of 15.0p for the year, a 25% increase.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 03 ChairmanXsXstatement v21.
