Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, This year 245 million devices were shipped incorporating our technologies bringing the total to date to over half a billion.
This is another outstanding year, far exceeding our 3 year old target of 200 million devices.
We have set an exciting new target of 1 billion devices within 5 years.
Group revenues have increased by 21% to 98.0m with adjusted profit before tax increasing by 80% to 24.0m.
We are very pleased and proud of this result.
The Technology business has performed outstandingly well offering significant advantages over our competitors.
We achieved several important new licensees including STMicroelectronics, ST-Ericsson, Fujitsu, LG, SiS, NetLogic, Skyviia and Generalplus.
PURE has seen growth in overseas markets, such as Australia, Switzerland and Denmark, as Digital Audio Broadcasting DAB radio has become more widely adopted internationally.
We expect to see further markets developing in the current year, particularly Germany.
Cloud based connected content and services are rich areas for developing fresh opportunities.
There is a strong, attractive and innovative roadmap in place.
This performance was not sufficient to compensate for the tough conditions existing in our home retail market and overall progress has thus been limited.
The Groups profit is growing strongly and we are continuing to make investments for the future, which are as vital as ever.
Previous spending has clearly underpinned our progress so far.
This year we purchased two companies, HelloSoft and Caustic Graphics, both intended to keep our fundamental technology leadership.
We undertook a placing of 37.1m during the year to fund these purchases, but our cash reserves remain strong at 49.4m, strengthening considerably from 29.4m at the end of the previous year.
We are investing in additional space at our Kings Langley headquarters to keep our company efficient and provide for expansion.
In addition we are continuing to build our international presence with locations in US, Japan, India, China, Germany, Korea, Taiwan and Australia.
I must again mention and give huge credit for the success of the Group and its exciting progress to our some 900 employees.
Their desire for success, commitment to quality and exceptional efforts are exemplary.
Thank you too for your keen interest and continued support.
