GROUP OPERATING REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONFIDENCE IN THE FUTURE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP LEAD THE BOARD TO RECOMMEND THAT THE FINAL DIVIDEND BE INCREASED BY 12% TO 19.0p.
THIS MAKES A TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR OF 30.0p, AN INCREASE OF 15% OVER LAST YEARS 26.0p.
In my first set of results since taking over as Chairman in The IMI Way is our code of responsible business which November, I am pleased to report a strong performance targets the very highest standards of ethical business and by IMI in 2011 with good organic growth and further compliance.
The Group has been reinforcing the core values margin improvement.
Group revenues grew by 12% on and messages of the IMI Way with regular training since its a reported basis and by 5% on an organic basis, after launch in 2009.
In 2011, each of our main businesses held adjusting for recent acquisitions and for exchange rate IMI Way days where, as well as receiving targeted training, movements, reecting improved trading conditions in employees engaged in a number of worthwhile projects in most of our end markets.
Segmental operating profit their local communities.
In 2012, we have planned a single increased by 17% and the operating margin improved IMI Way day for the whole Group, encompassing over from 16.7% to 17.5%.
Adjusted earnings per share 15,000 employees.
I should like to recognise Norman Askew, who retired as These results together with our strong performance on Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2011.
Norman led cash conversion and confidence in the future prospects the Board for over six years, during which time IMI made of the Group lead the Board to recommend that the final great progress in its development into a leading global dividend be increased by 12% to 19.0p.
This makes a engineering business, with a clear focus on the precise total dividend for the year of 30.0p, an increase of 15% control of uids in critical applications.
I would personally over last years 26.0p.
like to thank Norman for his major contribution to the Group and the invaluable help he provided me during the Collectively, our three Fluid Controls businesses performed succession period.
well, with a particularly strong performance by Fluid Power.
Severe Service margins were impacted by an adverse We were pleased to announce in May 2011 that Sean sales mix and some operational challenges associated with Toomes, President of Indoor Climate, had been promoted the move to lower cost facilities.
Overall, on an organic to the Board and assumed the important additional basis, Fluid Controls revenues grew by 6% with operating responsibilities for developing IMIs key account margins increasing to 18.7% from 18.3% last year.
management strategy and corporate responsibility agenda.
In Retail Dispense, both Beverage Dispense and Since joining the Board I have had the opportunity to visit Merchandising continued to focus on improving the many of IMIs operations.
I have been extremely impressed product mix and the quality of their businesses.
by the skills, expertise and energy displayed by my Revenues grew by 3% on an organic basis despite the colleagues across the world and I am grateful for their continued targeted exit from some lower margin product continued efforts and enthusiasm in helping to deliver this lines in the Beverage business.
Operating margins have years strong results.
We continue to invest in our people again benefited from this improving mix, increasing to and have once again this year conducted an employee 13.7% from 11.8% last year.
engagement survey to ensure that we continue to provide a 16 Group operating review BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Roberto Quarta Chairman working environment that allows them to contribute to their full potential.
IMI is a strong company, with market leading technology in many of its global niche markets.
I believe that we are well placed for the future with a clearly dened strategy which should deliver further sustainable margin improvement and long term growth, notably through the acceleration of our new product agenda and increased exposure to the faster growing emerging markets.
Roberto Quarta Chairman 1 March 2012 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 17
