Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 6 Chairmans Introduction We made good progress this year driving growth Cash Utilisation: We use our substantial cash flows through our total tobacco portfolio in many markets, to reward our shareholders and to reinvest in growing while effectively managing our costs and cash flows, our sales.
We delivered a strong dividend increase all of which are central to our success.
this year and we intend to continue steadily increasing dividends per share ahead of the growth in adjusted Our performance further demonstrates our growth earnings per share.
potential although our overall results this year were held back by the exceptional circumstances in Spain At our half year results in May we announced a share and the impact of trade buying patterns in the UK.
buyback programme of 500 million on an annualised basis and spent 181 million acquiring 8.7 million We see considerable opportunities ahead and shares during the balance of the financial year.
continue to focus on creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Corporate Governance and Corporate Responsibility 1 Results and Dividends Good governance and the responsible way we We grew our tobacco net revenues by 2.0 per cent manage our business are fundamental to our and our total adjusted operating profits were up by approach and underpin our long-term sustainability.
We delivered 5.4 per cent growth in adjusted earnings per share to 188.0 pence.
Our responsible approach is reflected in external Basic earnings per share were 177.3 pence 2010: benchmarks: both our performance in the Dow Jones 148.5 pence.
Sustainability Index and by another Gold award rating from the UKs Business in the Community Corporate We have increased our dividend payout ratio to Responsibility Index.
50.6 per cent of adjusted earnings per share and the Board recommends a final dividend of 67.0 pence We have again incorporated our corporate per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to responsibility reporting into our annual report on 95.1 pence per share, up by 12.8 per cent.
This will pages 33 to 41 and are one of the few FTSE 100 be paid on 17 February 2012 with an ex dividend date companies to assure our responsibility performance of 18 January 2012. to the AA1000 stakeholder engagement standard.
2011 Performance Overview and Achievements Board Changes Sustainable Sales Growth: We made gains in In October 2011, Malcolm Wyman was appointed the EU and delivered an excellent performance in as a Non-Executive Director and we announced emerging markets outside the EU.
Our key strategic that Pierre Jungels will retire as Senior Independent brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West and JPS Non-Executive at the conclusion of our 2012 Annual had another strong year with overall volumes up General Meeting.
In addition, Graham Blashill, 2 4 per cent.
Group Sales and Marketing Director, retired from the Board following our Annual General Meeting in We also delivered excellent growth in fine cut tobacco February 2011. and snus and grew volumes of both our mass market and premium cigars.
I would like to welcome Malcolm to the Board and thank Pierre and Graham for their contribution to Cost Optimisation: Strong financial discipline is our success and wish them both well for the future.
embedded across our business and we continue to focus on efficiencies and made productivity gains of 3 per cent.
Tobacco operating margins were again over 42 per cent due to price increases and ongoing cost optimisation.
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
2 Volume changes on a stick equivalent basis.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 7 We see considerable opportunities ahead and continue to focus on creating sustainable value for ourshareholders.
Iain Napier, Chairman People Strategy Our employees are central to our success and I would like to thank them for their dedication and hard work.
Read more on Their consistent focus on delivering results gives me our strategy on confidence that we will realise our growth potential.
In Conclusion We are focused on delivering quality earnings growth and I believe we are well positioned to build on our achievements.
Corporate Responsibility Our focus on sales, underpinned by our disciplined Read more on approach to cost and cash management will enable our Corporate us to continue to create long-term sustainable value Responsibility for our shareholders.
Governance Read more on Iain Napier how we manage Chairman our business on pages 42 74.
KPI Total Shareholder Return In 2011, we outperformed the FTSE 100 by 25 per cent.
With dividends 150 reinvested, 100 invested inImperial 125 Imperial Tobacco Tobacco five years ago wouldnow be 100 worth 172 compared tojust 106 if FTSE 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
