Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans statement Inchcape has delivered robust earnings growth in 2011 In a year that has been characterised by challenging conditions Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Michael stepped in many developed markets countered by strong demand and down from the Remuneration, Audit, Nominations and Corporate industry growth for premium vehicles in Asia Pacific and the Responsibility CR Committees at the beginning of the year.
Emerging Markets, I am pleased to report robust results for 2011 I would like to thank Michael for his contribution during his time coupled with a strong year end net cash position.
has delivered ahead of expectations in the UK and Europe Vicky Bindra joined the Board on 1 July 2011 and Till Vestring as well as achieving excellent results in our Asia Pacific and joined the Board on 1 September 2011.
I am delighted with the Emerging Markets despite the supply issues faced following new appointments as these bring valuable international and the Japanese earthquake in March.
Asian expertise to the Board.
Performance Dividend Group sales decreased by 1.0% to 5.8bn for the full year to The Board is pleased to recommend a payment of a final 31 December 2011 largely as a result of the temporary supply dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 7.4p per share constraints from the March earthquake and tsunami in Japan 2010: 6.6p.
This gives a total dividend for 2011 of 11.0p per share.
which affected our Subaru distribution business in Australasia and our Toyota Lexus operations in Europe and Asia, combined Approach to governance and CR with the challenging market conditions in Greece and the UK.
We see governance as an evolving set of principles and the On a like for like, constant currency basis, sales decreased by 1.7%.
Annual Report gives the Board an opportunity to communicate how we have incorporated these principles to underpin the Our swift and decisive actions to strengthen and protect the delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Corporate Governance business in response to the global downturn since the last quarter Report on pages 41 to 50 aims to set out how we have structured of 2008 have significantly reduced our cost base.
In the fourth the Board, how we have reviewed and evaluated ourselves quarter of 2011 we announced further productivity initiatives and our processes, and what changes we have made to ensure to offset the impact of inflation on our global cost base in 2012. the Board and its committees remain effective.
In 2011 the The Group remains focused on tight cost control throughout CR Committee, responsible for the strategic direction of the its operations.
Groups CR programme, continued to develop a global Our 4.5% Group trading margin is a 30bps improvement on last approach to making responsible economic, environmental year and only 40bps below our 2006 peak.
Given that like for like and social behaviour fundamental to the way we work.
revenues are significantly below our historical peak this is a great result, highlighting the emphasis on performance management People and the potential for the Group to gain from operating leverage.
We have experienced another year of challenges and opportunities, and I wish to express my sincere thanks, on behalf Profit before tax and exceptional items of 227.7m was 6.4% higher of the Board, to all our colleagues across the Group for their than 2010 and adjusted earnings per share rose by 10.9% to 35.5p.
outstanding commitment and support in 2011.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax was 203.4m, 5.9% above 2010.
Cash generated from operations during the year was 244.7m Outlook which represents a 105.9% conversion of statutory operating profit.
Inchcape is uniquely positioned in the global car industry and while Capital expenditure we remain cautious regarding the short term outlook in some of our markets, we expect to deliver another solid performance in Following two years of reduced capital expenditure the Group 2012.
The global recovery remains uneven with the European invested at a greater level in 2011 while continuing to be selective sovereign credit issues continuing to unsettle financial markets.
and specific in our spending, in line with our Top Five Priorities.
We We expect the trading environment to remain challenging in the have expanded our capacity in Chile, Peru, Poland and Russia: UK and Europe as the various austerity measures are likely to affect where we also opened new sites in Moscow for BMW and Land consumer confidence and disposable income.
We have made further strategic greenfield are well positioned to take advantage of the structural growth investments in China, with our new 3S Jaguar Land Rover site in prospects driven by the premiumisation of consumer demand Shaoxing and are building a new site with Porsche in Nanchang.
in Asia Pacific and the Emerging Markets.
We are also building a new Porsche site in the UK.
Board Following seven years with the Group, Michael Wemms retired in May 2011.
Michael has been a valuable member of the Board, bringing a depth of knowledge and experience to his role as Ken Hanna, Chairman 16 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
