CHAIRMANS REVIEW OUR MULTIPLE... HELP US ACHIEVE PATHS TO OUR MISSION... GROWTH... Aero Managed Government passenger services & Military Handheld connectivity voice Low Capacity data rate UAVs ATC leasing services OUR MISSION To serve mission critical 1979: Global L-band established franchise 1 2 communications needs 2014: Global Ka-band satellites and network where terrestrial networks dont go or are ineffective.
Government VSAT services Aero & Military Maritime & passenger Energy connectivity Our strategy is to continue to develop and grow our core services in maritime, aviation and land while investing in next-generation OUR STRATEGY broadband services to identify new applications that we have not Serving mission critical communications needs where previously addressed, but with the same focus on the market terrestrial networks dont effectively go remains segments we have served for many years.
central to how we invest in and execute our strategy.
In 2011 we faced pressures at both macro and specifi c market The market for highly reliable connectivity in these sector levels.
Of course, we assess the impact of these pressures environments continues to expand and create regularly against the strategic perspectives we outlined in our 2010 Annual Report, and which are shown in the diagram above, opportunities for Inmarsat to grow.
We have as we review our strategy and long-term planning.
Our view of evolved over the last few years, through acquisition customer needs, operational effi ciencies, maintaining our market and investment, with an increased focus on data leadership, and providing returns to our shareholders are all important perspectives for us to consider in our planning.
We believe this gives us an attractive confi dently believe that the core strategy for investment we have service proposition with the customers we serve in place today provides a strong foundation for the future as and provides pro table growth opportunities for global markets recover, the withdrawal impact of the Middle East diminishes on our business and the transition to next-generation our channel partners.
services moves to its next phase.
Pictured right: INMARSAT PLC BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and determines the nature and extent of the risks the Group should take to achieve its strategic objectives.
02 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS... AND DRIVE... WHILST MANAGING OUR STRATEGIC AND MITIGATING RISK.
Highly reliable mobile data Our products are reliable and undergo CUSTOMER MARKET Cost-effective voice bundles rigorous testing to meet user requirements Competitive, reliable handheld service Our internal reorganisation brings greater Premium services good value retail experience and focus on customer needs Innovative solutions We can offer integrated propositions for L-band, Ku-band and in the future Ka-band services Concentration on market sectors allows us to focus our support to our indirect and direct channels Highest reliability standards We have satellite redundancy in the event OPERATIONAL Accelerated revenue growth in our of a failure of an existing satellite core business and new services We have back-up sites for the ground Fixed-cost base through primarily wholesale infrastructure for our Inmarsat-4 approach and careful capex planning broadband services Professionally rewarding, challenging and enjoyable place to work 3 4 The leading mobile satellite services We undertake rigorous assessments of market INDUSTRY POSITION MSS provider opportunities Being technology leader in MSS We have in-depth analysis of competing products Providing a range of innovative services We regularly review and update our existing Offering premium services at good value services to provide enhancements for users We will have new services being launched with our Global Xpress programme We keep our operating expenditure and FINANCIAL Deliver superior shareholder returns by growing revenue on a largely capital commitments under continual review fi xed cost base We operate with sustainable debt levels Build sustainable cash returns We have secured new fi nancing facilities to shareholders at attractive rates Prudent capex planning We have a comprehensive insurance programme in place INMARSAT PLC 03 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CHAIRMANS REVIEW CONTINUED On the competitive front, while competition is increasing most Our objectives are delivered through various programmes, of our competitors are either geographically limited, present risk which we believe will secure future value: for customers due to satellite constellation deterioration as their satellites reach end of life, or they may not be fully funded to Being aggressive, innovative and effective in our core deliver next-generation services.
We are in a strong position mobile satellite services MSS markets of maritime, to capitalise on this.
We believe this competitor weakness enterprise, aviation and government through pricing, represents an enormous opportunity for us over the next service reliability and new product development fi five years.
Entering new markets in our targeted industry segments and creating new opportunities Our strategic objectives are: Targeting new geographies Executing on our Global Xpress Ka-band programme, Position our Inmarsat-4 services for renewed long-term to deliver it on time and on budget growth Driving Inmarsat into new high-bandwidth requirement Successfully launch the Inmarsat-5 generation of markets Global Xpress GX services Harnessing the benefi ts of a reorganised internal structure Power, directly or indirectly, broader value-added Supporting our loyal channel partners by providing communications applications to complement our profi table business opportunities, and market-leading connectivity capabilities Identifying incremental opportunities which are complementary to our business expansion.
FUTURE-PROOF Our latest generation of award-winning Inmarsat-4 satellites will continue to deliver a range of L-band services to customers well into the 2020s.
In addition, we are progressing our fully funded Global Xpress investment programme under which we will launch three Inmarsat-5 Ka-band satellites in the 2013-2014 timeframe.
INMARSAT-2 Launched 1990-92 2014 INMARSAT-3 2018 Launched 1996-98 INMARSAT-4 Launched 2005-8 2023 Lifespan of current fleet Future launches ALPHASAT Future launch of an 2025 L-band satellite 2013 INMARSAT-5 Future launches of 3 Ka-band 2028 satellites 2013-14 04 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have a compelling service offering for our distributors and COMPELLING SERVICE OFFERING customers.
The services offered on our new Ka-band satellites Global Xpress presents a compelling service offering for our distributors when launched, combined with our highly resilient existing and customers.
The services offered on our new Ka-band satellites when L-band services, will provide a combined package offering launched, combined with our highly resilient existing L-band services, will provide a combined package offering choice, quality and reliability choice, quality and reliability unrivalled in the satellite industry.
unrivalled in the satellite industry.
Two unrelated macro factors slowed our growth in 2011.
Firstly, the global economic downturn has adversely affected our non-governmental business, particularly in our maritime business, where bulk shipping rates have dropped dramatically.
Second, the continued withdrawal of NATO troop deployment from Afghanistan and diminishing military operational activity in that region of the world, has also negatively impacted revenue.
Notwithstanding these effects, at the same time terminal sales for new services have been strong and demand continued for new applications requiring connectivity in all of our core target markets.
In the maritime sector, we saw fl at revenues in 2011: this refl ects the impact of customer migration from our older second-generation services to our more cost-effective, digital data services and also a shift from telephone calls to email.
While we have seen our maritime revenues dampened, traffi c growth is strong and spectrum effi ciency is enhanced as we move away from analogue services to next-generation internet protocolbased services.
We are progressing our fully funded US$1.2bn Global Xpress beams, we can serve, among other applications, the rapidly investment programme under which we will launch three growing demand for wideband channels for unmanned aerial Inmarsat-5 Ka-band satellites in the 2013-2014 timeframe and systems, which will provide excellent value to government target an existing and adjacent market opportunity of US$1.4bn customers and allow them to avoid capital investment at with high growth potential.
These Inmarsat-5 satellites will enable times of budget constraints.
global mobile broadband satellite services which are signifi cantly faster than those we are able to offer over our L-band satellite The Inmarsat-5 satellites are a signifi cant part of the GX constellations, enabling delivery of speeds of up to 50Mbps programme, but there are other service delivery developments to a 60cm antenna, at highly competitive price points.
This which are critical for the programmes success as well.
Our programme is progressing well and is achieving our schedule ground segment and terminal development programme with and fi financial targets.
iDirect who, working with other key partners, Sea Tel and SED, completed their review in late 2011.
The review concluded that The three Inmarsat-5 satellites are being built by Boeing Satellite the system will meet the performance and delivery schedule.
Systems International, Inc Boeing, which is the world leader in Other components of the GX programme are: i securing Ka-band satellite technology.
We are able to track progress worldwide regulatory access for the service, ii fi nalising the against key milestones which are written into the programme and orbital slot locations for the satellites, iii agreements with we have already successfully completed several comprehensive International Launch Services for the launch of the three reviews.
The fi first, called the Preliminary Design Review, validated satellites using a Proton launch vehicle, iv appointment of Boeings design approach to the physical and functional brokers to place the launch and in-orbit insurance, and v requirements of the satellites.
Boeing has also completed the fi nalisation of the actual insurance programmes themselves.
Critical Design Review, which marked the transition of the project Each one of these elements we believe will contribute to early from a design and engineering phase to a manufacturing, success for this programme.
Meeting these milestones means the fi first of the three Ka-band satellites remains on schedule for We have also partnered with leading providers of terminals to completion and launch in 2013.
We expect that, once launched, the maritime market, such as Thrane & Thrane and Cobham these satellites will provide the fi first and only truly global coverage Sea Tel, to deliver terminals ready for the fi first Inmarsat-5 satellite high capacity VSAT system.
In addition, our GX offering will enter launch in 2013. the market with mobility management capability which will be unmatched in the industry, offering customers seamless global next-generation broadband services on the move.
Also, each satellite has multiple steerable beams, enabling us to move and direct signifi cant capacity to the exact location it is needed, which is truly revolutionary in our industry.
With these specially designed INMARSAT PLC 05 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CHAIRMANS REVIEW CONTINUED In summary on the GX programme, we are committed to ALPHASAT I-XL ensuring that this service is delivered to our customers in the A technician at Astro Aerospace in California prepares the 12-metre timetable we have set out with a regional service available in refl ector for the Alphasat I-XL satellite for shipment to Astrium in Toulouse, France.
The launch is scheduled for 2013.
We have made considerable progress in delivering this.
The investment programme is consistent with our core market focus and a good fi t for the channel with whom we have historically worked.
At the end of 2011, we announced a reorganisation of our management structure and how our business would operate in the future.
The move brings our subsidiary companies together to focus on customer-facing activities to make us more effective today and prepares the way for a fully-integrated platform for our Global Xpress services.
We believe that the realignment of our operational teams across the business will enhance our ability to support all our channel partners worldwide.
We believe that our business will benefi t materially from how we have brought together the Inmarsat operations, focused into market sectors.
There is a strong rationale to harness the expertise and knowledge of our subsidiary companies by aligning our businesses under the one Inmarsat brand.
In using just one brand name, we are aligning group-wide sales support and marketing capabilities and creating a world-class, end-to-end service delivery capability.
Our strategy is to maintain and strengthen our support to a predominantly indirect business model via independent channel partners and to grow the overall L-band business and launch the new Global Xpress services.
In order to pave the way for our Global Xpress service in the We will have some direct sales opportunities under the Inmarsat maritime industry, we have launched the XpressLink service.
brand, which is a new dimension for us as previously our direct XpressLink combines our SEVSAT Ku-band service and our business was through our subsidiary companies Stratos, Inmarsat FleetBroadband FB500 L-band service to offer a Segovia and Ship Equip.
This direct sales presence will be fully-integrated managed service for one inclusive monthly fi xed targeted in a way that complements the activities of our fee.
XpressLink will provide a bridge to our Ka-band service by indirect channel to market.
offering upgradable terminals to our Global Xpress service.
This enables customers to use these services now, knowing that Of course, we continue to invest in our existing platforms as well.
they can automatically upgrade to a higher capacity service in Supplementing our Inmarsat-4 constellation will be the Alphasat the near future, giving them tremendous value and expanding satellite, which is being built by Astrium and which we expect to the bandwidth they use immediately.
Our acquisition of Ship be ready for launch during 2013.
In this project, we are the Equip International AS in April 2011 gave us a signifi cant market commercial partner for the European Space Agency ESA and entry point for the XpressLink service using Ship Equips status as our investment in the satellite will provide additional L-band a leading Ku-band VSAT provider to the maritime industry capacity across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
With the through its SEVSAT service.
The team in place in the business has addition of Alphasat to our satellite constellation, we gain the excellent knowledge about how ship operators buy their services assurance of complete redundancy in the event of an Inmarsat-4 and how this new XpressLink service, including the upgrade path satellite failure, plus we gain a signifi cant increase in capacity over to GX, can meet their current and future requirements.
our highest traffi c region of the world.
Signifi cantly, the addition of this satellite positively impacts our future capital expenditure Pre-launch agreements to sell and distribute the GX service to requirements.
As a result, we are now able to move to a US government customers have been entered into with Boeing, staggered or rolling procurement process for our next-generation which has committed to deliver revenue representing more than L-band satellites, the Inmarsat-6s.
This smoothes out the large 10% of our target revenue over the fi first fi five years of operation.
spikes in expenditure we have historically experienced as new In addition, we have agreement with commercial aviation satellite fl eets get commissioned and defers some of our capital specialists GoGo and OnAir to bring the GX satellite service expenditures previously planned for this decade.
to the air transport market.
We believe that combining their customised solutions with GX will provide a dramatic change The satellite industry continues to evolve as evidenced by our in airline passenger connectivity globally.
In the lead up to activities in ancillary terrestrial component ATC services in the the launch of Global Xpress, we expect to make more US.
Hybrid networks, as they are often referred to, which combine announcements about the signing of channel partners to satellite and terrestrial capabilities have been an opportunity we address the remaining market segments, completing segment have focused on in two geographic areas: North America and by segment delivery of the GX service globally.
In North America in 2007 we signed an agreement to work with another satellite operator, LightSquared, to enable the re-banding and effi cient reuse of L-band radio spectrum covering North America, which would assist them to develop and deploy 06 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4G ATC services.
LightSquared has made several different staged payments to us for cooperation in both reconfi guring the BUSINESS REVIEW US Canada spectrum and compressing our use of spectrum to We achieved record revenues and operating pro ts accommodate their terrestrial system.
We do not know whether LightSquared services will eventually be deployed, although we in 2011, with signi cant cash generation from have undertaken activities to ensure we can accommodate its operations and con rmed our policy of increasing rollout if their business proceeds.
Similarly, we are also exploring our dividend by 10%.
Our balance sheet and the development of hybrid opportunities through our S-band satellite programme in Europe.
We believe that over the long financial position remains healthy.
term, interference issues can be managed and hybrid systems can be effectively deployed.
We also believe hybrid systems During 2011 we also announced some key management could offer attractive new services globally.
changes with the appointment of Rupert Pearce as our Chief Executive Offi cer CEO.
The management team has reviewed Of course, understanding our competitors is integral to how we how we are currently structured and we are now implementing a think about our future business evolution.
It is natural that we face vision of how we can bring improved benefi ts to our partners and competition and we see this from terrestrial as well as other customers through the technology we offer and how we provide satellite operators.
We analyse how their activities and published our services.
The Board and our senior management team plans may affect our strategic direction and decision making and believe these changes will bring benefi ts to all stakeholders.
decide how and or if we need to respond.
Our decision to invest in and launch the Global Xpress service is, we believe, ahead of While we will be focused on delivering our services through our the competition by several years, giving us a fi first-mover four principal markets maritime, enterprise, US government opportunity in this new market.
Where we have seen competition and global government we will continue to report fi nancially eroding our revenues, we have taken steps to respond to this through two reporting and operating segments: Inmarsat Global, our XpressLink service is a strong response to maritime VSAT which remains the wholesale supplier of L-band airtime, and competition and our IsatPhone Pro handheld voice offering is Inmarsat Solutions, which encompasses the operations of our targeted at retaining and rebuilding our voice revenues.
subsidiary companies and the sales and delivery of services Our main competitors in mobile satellite services are either to users.
regional-only players, or competitors reliant on satellites which we believe are rapidly approaching their end of life.
These EXECUTIVE TEAM factors, combined with the expanded addressable markets we This team is responsible for the day-to-day running of the business.
can target with Global Xpress, offer the prospect for signifi cant revenue growth in the years ahead.
Rich Harris, Perry Melton, SVP Legal & Regulatory Chief Strategy Offi cer We will be agile in how we make decisions, inspiring Affairs entrepreneurial behaviour within our Group and strengthening Leo Mondale, our support to our channel partners.
We will be fl exible in how David Helfgott, MD Global Xpress we respond to the markets we serve and mobilise our resources SVP Business Development to serve customers in a value-added way.
We will be effi cient in & Strategy James Parm, what we do and how we deliver our services.
These factors President, Inmarsat Solutions combined, we believe, will enable us to continue to build on Alison Horrocks, our 30-plus years of successful operations and position us well SVP Corporate Governance Rupert Pearce, for the future.
& Company Secretary Chief Executive Offi cer This is my last Annual Report statement to you as both Chairman Debbie Jones, Ruy Pinto, and CEO.
We announced last year that we would separate the SVP Corporate Development Chief Technology Offi cer roles and we have done so.
It has been a privilege for me to be the CEO of Inmarsat during its fi first seven years as a listed Rick Medlock, Andrew Sukawaty, company.
Much has been accomplished during this time to Chief Financial Offi cer Chairman deliver new leading-edge, dependable services for our customers, present opportunities for our staff and deliver superior returns to our shareholders.
I am pleased to hand over the reins to Rupert Pearce as the new CEO.
Rupert has been a vital part of the Inmarsat senior management team for seven years and he While we reported record results for Group revenues and has been the driving force in many initiatives which have EBITDA, we are conscious of the slowdown in our core mobile contributed to our success.
He is therefore well prepared to satellite services MSS business, particularly in the maritime assume this role.
I look forward to working closely with him and land mobile sectors.
While this has been disappointing, in my role as Executive Chairman to deliver on the investment we have at the same time been making tremendous progress programmes we have put in place to drive value for our in the service and product development that will secure new customers and shareholders.
MSS growth for us in the future.
INMARSAT PLC 07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CHAIRMANS REVIEW CONTINUED We maintained our commitment to pay increasing dividends We are also a founding member of the Space Data Association, a to shareholders, uplifting the interim dividend and recommended non-profi t association, which has been established by commercial full-year 2011 dividends by 10% on the total dividend paid satellite operators to improve the safety of fl ight and effi ciency of for 2010.
We expect to sustain this level of increase for the 2012 space operations.
We believe it is important that we are involved fi financial year as well.
During August 2011, we also announced in initiatives that share expertise affecting our business and the a share repurchase programme of up to US$250m which we wider space industry.
believe was appropriate to do in order to provide increased returns to shareholders.
To date we have repurchased and cancelled 13,907,750 ordinary shares.
2011 AWARDS We are delighted to have recently received a number of During the year we secured competitive fi nancing arrangements high-profi le industry and consumer awards, including: with The Export-Import Bank of the United States to fund a signifi cant element of the Inmarsat-5 satellites and related capital expenditure and we also completed a successful refi nancing of February 2011 our US$500m Senior Credit Facility with a new US$750m fi five-year Satellite Services Provider of the Year agreement.
Recognising Inmarsats contribution to the growth of the broadcast and production industry in the Middle East, Africa With the role we play in providing mission critical and Southern Asia.
communications needs, we are relied upon for our safety services in the maritime and aviation sectors.
We continue to Sail Magazine Pittman Innovation Award move forward with our plans to take our Global Maritime Distress The magazine described IsatPhone Pro as one of the most and Safety System GMDSS and aero safety services on to our cost-effective satellite communications alternatives on the broadband platforms, enabling these new safety services to market.
operate into the 2020s and beyond.
Our satellites and network infrastructure are highly reliable, and during 2011, our overall April 2011 satellite and network availability was in excess of 99.9%.
Best Satellite Broadband Provider The Samena Awards 2011 recognised Inmarsat for the third Our fi financial support of Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the consecutive year for services to South Asia, the Middle East telecommunications relief aid organisation, continues and it and North Africa.
remains our main charitable cause.
In the emergency areas TSF has served during 2011, we have seen directly how using May 2011 satellite terminals and our handheld phones has made a real Innovator of the Year difference in how it communicates with other aid agencies, local The Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise presented governments and those who are directly affected by a disaster.
Inmarsat Maritime formerly Ship Equip with an award from During the year, we were also able to provide briefi ngs to the its More and Romsdal Region for promoting innovation.
Secretary General of the European Security Foundation on the integral role that Inmarsat can play in the delivery of Europes June 2011 border security and humanitarian policy.
Al-Iktissad Wal-Aamal Achievement Award This award recognised Inmarsats exceptional contribution to Highlighting Inmarsats continued involvement in the UK space the development of satellite services in the Middle East.
industry, we have provided several information updates to various delegations from the UK Government, the UK Space Agency and September 2011 the European Commission, keeping them abreast of satellite Global Satellite Operator of the Year technology trends and the specifi c capabilities of Inmarsat.
A panel of industry experts at World Satellite Business Week Along with other satellite and related industries, we have been 2011 presented Inmarsat with the highest accolade in instrumental in keeping the benefi ts of investment in space the satellite sector.
technology high on the UK Governments agenda.
We were therefore very pleased that the UK Government has pledged December 2011 the fi first investment from the UKs National Space Technology CommsMEA 2011 Most Innovative Non-Voice Service Programme, contributing to a range of projects with industry BGAN was again recognised for its outstanding contribution to develop commercial products and services using space to the telecoms sector in the Middle East and Africa.
This is being managed by the UK Space Agency, in partnership with the Technology February 2012 Strategy Board and the South East England Development Satellite Services Provider of the Year Agency.
The Minister for Universities and Science, the Rt.
The Digital Studio Industry Leadership Awards in Dubai David Willetts MP, said that the UK space industry is an important named Inmarsat for this major accolade for the second driver of growth, supporting thousands of the most high-tech year running.
This focus is important for us as we look to keep our position within the worldwide commercial satellite market.
08 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REVIEW OF OPERATIONS and expenditures will increase as a result.
Part of the overall proposition of our broadband services is how we price the INMARSAT GLOBAL services and we seek to ensure through various pricing Our three satellite constellations, comprising 11 packages that we are competitive to our customers and satellites in total, operate at geosynchronous orbit provide an attractive margin for our partners.
approximately 36,000km 22,500 miles above the Our government customers, both military and civilian, use our Earth.
Positioned at nine orbital locations, each services across all sectors, on a worldwide basis.
As noted in constellation offers global coverage of our services.
our land mobile and aviation business updates on the following pages, we have seen our revenues fl uctuate as government The addition of the Alphasat satellite, which is spending on our services is dependent upon worldwide events currently under construction and expected to be and requirements, particularly in areas such as Afghanistan and launched in 2013, will complement our Inmarsat-4 other parts of the Middle East.
This volatility is diffi cult to predict.
satellites and provide network resilience and One of our business objectives is to identify how we can add additional space segment capacity over Europe, accretive revenue streams.
An example of how we extend our Africa and the Middle East.
expertise to other business areas is our involvement in the Galileo programme, where we had been awarded a contract to cover the We are a wholesaler of satellite airtime and sell our services fi final validation, preparation and execution of two Galileo In-Orbit to our distribution partners who either engage directly with Testing campaigns for four Galileo navigation satellites.
This customers or through their own channel of service distributors.
has been a long-term relationship, which started in 2006 and Through our newly-named, Inmarsat Solutions operation, we remains ongoing and has given opportunities to our staff to also provide support to our distributors and the majority of our learn additional skills that complement their roles within Inmarsat.
revenues come through our distribution partner channel.
We Another example of long-term relationships we have developed remain committed to supporting these partners as our primary to generate revenues is with the US Federal Aviation route to market.
Our Connect Accreditation Programme, which Administration to provide navigation and operational services was put in place to support and recognise our service providers, enabling aircraft to fl y more direct routes and providing access is highly valued by them, such that in 2012 we are adding a to airports during periods of low visibility and in diffi cult terrain Platinum tier to refl ect how some of our Gold accredited service without them having to rely on ground-based navigation.
providers have grown their business with us during 2011.
Another key area of skill development for us is the opportunity This year saw increased migration from our legacy services to for our satellite controllers to manage satellites for other our latest generation broadband services across all sectors.
Along with our 11 owned satellites, we also control While this was very encouraging, the transition also impacted the Hylas-1 satellite which was specifi cally created to deliver our revenue growth in 2011 as transitioning users learned how broadband access to European consumers and we are under to best use the available digital services.
We are confi dent that contract to operate the Hylas-2 satellite from mid-2012 onwards.
as customers become more familiar with our broadband services Having this expertise in-house provides our team with additional they will see the additional benefi ts available to them and usage experience ahead of the forthcoming Alphasat and Inmarsat-5 satellite launches.
INMARSAT PLC 09 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED as the pricing of a Fleet service is more akin to that of FleetBroadband.
This means the revenue impact of migration MARITIME is being driven by a fi nite pool of remaining users and is reducing rapidly.
We know that shipowners and vessel captains have alternatives to Inmarsat for some of their services and we work hard to ensure that we offer them a variety of market-leading pricing packages, services and solutions to meet their needs so that they see compelling benefi ts and value to them for continuing to use our services.
Innovating to provide new solutions is important and during 2011 we introduced FleetPhone, which is a maritime variant of our handheld phone service.
New service enhancements such as FB multi-voice and FB distress safety are being incorporated into the manufacturing processes for FleetBroadband terminals, to be available when the services are expected to go live in 2012.
The FB multi-voice service provides facilities for up to nine simultaneous voice lines on our larger FleetBroadband terminals, and four concurrent calls on our smaller terminals.
VOLVO OCEAN RACE The organisers of the Volvo Ocean Race 2011-12 event recognised the importance of reliable satellite communications systems, by ensuring that all the yachts are equipped with our FleetBroadband service, plus an Inmarsat C for safety alerting and an IsatPhone Pro handheld.
We are acting for the fi first time as Race Partner, and providing all the communications for the race.
In 2011, revenues from the maritime sector were US$358.9m, with data services accounting for 75% of sector revenues.
As expected, during the year the trend of migration away from our older maritime services continued, with customers moving to our FleetBroadband FB service which is cheaper, faster and offers an increased menu of applications.
Users are benefi ting from lower usage pricing on FleetBroadband, but this has had the short-term effect of slowing down our maritime revenue growth.
However, our new generation FleetBroadband service has Another popular initiative in our maritime offering has been our been very successful, with adoption rates ahead of the strong take-up we saw in 2010.
Migrating customers to FleetBroadband very large allowance VLAs pricing plans.
These plans respond directly to competition from VSAT for our heaviest users by enhances our network capacity and commits customers to our service.
Historically, we have seen average equipment lives offering a service providing the benefi t of certainty of cost for unlimited usage.
We have responded to the market demand for on ships of ten years or more and would expect customers committed to FleetBroadband now to be with us for many years different levels of plans to cover a wide spectrum of users in the maritime sector.
We have also introduced capabilities which to come.
With the migration occurring at a pace, the number of Inmarsat B terminals still being used has reduced, although we enable traffi c usage to be managed so that it remains within specifi ed allowance plans, ensuring we are effi cient in how we do not expect all Inmarsat B terminals to be replaced due to the conservatism of the ship operator or where the vessel is already use our satellite resources and keeping within the pricing terms of the VLAs we have offered to customers.
Users who operate with our Fleet service are also migrating to FleetBroadband, although their impact is less 10 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We also announced during 2011 the launch of XpressLink, which is a unique hybrid service combining FleetBroadband LAND MOBILE with Ku-band connectivity in a package that is competitively priced and which will be upgraded on a committed basis to our Global Xpress Ka-band service when launched.
We expect XpressLink to have compelling advantages over established Ku-band VSAT services and that therefore it will become a natural choice for ship operators looking to increase bandwidth to their vessels today, knowing that they have the reliability of the FleetBroadband service to fall back on if the Ku-band service is not available.
This service, which is being offered through our retail channel to market, will give us the opportunity to build a customer base of early adopters, who will be committed to transition to Global Xpress in the future.
We already have customers, for example, Frontline, the worlds leading carrier of seaborne crude oil, which has committed to take the XpressLink service when it becomes commercially available during 2012.
FLEETBROADBRAND XPRESSLINK Successful Customer base Our new generation This service will give us the FleetBroadband service has opportunity to build a been very successful, with customer base of early adoption rates ahead of the adopters, who will be strong take-up we saw in 2010. committed to transition to Global Xpress in the future.
We are proud that we remain the only provider of satellite communications services for GMDSS.
We have committed to extending GMDSS on FleetBroadband and the fi first stage of this was completed in July when we launched our FleetBroadband voice distress service.
We expect to have a fully compliant service to meet IMO standards by the time Revenues from our land mobile sector were US$151.7m for 2011. our Inmarsat B service ceases at the end of 2014.
Our 505 Data services represented US$144.0m of this.
emergency calling service continues to be used and we are pleased that all our safety services are recognised by mariners Our Land sector incorporates several different sub-sectors and and rescue co-ordination centres as vital in helping to save we experience different usage trends in each, triggered by lives at sea.
economic conditions, natural disasters and military activities.
The organisers of the 2011-12 Volvo Ocean Race acknowledged As with our maritime business, we have considered how we can the importance of reliable satellite communications systems at improve and enhance the services we offer and during 2011 sea, by ensuring that all the yachts in the race are equipped with made preparations for several service launches.
our FleetBroadband service, plus an Inmarsat C for safety alerting and an IsatPhone Pro handheld.
We are acting for the fi first time as As highlighted in last years Annual Report, we believe that the Race Partner and providing all the communications for the race.
market for machine-to-machine M2M applications is growing This enables race fans, sponsors and the media to see the best and we focused on this opportunity during 2011 through of the action in high defi nition TV, viewing live video footage, the development of several initiatives.
The fi first was the launch while ensuring taken for granted communications for position of IsatData Pro in conjunction with our partner, SkyWave, in reporting and safety at sea happen automatically.
This high which we have a 19% shareholding.
IsatData Pro exclusively profi le and often dangerous race is an excellent opportunity uses our satellite capacity and outperforms other satellite for us to showcase the resilience of our services under the most M2M competitive offerings.
We have seen customers using severe conditions in the worlds most remote environments.
IsatData Pro to transmit critical data.
For example, it has been integrated into a solution for use in modern-day confl ict theatres, simultaneously broadcasting data to multiple assets, minimising costs and timescales as a consequence.
INMARSAT PLC 11 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED It is used by transportation companies for tracking and part of this collaboration, in conjunction with the European monitoring their vehicles for security purposes and also providing Space Agency and the UKs Technology Strategy Board, was logistic services.
We have recently launched a new M2M terminal with the successful completion of an initial study on the feasibility for our BGAN service, which is our broadband service for land of supporting IPv6 services on our broadband services.
The BGAN Link M2M service offers an end-to-end IP data the next-generation version of internet protocol, which is the capability for real-time applications, including smart metering, system by which information is transferred across networks.
SCADA, monitoring and other infrastructure telemetry solutions.
This successful trial will give our customers, particularly Our target markets for this new service are utilities, oil and government users, confi dence in our ability to support IPv6 gas and retail banking.
We believe this cost-effective solution services in the future.
will be attractive to organisations which need to have reliable connectivity to unattended remote sites which operate An area we focused on during the year was how to combine on a global basis.
our BGAN capability with software-defi ned radio SDR technology to create the fi first  SDR implementation of a BGAN terminal.
SDR technology enables a BGAN SERVICE ISATPHONE PRO number of waveforms, also known as communication standards, to run on the same hardware platform, allowing rapid changes BGAN land Subscriber growth from one communication standard to another.
The BGAN waveform opens a new method of establishing broadband We have recently launched We now have more than satellite communications on the move which is particularly a new M2M terminal for 50,000 subscribers to our useful for the military or fi first responders.
our BGAN Link service, IsatPhone Pro handheld targeting utilities, oil and service.
We now have more than 50,000 subscribers to our IsatPhone Pro gas and retail banking.
We are pleased with the numbers of units sold and are looking at how we can increase demand for usage of these handsets and build on the existing revenue stream.
We have received very positive feedback from user groups to our Our BGAN service continued to add new subscribers during handheld service and believe we have made a good start to the year although its revenue contribution has been impacted take back some voice service revenues from our competitors.
by the reduced traffi c from government customers in The level of use by our customers is developing at a slower Afghanistan.
Where our services are used in Afghanistan, rate than expected, in part we believe due to the fact it is taking ground forces have been using our BGAN terminals to assist longer to penetrate higher spending customers, although we with logistical communications between US and NATO forces.
do expect this to change in time.
Currently, therefore, IsatPhone They are also made available for troop welfare calls to friends Pro revenues are not a material element of our overall land and family.
This reduced traffi c has been partly offset by usage mobile revenues.
We were delighted with the results of a test from events in North Africa for part of the year.
Our BGAN and by Land Rover Owner International magazine who tested IsatPhone Pro services were deployed by aid agencies across IsatPhone Pro and an Iridium model in a variety of independent North Africa to assist the human impacts of these confl icts, not trials analysing ease of use, clarity of transmission, battery life, least in refugee camps on the Libyan border.
We have seen our reliability and value for money.
Our phone outscored the Iridium BGAN service used by local civil defence and aid agencies phone in all categories except ease of use where both phones wherever there has been a disaster situation.
An example was were judged to be equal.
fi first responders and broadcasters in New Zealand using Inmarsat services to respond to the earthquake in Christchurch.
BGAN DEFENCE AND AID AGENCIES continues to be well used by broadcasters across the world We have seen our BGAN service used by local civil defence and aid to ensure breaking news of world events.
For the second agencies wherever there has been a disaster situation.
First responders consecutive year, we received the Comms MEA 2011 award and broadcasters in New Zealand used Inmarsat services to respond to for our BGAN service as the Most Innovative Non-Voice Service.
We were also named Best Satellite Broadband Provider in South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa for the third consecutive year and won an achievement award for our development of the satellite communications sector in the Middle East and North Africa.
It is important to continue to develop our BGAN service and we were very pleased to have signed a memorandum of understanding with Thrane & Thrane for the development and delivery of key components to implement new BGAN services.
This builds on the long and close collaboration we have with our manufacturers and how we work on this platform together to bring new services to market.
An example of 12 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Some leading aviation carriers have announced their commitment to SwiftBroadband: TAM Airlines, the leading AVIATION Brazilian carrier, committed to fi t out its entire long-haul and short-haul fl eets of aircraft and other carriers such as Singapore Airlines are beginning to move from successful trials of the service to wider deployments.
Emirates has committed to introduce Wi-Fi internet connectivity on its Airbus A380s, and will fi t the SwiftBroadband service to all its fl eet, in addition to mobile phone and mobile data services from mid-2012 on its new A380s.
We estimate that we now have approximately 150 aircraft using our services for passenger connectivity.
More and more airlines now believe that passenger connectivity will become ubiquitous and that airlines have to begin full commercial commitments or fall behind where the industry is heading.
We believe our SwiftBroadband service will fulfi l these requirements.
Over time we also see these services enhanced with more bandwidth coming from future variants of SwiftBroadband and the launch of Global Xpress.
As with other developments in our industry, the implementation periods are long and, as a result, revenue fl ow will take time.
SWIFTBROADBAND PASSENGER SERVICES Safety On the rise We are working to extend We believe passenger safety capabilities to our connectivity will become SwiftBroadband service, ubiquitous and that planned for introduction SwiftBroadband will ful l in 2013. airlines requirements.
A new development we will focus on in 2012 will be the development of SwiftBroadband waveform technology to During 2011, revenues from the aviation sector were US$99.5m.
enable the transmission of sending signals through helicopter blades.
This will be an additional revenue opportunity for us.
Although our revenues were slightly down year on year, we The recently launched SwiftBroadband 200 continues to consider this to be a very good performance as in 2010 our demonstrate huge market appeal in many segments of the fi gures were boosted by some highly extreme use from certain aviation market and gives users excellent communication users.
We see that usage levels can be volatile and the average capabilities in a small, cost-effective hardware solution.
revenue per user can fl uctuate strongly due to the heavy government users of this service.
As with maritime, we also provide safety services to the aviation industry and are extending these safety capabilities Our Swift 64 service continues to do well and is complemented to our SwiftBroadband service, which we expect to introduce by an increasingly strong contribution from SwiftBroadband.
The expansion of our safety services comes as national SwiftBroadband terminals are being activated at a much faster aviation safety regulators and service providers are demanding rate than for Swift 64 at its peak and we benefi t from the fact an enhanced service with higher overall service availability that aeronautical terminals are installed for the long term due and improved latency.
In addition, there is a requirement for to complexity and cost.
The outlook for our SwiftBroadband increased aircraft position reporting and user demand is growing service and the long-term revenues it brings are very positive.
for IP-based data applications in the aircraft cockpit.
The safety We have also seen SwiftBroadband terminals being installed service which will be supported via SwiftBroadband will be into passenger aircraft for future passenger services, which is deployed alongside the existing Classic Aero safety solution, still a largely untapped market for us.
and will be available for any type of aircraft.
INMARSAT PLC 13 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED especially those who will be using our Global Xpress service.
We are delighted that the experienced and successful LEASING management team has remained in the business and we will benefi t from their expertise to drive revenues.
Ship Equip, which is now called Inmarsat Solutions AS, is the driving force behind the launch of our XpressLink service, which will unite Kuand L-band services into a single hybrid service operating as a link between our traditional Inmarsat services and Global Xpress.
We have already seen customers signing up for the XpressLink service.
Stratos, which is now branded as Inmarsat, provides services directly to customers or through a network of service providers.
With its own terrestrial network, including land earth stations, it also offers fi xed-site remote telecommunications services over fi xed satellite systems and through its owned and operated microwave facilities, mostly located in the Gulf of Mexico.
As Stratos mainly provides Inmarsat services to its customers, their results generally refl ect the same factors impacting those for Inmarsat Global.
An additional factor impacting their results is In 2011, revenues from leasing were US$110.2m.
During 2011 we that as customers migrate to the Inmarsat broadband services have seen some existing aviation and maritime leases not being platform, the traffi c is carried on the Inmarsat ground network renewed or reduced, while new ones have been implemented for instead of using their legacy networks.
As many distributors land-based services and we also agreed a new contract with the have been outsourcing this activity to Stratos, this revenue Federal Aviation Administration FAA.
source to them is also naturally contracting.
Stratos owns WiMAX frequency spectrum licences in certain areas of the The fi five-year FAA contract is to provide navigation and Gulf of Mexico and has been actively seeking ways to promote operational services on one of our Inmarsat-4 satellites via its capability to offer radio access services in this region at their systems, to provide access to airports during periods of competitive prices.
low visibility and diffi cult terrain, without the need for groundbased navigation.
SHIP EQUIP Some of our customers want to secure longer-term arrangements Acquisition with us to benefi t from guaranteed access to satellite capacity.
In these instances, we see the revenue fl ow from these Our acquisition of Ship Equip in April 2011 gives us a signi cant arrangements move from one sector, such as land mobile, market entry point for the XpressLink service.
SCADA INMARSAT SOLUTIONS Market focus Inmarsat Solutions comprises the fi financial results of Stratos, Segovia and from April 2011, Ship Equip.
With the emphasis in R&M uses BGAN to transmit operational data from oil pumps and 2012 on driving revenue growth and service delivery through other mission critical equipment in remote areas not accessible our market sectors of maritime, enterprise, US government and by traditional monitoring infrastructure.
global government non-US, we will be harnessing the market knowledge from each of these businesses to increase our penetration in each of these markets, working closely with A focus area for us has been the supervisory control and data our indirect channel and nurturing the direct relationships acquisition SCADA market.
An example of this was seen we have with customers through existing relationships.
during the year with a contract secured from R&M, a US-based provider of components for the global oil and gas industry, to We acquired Ship Equip, a leading VSAT operator, at the end provide a network system using BGAN terminals to transmit of April 2011.
Ship Equip supplies maritime communications operational data from oil pumps and other mission critical services to the shipping, offshore oil and gas and fi shing markets.
equipment in remote areas not accessible by traditional It was an ideal acquisition for us to support the migration of monitoring infrastructure.
This has provided R&M with a certain users of our maritime services to higher speed services, single-source, universal solution that works anywhere and is easy to use, thus eliminating the need to engage multiple local providers in dozens of different regions.
14 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inmarsat and Stratos came together to support the elections in OUTLOOK November 2011 in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Many During 2011, our success as a business manifested itself hundreds of BGAN terminals were used for data transmission in many ways.
of polling information and results across 11 different regions.
This example typifi es the mission criticality of Inmarsat services We have successfully put in place additional and new fi nancing and why they are used and relied upon.
A contrasting use of the arrangements at very benefi cial terms.
Our next-generation BGAN service was when Stratos provided BGAN services to the Global Xpress programme is fully funded.
This programme also 14-day Ultramagic Experience hot air balloon expedition over remains fi rmly on track for delivery of the fi first satellite in 2013.
This was the fi first time that BGAN had been used by balloonists and, as well as enabling fans to track We received signifi cant cash contributions from LightSquared the balloons itineraries and view spectacular images taken during the year and continue to be cash generative.
We during fl ight, also ensured the safety of all balloonists.
continued to increase our dividend payments, and we have a commitment for continuing increases in dividend payments BGAN SERVICE US GOVERNMENT in 2012.
Kilimanjaro Opportunity We have a strong management team, led by Rupert Pearce as CEO, and we have reorganised our business to deliver A contrasting use of the BGAN As part of the refocusing on excellence to our partners and customers in terms of our service was when Stratos our government business in services and how they are delivered.
provided BGAN services to the 2012, we have taken the 14-day Ultramagic Experience opportunity to bring together We are confi dent in the growth prospects of our key services, hot air balloon expedition over our three US government among which are BGAN, FleetBroadband, SwiftBroadband Africas Mount Kilimanjaro.
These products are seeing strong subscriber take-up and ARPU growth and will extend our leading MSS franchise well into the future.
In the near term, however, overall The third contributor to the Inmarsat Solutions business is revenue growth will be constrained by reducing revenue from Segovia, which we acquired in January 2010, so have now had Afghanistan and service migration factors.
We believe like-fortwo full years of revenue contribution.
Segovia, which now does like cost growth in our core Inmarsat Global MSS business will business as Inmarsat Government, is a leading provider of be minimal, while a certain level of operating costs will be secure IP-managed solutions and services principally to the required to support the launch of our Global Xpress service.
United States Army and other US military services and government agencies.
The premise for acquiring Segovia was The revenue slowdown we saw in 2011 means we have to strengthen our relationships with these key government moderated our fi five-year targets for Inmarsat Global MSS customers and we are pleased with how this is progressing.
We feel it would now be prudent to target a We were delighted when Segovia won an order from NATO compound annual growth rate CAGR for Inmarsat Global for communications support for troops in Afghanistan, refl ecting MSS revenues in a range of 0% to 2% over the period 2012 a broadening of their reach.
As part of the refocusing on and 2013, being the time period before our Global Xpress government sectors in 2012, we have taken the opportunity to service is launched.
We are also assuming a CAGR of between bring together our three US government operations Segovia, 8% and 12% for these revenues for the period 2014 to 2016, Stratos Government Services SGSI and Inmarsat Government covering the initial years after Global Xpress is expected to Services.
We believe this combination of excellence and be launched, and assuming that the delivery and launch of knowledge will be of value to our customers and will help drive the Inmarsat-5 satellites goes to the current plan.
While we further revenue growth in the future.
Segovia and SGSI worked are optimistic that MSS growth will return, we want to be together to secure a contract from the Defence Information prudent in setting expectations for this growth for the next Technology Contracting Organization for the US Navy Military couple of years.
Our companies created a service offering to provide an end-to-end IP communications pathway Our employees and their contribution and dedication to the linking globally deployed MSC ships and assets.
SGSI also success of Inmarsat remain fundamental to our success.
We are won a contract with the US Coast Guard USCG to enable grateful to them for their continuing support and commitment its cutters to interconnect with the USCG data network to to the mission of providing highly reliable and leading-edge exchange operational ship traffi c. services to our customers in the demanding environments in which they operate.
This ethos for delivering reliability for our Overall, our newly reorganised Inmarsat Solutions operation customers, which is often mission critical and even life critical, is well positioned to support our channel and customers for has been at the heart of Inmarsat for over 31 years now and the future.
The changes bring Inmarsat into a position to we are committed to continue on this path.
understand more fully customers evolving communications needs, in order to better customise and deliver on the Andrew Sukawaty connectivity solutions we provide.
Chairman 6 March 2012 INMARSAT PLC 15 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REVIEW Overview RICK MEDLOCK Chief Financial Offi cer 2011 has been another successful and exciting year for Inmarsat both from a fi financial and operational perspective.
We have grown headline revenue and EBITDA by over 20% and continue to deliver solid operating cash fl ows.
We have kept a tight rein on underlying costs and working capital, allowing us to continue with our signifi cant investment plans.
We made good progress with our Global Xpress programme, securing extremely favourable funding through Ex-Im Bank and we also initiated a share repurchase programme.
Although we expect that leverage will increase in the coming periods, due to the Global Xpress and Alphasat investment programmes, we ended the year with a strong balance sheet and signifi cant available liquidity.
We are I am pleased to present a review of the financial pleased to report that we have delivered on our commitment performance of the Group for 2011.
The year has to raise our dividend by 10% year on year, which is in line with our strategy of increasing dividends based on the growth of been characterised as one in which we are building normalised free cash fl ow.
for future growth and executing on our investment plans for Global Xpress, our next generation Ka-band Revenue from our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared was the primary driver of overall revenue growth in 2011.
We performed well against the no doubt that we have faced signifi cant headwinds in our core backdrop of the unabated poor economic climate MSS business, which has constrained MSS revenue growth: and erce competitive environment and remained however we are pleased with the progress we are making in MSS subscriber growth across our newer services.
Our 2011 revenues disciplined on capital expenditure, operating cost in the maritime sector were impacted by the migration of control and working capital management.
customers from older services Inmarsat B, Mini M and Fleet 77 onto newer services FleetBroadband.
However, as the year progressed, we saw encouraging signs of increased usage and HIGHLIGHTS average revenue per user ARPU of FleetBroadband.
In the land mobile sector, MSS revenues were affected by reduced usage from customers in Afghanistan and whilst much of this REVENUE ACTIVATED TERMINALS decline was largely offset by high usage levels from events in Japan and North Africa, usage also began to fall back as events 20% 13% in that region abated.
We saw new demand for our BGAN service and added subscribers but, while this is encouraging, it is unlikely Our Inmarsat Solutions Strong growth in terminal that this organic growth will be suffi cient to offset the impact of business has maintained its subscribers across all sectors the expected ongoing decline in data revenue from Afghanistan.
market share of Inmarsat of maritime, land and aviation.
In the aviation sector, revenues were impacted by the Globals MSS revenues at consolidation of certain customer businesses with aviation approximately 39%.
leases and we expect reduced usage in Afghanistan to be a factor in 2012.
However, take up of our SwiftBroadband service remains strong and revenue growth from this service is building EBITDA DIVIDEND well.
We recognised contributions from our newly acquired subsidiary, Ship Equip and our Inmarsat Solutions business has 23% 10% maintained its market share of Inmarsat Globals MSS revenues at approximately 39%, which remains encouraging given the We have grown headline We have delivered on our competitive and pricing pressures within the distribution channel.
revenue and EBITDA by over commitment to raise our 20% and continue to deliver dividend by 10% year on year.
Although we are satisfi ed with the progress this year, the solid operating cash ows.
economic climate remains uncertain, especially in our core government and maritime markets.
We remain cautious on our prospects for revenue growth in 2012, especially in light of the reducing revenue from Afghanistan and service migration factors continuing, along with competition in our traditional MSS sectors.
16 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS However, we are well-positioned to grow our key new services, As at 31 December 2011, we had total drawings of US$277.3m XpressLink, FleetBroadband, SwiftBroadband and IsatPhone under the Ex-Im Bank Facility.
Pro, which are seeing strong subscriber take-up and ARPU growth.
We are implementing a number of pricing initiatives to In June 2011, we also took the opportunity to refi finance our further incentivise customer migration to FleetBroadband, the existing US$500m Senior Credit Facility, which was due to mature take-up of fi xed-term value-added pricing plans and to improve in May 2012, with a new fi five-year US$750m Senior Credit Facility.
the yield from older services.
We are also seeing high levels of The full amount of the facility is available to draw in the form of a interest in our XpressLink maritime L-band Ku-band hybrid revolving credit facility and does not amortise during the fi five-year service and expect this service to take share in the maritime availability period.
Advances under the new facility bear interest VSAT market during 2012.
Our IsatPhone Pro service, which at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of recently passed the milestone of 50,000 active units, is wellbetween 1.00% and 2.50% depending on our ratio of net debt positioned to achieve greater penetration of higher spending to EBITDA.
The new facility has been provided by a group of customer accounts and grow usage and revenues.
These two fi nancings have both secured of SwiftBroadband to support in-fl ight passenger services all funding needed for the Global Xpress programme and continues to add early new revenues to our aviation business allowed us to signifi cantly reduce our average cost of debt.
and we remain well-placed for this opportunity.
Once we had secured the new loan facilities, and primarily We remain extremely excited by the incremental opportunities because we were receiving substantial cash payments from and long-term prospects which Global Xpress offers in the LightSquared, we undertook a review of our balance sheet and future.
Our acquisition of Ship Equip on 28 April 2011 for a liquidity position to determine how we could enhance returns cash consideration of US$113.2m net of cash acquired and to shareholders.
As a result of this review, in August 2011, we after hedging the foreign exchange risk, positions us to support announced a share repurchase programme of up to US$250m, the evolution of certain segments of the maritime market to with a target implementation period of 12 months.
As higher speed services, especially those to be offered by Global of 31December 2011, 13.9m ordinary shares have been Xpress.
Ship Equip is a leading provider of VSAT maritime repurchased at a total cost of US$98.4m.
communications services to the shipping, offshore energy and fi shing markets and, with a large installed base of VSAT As noted above, LightSquared has been the main driver of customers, who we expect to transition to Global Xpress services, revenue and EBITDA growth and has generated substantial as well as a management team with extensive knowledge of cash fl ow during the year.
It has also been a project where we VSAT operations and customers, will help us ensure that Global have spent considerable time, effort and money to deliver on Xpress is a compelling proposition for the maritime community.
our obligations on a very aggressive time frame.
The context for However, our focus remains on growing our existing core this is that in December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared entered business and delivering increasing value to shareholders, into a Cooperation Agreement for the effi cient use of L-band which we believe we are well-positioned to achieve.
spectrum over North America as a result of which Inmarsat agreed to reorganise and lease some of its radio spectrum to Following on from the Ship Equip acquisition, on 13 January LightSquared in return for substantial cash payments.
As at 2012, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of NewWave 6March 2012, LightSquared has made payments in respect Broadband Limited NewWave for a total cash consideration of all the phases of the Cooperation Agreement totalling of US$9.0m net of cash acquired, fi nanced from available US$490.2m, of which US$308.1m was received during 2011. liquidity.
NewWave sources and provides satellite capacity We received US$29.6m in January 2012.
We have, thus far, to Ship Equip, as well as providing maintenance and upgrade recognised US$221.3m of revenue and US$11.6m of operating services for the associated network hub.
The operations of costs under all the phases of the Cooperation Agreement.
At NewWave will be integrated within our Inmarsat Solutions 31 December 2011, we had recorded US$239.3m of deferred business.
income, within trade and other payables, on the Balance Sheet.
Last year, we undertook some signifi cant fi nancing activities.
The table below sets out the contribution of LightSquared to First, we were delighted to sign a highly attractive 12.5-year our profi t for the years indicated: US$700m direct fi nancing agreement with the Ex-Im Bank US$ in millions 2011 2010 on 11May 2011.
This facility was put in place to fund the Revenue 203.8 17.5 construction of the Inmarsat-5 satellites and other related Net operating costs 11.2 0.4 capital expenditure and has a total availability period of four Profi t before income tax 192.6 17.1 years, repayable in equal instalments over a further 8.5 years.
Drawings under the facility will incur interest at a fi xed rate of Income tax expense 51.0 4.8 3.11% for the life of the loan.
Profi t for the year 141.6 12.3 INMARSAT PLC 17 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
