02 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew ChAIrmAns stAtement I am pleased to report a year of significant achievement and progress for Interserve.
In continued difficult markets we have delivered growing earnings, strong cash flows and an improved order book.
At the same time we have undertaken significant new developments towards our strategic objectives to grow shareholder value.
Lord Blackwell Chairman In recent years the Group has begun a in bidding to support the Ministry of Managing long-term client significant transformation in the scope Justice in its framework programme for relationships is a major strength of our business, applying our core management of offenders.
and one of the key ingredients in the skills in new markets where we believe excellent forward visibility of our future Overseas we have invested in we can both grow and deliver high workload.
The actions we have been developing the scope of business value.
taking in Support Services should activities in our existing high growth continue to improve margins.
There In the UK our Support Services markets as well as extending into major are also indications that the recovery business, as well as taking steps to new territories such as Saudi Arabia, in Equipment Services international improve customer value, efficiency and India and the USA.
markets, begun in the second half of margins in our existing markets, has We believe the ongoing opportunities 2011, will now be maintained.
Together invested in extending our management for continuing this transformation of we anticipate these developments skills into new areas of outsourcing our business - both in the UK and can more than offset the short-term activity.
During this last year, for overseas - provide significant upside impact on Constructions performance example, we started up our innovative potential in the medium and long term, resulting from the current margin and partnership serving the Department notwithstanding the ongoing economic volume pressures.
for Work and Pensions in its Work uncertainties.
This is the primary Programme, and are now shortlisted engine for achieving our growth ambitions.
overview Business review governanCe finanCiaL statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 overvIew ChAIrmAns stAtement 03 Chairmans statement Doing the important things well This year I am reporting separately on development opportunities including the role and effectiveness of the Board apprenticeships and a Skills for Life in our Corporate Governance review.
We However, on behalf of the Board I also run return-to-work schemes for would like to thank all of our people the long-term unemployed.
for their continued commitment and Lord Blackwell Chairman Reflecting our confidence in the for their willingness to go the extra 29 February 2012 medium-term prospects and in our mile in delivering outstanding service strategy for developing the Group, to our customers.
The success of we are recommending an increased our business is founded on having final dividend of 13.0p 2010: 12.4p, the right people and supporting bringing the total dividend for the year them in their development.
One of to 19.0p 2010: 18.0p, an increase of our key programmes identifies and 5.6 per cent.
The final dividend will be develops the people who will form paid on 24 May 2012 to shareholders the core of our senior leadership on the register at the close of business in the years to come.
We offer all on 10 April 2012. our people a wealth of training and
