Chairmans Statement Sir David Reid Results It was my great pleasure to join Intertek at the end of 2011 and Chairman I am delighted to announce strong full year growth.
The Group generated revenue of 1,749m, an increase of 27% over the prior year.
Excluding acquisitions, revenue growth was 8%.
Operating profit was 234m, up 13% over the prior year.
Adjusted operating profit increased to 281m, up 24% and our It was my great pleasure to join adjusted operating margin was 16.1%.
Excluding acquisitions, Intertek at the end of 2011 and adjusted operating profit grew by 9%.
I am delighted to announce strong Earnings per share Basic earnings per share were 86.8p, up 8% over the prior year full year growth.
and adjusted diluted earnings per share were 107.2p, up 20%.
Dividends An interim dividend of 10.7p per share 2010: 9.3p was paid to shareholders on 18 November 2011.
The Directors will propose a final dividend of 23.0p per share at the Annual General Meeting PO.
BZ UP CF QBJE PO VOF UP TIBSFIPMEFST PO UIF SFHJTUFS BU DMPTF PG CVTJOFTT PO VOF G BQQSPWFE UIJT will make a full year dividend of 33.7p per share 2010: 28.1p, an increase of 20%.
Acquisitions We continue to make targeted acquisitions and in 2011 we completed the significant purchase of Moody International Moody, along with four smaller but strategically important acquisitions for a cash consideration of 460m 2010: 42m.
Further details of these acquisitions are given in the Operating Review by division and in note 10 to the financial statements.
Our strong financial position will allow us to continue to make advantageous bolt-on acquisitions in key industry sectors and to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities to increase shareholder value.
Moody International When we presented our 2010 results in March 2011, we announced the 450m acquisition of Moody, a leading provider of technical services to the global energy industry and a provider of systems certification services.
This acquisition has positioned Intertek at the forefront of the global energy market and has provided a platform for the provision of infrastructure services whilst extending the depth of our service portfolio for energy assets, processes and products.
We have integrated Moody into our Industry & Assurance business and we are delighted to welcome the company and its 2,500 employees into the Intertek family.
com Chairmans Statement The Board Integrity It was my great pleasure to join Intertek at the end of last year As an enterprise where integrity, independent judgement and fair and I am looking forward to chairing the Board and continuing assessment are critical components of the services we provide, it its successful track record.
Since joining the Board I have is essential that we are committed to having good business ethics.
been impressed by the members mix of skills and business The Group has robust ethical policies and control procedures experience and their commitment to the highest standards against corruption and bribery.
These policies and procedures of corporate governance.
are well developed and are continually reviewed to align with best practice and ensure that they remain in step with the values During the year we welcomed Michael Wareing and Alan Brown and evolution of our business.
to the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 15 April 2011.
Further details of their business experience can be found in their Our people biographies on page 37.
Our people and their dedication to adding value to customers products and processes, are central to our success in the global Vanni Treves retired as Chairman and from the Board on marketplace.
We strive to attract, develop and retain the best 31 December 2011.
As Chairman of the Board over a period of people who share in the mission, values and success of the Group ten years he made a major contribution to Interteks development and can help us to provide our customers with deep insight and and growth.
The Board expresses their gratitude for his work understanding of quality issues in their industries from a local and wishes him every enjoyment for the future.
It is this network of skills and experience On 31 December 2011, David Allvey and Debra Rade stepped among our people that helps to set us apart from our competitors, down from the Board after serving ten and six years respectively.
providing valuable business support to our customers which, in They leave with our thanks for the invaluable role that they have turn, strengthens our partnership with them.
played in positioning Intertek for continued strong growth.
Through acquisitions and organic growth we added over 4,500 Gavin Darby chose not to seek re-election to the Board at the new employees in 2011 and I would like to welcome them to Annual General Meeting, effectively stepping down from the the Group.
More than 30,000 Intertek people now work to Board on 20 May 2011. support our customers in over 100 countries every day.
The dedication of our employees to customer service helped us to Into 2012 the Board continues to have the strength and gain new business and strengthen our relationships with our experience required to perform its duties effectively.
Sustainability In 2011 Intertek reviewed and reaffirmed its commitment The Board extends its thanks to all of our employees around the to sustainability.
Whilst being a service provider means that world for their continuing commitment and work which has made Interteks operations have a lower impact on the environment 2011 another successful year.
than other business sectors, we are mindful of the impact that Outlook our operations may have on our communities, employees, Our strong growth drivers combined with our strategic focus on customers and the environment.
supporting global quality needs give us confidence that we will report another year of strong results in 2012 and extend our track Intertek is a global and local business with operations that span record of growth delivery into the future.
more than 1,000 laboratories and offices.
The Groups approach to sustainability reflects this diversity.
Intertek has a global sustainability policy framework with programmes for implementation down to the local level.
This enables local management to adapt these global policies and implement them appropriately in their respective areas and local environment.
Since joining the Group I have been impressed by the many ways in which Interteks services are helping to protect human health and the environment.
Intertek is helping companies to develop safer, greener products and to run safer operations with better integrity and a lower social and environmental impact.
It plays an important role in helping companies achieve compliance with safety, quality and environmental regulations and helping them to adapt their products and processes to meet future regulations.
Given the commitment of our people and their spirit of good corporate citizenship, our sustainability efforts will help underpin GVUVSF CVTJOFTT HSPXUI :PV DBO SFBE NPSF BCPVU PVS QSPHSFTT in this area in the Sustainability and CSR report which starts on page 30.
