Chairmans Statement At Invensys, we have three world class divisions and a management team to match.
Our task for the future is to takeour strong market positions, our excellent technology, our committed people and our financial strength, and create an evenbetter future for Invensys and its shareholders.
Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman Underlying EPS p Dear shareholder At Invensys, we have three world class I am pleased to report that Invensys divisions and a management team to produced another improvement in match.
Our task for the future is to take performance during the year ended ourstrong market positions, our excellent 19.8p 31March 2011.
We increased revenue technology, our committed people and by9% at CER to 2,486million and ourfinancial strength, and create an Underlying EPS were 19.8p operating profit beforeexceptional evenbetter future for Invensys and its 2010: 13.4p, up 48% itemsby 5% at CERto262million.
As our new Chief Executive, Wayne Edmunds, elaborates upon in Invensys Operations Management hisstatement on page 14, we have the produced record results, clearly benefiting businesses and plans to achieve this: from its success in winning large greenfield Dividend p itisnow all about execution.
projects in emerging markets, executing on its advanced applications strategy, and Dividend and dividend policy a strong recovery in industrial capital The Board has recommended a final expenditure indeveloped countries.
The 4.0p dividend of 2.5 pence per share, which global rail infrastructure markets remained brings the total dividends payable in Recommended final dividend strong: however, Invensys Rail experienced respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 of 2.5p per share 2010: 2.0p : a small decline in profitability due to cost to4.0 pence per share, an increase of one total dividends of 4.0p per overruns on three mass transit contracts third over the payments of 3.0 pence per share 2010: 3.0p and its order intake was affected by the share in respect of last year.
Subject to timing ofthe award of large contracts.
approval by shareholders at the Annual Invensys Controls produced a performance General Meeting on 28 July 2011, the final broadly in line with last year despite dividend will be paid on 5 August 2011 revenue being held back by weaker than toshareholders on the register at expected consumer markets, particularly 24June2011.
We have decided to inNorthAmerica.
introduce a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP, beginning with this final dividend, which will enable shareholders to reinvest their dividends directly into Invensys shares.
Details of the DRIP are contained inseparate documentation mailed toshareholders.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview The Boards dividend policy seeks to Outlook Invensys Controls major appliance balance the income needs of shareholders Invensys Operations Management customers are expecting modest growth with the needs of the Group to retain the continues to see improved demand across inour major markets in North America and resources and flexibility to enhance further all regions, with increased industrial capital Europe and we expect to outperform the our growth prospects.
expenditure in North America and Europe market due to new product introductions and further building of new capacity and market share increases.
We will also be Accordingly, we remain committed to our elsewhere, especially in the oil and gas and putting a greater focus upon higher-margin progressive dividend policy with future power sectors in the Middle East and Asia.
sectors such as wholesale and commercial.
dividend growth reflecting more closely the long-term sustainable trend in The global rail infrastructure market remains On a constant currency basis, we expect underlying earnings per share andfree strong with several large projects, both ayear of further progress.
greenfield and brownfield, currently being bid for by Invensys Rail across the world.
The Board Revenue growth will be supported by On 24 March 2011, the Board announced thelarge order book and margins are that Ulf Henriksson had stepped down as expected to remain in line with FY 2010 11s Chief Executive and as a director and that reported outcome, reflecting ongoing Wayne Edmunds, who had been Chief bidding and development costs and further Financial Officer since 2009, had been investment in developing a presence in appointed Chief Executive.
David Thomas, emerging markets: in the medium term, we Sir Nigel Rudd who has held senior financial roles within expect margins to be inthe range of 1517%.
Chairman the Group since 2002, was appointed Acting Chief Financial Officer and a permanent appointment will be made indue course after consideration of internal and external candidates.
With effect from 19 May 2011, Deena Mattar has been appointed to the Board asan additional non-executive director.
She was formerly Group Finance Director of Kier Group plc.
Deena joined Kier Group in 1998 as Finance Director of Kier National, having previously held senior positions at KPMG, and was appointed to the board asGroup Finance Director in 2001.
She is achartered accountant and will join the Audit Committee.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
