Chairman's statement I was delighted to be invited to join AMEC as your A final point on the board.
We have commenced a Chairman in June 2011.
I have watched with interest process to independently evaluate the effectiveness the successful and transformational journey of the last of the board.
Outside consultants will complete the few years and it is clear to me that there is more to process in the months ahead and I will share the come and much that I can contribute.
findings and conclusions in next year's report.
Prior to becoming your Chairman, my career was spent in the global professional services market, latterly as the Global Chairman of Deloittes.
This background is My overriding impression is the extremely relevant to AMEC's business activities.
"Since sheer professionalism and expertise joining I have spent a considerable amount of time of our employees. """
visiting AMEC businesses and projects, meeting with the senior management team, our people across the Board priorities group, customers and shareholders.
I wanted to more So what role does the board take in supporting the fully understand our business culture, our priorities and delivery of excellence and sustained growth in our what will contribute towards the continued success of performance?
For me, there are three key elements.
My overriding impression is the sheer professionalism and expertise of our employees.
Our Firstly, we need to debate and agree the strategy customers rely on our ability to deliver their projects on the company is to follow and then monitor the time, on budget and without causing harm.
It is clear performance against the strategic goals.
One of the to me that we take this responsibility seriously and that things that excites me about AMEC is its ambition - it is this proven ability to deliver excellence that will without it, no growth strategy will be achieved.
Our underpin our future growth.
Vision 2015 growth strategy was first outlined in late The board 2009.
Since that time the economic outlook has In commenting on the board, I will start by thanking changed and uncertainty has increased.
AMECs my predecessor, Jock Green-Armytage, for his management understand what they are good at, have contribution as Chairman for seven years and as a built solid, long-term customer relationships and have director for seven years before that.
The transition made sure that the company is well positioned across process between the two of us went very smoothly.
Our recent debate on strategy at the board reaffirmed the core principles of Vision 2015 Turning to the directors.
Over the early months and its continued appropriateness.
of my chairmanship I have prioritised gaining an understanding of each of the directors and the Secondly, we have to be certain that the company has contribution they can and do make.
I feel fortunate the right people in place to deliver.
This means not to be working with such a strong team of executive only assessing the management skills currently in and non-executive directors, each with the relevant place, but also ensuring the mechanisms are in place experience, skills and determination to take our to develop future talent and plan for succession.
My board colleagues have much to know from my own experience, a company that can contribute and the way the non-executive team support attract the right talent and engage and motivate its management, yet challenge where appropriate, has employees gains that extra edge which provides been very evident.
A key element of our people plan is how they are remunerated and this, particularly Notwithstanding the above observations, I believe we as far as directors are concerned, is very much in the do need to do more to ensure the diversity of the board public eye at the moment.
Not surprisingly, I have better reflects the organisation itself.
Those of you who examined very carefully the practices and policies have been shareholders for some time will know that we employ in this area.
The AMEC plan for senior up until 2009 we had two female directors on the board.
executives, including the directors, is to align annual Our ongoing succession planning is clearly focused on addressing diversity while adding to the skills base.
bonus plans and long-term incentives with the company's performance based on hard measures in 4 4 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials respect of growth in earnings before interest and tax, Looking ahead earnings per share growth, cash generation and total We have a highly energised and extremely able team shareholder return.
A detailed report in respect of in AMEC, focused upon our clients and on clear, directors is included in the remuneration committee transparent goals.
On your behalf, I would like to thank Samir Brikho, his Thirdly, we must ensure that an appropriate level of management team and all AMEC's 27,000 people for governance is in place.
I have reviewed the governance their hard and valuable work in 2011. structure we have in place in the company, including the board committees, the management committees, risk management and oversight generally: and whilst John Connolly everything is subject to continuous improvement, I Chairman believe our structure is fit for purpose.
I have outlined my views on this in more detail on page 46, in the 21 February 2012 corporate governance statement.
Good governance has to be more than just a set of policies and procedures: it should guide the decisions taken by all our employees on a daily basis.
During 2011 we reviewed and refreshed our Code of Business Conduct and our values, in order that they remain real and relevant to our employees.
I have been pleased to see so much evidence of this: we have achieved our best ever safety performance: yet again been ranked sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability index and one of Canadas top 100 best employers: made charitable contributions of 506,000, largely by matching the fund-raising activities of our employees: and, not least, regularly won repeat business from our customers.
Performance and shareholder returns In a global environment which continues to be complex and challenging and to see frequent lowering of economic growth projections, AMEC has performed well.
As reported in more detail in the Chief Executive's review, our company had revenue growth in 2011 of 11 per cent and growth in earnings per share of 13 per cent.
In light of the continued strong performance, the board is recommending a final dividend of 20.3 pence, payable on 2 July 2012 to shareholders on the register on 1 June 2012.
This would bring the total dividend for the year to 30.5 pence, an increase of 15 per cent over 2010.
It is the boards intention to continue with a progressive dividend policy.
Given the strength of the balance sheet, the board has decided to commence a share buyback programme of 400 million.
We expect to complete this over the next 12 months.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 5
