06 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Chairmans statement Record financial results Iain Paterson, Non-executive Chairman Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 07 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group performance To support its growth strategy, the Board has The Group has delivered record financial worked to strengthen further the executive results following a strong operating and senior management team.
Revenues of 155.5 million committed employees support the management 2010: 113.5 million and headline profit team throughout our territories and the Board before tax of 51.4 million 2010: 36.6 million would like to extend its thanks and appreciation have resulted from increased volume sales of for their efforts over the past year.
Pre-tax profit for the year was 39.1 million 2010: 31.3 million.
The Board fully supports the updated UK This growth combines a first time contribution Corporate Governance Code and recognises from acquisitions made during the year with a that good governance supports the long-term strong recovery in the Groups principal trading health of the Group.
We are conscious of our market, Moscow, and with the holding of its stewardship responsibilities including our role largest biennial event, the Moscow International in setting values which underpin our Group Oil & Gas Exhibition.
As Chairman, I am mindful of my personal responsibility for leading the Board Headline diluted earnings per share of 16.6p and ensuring it operates effectively.
The Board is a 43% improvement on last years comparable Effectiveness Review carried out during the 155.5m figure of 11.6p per share: fully diluted earnings year confirmed the Board and its Committees per share was 12.6p 2010: 9.8p.
The Group continue to work effectively and the insights Revenue has finished the year with a positive net cash provided have been used to set a clear action balance of 5.5 million 2010: 23.0 million plan for the year ahead.
after making investments of about 50 million to expand its portfolio of events.
The Group Dividend remains highly cash generative and, as at The Board has a good record of maintaining 25 November 2011, had a net cash balance of a progressive dividend policy while ensuring 4.6 million, after paying for the recently earnings cover of more than two times across announced Autoexpo acquisition.
The interim dividend was increased from 1.7p to 1.9p and the proposed The Group made three important acquisitions final dividend is 4.2p 2010: 4.0p, making a full 6.1P in the year, all of which were consistent with dividend for the year of 6.1p 2010: 5.7p.
The Dividend per share its strategy for growth in its target emerging final dividend will be paid on 13 February 2012. markets.
MVK, primarily a Moscow exhibition business, was acquired in December 2010 and Outlook brought good market positions in sectors where The Group has enjoyed a strong recovery in ITE had little or no representation.
The Group its core Moscow market.
The regional markets extended its presence in the growing regional in Russia have also enjoyed a recovery and markets of Russia by acquiring an exhibition the adjacent CIS markets are now showing business based in Krasnodar in March 2011.
In improving results, albeit not yet as strongly July 2011, the Group completed the acquisition as in Russia.
There is expected to be further of 60% of Yapibuild which is the major economic growth in Russia this year as well as a construction event in Turkey.
continuation of the recovery in the CIS markets.
Board and management At 25 November, forward bookings are The Board has seen some changes during 93 million which is in line with the Boards the year.
Malcolm Wall moved abroad and expectations and on a basis represents growth consequently stepped down as a Non-executive of circa 8% over last years revenues booked at Director at the end of August 2011.
I would like the same time.
The Group has a strong portfolio to thank Malcolm for his contribution over the of exhibitions in emerging and growing last five years and particularly for chairing the markets.
With its cash flow and strong balance Remuneration Committee since 2008.
Linda sheet, the Group is in an excellent position to Jensen joined the Board as a Non-executive continue to grow its business both organically Director in July 2011.
Linda has relevant and and through selective acquisitions.
The Board current experience having worked in Russia for remains focused on executing its strategy and, five years and is now running a media business whilst ITE is not immune to changes in the based in Eastern Europe.
She brings to the world economy, the Board remains confident Board substantial emerging market business of the Groups future prospects.
Neil England, who has been a Non-executive Director of the Group since 2008, has taken on the role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Iain Paterson Non-executive Chairman 28 November 2011
