ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 02 Chairmans Statement Archie Norman Our emphasis remains on growing sustainable shareholder value Dear Shareholder Nearly two years ago, after far reaching Whilst these early results are reassuring, the changes to the Board and leadership of ITV, scale of the task ahead remains considerable.
we outlined a new five year Transformation The television landscape both here and Plan.
The purpose of the plan was to improve abroad is evolving and this year will see public the performance of the core UK television consciousness of online connected television broadcast business whilst growing revenues rising as new devices and services are from international content and multi-platform launched.
This will afford opportunities for distribution.
Rebalancing the business in this integrated content owners and producerway will not only improve returns from the broadcasters like ITV.
But in the long term it existing free-to-air business but should also will also open up the market to potential new deliver revenues and profits which command entrants and further fragmentation.
a higher valuation multiple for ITV Similarly online advertising is occupying an shareholders and create a platform for growth.
increasing share of the marketing budget.
The pace of change is increasing and the way We are now well into the first phase of this people consume content is evolving faster strategy and progress is very clearly set out by than ever.
Having already embarked on a Adam Crozier in this report.
Turnarounds of this programme to rebuild our technology and kind are never plain sailing and there are reduce dependence on free-to-air advertising challenging problems still to solve.
But the it is imperative that we continue the improved financial results are particularly transformation to create a truly multisignificant in two respects.
First, they indicate platform content business.
Top: The Jury, produced by ITV Studios and that fixing the basics in the core business, broadcast on ITV1, won an International Emmy in 2011. tightening up on costs and introducing a Behind the results therefore sits a story of far sharper performance driven culture, is reaching change.
Most importantly this Bottom: Quiz show The Chase, produced by delivering improved margins there remains includes changes in people, culture and ITV Studios, continues to deliver weekday audiences of over 2 million.
untapped potential in the conventional organisation.
At all levels ITVs performance broadcast model.
Secondly, the content depends on the talent we attract and the business under a comprehensively new team motivation, attitude and skills of our people.
has turned a corner and is already showing About half of our leadership group has potential to grow both in the UK and changed.
ITV is a sought after place to work internationally.
This reinforces our belief that for media professionals and we are confident ITV can use its UK creative base and integrated we can continue to attract creative talent producer-broadcaster model to build a much both in the UK and abroad.
The organisation is larger global content business.
working much more effectively as One ITV and a more performance driven culture is emerging.
Historically ITV has been a very UK centric business but in the next phase ITV will become a more international business in which ideas are rapidly networked across the markets in which we operate.
com Stock code: ITV 03 Coronation Street is an important part of our schedule on ITV1.
It is sold around the world to other broadcasters and special editions are sold directly to consumers in DVD format through ITV Global Entertainment.
Now that the problems we face are being Since changes made to the Board two years Interim Dividend addressed and the balance sheet has been ago we have established a renewed restored we will look for ways of accelerating approach to governance and Board process.
So although our base plan relies The Board works as a team committed to on organic growth, if value enhancing the objective of creating long term acquisition opportunities arise, particularly in shareholder value.
Our approach is to international content, we will consider them, conduct the Board process in a spirit of albeit based on rigorous strategic and openness that encourages forthright debate financial criteria.
Final Dividend Whilst the Company is focused on annual Finally, the enormous strides that have been 1.2p performance targets we are making made in strengthening our balance sheet, the investments in people, content and encouraging improvement in profit and our technology for the long term value of the confidence in the Transformation Plan, mean business.
Although the Transformation Plan is the Board has proposed a final dividend of 1.2p being delivered against the context of a making a total dividend of 1.6p for the year.
Total Dividend complex regulatory environment for UK broadcasting, we do not see regulation as a 1.6p barrier to delivery of the strategy and we have started discussions with Ofcom and the Government about the ITV Channel 3 licences, the current terms of which end in 2014.
Archie Norman Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 04 www.
com Stock code: ITV 05 Chief Executives Review Strategy & Operations Strategy & Operations Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 06 Chief Executives Review Strategy & Oper yp ations Adam Crozier ITV has produced a strong set of financial al results with continued growth in revenue e and profitability and further improvement nt in our balance sheet strength Overview of results Non-NAR revenues Online we have improved the performance of ITV has produced a strong set of financial m itv.
com and ITV Player, we have made our results with continued growth in revenue content available on more platforms and, and profitability and further improvement 1000 with our recent video on demand VOD deals in our balance sheet strength.
This was with Sky, Netflix and Lovefilm, we are driving achieved against an unsettled economic our pay strategy forward.
External revenues were up 4% at 900 increased long form video views by 44%.
2,140 million in a broadly flat television advertising market.
Revenue growth was ITV Studios, under the new management 800 driven largely by our non-net advertising team, performed strongly both in the UK and revenue non-NAR which, in line with our internationally.
New commissions were up 28% strategic priorities, grew significantly, up to 111, which has driven the increase in 700 11% or 93 million to 922 million.
ITV Studios also increased its share of ITV1 output from 53% to 55% as we This revenue growth, together with our tight continue to strengthen the creative relationship control on costs, has fed through to a 13% between Broadcasting and Studios.
increase in EBITA to 462 million, with Net cash debt adjusted EPS up 23% at 7.9p.
We delivered m Our Vision 20 million of cost savings, which was in We are operating in an evolving and excess of the 15 million target.
Our 100 highly competitive digital market in which continued focus on cash and costs and our 0 advances in technology are changing the high profit to cash conversion saw us end way in which people consume media.
We the year with a positive net cash position of 200 are transforming our business so that we 45 million, having begun the year with net are able to respond to the challenges of debt of 188 million.
This gives us a strong 400 new technologies, changing patterns of financial base as we invest further in our user behaviour and new market entrants, 600 key strategic priorities.
while also ensuring that we are in a position to take advantage of the opportunities We have made progress across the which the digital environment offers.
The business and against virtually all of our key combination of our strong channel brands, performance indicators in 2011.
We saw a access to content and commitment to our solid performance on-screen, with ITV Family producer-broadcaster model gives us share of viewing SOV up by 1% in 2011 and significant advantages but we are under the digital channels continuing to show no illusion about the need to remain strong growth with SOV up 10%.
ITV1 SOV, focused on the task ahead.
which benefited from the successful launch of ITV1 1, was down 2%, and ITV Family share of commercial impacts SOCI was down 1% but we will continue to work to improve these performances.
view the Adam Crozier interview online @ ar2011.
com Stock code: ITV 07 Awards 2011 12 The high quality of the content we produce and the programming we make famous on our channels has been recognised by many industry awards during 2011, including: Three Royal Television Society Awards including X Factor for Best Entertainment Show, Ant & Dec for Best Entertainment Performance Im a Celebrity and the Road to Coronation Street for Best Single Drama.
Eight BAFTAs including ITV News at Ten for Best News Coverage, The Cube for Best Entertainment Programme and The Only Way is Essex for the YouTube Audience Award.
Four Primetime and one International Emmy Awards including Downton Abbey for Best Mini-series or Movie.
Five Broadcast Digital Awards including ITV2 for Best Entertainment Channel and Channel of the Year.
Eight National Television Awards including Coronation Street for Best Serial Drama, This Morning for Best Factual Programme and Im a Celebrity for Best Reality Programme.
Terrestrial Channel of the Year Award for ITV1 at the Edinburgh Festival.
Our vision remains to create world class We are less than two years into the content which we can make famous on our Transformation Plan and there are clear channels, before exploiting its value across signs that we are making good progress multiple platforms, free and pay, in the UK and against our strategic priorities, but there is internationally.
Content creation therefore lies still a great deal to do.
As we continue to at the heart of our Transformation Plan and improve the efficiency and performance of we are encouraged by the momentum that is ITV, we will also look at further ways to building.
The high quality of content we rebalance our revenue streams as we focus produce and the programming we broadcast on content, pay and online.
on our channels has been recognised by many industry awards.
We are also encouraged by the prospects for our free-to-air television business given current trends within the market.
As we approach the end of analogue switch-off in the UK, the impact of fragmentation on audiences has already largely been felt.
The daily average number of minutes of television watched has been rising in the UK in recent years, reaching record levels in 2010, and was broadly flat year-on-year in 2011 at 4 hours 2 minutes.
Live viewing via television sets is still around Top: Endeavour, a new drama produced in association with ITV Studios, attracted 8.2 the same level as it was in 2004, but viewing million viewers when it was broadcast on via other devices is growing.
VOD viewing to date has been incremental.
Bottom: Coronation Street averaged 9.4 million viewers in 2011 which was 0.4 million higher than the average Eastenders audience.
Terrestrial CHANNEL OF THE YEAR Strategy & Operations Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Directors Report Overview
