Business review Chairmans statement Our Financial Results We have delivered another strong set of results.
Good sales growth combined with cost efficiency savings offsetting inflationary increases, helped deliver growth in both operating margin and return on capital.
Underlying profit before tax is up nine per cent to 665 million and underlying earnings per share are up 10.9 per cent.
David Tyler In addition to this, shareholders benefited from our progress Chairman in increasing the estimated value of our property estate by 0.7 billion to 10.5 billion in the year.
The sale and leaseback of a number of supermarkets that had no further property development potential contributed to property profits of 108 million.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 10.8 pence per share, making a full year dividend of 15.1 pence, an increase of 6.3 per cent over the previous year.
Our Performance Our Board The Board is pleased with the performance of Sainsburys over In June 2010, Mike Coupe and Darren Shapland assumed new the last year.
We have gained market share and we now have 21 roles as Group Commercial Director and Group Development million customer transactions a week, an increase of one million Director respectively and John Rogers, Property Director, on last year.
We have attracted new customers to our existing was appointed to the Board as the new Chief Financial Officer.
estate as well as to our new stores.
This is a strong demonstration In January 2011 Matt Brittin, UK and Ireland Managing Director of our universal appeal in what has been a challenging year for of Google, joined as a Non-Executive Director.
We also appointed customers with increases in the cost of living and uncertainty Helen Buck to the Operating Board as Convenience Director in about job prospects causing them to shop around for the best June 2010. value.
This performance has been achieved through continued focus on providing great product at fair prices: this year alone we In May this year, we announced that Darren Shapland intended launched over 5,000 new or improved products into our stores to stand down from the Board with effect from this years AGM.
and we have continued to communicate our great value, for Darren plans to pursue a number of personal interests in the example through our Value where it matters campaign.
future but he will, however, remain with Sainsburys as NonExecutive Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
I would like to thank We have also made excellent progress against our strategic Darren very much for the extremely important role he has played objectives as we aim to continue to improve profitability by in helping to reposition Sainsburys from recovery to growth.
appealing to an ever wider range of customers and increasing our reach across the UK.
In particular, in the past two years we have Luke Jensen, who is currently Managing Director Non-Food, and increased gross store space by 15.9 per cent, exceeding the target a member of the Operating Board, will take over the role of Group we set ourselves in 2009.
This increase in space, particularly Development Director assuming Darrens responsibilities except through supermarket extensions, has helped our clothing and for Convenience, the Bank and Property.
Direct responsibility for general merchandise grow at over three times the rate of food in Convenience and Property will move to Justin King and John the year.
Our online business has also seen significant growth of Rogers respectively.
over 20 per cent as we extend our offer and make it easier for customers to shop online with us.
It is testament to the strength in depth of the team and to the Sainsburys brand that we are able to implement these changes.
Our Values I would like to wish each of these colleagues every success in their new roles and I am sure their experience will serve us well.
Our values are core to the way we conduct our business.
Our customers expect us to trade responsibly and ethically without Outlook compromising on quality or value, and this remains at the heart of everything we do.
We are proud that we continue to be the We have a wonderful set of assets at Sainsburys: strong worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade goods and also the UKs relationships with our customers: a trusted and respected brand: largest retailer of RSPCA Freedom Food products.
Our hat-trick of 934 stores across the UK: deep knowledge of the sector: 150,000 awards at the 2010 Retail Industry Awards Community Retailer loyal and dedicated colleagues and developing complementary of the Year, Convenience Retailer of the Year and Seafood Retailer businesses.
With this background, we believe that significant of the Year demonstrates that our strengths and values are further value for shareholders can be created in the years ahead recognised throughout our industry.
by investing further in the business: in our products, in our channels, in our store portfolio, and in other related businesses.
Our Colleagues Even in the difficult economic environment for UK consumers that we can anticipate during the next year, we expect to make further Our colleagues share Sainsburys values, and the Board and I are good progress.
indebted to them for the way they provide a great experience for our customers with such energy and responsibility.
I would like to thank them all for their commitment throughout the year.
Our colleagues are also a great example of the benefits a diverse workforce can bring.
New and different perspectives on the many challenges we face help us to understand and adapt to the changing needs of our customers.
I am delighted our colleagues David Tyler will share in a bonus of around 60 million this year.
Chairman 4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
