34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Contents 34 Letter from the Chairman of the Board 36 Board of directors and biographies 38 Report of the directors 39 Corporate governance 45 Directors remuneration report Letter from the Chairman of the Board Dear Shareholder, I wanted to give you a feel for how the Board operates and how, I believe, it contributes to an effective decision-making process.
How does the There are some key factors that ensure that we operate effectively as a team: We make sure that all the meetings are well organised, with material supporting Board work as a team?
the debates thoroughly prepared and sent out well in advance.
Alongside formal meetings, we ensure that all directors have regular access to me, Allister Langlands and Ian Marchant our senior independent director We expect everyone on the Board to have a strong voice, bringing fresh and challenging views to the Board table All of the Board members apply their experience and skills to help develop the Groups understanding of risk and the mitigating steps taken We look to balance the skills and experience of the Board members to meet the needs of the business How do we balance We carefully plan succession of retiring Board members to maintain an appropriate balance of skills, diversity, experience and personalities to promote incisive debate.
We the skills and experience have also looked to add relevant skills as the Group has grown and developed over the of the Board?
period since IPO, including more power sector exposure and more understanding of working practices in the Middle East.
The balance of skills and experience among our non executives is key and is summarised on the page opposite.
How did the Board The Board plays a key role in contributing to the strategic thinking of the Group at a very early stage.
We held six scheduled meetings during 2011, alongside a number of spend its time?
meetings to review progress on the acquisition of PSN, sale of Well Support and the return of cash.
We look to balance the agenda between the regular items we cover at each meeting, areas that we look at annually and the major developments that arise through the course of the year.
The dates of the meetings and the key items covered are set out on the page opposite.
Throughout the year, we also look to deepen the Boards understanding of our markets, the diversity of our business and customer relationships through a series of presentations from senior management and site visits.
We look to use the Board evaluation process to assess how the Board and its How does the Board committees are working.
We try to determine whether the right issues are being evaluation process work and discussed and that matters are being addressed in a forward-looking way.
We also what have we learnt from it?
look to ensure that the process of the evaluation leads to improvements in the Boards effectiveness.
Overall, I am confident that we have a strong Board that acts in the long-term interests of the company.
I, and all of the directors, value the Boards challenge and the open debate.
Details of our governance are contained in the following section pages 35 to 55.
Sir Ian Wood, Chairman Energy Supporting Energy Governance go online at www.
com 35 : Further reading Board of directors and biographies pages 36-37 Report of the directors page 38 Corporate governance page 39 Directors remuneration report page 45 Non-executive directors skills and experience Years on Director the Board Key experience Ian Marchant senior independent director 5 Public company board, power sector, finance, government and regulation Michel Contie 1 International oil & gas Chris Masters Retiring at AGM 9 International industrial services sector, public company boards John Morgan Retiring at AGM 13 Oil & gas major and independent, public company boards, remuneration practice Neil Smith 7 International power sector David Woodward 4 International oil & gas in particular, the Middle East and Caspian Jeremy Wilson Appointed August 2011 1 Oil & gas advisory, international finance and financial markets A typical Board agenda Regular items The following are covered at each meeting: HSE report, Chief Executives report, Divisional updates, HR report, Financial update including treasury and funding, and investor relations.
The Board also receives a series of management presentations and has the opportunity for site visits through the year Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Annual agenda items included Acquisition performance review AGM statement review Annual HR update Audit Committee report to the Board Annual HSE presentation Audit Committee report to the Audit Committee report to the Board Board Corporate Governance review Audit Committee report to the Board Corporate Governance review Ethics update Remuneration Committee report to the Board Ethics update Pre-close trading statement Remuneration Committee report review to the Board Strategy update Remuneration Committee report to the Board Review of shareholder feedback Review of half year results and and strategic positioning with interim report Review of preliminary statement advisers and annual report Review of risk Strategy update Review of risk Strategy update Additional 2011 business The Board allows for time on other items where necessary.
In 2011, considerable time was spent on the Wood Group PSN integration, the sale of the Well Support division, and the return of cash to shareholders, including the quantum and method.
The Board evaluation process Matters considered Observations Action taken to be taken The effectiveness of the Board and Committee feedback to the Board Committee feedback sessions to be formally committee meetings appreciated timetabled Individual director performance and Detailed questionnaires analysed by the Results reviewed by the Board and in an assessment of the Chairman Company Secretary separate meetings between the Chairman and individual directors The nature and extent of the The non executive directors in particular Target of two Board meetings outside UK per benefit from meetings around the Group, site year Boards interaction with the management of the Group visits and presentations from management Aim for four presentations from management and offer of site visits as often as practicable
