Chairmans Statement Sir John Banham Chairman I am delighted to report, in what will be my final statement to Despite the recession, we have continued to invest in new, you as Chairman, that Johnson Matthey performed very well in highly efficient manufacturing capacity, for example completing 2010 11 benefiting from good demand for its products, strong our emission control catalyst manufacturing plants in Macedonia, precious metal prices and the actions that the management to supply both light and heavy duty catalysts to the European team took during the recession to reduce costs and improve market, and Smithfield, Pennsylvania, to serve the North the efficiency of your companys operations.
American heavy duty diesel market.
As markets have recovered, As I outlined in my statement to you last year, the board, we are now seeing the benefits of our investments in world the executive management team and employees at all levels class manufacturing facilities to meet the demand for our seized the opportunities presented by the economic crisis.
As a products around the world.
result Johnson Matthey not only performed relatively well during During the recession, the company took early and decisive the downturn but returned to strong growth in 2010 11, with action to reduce costs.
However, this was not done at the underlying earnings per share up 38% to a record 119.0 pence.
expense of research and development, which provides the high This represents a compound annual growth rate of more than technology products and manufacturing processes that enable 10% over the five years that I have been Chairman, despite the us to maintain market leadership and underpins the future impact of the recession in 2008 and 2009. growth of our business.
Rather than cutting our R&D investment Our strategy has served us well and I have no doubt that we have continued to increase it.
Over the next few years our this years strong performance results from the fundamental R&D spend is targeted to rise from 109.8 million to around strength of your company and the actions that we have taken 135 million a year.
As you will see in the Group Strategy over several years.
Johnson Matthey has stuck to its global organic section on pages 8 to 13, part of this additional investment is growth strategy, underpinned by heavy and increasing investment to generate major new business opportunities.
This has been complemented by a number of successful bolt-on acquisitions that have expanded the groups product portfolio and the range of industries and markets that it serves and have made an important contribution to our growth.
