8 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Overview Chairmans statement Kentz delivered another impressive performance in 2011, with growth in order intake, sales and earnings World class finishing ahead of expectations.
In many ways the year represented a significant turning point for the Company: not least with our graduation to the Main performance Market of the London Stock Exchange.
While Company values of Safety, Teamwork and Reputation remain at the foundation of our business, we are facing new challenges all the time through the rapidly shifting landscape of the industry, economic and regulatory environment.
Kentz delivered another impressive The global energy and resources conditions for performance in 2011, with growth in new project development during 2011 continued to be focused on more remote and emerging areas.
order intake, sales and earnings The safety track record that Kentz has built over finishing ahead of expectations.
time is central to our operations worldwide and focus on this is more important than ever when entering new areas.
The Board takes its responsibility for the safety and welfare of employees very seriously and undertakes regular reviews on processes and performance.
The Companys third annual Safety Conference in March 2011 provided an opportunity to bring together people from around the global operations, as well as partners and clients to review and refine procedures.
Strong and sustainable relationships with our clients hinge on our reputation for delivery and alignment with their values.
Kentz continues to strengthen its relationships with key clients through the introduction of client account management plans.
These now provide personalised focus for our key customers where a significant majority of recurring revenues occur.
This has allowed us, going into 2012, to commit greater energy into new client development in the sectors we service and increase our addressable market.
Whilst energy associated stocks were hit during 2011 by a number of credit rating agency downgrades and ongoing European debt concerns, the longer-term outlook for the energy and resources services sectors remains robust.
The management team believes the Companys outlook is very positive and continues to see the benefits of a global approach to servicing clients across the sectors in which we operate.
During the year we have strengthened our senior management and their teams, through recruitment and training and development, in order to meet the demands of future opportunities for Kentz.
overview KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 9 In line with the significant achievements of the Our values past year, the Board has stepped up to embrace new guidance on risk, Board leadership and Safety effectiveness, executive remuneration and The safety and accountability.
These have been set out within our health of all our Annual Report and Accounts through our Committee employees is the Reports.
These Committees have provided direction most important and control over the growth of the Companys business and ensured that we are complying with value held by our all relevant processes, customs, policies, laws, and company: no one institutions.
I welcome an open and honest dialogue gets hurt and with all our shareholders and members of the Board everyone goes have made themselves available to meet with home safe shareholders on request.
Lastly, as you will be aware, following the year end Teamwork it was announced that Christian Brown succeeded We work together Hugh ODonnell as Chief Executive of the Company.
to achieve On behalf of the Board and everyone at Kentz, organisational goals.
I would like to pay tribute to Hugh for his huge contribution to the Company throughout his 12-year tenure.
I personally have enjoyed working with Reputation Hugh enormously and we have all benefited from Our current and his leadership, experience and wisdom.
We are future success delighted that Hugh has committed to a further three stands on our years with Kentz through his exclusive advisory reputation.
It is fantastic for us that his time will be spent on key client relationships and securing new business.
We very much look forward to working with Christian and his management team in the coming months and years and feel confident that the outlook for the business and for our shareholders remains extremely positive.
Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman Chairman
