Ladbrokes plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Pippa Wicks who has been a Dear Shareholder, Chairmans non-executive director since 2004 2011 has been a key development year hasdecided to retire at the coming which has seen significant investment statement AnnualGeneral Meeting and we thank inLadbrokes as part of the strategy to her for her significant contribution.
reinvigorate the business which we laid out in 2010.
Richard and the executive team The Board continues to set the tone for high have remained absolutely focused on the standards of corporate governance, areport key objectives identified last year and have on which is set out on pages 24 to28.
made good progress in delivering them.
During 2011 the Board has been applying the principles relating to its role and In the Digital business we are seeing effectiveness.
This included further evolving a more competitive betting and gaming the strategy for the Companys long-term offer with a combination of better success, holding the executive team technology, a wider product range and accountable in its new matrix style structure a more compelling customer proposition.
for the execution of that strategy, and In Retail I am pleased that we have developing the board structure in a manner maintained a tight control of costs and consistent with the aim of fostering diversity.
1 have grown operating profit, in spite of a I believe that the Board has the right difficult economic climate, with continued combination of skills and expertise, and resilience in the Over the Counter business that Board meetings have a healthy level and really quite impressive growth of debate with the right mix of enquiry and momentum in machines.
support of the executive directors from the But there is much more to come.
weexpect to grow Digital revenues, building upon our investments in technology and the Dividend growth in customers that has been driven The Group recommends paying a final by the increase in marketing spend during dividend of 3.90 pence per share taking the H2 2011.
Notwithstanding tough prospects full year dividend to 7.80 pence per share.
for UK consumers in 2012, these are also This is line with our policy of a target exciting times in the retail business where dividend cover of approximately 2.0 times initiatives to drive a clear growth agenda underlying earnings excluding High Rollers.
The dividend will be payable on 26 April 2012 to shareholders on the register on Organisational Change 16 March 2012.
In September the internal operating structure of the business was reorganised Summary into three main business units: Product, Against the background of a continuing Customer and Channels.
This matrix type Peter Erskine economic downturn I am encouraged by structure means all parts of the business Chairman the performance of the business this year.
are now orientated around a truly Initiatives to control cost and evolve our customer-led approach.
All work closely offer and competitiveness in Retail, strong to develop an increasingly cross-channel growth indicators and continued mobile offer, for example offering more of the innovation in Digital and further planned same games across Retail and Digital improvements in our pricing and trading including mobile.
technology, position Ladbrokes well In April we announced the appointment of for 2012.
Peter Erskine Ian Bull to the plc board as Chief Financial The business continues to be strongly cash Officer.
Ian, who joined us from Greene considers the Groups generative, and newly agreed banking King plc, has a wealth of knowledge within facilities which run until 2016 enhance the the regulated leisure sector as well as performance over strength of the balance sheet and provide a background in growing businesses the past year, and us with flexibility going forward.
within both the digital and retail space.
His experience in operations and of assesses how recent 2012 is a critical year for Ladbrokes to managing a tight focus on costs is deliver on the investments we have made organisational and now being applied effectively in the in the past 18 months and I am confident Ladbrokes business.
Board changes that the plans and people are in place to do just that.
position the business Board and Corporate Governance Two non-executive directors have been Peter Erskine for 2012. appointed to the plc board.
Christine Chairman Hodgson, Chairman of Capgemini UK and Richard Moross, founder and Chief Executive of Moo.
com will join the Board on 1 May 2012, bringing with them complementary skills and experience that will be of significant benefit as we 1 move forward.
