Executive Chairmans statement became seriously ill causing him to connectivity and control systems resign his position and I took over from our Wireless Systems division, as Executive Chairman to lead the directed at meeting the proliferation Group through the next period of of wireless in everyday life.
its growth and development until a new Chief Executive is appointed.
Results Revenue from continuing businesses Strategic progress in 2011 was 491.3 million, up 19% Laird is a global technology leader 2010, 413.7 million.
We saw good in specialist, high-growth markets, growth in 2011 in both our Performance 2011 was a year of great change oering an array of innovative Materials and Wireless Systems for Laird.
During the year we have bespoke solutions.
Throughout divisions, particularly in the first half.
streamlined our organisation focusing 2011 we have continued to the management team on two progress our strategy of servicing a Revenue from our discontinued divisions, Performance Materials and breadth of markets and identifying businesses segment was 94.7 Wireless Systems.
We have integrated opportunities where we can million 2010, 153.7 million.
our recent acquisitions of Cattron and move up the value chain.
Klver into each of these divisions Organic revenue growth and we are exiting our Mechanisms In addition we have expanded through was 12% 2010, 28%.
and Handset Antennae businesses acquisitions into complementary that have been performing poorly.
markets that share the same Sales to what is now our largest OEM requirements for materials science customer in the continuing businesses The continuing businesses have and wireless connectivity solutions, or accounted for 14% of continuing grown revenue by 19% to 491.3 where we have identied opportunities business revenue in 2011, whereas million and underlying profit before to leverage our technology in 2010, sales to our largest OEM tax increased by 43% to 51.7 million.
This customer now in the discontinued Uncertainties around the discontinued also provides a platform from which businesses segment, accounted businesses held back Lairds share to expand our addressable market and for 19% of total revenues.
We have price performance and this prompted where we feel there are opportunities continued to focus on growing an unsolicited and opportunistic for us to improve market share.
our revenue into the full range of approach to acquire the Company markets we serve within the year, by the US Group, Cooper Industries.
We have continued to broaden broadening our customer base.
Cooper did not make a formal oer for our customer base and won Laird and eventually announced their new customers in the year.
We Underlying operating profit from withdrawal of interest at the beginning have expanded our presence for continuing businesses was 58.4 million of August.
This then allowed us to applications in vertical markets such in 2011, up 38% 2010, 42.3 million.
continue our focus on developing and as with the acquisition of Klver, Operating margin was 11.9%, up from improving our business, especially which specialises in active cooling 10.2% in 2010.
The operating profit in important during the second half in medical technology markets, into the second half of 2011, at 29.9 million, of the year when we encountered our Thermal business earlier this improved on the 28.5 million in the a more challenging business year, and by further integrating first half from continuing businesses.
environment in some of our markets.
Cattron into our Wireless Automation and Control Solutions business.
Underlying operating margin in the In July 2011, at the time of our second half of the year was 12.0%, Interim Results, we forecast that We expect the underlying demand compared with 11.7% in the first the earnings per share for the year for our products to continue to half.
This demonstrates meaningful would be not less than 16 pence and grow as electronic devices continue progress towards achieving our I am pleased to report that we met to evolve.
These will require target of operating margin of 15%.
this forecast with underlying earnings more complex heat management per share for 2011 of 16.5 pence.
In and shielding solutions from our Operating profit from discontinued November Peter Hill, Lairds CEO, Performance Materials division, and businesses was 1.0 million in 2011.
6 Global Reach Underlying profit before tax several changes within our business, involvement throughout our from continuing businesses to shorten our lines of communication.
The loyalty and expertise was 51.7 million in 2011, up As previously mentioned, Peter of our talented employees cannot be 43% 2010, 36.1 million.
Hill resigned as Chief Executive in overstated and I would like to thank November 2011.
He had made a them all for their eorts in 2011.
Total exceptional costs for the year substantial contribution over his tenure, including provisions for closing the helping transform Laird into the leading Outlook Handset Antennae business were technology business that it is today.
We expect the underlying demand 140.1 million, of which 23.6 million for our products to continue to are cash and 116.5 million are nonAs we move forward with this grow as electronic devices continue cash asset write-downs.
The closure revised management structure we to evolve.
These will require of this business, announced in June, are also engaged in a process of more complex heat management is progressing according to plan.
Board change as Laird enters this and shielding solutions from our next phase of its development.
Performance Materials division, and Underlying earnings per share connectivity and control systems were 16.5 pence, up 40% on 11.8 Andrew Robb, Chairman of the Audit from our Wireless Systems division, pence in 2010, and is consistent Committee, and Dr Bill Spivey will be directed at meeting the proliferation with our profit forecast at the retiring following the Annual General of wireless in everyday life.
time of the 2011 Interim Results Meeting on 4 May.
All other members of not less than 16 pence.
of the Board will be seeking re-election We are well positioned to benefit as in previous years, and as set out in from the growth anticipated across Dividends the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
a number of the markets we serve, Our dividend policy is to increase although the wider economic outlook returns to shareholders over time, I would like to thank Marty, Peter, remains uncertain.
Innovation while taking account of both the Andrew and Bill for their significant and new products provide added underlying profitability and cash contributions to Laird over the years confidence that we will continue requirements of the business.
and wish them the best for the future.
to grow our business in line with our medium to long-term targets, The Board has declared a 2011 final Paula Bell will be joining the Board, and drive Laird forward in 2012. year dividend of 5.3 pence per share eective from 2 March 2012 and will 2010, 4.2 pence, resulting in a be appointed as the new Chair of total full year dividend of 8.0 pence the Audit Committee eective from 2010, 6.3 pence, in line with our 4 May when Andrew Robb retires.
recommendation for dividend payments, Paula brings excellent international as set out in our Interim Results.
and commercial experience in addition to her financial expertise with her and Also, in accordance with our Interim we look forward to working with her.
Results announcement in July 2011, we will be recommending a full year Laird is a global business which dividend of 10.0 pence and 12.0 pence draws on a diversity of cultures and for 2012 and 2013 respectively.
It is our goal to reect this enriching Management reorganisation diversity across the whole of our and Board composition Group, including the Board.
In August 2011, Marty Rapp stood down from the Laird Board, where he had Employees served as a Director since 2005, and We can only deliver excellence to our resigned from his position as Managing customers and maintain our market Director of Laird PLC, where he had leading positions and global reputation been pivotal in shaping our operational for service and innovation through business.
Following this we have made the hard work and determined 7
