06 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Chairmans Statement Jonathan Silver 2011 was a landmark year for Lamprell.
The acquisition of MIS has added complementary service businesses to the Groups existing offering, a presence in a number of countries in the region including, most significantly, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, it has enhanced the Groups in-house engineering capabilities and provided 2 375,000m of additional yard and fabrication space.
The combined Group now employs in excess of 14,000 people, including labour supply personnel, working in multiple locations across eight countries.
The process of integrating MIS and its subsidiaries into the Group has progressed more quickly than was anticipated and is expected to be completed prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition.
Management is confident that the annual synergies that will be brought about following the acquisition will meet the target of USD 11m.
The Company formally opened its expanded Hamriyah facility at a ceremony marking the official launch of the Groups main facility following over three years of construction and 2011 was a landmark year for Lamprell The Group completed its first significant an investment of over USD 75m.
The Company was extremely honoured to in a number of ways.
The Group acquisition with the NOK 1,869m USD reported revenues of USD 1,148m, the 338m purchase of Maritime Industrial have His Highness Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qassimi, Supreme largest annual revenue in the Groups Services Co. Ltd. Inc. MIS, a history, an increase of 128% on 2010 diversified engineering and contracting Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, open the facility.
With a surface area and adjusted net profit of USD 73.8m, group focused on the energy sector with 10.9% higher than the prior year: the its principal operations based in Sharjah of 365,000m and a quayside of over 1.4km, the Hamriyah yard is one Group secured contract awards in the UAE.
Despite the complexities of totalling USD 1,098m, the second the transaction, the acquisition was of the regions foremost facilities for the manufacture of oil & gas assets, highest in the Groups history: and the completed post the initial negotiations Groups year-end order book, amounting in only 67 days.
In the process, the with capacity to accommodate more than 10 jackup rigs at the quayside to USD 1,215m, is a record.
The Group Company launched its first ever rights continues to be committed to high issue, which achieved a 99.8% acceptance simultaneously and multiple new build rigs in various stages of construction quality and timely project execution.
from shareholders and raised equity, debt and guarantee facilities totalling, within the yard.
The Hamriyah facility in aggregate, USD 530m.
USD 1,098m New contract awards OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 07 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Steven Lamprell President both the finance and oil sectors to demonstrates the Groups determination Year at a glance to build its business further and is our Board whilst retaining Scotts knowledge of our business in an already playing a key part in broadening the Groups offering to its widening important new role.
I am also delighted February to welcome Deena Mattar to the Board customer base.
as a Non-Executive Director with effect Greatship contract for a from the beginning of April 2012.
Deena The Groups record year-end order LeTourneau Super 116E book and strong bid pipeline reflect Mattar, who was formerly Group new build rig Finance Director of Kier Group plc and the high level of interest there is in Lamprells services, a point reinforced holds non-executive directorships at March during 2011 by the multiple major Invensys plc and RM plc, will assume Weatherford contract for contract awards with leading the role of Chairman of the Audit two new build 3000HP international clients including contracts Committee when Richard Raynaut to construct five new build jackups, retires in June of this year.
We are land rigs a wellhead and production utility extremely grateful to Richard for the quarters platform for Nexen and two significant contribution he has made to April new build land rigs.
The Nexen contract the Company during the last six years.
Multiple contracts for rig is a significant step for the Group in refurbishment and terms of developing the North Sea These are exciting times for the Group upgrade market and its increased scale.
and I am pleased to announce that, having considered the current market That these achievements came against conditions, profit earned and cash July a backdrop of continuing economic generated during the year ended Successful acquisition volatility was particularly pleasing, 31 December 2011, the Board is of MIS demonstrating the strength of the recommending a dividend of 8.00 Groups offering even in more difficult cents per share.
If approved, this will be October times.
We are, however, very watchful paid to shareholders on 22 June 2012 Exercise of options by NDC of any impact that continuing economic provided they were on the register on for two new build rigs and concerns may have on our principal 25 May 2012. markets and will continue to work hard official inauguration of to maintain both the quality of our work I am confident that Lamprells Hamriyah facility and the flexibility of our business model reputation for quality, the safe execution to seek to ensure that Lamprell can of work, its technical capabilities, November respond rapidly to any changes in the project execution and delivery, coupled Contracts signed with health of the industry supply chain.
with the dedication and expertise of Nexen for a two level Lamprells management and staff, will wellhead deck and with In January of last year, Christopher enable the Company to continue to Hand joined the Board as Chief deliver value for all its stakeholders.
Jindal for a LeTourneau Operating Officer and in October, Super 116E new build rig we welcomed Jonathan Cooper as Jonathan Silver our Chief Financial Officer with his Chairman December predecessor Scott Doak taking a new Lamprell plc Sale of Hull 108 to role within the Group.
We are fortunate Perforadora Mexico to add Jonathans undoubted skills in USD 1,215m Value of our order book at year end
