Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report Dear shareholder We believe that Logica can create sustainable value over the medium and longer term.
We are focused above all on the quality of our execution in order to achieve this.
I would like to take this opportunity to It is with real regret that we made the Our balance sheet remains strong.
Even thank all of our people on behalf of the decision torestructure 1,300 jobs.
after the cash impact of restructuring in Logica Board for their commitment and However, we believe this will create a more 2012, net debt EBITDA at the end of hard work in what was a difficult year.
sustainable future for this business and the year will be around 1.0x.
To signal It is often the case that people have to the vast majorityof our 41,000 people.
our confidence in Logicas prospects, work even harder in challenging times.
We also took a charge of 39 million we have announced that the proposed That was certainly the case this year and against contracts with our clients where final dividend will remain unchanged at 2.3p.
This takes the full year dividend to Ithank everyone for their resilience and unfortunately we now expect to incur effectiveness in these conditions.
Our collective management of risk 4.4p, which represents an increase of We won 4.6 billion of orders this year should have done a better job in protecting 5% over 2010.
We have initiated improvements in our our commitment to a dividend payout our highest ever and we achieved solidgrowth in revenue to 3.9 billion.
organisation and processes to help avoid of at least 40% of underlying adjusted Both of these were encouraging.
However, a repeat of these issues.
EPS in 2012. profitability was significantly weaker As tough as the decisions of 2011 It is achallenging environment.
with adjusted operating profit falling to were, we believethat the quality of the However, we believe that the business can 114 million from 278 million in 2010, debate we had at the Board and executive create sustainable value over the medium largely because we took restructuring management level was high.
We are focused now and contract charges totalling around enhanced by an important addition to above all on the quality of our execution the Board in 2011, with the appointment in order to achieve this.
The Board undertook a thorough of Himanshu Raja as our new CFO.
We review of our longer-term strategy in welcome him to Logica.
He has made a the autumn in the light of a continued vigorous start in increasing operational competitive environment andpoor rigour and adding to the quality of the economic conditionsin our major markets.
Our review reaffirmed our belief in our We also benefited from a constructive David Tyler existing strategic direction, but emphasised dialogue with our shareholders around Chairman the need for some adjustments to the plan taking the right decisions for the long-term and stronger focus on effective execution.
sustainability of the business and the We therefore accelerated our restructuring cashflow returns Logica is capable of generating.
The changes to the measures plans to position the business for the conditions ahead.
used in our incentive programmes reflect the discussions we had.
Unless otherwise stated, underlying numbers for 2011 have been used for ease of comparison.
For definition of underlying, adjusted and pro forma numbers, see page 45.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 47 Governance
