OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir John Parker MINING COMMODITIES VITAL FOR THE 21ST CENTURY Our commodities help to both fuel growth in developing countries and to enable the continuing technological revolution in the developed economies.
The way in which the mining industry conducts its business, and its Beyond these developments, we have continued to augment our attendant footprint on the environment and on host communities, strong resource base through several exploration successes, and offers a wealth of opportunities to make a positive impact on society.
we are focused on prioritising the most attractive of our $84 billion In this report you will nd many examples of how Anglo American, as pipeline of unapproved projects towards development approval.
a global leader in the industry, is endeavouring to ensure that we uplift and help sustain our neighbouring communities, while protecting the DELIVERING VALUE environment and how we intend to maintain a competitive edge in respect of our peers and deliver value to our shareholders.
We also continue to examine M&A opportunities as one of our strategic priorities in driving value in core commodities.
In November, we announced a key acquisition and a major value enhancing PERFORMANCE AND DIVIDEND divestment.
First, we agreed to acquire the Oppenheimer familys Against a background of difficult operational conditions, including 40% interest in fide Beers.
This presented aunique opportunity for us exceptional ooding in early 2011 at many of our operations in to raise our prole in diamonds, and in early January 2012 our Australia, Chile and South Africa, significant cost ination and, in shareholders voted overwhelmingly to approve the transaction.
the second half, a more uncertain macro-economic landscape, Also in November, in accordance with our rights, we announced Anglo American recorded a sound set of financial and operational the completion of the sale of a 24.5% stake in Anglo American Sur results.
Operating profit rose by 14% to a record level of $11.1 billion AA Sur, comprising a number of the Groups copper assets in Chile, from $9.8 billion in 2010.
The Board proposes a final dividend of to Mitsubishi Corporation for $5.39 billion in cash.
This transaction 46 cents per share, giving a total dividend for the year of 74 cents, highlighted the inherent value of AA Sur as a world class, tier one a 14% increase.
copper business with extensive reserves and resources and significant further growth options from its exploration discoveries, DELIVERING OUR GROWTH PROJECTS valuing AA Sur at $22 billion on a 100% basis.
In an industry that is frequently criticised for its shortcomings in the On the matter of Codelcos option to acquire an interest in AA Sur, eld of project delivery, Anglo American in 2011 commissioned three I should like to emphasise that Anglo American is a responsible major mining operations, all of them on or ahead of schedule and in company that always acts with care, after considering all of the the lower half of the cost curve.
Barro Alto in Brazil, which employs evidence.
We always act within the law wherever we operate, and we proven processing technology, came on stream in March and is always seek to protect shareholder value.
This approach has been ramping up to full production.
In Chile, our expansion at Los Bronces, applied by our Board with regard to the Codelco option.
I also wish to which we commissioned in October, will create one of the worlds reafrm that Anglo American is an approachable company that is biggest copper mines.
In the final weeks of the year, we commissioned open to nding solutions to any problems it encounters anywhere five months ahead of time the Kolomela mine in South Africa, around the world and this includes the Codelco issue.
thereby further enhancing our prole in the high margin seaborne We are fully aware of the headwinds that our Platinum business is iron ore business.
facing: be they cost pressures, safety stoppages or lingering concerns At our biggest project of all, Minas-Rio, despite a series of local over the euro zone.
Platinum is building upon the improvements challenges, we continue to make good progress towards our targeted achieved over the past five years and it has performed well relative first iron ore on ship delivery date in 2013.
In December, we also to the wider industry in light of the challenges.
We recognise, however, announced the go-ahead for a greeneld coal mine in Queensland, that the current level of returns is not acceptable to our investors.
The $1.7 billion Grosvenor project is expected to produce With the full support of the Board, our chief executive Cynthia Carroll 5Mt of metallurgical coal a year over a projected life of 26 years.
and her team will therefore assess the optimal conguration of 04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Overview our Platinum business.
Our aim at Anglo American is to establish As a company, we support government actions to put in place policies a commodities portfolio that can withstand the headwinds and that lead to a long term price on carbon but we want to see this done maximise shareholder value and returns, through the cycle.
in full consultation with stakeholders, from a solid fact base and over a realistic timeframe, so that it does not jeopardise jobs, industry competitiveness, or social and economic development.
SAFETY Most regrettably, the significant improvement in our performance GOVERNANCE over the previous four years in the eld of safety was not maintained in 2011.
The number of people who lost their lives while on company I have now been your chairman for over 2 years and have sought business increased to 17 from 15 in 2010, while there was also a rise over that period to ensure that your Board is strong and inuential, in the number of serious injuries.
In light of this, Cynthia Carroll, with and that we have a Board with the appropriate set of skills and talent the full backing of the Board, has instituted a Group-wide operational to challenge and stress-test our strategy.
risk management initiative across all of our operations.
It incorporates As part of that process, we appointed Phuthuma Nhleko, group a comprehensive programme of independent safety reviews to nd president and former CEO of the MTN Group, to the Board in solutions at site level, in the realisation that until substantial March 2011.
Phuthuma brings impressive leadership and vision in improvements are achieved in this area our ambition of zero harm transforming MTN from a highly successful South African mobile will simply not be attainable.
operator into a significant force in mobile telecommunications services in emerging markets.
You will recall, too, that I paid tribute A CHANGING LANDSCAPE to Nicky Oppenheimer last year, and I was delighted to host our November Board dinner in South Africa to recognise his long Countries today are far more aware, and protective, of the value and important contribution to the Group.
Developing nations and developed economies alike are seeking to increase their share of the mining In terms of enhancing the Boards contribution to our affairs, during cake through a range of means, from establishing joint ventures the year the Board participated in an internal strategy forum, along with mining companies, to windfall taxes and increased royalties, with our most senior executives.
I also oversaw an internally facilitated and even in some cases threatening to push matters to the point Board-effectiveness review in 2010, and in 2011 reported back to of nationalisation of mining assets.
the Board our performance against the objectives set.
In addition, I commissioned an external effectiveness review of the Board and At the same time, the growing demand for metals and minerals its various committees: the results of that review will be detailed in means that mining companies are exploring in regions beyond the 2012 annual report.
their traditional mining jurisdictions, with all their attendant climatic, infrastructural, logistical and other challenges.
This inevitably At the 2011 AGM, the Board also became an early mover in adopting presents a heightened degree of risk and may be accompanied by annual re-election of directors as part of our commitment to setting political instability in some countries where good governance is still the tone of the companys governance from the very top.
Our present and long held commitment, irrespective we are committed to increasing the representation of women on the of where we operate, is to always conduct ourselves to the highest Board excluding the chairman to about 30% by 2013. standards of corporate conduct.
OUTLOOK SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In 2011, there was a distinct slowdown in the major emerging Our approach to sustainable development is one that embodies our economies, alongside continuing fragility in the US and Europe.
desire to be pro-active, and to take the lead in the key sustainability Concerns about global economic growth could linger early in 2012, issues facing our industry.
It is also one that is cognisant of the though we expect stronger activity later in the year and into 2013. pressure from society for ethical and transparent behaviour by the As inationary pressures subside, there is scope for policymakers extractives industry, with downstream consumers demanding greater to stimulate their economies.
In the medium to longer term, we responsibility from mining companies and ethical accreditation in remain optimistic about global economic prospects.
China and India respect of the origin of minerals and metals.
will continue to benefit from technological and productivity catch-up, driving sustained strong growth.
Rising living standards and a growing At our Quellaveco copper project in Peru, for example, we have middle class should drive more demand for industrial commodities.
slowed down progress while we participate in a multi-stakeholder In addition, the US should overcome its recent difficulties, with dialogue and work with the local communities to seek to fully a resumption of healthier long term growth rates as positive trends understand their concerns and aspirations.
In this way, we hope to in demographics and productivity reassert themselves.
reach a fair solution for all stakeholders and a high degree of buy-in for this important mining development.
Climate change is becoming a major issue for the mining industry, and Anglo American seeks to play its part in helping address its causes, and mitigating its effects.
We are an active and vocal Sir John Parker participant in the debate that is taking place on a global, national Chairman and local level, and we are engaging with governments and other key stakeholders to develop equitable and effective climate change policies, and to enable our communities to access clean energy.
At a grassroots level, we are investing in clean coal research and development projects in Australia, South Africa and the USA.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 05
