STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 5 Chairmans statement Meggitt was one of the first UK companies to commit to comprehensive ethics policies.
As Chairman of the Groups Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee, I take great pride in the strength of our programmes.
recruits from leading engineering deliver gearing at or slightly above Growing the Group faculties worldwide.
Participants have 1.5 times net debt to EBITDA earnings Its been over a decade since I joined been given the time and resources to before interest, taxes, depreciation and Meggitt as a non-executive director, focus on specific projects with excellent amortisation by the end of 2015. becoming Chairman in 2004.
During that results, exemplified most recently by time, Meggitt has evolved from a group development work on a critical component Board of directors ofindividually-run industrial businesses for a major engine manufacturer using into an increasingly integrated Alison Goligher was appointed non-executive Meggitts growing capability in additive international enterprise focusing director to the Board in October.
Executive Vice President in Shells Upstream International Division, brings a wealth of We have grown revenue threefold, Doing business the right way experience in technology deployment and organically and by acquisition, increased Meggitts growth has been based on fair integrated project management in the our market capitalisation five-fold and and impartial conduct of business, fully energy sector.
doubled our workforce to over 10,500. compliant with applicable laws and Abrand-new braking systems business In December, non-executive director, regulations worldwide and integrity in has emerged from two significant Philip Cox resigned to take up a new role every business relationship.
acquisitions, both of which also boosted as chairman of Drax Group plc.
We thank ourexisting thermal management and Meggitt was one of the first UK companies Philip for his outstanding contribution to polymers and composites capabilities.
to commit to comprehensive ethics the Board.
Anindustry leader in aircraft fire protection policies, programmes and practice when I will be retiring at Aprils AGM and will and control emerged from another.
we signed the Statement of Adherence to be succeeded by Sir Nigel Rudd, whose the Global Principles of Business Ethics In 2009, we restructured our business extensive international business and for the Aerospace and Defense Industry.
into capability-based divisions with boardroom experience spans many As Chairman of the Groups Ethics and streamlined management that made us industries including those in which Trade Compliance Committee, I take great easier to do business with.
pride in the strength of our programmes.
launched our continuous improvement I have enjoyed my time at Meggitt initiative, the Meggitt Production System immensely and I am proud to have played Capital deployment MPS, which is already having a marked my part in its transformation into a impact on our operational performance Meggitts capital allocation policy focuses FTSE-100 global engineering group with much more to come.
on investing in organic growth, increasing delivering critical products and solutions ordinary dividends in line with earnings in its chosen markets.
I look forward to through the cycle and, where appropriate, Talent seeing even greater success as Meggitt enhancing capability in its core markets Meggitt has a strong focus on talent continues to evolve and grow.
development, sponsoring aspiring I would like to take this opportunity to extend engineers through successive Arkwright As the year closed, we acquired Precision my heartfelt thanks to all Meggitt employees Scholarship Trust awards: entering into Engine Controls Corporation PECC.
This for their outstanding work during my tenure along-term partnership with the leading supplier of actuation systems and as Chairman, particularly after a challenging Institution of Mechanical Engineers to fuel metering valves to manufacturers of year in some of our key markets.
provide training, management and small-frame gas turbines complements leadership development for Meggitt Meggitt Control Systems capability, further engineers: appointing technical fellows: extending its reach in the oil and gas and and creating a world-class biannual power generation sectors.
executive training programme with Oxford Demonstrating our commitment to Universitys Sad Business School.
maintaining an efficient balance sheet, In the last three years we have launched welaunched a share buyback programme a hugely successful graduate training for the first time in 2014.
This is already Sir Colin Terry Chairman programme.
We have attracted the best improving shareholder returns and will 93987 p05.
