Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Strategic report Executive Chairmans statement Our Business Model strong and established Current portfolio underpinning the business model technology franchises with clear execution and investment discipline Micro Focus specializes in managing mature infrastructure software The typical stages of a product life cycle are from new product assets which have been installed and are delivering value to significant introduction through to high growth to broad adoption and maturity, numbers of customers over long periods of time.
Our product portfolio to decline and ultimately obsolescence.
These are depicted in the assets have some or all of the following attributes: following illustration.
Broad based covering all industrial sectors Product life cycle: Industry maturity stages 2.
Significant market positions In any IT system the customers business logic and data remain their competitive advantage.
The key is unlocking this competitive advantage through exploitation of the latest technology innovation such as cloud, big data or virtualization.
Typically customers would be forced into costly, disruptive and risky application re-writes to make this possible but with Micro Focus, customers can take a different approach which we characterize as bridging the old and the new.
By enabling our customers to link their investments in established Introduction Growth Maturity Decline technology with the latest innovation, Micro Focus helps customers gain incremental returns on investments they have already made and to preserve and protect their data and business logic.
The most striking example of this is that an application written in Micro Focus COBOL When considering the investment priorities, both organic and 37 years ago before anyone had thought of Linux, Windows, inorganic, we evaluate our options against a set of characteristics Virtualization, Cloud or wireless communications will work today mapped to each stage of this adoption cycle enabling the in all of those environments.
Micro Focus has made this a reality.
categorization of our product portfolio into one of the four By contrast if a COBOL application had been rewritten in another quadrants represented in the chart below.
language, to execute in Java or.
NET the customer would have to do additional incremental re-writes and incur significant costs every Portfolio management time there was a major technology change.
In essence, we help our customers bridge the old and the new Managing our business through a disciplined, structured enabling them to leverage additional value from their investments approach to product and portfolio fundamentals of maturity in critical business applications.
and future growth or returns potential.
Portfolio composition New Models Growth Drivers subscription, cloud build the future Niche Core optimize returns protect 02 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
