Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Chairmans statement The market in which we operate remains challenging and competitive, but we feel well-placed to continue to grow given the solid foundations of our business.
Bob Ivell Chairman This year has seen us continue to In May we successfully concluded deliver earnings growth while remaining negotiations with the Pension Trustees on track with our priorities.
We have taken regarding the triennial valuation of our 43,000 steps to drive long-term growth in the schemes.
Negotiations had been progressing employees delighting our guests business by focusing on increasing food since before the last valuation in March volumes, improving our infrastructure and 2013, and we reached a settlement whereby on a daily basis allocating our capital in the most effective company contributions increase at a manner.
We also completed the exciting manageable level to reduce the deficit over acquisition of 173 pubs from the Orchid the agreed recovery period.
I am delighted Group, which gives us a great opportunity that we reached a positive agreement for 173 to grow further in the forthcoming years.
both the Company and the Trustees.
largely freehold, managed sites The market in which we operate remains challenging and competitive, but we feel I would like to praise and thank our people, acquired from the Orchid Group well-placed to continue to grow given now at more than 43,000, for their ongoing in June 2014 the solid foundations of our business.
hard work in driving this business forward.
We aim to delight every guest that eats The last year has been full of activity for and drinks with us, which we simply cannot Mitchells & Butlers.
I am delighted that achieve without the support and hard work we were successful in completing the of our people.
acquisition of 173 sites from the Orchid Group.
The opportunity to purchase this We continue to operate in a challenging largely freehold, managed estate presented market.
It is clearly very encouraging to see the type of acquisition unlikely to arise the economic recovery taking place, however again in the near future, and is fully in line consumers have undoubtedly retained their with our clear strategy of growing our share focus on value and quality which developed of the UK eating-out market.
We are able during the recession.
We therefore need to to create value by converting the sites to continue to perform at the top of our game our existing brands and formats, reducing to make every guest visit worthwhile.
central overheads and realising purchasing synergies.
We welcome the Orchid team Reflecting on the last year, we have achieved into our business.
a great deal and generated further value for our shareholders.
This has been achieved while continuing to set solid foundations for our long-term success.
Bob Ivell Chairman Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3
