Chairmans Statement Our three leading brands give us significant strength, breadth and diversity, generating growth and increasing the predictability of the business.
All of our brands are consistent in their ambition to help every household make the most of their money.
Results and strategic progress In parallel, we continued to invest If approved by shareholders at the In 2014 the Groups revenue increased by significantly in our marketing strategy, forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this 10% from 225.6m to 248.1m and including the strengthening of our will bring the total dividend for the year to adjusted EBITDA increased by 13% from digital marketing capability and 8.00p 2013: 7.28p excluding the special 84.0m to 95.2m.
the continuation of our Youre So dividend per ordinary share and will be MoneySuperMarket advertising campaign, paid on 8 May 2015 to all shareholders on Once again, the Group achieved growth both of which helped to drive visitors the register on 27 March 2015.
The total across all three brands: to the Groups websites.
The Youre So dividend for the year will represent an MoneySuperMarket, TravelSupermarket MoneySuperMarket theme has continued increase of 10% on the total dividend paid and MoneySavingExpert, with into the early part of 2015 with the launch in 2013 excluding the special dividend.
TravelSupermarket and of our latest advertising campaign.
MoneySavingExpert performing Board composition and diversity particularly well.
Within We continue to maintain a strong financial We have a strong and balanced Board, MoneySuperMarket, all our business areas position with good cash generation.
Cash with a range of complementary skills to grew, as customers used our services to generated from operations during the year support the strategic and operational help them meet their financial needs.
After repaying 30m of the direction of the Group.
During the year, we loan facility during 2014, the Group ended appointed Andrew Fisher and Genevieve Our three leading brands give us the year with net cash of 13.1m.
Shore as Independent Non-Executive significant strength, breadth and diversity, Directors.
Both have added to the Boards generating growth and increasing the Dividends skills and experience and their predictability of the business.
All of our Our continued confidence in the underlying backgrounds are set out more fully on brands are consistent in their ambition to strength and growth prospects for our page 31 of this report.
We recognise the help every household make the most of business is reflected in our progressive and importance of diversity at Board level and their money.
our Board members represent a wide range of business backgrounds.
During the During 2014, we began a significant Having reviewed the cash required by the year, we also further improved the capital investment programme to business and the performance of the representation of women at Board level.
improve our technology, our data Group, the Company paid an interim capabilities and our customer journeys.
dividend of 2.31p 2013: 2.16p and a special Gerald Corbett retired as Chairman of the Early results from the investment in our dividend of 12.92p per ordinary share on Board in April 2014 and I would like to motor insurance channel are encouraging 12 September 2014.
The interim dividend thank Gerald for his leadership of the and further investment will be made in represented an increase of 7% on the Group over seven years, from the IPO in 2015 to improve the customer journey in interim dividend paid in 2013 excluding 2007 and through the difficult period of home insurance and thereafter in other the special dividend.
This investment will enable us chairmanship, the Group returned close to to generate additional growth from the During the year, the business continued to 300m to shareholders in ordinary and business and will further differentiate our generate cash, and with the business special dividends.
growing, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.69p 2013: 5.12p per Matthew Price joined the Group as Chief ordinary share, representing an increase Financial Officer in April 2014 and brings of 11% on the final dividend in 2013. his diverse career experience to our Group, helping us shape our strategy and future direction as we become a larger and more complex business.
12 MONEYSUPERMARKET ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General At the Annual General Meeting in April, Given the increasing complexity of the Outlook Michael Wemms and Robin Klein will step Group and the formation of a new Board The new year has begun positively and, whilst down from the Board.
Michael joined the Risk Committee, the Board reviewed the we remain alert to the continuing uncertainty Board at the IPO and has been our Senior membership of all the Committees during in the wider economic environment, we Independent Director throughout his time the year and made a number of changes remain confident about our prospects in on the Board whilst Robin joined the Board with effect from 1 January 2015 to ensure 2015.
Our great brands, strong market in 2013.
I would like to thank Michael and the Committees continue to operate positions, experienced people, scale and Robin for their significant contributions to effectively.
The current membership of the breadth of offering, together with the the Board over the years.
Committees are set out in the Corporate investments we are making to improve our Governance Report on page 33. technology and customer journeys, will remain key strengths in the coming year and Board effectiveness In line with good corporate governance, enable us to continue to differentiate As Chairman, I am responsible for the during the year, I ceased to be a member ourselves from our competition.
leadership of the Board and ensuring its of the Board Committees with the effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
exception of the Nomination Committee The Board is responsible for setting the which I chair.
The Board agreed that Sally strategic direction of the Group, monitoring James, as Chairman of the Risk Committee, the achievement of its business objectives, should be a member of all the Committees managing the risks inherent in the business Bruce Carnegie-Brown to ensure that risk is appropriately and maintaining a system of effective Chairman considered in each Committee.
The Corporate Governance Report Governance together with the Audit Committee Report, The Board is committed to high standards Nomination Committee Report, Risk of corporate governance and supports the Committee Report and the Directors principles laid down in The UK Corporate Remuneration Report are set out on pages Governance Code published in September 32 to 57 and describe how the principles of 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code are applied by the Group and Code.
reports on the Groups compliance with the Codes provisions.
Key areas of focus in 2014 included the formation of a new Board Risk Committee which has established a risk framework for Employees the Group and manages the risks in the Our results this year once again reflect the business against a number of risk metrics.
dedication and quality of all our employees We also conducted an external Board across the Group.
We rely on their skills, evaluation, with the assistance of SCT experience, competence and hard work to Consultants, which has helped the Board to drive our business forwards.
Their review how we work, our skills, our passion, innovation and performance are diversity, our capabilities and how we can key assets for the Group and critical to its improve our effectiveness.
We will continue future success.
On behalf of the Board, I to focus on Board effectiveness over the would like to thank all of our employees coming year.
for their significant contribution to the performance of the Group.
