06 Overview CHAIrMAnS StAteMent In A gloBAl eConoMy tHAt HAS reMAIneD CHAllengIng tHe group HAS MADe gooD progreSS AnD DelIVereD A Strong FInAnCIAl perForMAnCe In 2014.
WHIlSt MACro ConDItIonS reMAIn unCertAIn, our InCreASeD InVeStMent In teCHnology leAVeS tHe group Well poSItIoneD to ContInue tHIS progreSS In 2015.
Andrew ShilStOn CHAIrMAn Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2014 Overview 07 It has been encouraging to see the benefits During 2014 Mark robertshaw announced from the one Morgan model starting to be his intention to relinquish his position as realised during 2014. the group achieved an Chief executive officer after serving in that improving level of revenue growth in the year role for eight years.
the Board is very grateful and improving margins.
revenue was 3.8% to Mark for the efforts he made over this higher in the second half than the first on an period to redefine what Morgan is, identify organic and constant currency basis and our core capabilities and put in place the building group eBItA margin was 13.0% in the blocks for a bright future.
second half compared to the first half at 12.6%.
the project to get out of low-value the Board has announced the appointment businesses we had identified has been of pete raby as Chief executive officer with completed in January 2015, and we effect from 1 August 2015. pete joins Morgan continued to invest in new activities.
with an impressive track record in planning and executing business strategy across global Investment in the future was reflected in the manufacturing operations and has an extensive acquisition and successful integration of the background in technology-led innovation.
porextherm business in germany, capital We are delighted to welcome him as Chief expenditure on new facilities particularly executive officer.
for the thermal businesses and an increase in spending on r&D to 2.3% of revenue.
the Board is grateful to Kevin Dangerfield We signed a new joint venture in China to for agreeing to act as interim Chief executive manufacture ceramic cores where there is officer until 1 August, and I am sure that, government commitment to foster domestic together with the great commitment of our manufacture of gas turbines.
there are other staff, there will be a continuation of the positive similar opportunities in China as the economy developments in 2014. rapidly moves into higher value activities.
there were further changes to the Board with performance for the year was inevitably welcomes to Douglas Caster and rob rowley affected by sterling being strong throughout joining the Board, and farewell to Andrew most of 2014, however underlying group given having served seven years most recently epS improved from 21.5 pence in 2013 as Chairman of the Audit Committee and to 22.0 pence in 2014. our net debt at Senior Independent Director.
Andrew has 207.0 million and net debt to eBItDA ratio made an invaluable contribution over this of 1.4 times are low, providing the group with period of transformation of the group.
the ability to invest in the future growth of the business.
It is proposed to pay a final dividend of 7.0 pence for 2014, an increase of 4.5% Andrew ShilStOn over 2013.
CHAIrMAn looking to 2015 we see a continuation of the benefits of positive action to grow both revenue and margins against the backdrop of continuing mixed market conditions.
Morgan will continue to focus and invest in its key technology areas to drive differentiation, positive mix shift and sustainable growth potential.
com AnnuAl report 2014 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FInAnCIAl StAteMentS goVernAnCe StrAtegIC report oVerVIeW
