Strategic Report Chairmans letter Differentiated proposition to create superior shareholder value Governance highlights Corporate governance provides a framework within which theBoard sets its values and delivers long-term success for theCompany and its investors whilst recognising its duties towards the wider stakeholder community.
Through challenge and the application of objectivity in considering proposals on strategy, the Boards role in its oversightcontinues to be fundamental in order to achieve theobjectives required for driving our business forward.
The 2014 external performance evaluation of the Board and itsCommittees concluded that the Board continues to operate effectively and that its structure, governance and processes areappropriate for our current and future business.
Engagement with shareholders during 2014 has proven to be avaluable exercise in the Boards understanding of their views onissues which are pertinent to National Express.
As a result ofsuch open dialogue, a restructured remuneration policy for ourExecutive Directors is being proposed at this years Sir John Armitt AnnualGeneral Meeting AGM.
Chairman Read more p46 26 February 2015 Dear shareholder, Board I am pleased that National Express has continued to deliver a strong As I said last year, optimising the skills, diversity and experience of the financial and operational performance in 2014.
I believe this progress Board is a crucial consideration.
I am grateful for the experience and and success demonstrate our strategy is delivering the services our expertise Jane Kingston has brought to the Board, especially on HR customers want and thereby creating value for our shareholders.
For example, the Board now reviews a quarterly Human Capital Report prepared by the Group HR Director, covering important issues Important progress and trends in the business such as turnover, diversity and succession.
2014 saw passenger growth in every division, key contracts retained After ten years of invaluable service, Sir Andrew Foster announced last and significant new markets entered.
We have a diversified portfolio of year that he will be standing down from the Board at the AGM.
Jackie businesses that are all market leaders.
This not only provides a platform Hunt has also recently announced she is stepping down as a Nonfor financial progress this is the fifth year of core non-rail profit growth Executive Director after three years with the Group and will not seek and we have again beaten our free cash targets but it also provides re-election at the AGM.
I would personally like to thank Andrew and opportunities for new growth.
Jackie for their wise counsel and support during my time at National We begin our German rail services later this year.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to wish them both well started our bus operations in Bahrain.
A key aspect of our success in forthe future.
both has been the strength of our reputation in our existing markets.
We are well underway with the recruitment of Sir Andrews and Jackies This is why I am particularly pleased with our customer satisfaction replacements.
My aim is that they will bring new and complementary scores across the business and the strong partnerships we have in skills to strengthen the Board as we meet future opportunities and place.
When we have met customers, in the UK and abroad, the Board challenges.
I expect to make an announcement soon.
I am very pleased has been impressed by the strength of our relationships and the level that Lee Sander has agreed to become Senior Independent Director, ofservice delivered.
We believe this demonstrates that the company toreplace Jackie.
remains focused on delivering for our customers, obviously crucial in Again, on behalf of the whole Board I would also like to thank sustaining the progress we have made in recent years.
JezMaiden for his significant contribution to the Group and the Board Dividend as Group Finance Director.
Jez left the company for Croda International Our financial performance in 2014 means we retain our clear and at the end of 2014.
Jez played a particularly crucial role in both stabilising sustainable dividend policy: to pay a dividend that is covered the Company in 2009 and the progress since.
Again, I wish him all the approximately twice by non-rail earnings.
The Board is recommending best for the future.
that the dividend is increased to 10.3 pence which represents a 3% Finally, I am delighted to announce that Matthew Ashley was appointed increase for the year as a whole.
Subject to approval by shareholders, as the new Group Finance Director at the end of January.
Matthew was the final dividend will be paid out on 22 May 2015 to shareholders on previously Finance Director for UK Bus and Group Financial Controller theregister on 1 May 2015. and therefore brings significant financial, corporate and operational experience to the role.
I look forward to continuing to work with him.
4 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
