Overview CHAIRMANS 2014 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS A YEAR OF CONTINUED GOOD PROGRESS Dear Shareholder, Economic conditions, and the anticipated growth in private healthcare, in the UAE I am delighted to be able to report to continue to be favourable.
shareholders that good progress has again been made in 2014.
The Company continues to perform well as we enter the final stages of implementation of our initial growth strategy set out at the time of our IPO in April 2012.
Group Revenue increased from US$550.9m in 2013 to US$643.9m in 2014.
Consolidated EBITDA also improved by 10.2% from US$92.9m to US$102.5m in the latest financial year.
CONTINUED GROWTH I wrote last year that the Group had faced a number of challenges in relation to the Groups capital development programme, with construction delays encountered in relation to both the Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital and NMC General Hospital in DIP.
The Board are delighted that these problems have been resolved and that both facilities were opened in the first few days of H2, 2014.
Work at our biggest development, the 250 bed hospital being built on a green field site in the expanding Abu Dhabi suburb of Khalifa City, has continued to progress well during the year and we expect to commence operations towards the end of H1, 2015, following receipt of required approvals.
Our new medical centre in Al Ain opened on time in Q4, 2014.
These facilities will be key to the Groups continued growth in the UAE.
The roll-out of mandatory health insurance for all residents in Dubai which commenced in 2014 is expected to be a further catalyst for growth.
The estimate by Dubai Health Authority that this will result in the addition of 2 million individuals to the population of insured residents in the emirate of Dubai confirms the case for continued investment in the UAE private healthcare market.
Our existing presence providing healthcare services in Dubai for many years leaves the Group well placed to benefit from this anticipated growth.
FINANCIAL STABILITY During any period of substantial growth and capital development, it is vital that this can be undertaken against a background of a strong financial base.
In June 2013, the Company completed the replacement of its existing Syndicated Bank Loan which enabled the Company to restructure existing loans, reduce its cost of funds 4 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 Group Financial Overview Strategic Report Governance Statements and create additional headroom to BOARD CHANGES The structure of your Board has changed ensure that the Group was more During the year there were a number significantly in 2014.
Your new Board conservatively financed.
This financial of Board changes.
H. E. Saeed Bin Butti now has: planning benefited the Company in the and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti, two of the year, with a significant positive effect on Companys substantial shareholders, A wider cultural and ethnic mix the Groups net profit and EPS.
stepped down from the Board in benefitting Board discussions given February 2014 and March 2014 respectively.
the Companys listing in the UK and On 16 February 2015, the Company Both H. E. Saeed and Khalifa were integral operations in the UAE: announced a new US$825m financing to the Companys growth plan and its Significant female representation 33% facility which was made up of two successful IPO in London in April 2012. on the Board: elements, namely a US$350m facility As previously reported, NMC Health plc, More than half of its number resident which will be used to repay existing debt as a result of this flotation, became the in the UAE, the Companys home and for general corporate purposes first UAE business to list on the premium market: and reducing the Groups cost of capital in the segment of the London Stock Exchange.
A wide range of skills and experience, current financial year, and a US$475m Their leadership and focus during the including more than half of the Board facility to facilitate NMCs next phase of Companys first two years of growth on having significant operational or growth by making phased acquisitions.
the public markets was invaluable.
regulatory experience of healthcare This facility leaves the Company well services from different parts of financed to take advantage of The year also saw a number of additions the world.
Mr Abdulrahman Basaddiq joined the Board as a Non-Executive Your Board is diverse in terms of experience, DIVIDEND Director in February 2014 and Dr Ayesha gender and culture and well-structured to As a result of the continued good Abdullah, Mrs Salma Hareb, Dr Nandini oversee the achievement of the Companys performance and financial stability of Tandon, as Independent Non-Executive strategic objectives.
the Company, your Board plans to submit Directors, and Mr Keyur Nagori, as a a resolution to shareholders at the 2015 Non-Executive Director, in June 2014.
GOVERNANCE Annual General Meeting authorising In addition, Mr Prasanth Manghat and The changes to the Board have also payment of a cash dividend of 5.4 pence Mr Binay Shetty were promoted from resulted in a restructure and diversification per share.
For the third year running this the Senior Management Team to of the Companys Board Committees.
is approximately 20% of profit after tax, become Executive Directors, also in Each of the Board Committees have within the range which the Board June 2014. retained the same Chair Person, but now indicated at the time of the Companys have a different membership structure IPO would be their dividend target.
to the other committees benefiting the Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital www.
ae 1st Private mother and child hospital in Abu Dhabi July 2014 First open to patients NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014 5 Overview CHAIRMANS 2014 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED work, focus and oversight of each EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION Committee and therefore the Companys As the Group develops, the Remuneration overall governance structure.
Committee, under the chairmanship of Lord Clanwilliam, has continued to roll Work has continued during the year out its intended Executive remuneration on the establishment of integrated IT structure: this is now complete within systems: a new Hospital Information the parameters of the Directors System and the Groups new Enterprise Remuneration Policy which shareholders Resources Planning ERP financial approved at the 2014 Annual General system.
The implementation of new Meeting with 97.5% of votes in favour of IT infrastructure is always a significant the proposals.
Long Term Incentive Plan challenge to all organisations, and the awards were granted to the Executive Companys experience in this respect Directors and Senior Management Team is no different to that of others.
The for the first time in 2014 which, alongside implementation of both new systems the existing Short Term Incentive Plan, will continue on a phased basis to ensure focus and incentivise management that the new IT infrastructure is solid on the long term value enhancement and relevant for the Companys future.
of your Company and align them with The HIS became operational in our new any value change experienced by facilities in 2014 but implementation in shareholders in the Company over the existing facilities is planned over the the longer term.
next two financial years: the ERP system implementation will be completed in 2015.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF Alongside new IT systems and controls, The Companys human capital continues during the phasing in period the core to be vital to the success of your internal controls under which the Group Company, particularly during a period of has been operating successfully for many significant change and growth.
Dr Shetty, years, will remain in place as an important his management team and staff across part of the Groups governance structure.
the Group have worked extremely hard through the year to achieve strong MANAGEMENT CHANGES results on your behalf.
The Board greatly The Company announced a number of appreciates the continued commitment, senior management changes in October energy and goodwill which they have 2014.
The Board would like to express their shown in 2014 and would like to thank appreciation to Binay Shetty for the very them all for their respective contributions.
significant contribution that he has made to NMC Health in his Executive role over OUTLOOK many years.
We wish him well in his new Economic conditions, and the anticipated role and are delighted that he remains on growth in private healthcare, in the UAE the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
continue to be favourable and your Board continues to view the outlook for the The Board are also delighted that Group with confidence and enthusiasm.
Prasanth Manghat and Suresh Krishnamoorthy have taken up positions as Deputy Chief Executive Officer and H. J.
Mark Tompkins Chief Financial Officer respectively.
We Non-Executive Chairman wish them well in their new roles during the Companys next phase of growth.
Finally, subsequent to the year end, the Board appointed Dr B. R. Shetty to an enhanced role of Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
This new role reflects Dr Shettys position as a founder of the Group and his key role in the formulation of the Groups strategic thinking and its operational performance.
6 NMC Health plc Annual Report 2014
