12 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Chairmans statement Delivering continued growth Nostrums growth and success centres around the quality and commitment of our people.
Solid financial performance Nostrums financial performance was steady as production levels remained broadly similar to 2013.
We started more meaningful investment into the second gas treatment facility and raised additional financing in early 2014 to ensure that we were fully financed for this phase of infrastructure building.
At the same time we implemented our hedging programme to cover all non-scalable capex for 2014 and 2015.
We continue to manage our cash position prudently.
We take into account, first and foremost, the liquidity position of the Company.
Secondly, we ensure that use of excess cash is carefully considered before deploying it, and that we are maximising shareholder returns with each investment we make.
Despite the falling oil price, 2014 was a good year financially and net income Our vision Our ambition and for the year was US$146.4 million.
Nostrums vision is to grow production strong financial position I believe wehave struck the right to over 100,000 boepd and to build Nostrum continued to perform well balance between reinvesting in future areserve base that allows the in 2014 despite the year ending with growth and returning cash to our Company to continue to produce at a challenging oil price environment.
shareholders in the current this level far into the future.
Our vision We consistently delivered production environment.
of achieving production of 100,000 of approximately 45,000 boepd and boepd from our existing field in started the appraisal programme on I am pleased that the Board is north-west Kazakhstan is now only a our three additional fields.
Whilst the proposing a final dividend for 2014 few years away.
As a result, we are also financial performance of the Company ofUS$0.27 per Ordinary Share, subject looking to further build Nostrums was not as strong as in 2013, asa result to shareholder approval at the AGM.
reserve base, not only withreserves of a falling oil price during the second Stable production levels toprolong the plateau production of half of the year, we were still able to The financial performance of the 100,000 boepd, but also to increase end the year with over US$400 million Company was built on another strong this through acquisitions outside of cash and cash equivalents on our year of operational results.
The combination of the of 44,400 boepd was extremely Ourvision is to become one of the US$400m bond we placed in early closeto our target of 45,000 boepd leading independent E&P companies 2014 and the hedge we put in place and Nostrum is now enjoying a period inthe FSU.
from February 2014 means that we are of sustained production at levels well positioned to be able to sustain a Nostrum intends to realise its vision around 45,000 boepd.
This steady period of prolonged low oil prices and through a clearly defined strategy, production and associated cash flow still deliver on our strategy.
Thus, our balancing organic development with continues to allow Nostrum to invest in ambitions to build the leading CIS opportunistic expansion through further infrastructure to double our independent E&P company remain acquisitions.
Its main priority remains, production capacity by the end of 2016 asstrong as ever.
We completed our as always, to continue to deliver growth without the need to raise more capital.
Premium Listing on the London Stock and shareholder value in a responsible In addition to this organic growth, the exchange during 2014 and we are now and efficient way.
cash flowsNostrum generates allows a member of the FTSE 250 which the Company to grow reserves and further demonstrates the ambition we extend production through its recently have to achieve the highest standards in established M&A strategy.
I believe the current environment can provide opportunities, rather than limitations, for Nostrum.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 13 Multi-field asset base established Our commitment Our people Nostrum has started the appraisal to corporate responsibility We are entering a changing programme on the three additional At Nostrum we strive to be a environment in relation to recruitment, licences acquired in 2013.
We have responsible and transparent business.
as a falling oil price will inevitably adopted the same approach with our Our Corporate Responsibility leadto the scaling back of costs in additional fields that we undertook approach covers the relationships theindustry.
Nostrums growth and with Chinarevskoye to fully understand we have with all our stakeholders success revolves around the quality the geology and fide-risk the including shareholders, employees, and commitment of our people and development programme as much contractors, local communities and we believe we have an excellent team aspossible.
We have carried out new host government as well as the that can deliver our strategy even with 3-D seismic on each field and have environments in which we work.
We continued to now interpreted it, allowing us to have Nostrums strategy on Corporate grow our team during 2014 with a 6% a much better understanding of where Responsibility focuses around three increase in Kazakhstan.
Our total to position our first appraisal wells.
key areas people, planet, and profit global workforce now counts more We plan to start drilling an appraisal well and includes the following initiatives: than 1,000 people.
We remain in the largest field, Rostochinskoye, in committed to developing local 1RVWUXP KDV PDGH LW D SULRULW WR 2015.
We look forward to developing content and employed 98% local communicate its approach to its these fields and to bringing them into nationals in Kazakhstan as at the end various stakeholders, emphasising production to utilise our infrastructure of 2014.
Wewillcontinue to develop its stringent corporate governance development.
our employment practices and policies provisions and business ethics: to ensure we can attract and retain the Governance and the Board best talent.
At the same time we will 1RVWUXP PRQLWRUV DQG UHSRUWV RQ WKH The Board understands the continue to monitor our cost base and well-being of its employees, health importance of providing effective ensure we do not carry unnecessary and safety measures, working andclear leadership and direction excess costs into 2015. environment specifics and overall onall matters relating to corporate benefits.
Nostrum also reports on its governance and places great The future direct involvement in the community significance on achieving high 2014 was a solid year for the Company.
through programmes providing standards of governance to underpin For most of the year we had a strong social infrastructure, sponsoring the Groups good business conduct oil price environment, however this activities and charitable work: and and strong ethical culture.
With this in rapidly changed in the fourth quarter mind I am very pleased with how the andwe need to be prudent as we 1RVWUXP PDQDJHV LWV HQYLURQPHQWDO Company has handled the increased enter 2015 to ensure we are ready for footprint carefully and adheres fully regulatory obligations imposed as a a sustained period of low oil prices.
The Company result of the Companys admission to In 2015 our main focus is ensuring is also proactive in liking its the premium listing segment of the the timely completion of GTU3 in 2016 environmental objectives to the Official List of the Financial Conduct and building thefeedstock to allow us highest possible standards and Authority and to trading on the to double production.
We enter this ensuring stringent compliance and London Stock Exchange plcs main next investment phase with a very solid progress monitoring.
market for listed securities inJune cash position, low levels of leverage In 2014, we believe Nostrums actions 2014.
I believe the Company handled and healthy margins in place.
We have deemed to have a positive impact this transition very well.
During 2015 believe we have the platform to onits wide range of stakeholders, the Board will continue to work closely execute our strategic initiatives which including investors, business partners, with management to maintain good gives me confidence in our prospects regulators, employees, customers, standards of corporate governance for 2015 and beyond.
local communities, the environment and to ensure the Companys and society more generally.
continued compliance with the rules imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority and associated guidance under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Frank Monstrey Chairman Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
