Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 30 November 2014 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Lord Rose Chairman GROWTH CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Ocado is one of the The UK retail market experienced It was a strong year for our non-food significant change over the year.
We offering, with the launch of Sizzle, our small group of grocery continue to see an increase in the number new kitchenware store, and the continued retailers that continues of customers choosing to shop online for success of our pet store, Fetch, with product to grow.
their groceries, which was reflected in an ranges of over 12,000 and 8,000 increase in our active customers of over products respectively.
However, the grocery market are continuing to ensure a greater choice has become increasingly competitive, with for our Ocado.
com customers through margins being placed under pressure from an increase in our product range to over price discounting by grocery retailers.
43,000 products, including an increase Despite these difficulties, Ocado is one in Ocado own-label products.
We are of the small group of grocery retailers also providing more opportunities for our View more information about driving growth on pages 20 & 21 that continues to grow, with Group gross suppliers, and hosted the Britains Next sales increasing by 20.4% and EBITDA Top Supplier competition, to help support increasing by 56.3%.
View more information online at www.
com EFFICIENCY During the year, our efficiency has continued to improve, notably in Dordon, where the milestone of 100,000 deliveries per week was achieved, and after year end, the further milestone of 200,000 Ocado.
com deliveries per week across both CFCs.
We also started building work on a new CFC in Andover, Hampshire and have announced that we exchanged contracts on a site in Erith in the London Borough of Bexley for CFC4.
We intend to install our next generation infrastructure solution in these new CFCs, which we expect to be cheaper and more efficient to run than our current CFCs.
06 23698-04 29-01-2015 PROOF 9 Stock Code: OCDO Strategic Report www.
com INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND BOARD CHANGES INTERNATIONAL Jason Gissing, co-founder of Ocado We have successfully utilised our expertise, and Commercial Director, retired from infrastructure and technology to provide the Board at the Groups annual general services to our first strategic customer, meeting in May 2014.
On behalf of the We continue to invest Morrisons.
We continue to invest in Board, I would like to thank Jason for his in the innovation and the innovation and development of our contribution to the Group, and wish him development of our intellectual property and technology, in every success in the future.
intellectual property preparation for future international growth.
THE OCADO FAMILY and technology.
The Board remains committed to finding We are fortunate enough to have further strategic customers, monetising exceptionally talented and dedicated our intellectual property and supporting employees.
On behalf of the Board, and overseeing the executive team in the I would like to thank all members of creation of greater long-term shareholder the Ocado family for their contribution value in our business.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE One of the Boards responsibilities is ensuring that the Group applies Lord Rose good governance to facilitate effective Chairman The Group is fostering management of a rapidly growing Ocado Group plc an environment of business.
As the Companys Chairman I am innovation and progress pleased to note that the Group is fostering in a framework of strong an environment of innovation and progress governance and risk in a framework of strong governance management.
and risk management, evidenced by the Groups recent award for corporate governance at the Building Public Trust Awards 2014 in respect of the Groups 2013 annual report.
A detailed statement on corporate governance for 2014 can be found on pages 62 to 89.
