Chairmans statement 2014 was challenging for the upstream oil and gas sector.
A 50% reduction in the oil price, to a low for Brent of $57.33, meant the sector remained out of favour with generalist investors.
Despite this, Ophir successfully delivered on a number of key objectives.
A major achievement in 2014 was the People completion of the sale of a 20% interest in our LNG assets in Tanzania to Pavilion Energy The Ophir Board, conscious of the changing of Singapore for a price of $1.288 billion.
environment, restructured the organisation Following the Pavilion Energy transaction, in late 2014 both to reduce cost and to ensure our financial position is the strongest it has it was appropriately resourced to deliver its key ever been.
Ophir is well placed to navigate projects.
This process resulted in the decision to this period of lower commodity prices, and reconfigure the Board, which led to Lisa Mitchell utilise its financial strength to emerge from stepping down as Chief Financial Officer the downturn as a larger, stronger and and Dennis McShane stepping down from better balanced company.
the position of Strategy Director.
I would like to reiterate the Boards thanks to Lisa The completion of the Salamander Energy and Dennis for their contributions to Ophir acquisition is evidence of this.
This has moved and wish them every success in the future.
Ophir a step closer to our goal of a self-sustaining funding model.
It also brings into the Group As part of the review process we were a well-balanced Asian portfolio of high quality delighted to appoint Bill Higgs to the role assets with upside, and a platform for future of Chief Operating Officer.
Bill has more growth in the region.
On behalf of the Board, than 25 years experience in the industry, I would like to welcome our new employees much of it spent with Chevron Corporation.
in Asia to Ophir: we look forward to working Following the completion of the Salamander together to unlock significant value from the Energy acquisition, Dr Carol Bell joined us expanded portfolio.
as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Carol served on Salamanders Board from Health and safety 2012 until 2015 and I am very pleased to welcome her to the Board.
Ophir operated two deepwater drilling rigs in Lastly, I should like to thank John Lander who tandem for a large part of 2014, testing our ability Nicholas Smith, Chairman retired from the Board on 28 January 2014. to complete parallel operations whilst adhering to John joined the Board in 2008 and latterly the highest standards of health and safety.
I am had been Chairman of the Remuneration delighted that we completed these operations Committee from 2011.
His contribution has with only one, minor, Lost Time Incident.
This is a been much appreciated.
clear testament to Ophirs commitment to health, safety and the environment.
Ophir also places a strong emphasis on maintaining excellent relationships with local communities and, amongst other activities, continues to support sustainable Corporate Responsibility CR programmes in the countries in which it operates.
Includes a $38 million amount that is payable at FID.
8 Ophir Energy plc Governance Financial Supplementary Strategic report report statements information Overview Strategy Performance Board of Directors and Officers Governance Board of Directors The Board accords the highest importance page 48 to corporate governance matters and during 2014 we completed a review of our governance arrangements.
This resulted in Nicholas Smith updated Terms of Reference for the Board N R Chairman Committees, and a number of key policies have been refreshed to ensure we uphold the Dr Nicholas Cooper highest ethical standards.
We also completed Executive Director and Chief Executive O cer a review of our Board evaluation process.
More details on these changes can be found Dr William Bill Higgs in the Corporate Governance section of our Executive Director and Chief Operating O cer Annual Report.
Nicholas Smith Ronald Blakely Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director A N R Alan Booth Independent Non-Executive Director Vivien Gibney Independent Non-Executive Director R C Lyndon Powell Independent Non-Executive Director William Bill Schrader Independent Non-Executive Director Dr Carol Bell Independent Non-Executive Director Chandrika Kher Company Secretary and Committees Secretary Indicates Chairman of Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Technical Advisory Committee Appointed to the Board on 2 March 2015.
