Strategic report Chairmans statement Good progress has been made in the last 3 years: however, this is only the start of the journey and there is significant opportunity for further improvement in the business During this time the PayTV and Broadband Summary Dear Shareholder markets have also evolved significantly: our 2014 has been a year of execution and expansion: 2014 has been a year of execution and R customers continue to respond to both the the business has made good progress on its expansion: Pace has delivered strong demands of their consumers and the various Strategic Plan, delivered strong financial results, financial results and created a platform disruptive threats by creating increasingly and through both organic developments and the for further growth.
innovative and engaging new services, building acquisition and integration of Aurora Networks, better and faster networks whilst delivering an The acquisition of Aurora Networks Inc has created a platform for further growth.
represented an important evolution In the year, the Group achieved a 24.5% Pace has been, and will continue to be, strongly intheStrategic Plan.
increase in adjusted EBITA due to top-line positioned to capitalise on these increased growth through the Aurora Networks acquisition, Pace has been, and will continue to investments over the next 3 to 5 years.
R improved revenue mix, supply chain efficiency be, strongly positioned to capitalise By continuing to execute against our Strategic and increased operational efficiency.
The Group onoperators increased investments Plan and capitalising on the significant market delivered a third consecutive year of strong overthe next 3 to 5 years.
opportunity, Pace will not only strengthen its free cash flow, and has delivered nearly $600m position as a market-leading technology solutions Pace will not only strengthen its position cumulative free cash flow in that time.
This R provider for the PayTV and broadband industries, as a market-leading technology solutions sustainable strong free cash flow model gives but also become a great technology company.
provider for the PayTV and broadband the Company the confidence and flexibility to industries, but also become a great identify and invest in both organic and acquisitive The strong performance in 2014 and the technology company.
opportunities which will deliver long-term value trajectory of the business give the Board to our customers and our shareholders.
confidence to continue building on the progressive dividend policy that was introduced in 2009.
In November 2011, the Company laid out a Therefore the Board is recommending a final clear Strategic Plan that aimed to develop a dividend of 4.75 cents per share, giving a full distinctive, scalable and profitable technology year dividend of 7.00 cents per share, a 27.5% solutions provider to PayTV and broadband increase on 2013.
The dividend reflects the industries by growing a broader platform robust ongoing cash generation ofthe business.
across hardware, software and services.
In the last three years, we have continued to evolve Board changes and deliver against this plan.
Mike Inglis was reappointed as a Non-executive The acquisition of Aurora Networks represented Director on 13 March 2014.
Roddy Murray Allan Leighton an important evolution in the Strategic Plan, resigned from his role as Chief Financial Officer Chairman enabling Pace to widen out into network and Executive Director on 27July 2014. infrastructure and build deeper, more embedded MarkShuttleworth was appointed as Chief relationships with our customers.
The now fully Financial Officer and joined the Board integrated Networks business unit has had a on12January 2015. great first year and we are confident that it will make further progress in 2015 and beyond.
If you have any comments on my letter or any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted The target of the Strategic Plan was to achieve to hear from you either by writing to me at Pace a9% Operating Margin within a 4 to 5 year or by email at Allan.
With a 9.2% Operating Margin in 2014, I am delighted to announce that Pace Yours sincerely has achieved this target a year ahead of plan.
However, this is only the start of the journey Allan Leighton and there is significant opportunity for further Chairman improvement in the business.
3 March 2015 06 Pace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
