STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report strong growth in net revenue and operating profits for the year under PayPoint Romania review.
We are proposing a final dividend of 23.9p per share, an increase of 18.3% on the expands with new dividend last year, excluding the 15.0p special dividend.
market sectors Having signed up the majority of Our retail networks in the UK, Ireland and Romania delivered profitable growth from our strong the countrys national and regional utility companies, PayPoint in client base and breadth of services.
Prepaid energy transactions were in line with last year, Romania has enjoyed considerable despite warmer winter weather which reduced gas consumption.
The reported growth rate was success in delivering innovative reduced by there being an extra six days of trading in the prior period.
Retail services transaction new products and services for growth was 25.1%.
In Romania, bill payment transactions have grown 53.5%, as we added new its customers in other markets, clients including RCS & RDS, branded as DIGI, a pay TV and communications supplier and one of including telecommunications, Romanias biggest bill issuers, and grew strongly in existing clients.
financial services and even road tax.
Amongst the schemes The market for mobile top-ups continues to decline in all three markets.
In Romania, network introduced has been a partnership expansion has countered the market decline.
Mobile top-ups accounted for 13.9% of total group with Scala Assistance, enabling Romanian customers to pay for net revenues.
The Simple Payment service for the DWP has contributed to growth in transactions, their Road Tax at PayPoint shops but volume has been lower than originally anticipated, as much of the cheque volume the service across the country.
replaced migrated to other payment methods.
Our UK field force has grown the network and driven sales of retail services to increase our average retail yield per site.
We are developing a Romania has one of the largest multi-channel product to address the payment challenges faced by utilities, as a result of the UK road networks in Europe and Scala Government mandated change to smart meters by 2020, building on the credentials we already Assistance wanted to work with a have in providing online payment solutions for prepayment meters.
retail network with the coverage that would match it.
Its network of Our Collect joint venture is now profitable.
Parcel transactions rose 76.4% to 13.6 million terminals throughout the country makes it easy for Romanian drivers 2013: 7.7 million and outlet numbers expanded to 5,600.
Collect increased the number of to pay for their Road Tax quickly clients served by 54 to 266 by 31 March 2014.
We have introduced a new standard two day and conveniently, before they take delivery service in addition to the economy three to five day service and continue to invest in to the road.
service improvements to encourage growth.
Scala Assistance Our Mobile and Online channels have been combined into one business under our unified group brand and we have strengthened management to address the substantial opportunities available in digital commerce.
Transaction growth in the year was 15.8% and net revenue growth 7.7%, with Distributing emergency strong growth in mobile net revenue.
Transaction growth was mainly from larger merchants, or funds to the most needy newer parking clients, who have lower than average net revenues per transaction.
Through mobile The distribution of Emergency Funds was transferred from the payments, we gain valuable insight into the development of mobile commerce and although we Department for Work and Pensions have continued to grow net revenues and win new clients, including the provision of services for to local authorities from April 155,000 parking spaces in central Paris, this remains an early stage venture.
In February, we acquired 2013, for which PayPoint provided Adaptis, which provides a range of complementary parking services, including electronic parking the solution to local authorities permits, automatic number plate recognition systems for car parks and penalty charge notices.
This of how to accept and assess small acquisition will strengthen our leading position in mobile parking payments, expanding our applications, then make payments range of innovative parking products into off-street locations, fines and permits, and improving in a timely manner.
Quick Credit our capability to bid for bundled contracts.
We also have the potential to extend into other mobile Voucher QCV is an online portal commerce areas, but this will require expenditure in development and marketing.
that provides a universal platform for any local authority to process quickly applications and deliver We have continued to invest in technology.
We are in the process of migrating services to the two payments either by letter, email new data centres we started to fit out in the last financial year.
Our objective is to move all systems or text message, which can be and transaction processing to the new data centres over the next two years.
We have introduced immediately accessed by claimants single daily settlement to our retailers, reducing retailer banking costs and our exposure to retail at any PayPoint retailer.
As leading suppliers of retail technology, we are researching the functionality for our local authorities were using QCV by next generation of point of sale infrastructure, which in due course will replace existing terminals.
the end of March 2014, by when it In Mobile and Online, we are planning to replace and upgrade our internet gateway platform over had been used to make payments the next two years and we are developing our technology, which will open the platform to mobile to approximately 130,000 residents in crisis, with a total value of 5.2 services other than parking.
The versatility of the QCV portal means that it can also be For the current financial year, trading is in line with the companys expectations.
Our retail used as an alternative to cheque networks in the UK and Romania should continue to deliver profitable growth from our strong payments for other purposes such client base and breadth of services.
We will continue to invest in network expansion, innovative as council tax refunds.
technology and new services to improve the quality of these retail networks to enhance their competitive advantages and our retail yield.
Mobile and Online is an essential element of our The innovative system is easy strategy to provide multi-channel payments and services, placing us in fast growing markets and to use, saving us valuable time providing a bridge from cash to electronic payments.
Together, our businesses provide a strong and money and avoiding the need for us to hold cash or gift foundation to deliver value for our shareholders.
Judith Johnson at Andrew Robb, who has served on the board since 2004, was formerly Chairman of the audit Milton Keynes Council committee and is Chairman of the remuneration committee and Senior Independent Director, will retire at the annual general meeting.
I would like to thank Andrew for his service and wish him a long and happy retirement.
I am retiring from the end of the forthcoming annual general meeting after serving as Chairman of PayPoint for sixteen years.
I have much enjoyed working with the management, in whose very capable hands, together with those of my successor, Warren Tucker, and our non-executive directors, I confidently leave the development of the business.
David Newlands 29 May 2014 2 PayPoint plc annual report 2014
