Strategic report - Strategic overview Chairmans statement This has been a year of significant achievement for the Group.
Dear Shareholder Business performance central to the UKs waste and renewable energy strategies as the long-term, low-cost alternative to Group revenue was up by 10% to 1,321 million and 1 2 landfill for disposal of residual waste.
Viridor expects profit before tax increased by 9.1% to 207 to have a 15% market share by 2020 with a network million.
We continue to maintain substantial cash of strategic facilities which will underpin the resources and facilities to fund our capital companys long-term profit growth.
programme and we ended the year with a record level of 1.3 billion including 173 million of To align the structure of the organisation with the restricted funds.
strategy, the company has recently created two operating divisions: Recycling & Resources South West Water comprising recycling, contracts and collection : and Despite another year of extreme weather events a Energy including ERFs, landfill energy and other hot dry summer followed by storms over the winter renewable power.
South West Water continued to deliver good operational performance against the K5 2010-2015 Dividend regulatory contract.
The company made further The Board is committed to its policy to grow improvements to customer service and continued its dividends for shareholders by 4% above inflation per delivery of efficiencies, all of which were reflected in annum up to the end of 2014 15.
We will review the strong financial results.
dividend policy for the next period following the Final Determination for South West Water and will make In December 2013 the company submitted its well an announcement at the 2014 15 Preliminary evidenced and well-supported business plan, which Results.
met or exceeded all of Ofwats assessment areas.
As a consequence South West Water was the only We are recommending a final dividend per share of water and sewerage company to have its business 20.92p, which represents a 6.2% increase on last plan assessed as enhanced, resulting in the receipt years final dividend.
This will result in a total dividend of an early Draft Determination on 30 April 2014. for the year of 30.31p, an increase of 6.5% This allows the accelerated delivery of key projects.
reflecting inflation of 2.5% on the total dividend for With the companys track record of efficiency and 2012 13.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval outperformance, South West Water is well placed to at this years Annual General Meeting, we will again deliver its business plan in K6 2015-2020 and will be offering a Scrip Dividend Alternative to have an opportunity to outperform the assumed shareholders in respect of the final dividend.
timetable is given on page 160.
Viridor Sustainability and governance Financial performance before exceptional items at Our strategic and sustainability reports set out our Viridor has been in line with management ongoing commitment to environmental, social and expectations.
Notwithstanding the difficult trading governance ESG matters and the Sustainability conditions, Viridors PBIT plus joint ventures is Committee of the Board continues to oversee our broadly similar to last year.
performance in maintaining a responsible approach to ESG.
Recycling activities are focused on the production of high quality recyclate materials and management of Notable achievements for South West Water during the cost base to improve margins.
The focus in the the year include best bathing water quality results for landfill energy business is to maximise the value of seven years, improved customer service and landfill gas generation across all Viridors landfill sites, customer satisfaction levels, and the further delivery while managing the expected decline in landfill inputs of sustainable catchment schemes.
by concentrating on strategic operational sites and Viridor achieved a two star rating in the Business in optimising returns on other sites through alternative the Community BitC annual Corporate uses such as photovoltaic installations.
Responsibility Index, and continued its strong Viridor is continuing to make strong progress with progress in energy and water saving initiatives in line the construction of its growing Public Private with its carbon reduction plan.
Partnership PPP Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs asset base with operations expected to commence at five facilities in 2014 15.
We believe ERFs are 1 Before exceptional net charges 2 Comparatives restated for IAS 19 Revised 6 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2014 The Groups governance arrangements continue to be Our customers reviewed annually to ensure we develop and improve Provision of the highest possible levels of service to our governance structures and practices, taking our customers is vitally important for both our account of market developments and new best businesses and is reflected in our Group strategy.
During the year South West Water was among the first South West Water has issued its own leadership, of the water companies to introduce a social tariff transparency and governance code in accordance aimed at its most hard-pressed customers.
with Ofwats principles concerning the water industry Viridor continues to partner its customers across all relating to governance of boards, public trust and the sectors by identifying the most robust and costtransparency of companies.
effective waste treatment options in a changing market Health and safety and by continuing to focus on delivering vital We continue to focus on improvements in health and infrastructure and quality services to provide essential safety across our Group businesses.
renewable energy, resource recovery and waste management.
Tragically, while there has been a continued reduction in the number of reportable incidents, there was one Our employees very sad fatality in South West Water and our thoughts The skills and commitment of our employees continue are with the family, friends and colleagues who have to be key to the success of our Group.
We continue to been deeply affected.
engage with and provide opportunities for our employees to develop through a number of initiatives There was a very significant reduction in the number of and strategies, details of which are given in the reportable incidents in Viridor, reflecting the companys strategic report.
I personally thank every one of them step-change approach to health and safety and for their outstanding contribution to the Group and, in increased focus on improving its performance in this particular, I should like to congratulate all those staff area.
involved in helping South West Water to achieve Board developments enhanced status for its business plan, which has resulted in the company being well placed for the K6 During the year Ian McAulay was appointed chief executive of Viridor and Executive Director of the regulatory period.
Board upon Colin Drummonds retirement from both In addition I am very grateful to my Board colleagues positions.
Colin is now the non-executive chairman of for their continuing support and significant contribution Viridor.
in what has been a successful twelve months.
Gerard Connell, the Senior Independent Director and Outlook chairman of the Audit Committee, has now been a The Boards priority continues to be the creation of Non-executive Director of the Company for over 10 shareholder value through its strategic focus on water years and was due to retire at this years Annual and sewerage services: and on recycling, renewable General Meeting AGM.
Accordingly the Nomination energy and waste management.
Committee has been seeking a suitable replacement for Gerard and it is anticipated that it will be possible to South West Water is continuing its strong make an announcement about a successor shortly.
performance, with robust operational delivery, high However the new Non-executive Director will be standards of customer service and financial unable to take up the appointment until after the AGM.
performance and expects to complete the successful The Board is of the view that a suitable handover delivery of the K5 regulatory contract.
The company period with Gerard is essential because the Company, has put in place a platform to deliver further efficiencies subject to approval at the AGM, will be changing its for K6 and, having now received its Draft external auditors and the new Non-executive Director Determination for the K6 period, preparations are is expected to take up the chairmanship of the Audit underway for delivery of the K6 regulatory contract.
The Board therefore believes it would be Viridors financial performance before exceptional in the interests of the Company and shareholders for items over the year has been in line with management Gerard to be re-appointed for a further year despite his expectations.
The company continues to make period of office exceeding normal corporate excellent progress in establishing its EfW business and governance standards.
Gerard continues to securing base-load contracts, which already demonstrate independence of character and contribute to its bottom line and are expected to drive judgement in the performance of his role, and his skills Viridors long-term profit growth.
and experience continue to be valuable to the Board.
The Group, with efficient long-term financing, Diversity continues to be well positioned for the future.
We The Board continues to promote diversity across the remain confident about the future success of our Group and in accordance with its diversity policy is business.
focused by 2015 on once again achieving at least 25% female representation on the Board, which we fell below after Dinah Nichols's retirement at last years Annual General Meeting.
Ken Harvey Chairman Pennon Group Plc 23 June 2014 www.
co. uk 2014 7 Strategic overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements
