Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 07 Annual report and accounts 2014 Chairmans statement During a tough year, we adapted to significant change, re-calibrated our strategic direction, and renewed our focus on excellence in execution.
At a glance Despite the challenges of 2014, our ability to execute challenging contracts in difficult conditions remains a core competence.
With our strongest ever backlog, and our most successful year for new business, we have excellent revenue visibility for 2015 and beyond.
Our focus for 2015 remains: ensuring excellent execution: re-positioning IES: securing sales to support our deepwater strategy and maintaining capital discipline.
Against a difficult background and a disappointing financial performance, the Board has been systematically scrutinising the strategic direction, particularly the trajectory of the IES business and the move by OCP into deepwater operations.
Rijnhard van Tets Non-executive Chairman I regard 2014 as a year of transition for Petrofac not only for the For a Company that puts so much store by its track record, business but also for the Board and its composition.
I would like our pride has been hurt.
Our trading update issued in November to start by paying tribute to my predecessor, Norman Murray, 2014, which provided revised earnings guidance for 2015, who stepped down as Chairman for compassionate reasons in by chance coincided with the 2014 leadership conference.
During the three years that Norman led the Board, What struck me when I attended a portion of this event was he consistently championed the necessity for robust processes the clear, across-the-board determination to learn from any and systems so that the Board can appropriately exercise its shortcomings and re-commit to Petrofacs distinctive, deliveryjudgement when assessing if a particular risk, whether strategic focused culture.
The Board is of a similar mind and will focus or operational, is justied by the potential reward.
On behalf of on supporting the management team as it seeks to restore the the entire Board, I would like to thank Norman for his exemplary Companys reputation for consistently reliable execution.
leadership and extend our best wishes to him.
As we reported Whilst nobody is complacent about the events of the last year, last year, Andy Inglis, CEO of IES, left at the start of 2014. our ability to execute challenging contracts in difficult conditions During the year, the Company adjusted to several other new remains a core competence.
We successfully completed several realities, some of them very challenging.
I want to address these projects in the year, namely the gas sweetening facilities project one-by-one, before going on to talk about the 2014 performance, in Qatar and the KOC pipeline and KOC efuent water projects our future prospects, and the implications for our shareholders.
During the year, we started on the clean fuels project in Kuwait, the Khazzan central processing facility in Oman and after Restoring our reputation a period of delay due to the client re-scoping the project, have really started to gain momentum on the Upper Zakum project One thing that has always set Petrofac apart is its reputation forexcellence in project delivery.
In addition, we have successfully bid for a number of significant projects in our core markets.
However, for three projects in particular the Greater Stella Area and Laggan-Tormore, both in the UKCS, and the Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract in Romania that reputation suffered in 2014.
Petrofac 08 Annual report and accounts 2014 Chairmans statement continued Adapting to a tougher environment Taking steps to improve our financial returns Every company in the oil and gas world is adjusting to a major In re-shaping our portfolio, we are also working towards improving shift in economics.
It has been noticeable over the last year that our financial returns.
concluding our commercial settlements has taken longer and With our strongest ever backlog, and our most successful year for required more effort.
Few people would have predicted such a new business, we have excellent revenue visibility for 2015 and beyond.
dramatic and sudden fall in oil prices.
Everyone is suffering from a crisis of market confidence and we are re-calibrating our At the same time, we have focused on our capital discipline, strategic approach accordingly.
andare determined to become progressively less capital intensive.
A good example of our approach is the agreement Arguably, Petrofac is less susceptible than many.
we reached with First Reserve to create PetroFirst Infrastructure Oil price uctuations only have a direct impact on parts Partners.
As well as freeing up approximately US$400 million of of ourbusiness.
For example, our IES business does Petrofac capital, this innovative new approach provides us with have exposure to the oil price, and winning deployment asignicant pool of third-party capital enabling the Company to opportunities for our Petrofac JSD6000 offshore installation pursue more infrastructure opportunities in a capital efficient way.
vessel will remain challenging in the current price environment.
Further, we recognise that in the current climate effective Notwithstanding these pressures, most of the Groups income management of working capital will be crucial, and the Board comes from national oil companies which historically have isvery much focused on ensuring our cash collection processes continued to invest in their assets during periods of economic remain robust and disciplined.
uncertainty and this gives us comfort that our backlog position is robust.
Moreover our operations remain concentrated in the At the end of 2014 our net debt was US$733 million 2013: Middle East and North Africa where the costs of extracting US$727 million and our cash generated from operations was hydrocarbons are relatively modest.
The substantial improvement on 2013 cash generation reects tight working capital At the same time, the long-term fundamentals remain strong.
management, cash advances received on some of the major All indications support the view that the global energy appetite project awards in the year and the nalisation of a small number will continue to grow in the longer term.
Large-scale investments of commercial settlements with our clients.
in oil and gas infrastructure will be needed to meet this demand.
As a result, commercially innovative oileld services will continue Maintaining a strong Board for the future to be sought after.
I have already spoken about changes to the Board that took place this year.
Looking ahead, I am very sorry indeed to report Progressing to a more balanced portfolio that Roxanne Decyk has decided to step down from the Board Against a difficult background and a disappointing financial following the AGM in May 2015.
Roxannes US commitments have performance, the Board has been systematically scrutinising the increased signicantly recently and she is concerned that she will Groups strategic direction, particularly the trajectory of the IES have insufficient time to discharge her responsibilities as a Director business and the move by OCP into deepwater operations.
I would like to thank Roxanne for her significant contribution over the last four years and wish her well on behalf The details of the IES business are covered elsewhere in this ofthe Board.
Report, but the direction is towards a less capital-intensive, more balanced portfolio with a greater emphasis on Group-wide In view of these past and forthcoming resignations, the synergies.
Addressing the future of IES has been an area of strong Nominations Committee initiated a search in the middle of the focus for the Board in the second half of 2014 and will remain so year for at least one new Non-executive Director.
With regards to our deepwater ambitions, the long-term the Board is now delighted to recommend to shareholders the strategic rationale remains valid.
The Board agreed nevertheless appointment of Dr Matthias Bichsel as a Non-executive Director at that in view of the rapidly changing external environment, the our forthcoming AGM.
Matthias will help to maintain a Board that immediate priorities are to fide-risk our execution, secure sales, is strong, well-balanced and multi-disciplinary.
We have a good and manage the construction programme of our new installation ratio of  Directors.
We have deep vessel in light of the opportunities available for its use.
experience in energy, engineering and corporate responsibility, aswell as financial, project and business management.
It is also important to acknowledge several strategic successes.
When I took over as Chairman, I already had seven years of In OEC, the order book and the backlog continued to be Board experience with Petrofac, so the transition promised tobe replenished and now stands at a record level.
Nevertheless the role of Chairman is different from that of business continues to be successfully diversied outside the Senior Independent Director.
Whilst there is no recognisedseparate UK, with additional international contract wins during the year.
induction programme for a Chairman, Itook time to reect on In ECS, we have focused on increasing our external sales, not what I might choose to do in order to help me discharge my justsupporting the OEC business.
I have undertaken a series of meetings with our awarded ECS an Engineering and Procurement contract with a major shareholders in order to understand their views better: value of more than US$1 billion in March 2014, our largest ever consulted with our professional advisers with a view to deepening reimbursable contract.
my appreciation of the UK governance framework: and undertaken This means we exit 2014 with a more balanced and structurally a number of visits to our ofces across the globe as well as two site visits, details of which can be found in my Governance report.
I believe that the Chairman in particular should get out into the business and talk to as many of our employees as possible as this gives a real insight into the Groupsculture and values.
Strategic report Governance Petrofac Financial statements 09 Annual report and accounts 2014 Considering matters that are more long term, I would like to mention Reecting on our 2014 financial performance in particular succession planning: risk management and: health, Ultimately, the Group delivered US$581 million in earnings before safety, security, environmental and integrity assurance HSSEIA.
exceptional items and certain re-measurements attributable to Petrofac shareholders, which falls short of our expectations at the Succession planning, across all levels and in all areas of the start of the year but is in line with the revised guidance we gave business, will continue to receive our full attention.
For the Board during the course of the year.
Aside from the impact of falling oil this not only means identication of potential successors at a prices on IESs trading performance, and the three projects where senior level but taking a deep dive into how the business identies, our execution fell short of our high standards, it is reassuring nurtures and equips the up-and-coming tranche of talent that to note that we continue to deliver differentiated margins in will become the next generation of leaders over the forthcoming ECOM.
Although market conditions do remain unpredictable, decade and beyond.
we have also begun to take clear steps to return to long-term I will be building on our previous Chairmans legacy to ensure sustainable growth.
that our risk management systems are continuously reviewed Reecting the lower oil price environment and future anticipated and improved upon.
Of course HSSEIA will remain high on our earnings from the IES contract portfolio, we recognised agenda.
Given the nature and day-to-day realities of our business, charges for exceptional items and certain re-measurements risk and crisis management will always be important to the Board.
of US$461 million after tax in respect ofIES.
This reduced Whilst we are not complacent, I am heartened that, following a overall Group earnings attributable to Petrofac shareholders to sustained effort resulting in a number of new procedures within US$120 million.
ECOM, we saw an overall improvement in safety performance in 2014.
Our lost time injury gure was slightly better than 2013 and Against this backdrop, I want to thank all Petrofac shareholders for we have had no fatalities in 2014.
This is a solid performance on your loyalty.
Throughout the year, we benefited from a frank and which management and employees should be commended.
constructive dialogue and, as this Report should demonstrate, the Board is determined to repay your trust.
With this in mind, we It is of course impossible to predict the future with absolute are proposing a final dividend of 43.80cents per share, which if certainty.
We live in an uncertain world.
The geopolitical situation approved, will be paid on 22 May 2015. in the Middle East and North Africa continues to evolve although to date our business has been relatively unaffected by events in Looking to 2015 and beyond the region.
The sharp decline in oil price in 2014 took most people In 2015, the Board will have certain areas of focus of immediate by surprise.
Nevertheless, against an uncertain backdrop, I am concern as well as matters that are essential to underpin the heartened that our record backlog gives us excellent visibility of Companys longer term sustainability.
revenues through to 2015 and beyond and this is mainly in our core market where we have an established track record of delivery Regarding the former, the big themes for 2015 are: above all notwithstanding the geopolitical environment.
else, ensuring excellent execution: re-positioning IES: securing sales to support our deepwater strategy: and maintaining Finally, I do want to thank all of our employees for their capital discipline.
commitment and professionalism during a challenging year.
In particular, I would like to pay tribute to Group ChiefExecutive Firmly in our sights will naturally be the delivery of LagganAyman Asfari.
No one is more committed to thesuccess of Tormore and the Greater Stella Area projects.
The Board will be Petrofac than Ayman.
It is encouraging to see how very hard he given regular updates on these projects as a matter of course.
and his executive team are working to deliver on our collective Furthermore, in reviewing and sanctioning forthcoming bids, commitments, and position the Group for sustainable growth we will rigorously assess the quality of project management over the longer term.
and resourcing capabilities behind them.
Petrofac 10 Annual report and accounts 2014 Collaborating to deliver The Petrofac story in Oman in-country value in Oman Local delivery has always been key to the began in 1988 with the award Petrofac model employing local people, working with local suppliers, and developing local capabilities.
of our first ever contract in The concept of in-country value seeks to formalise and quantify the contribution we thecountry.
It is dened by the Omani authorities asthe total spend retained in-country that benets development, contributes to human we have consistently aimed capability, and stimulates productivity in the national economy.
All in all, the contribution from Petrofac tocontribute far more to the is significant.
Since 2005, we have had a permanent country than we take away.
presence in the country with 70 full time employees and, right now, we are working on three mega-projects with a combined value ofmore than US$4.3 billion.
To deliver these, we employ Omani nationals, we buy Omani components, and we use Omani contractors.
In partnership with Takatuf Oman, we are also establishing the countrys largest technical training centre.
With a planned capacity of 1,000 students a year, this will train Omans energy workforce to international standards.
For Petrofac, delivering in-country value has an important business dimension growing our global capabilities, and enabling us to establish productive relationships with local communities, local businesses and the wider stakeholder community.
Design Build Manage and maintain Train
