Chairmans Statement Playtech has continued to deliver exceptional performance by focusing on consolidating its position as the worlds leading software and services provider to the online gambling industry.
By expanding its licensee relationships: creating innovative new content: enhancing its products: and deepening its customer focus, the business has continued to thrive.
Alan Jackson, Chairman For the year ended 31 December 2014, Playtech again Subject to shareholder approval of the final dividend at achieved an exceptional performance, with total revenues up the annual general meeting, to be held on 20 May 2015, 24% to 457.0 million and Adjusted EBITDA increasing 30% the dividend will be payable on 5 June 2015 to those to 207.1 million, demonstrating further progress in executing shareholders on the Companys register as at the record date our proven strategy.
The ex-dividend date is 7 May 2015.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative, driving For any shareholders who elect to receive their dividends in progress through strong organic growth, successful sterling, the conversion exchange rate from euros into sterling acquisitions, strategic partnerships and joint ventures, as will be set on 8 May 2015 and election forms should be demonstrated throughout this year.
Playtechs impressive returned to the Companys registrars by 15 May 2015. results have been achieved through the continued growth of its flagship casino product: PTTS services division: strong Outlook growth in sport as well as expansion of our mobile and In summary, this is another very strong financial performance land-based offerings.
It is also pleasing to see a progressive by the Group which continues to deliver on its strategy and improvement in the proportion of revenues generated from market-leading offering, supported by a strong balance sheet.
The industry is in the midst of a transition towards regulation and the Group is ideally placed to continue The Board continues to evaluate the potential for further taking advantage of this trend.
value-enhancing acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, focusing on regulated markets, evaluating these against the In order to better position the business for future opportunities possibility of a return of capital to shareholders.
Playtech has the Group successfully issued a convertible bond in a proven ability of generating value through successful November, which was oversubscribed.
The Board remains acquisitions and management is confident that this focused on the most effective use of the Groups cash will continue.
resources, including the potential for further strategic activity.
The focus here remains that of growing Playtechs presence While there are anticipated changes in our markets, in regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets, via bolt-on or Playtechs diversity and position within a global, growing more strategic acquisitions and partnerships.
industry, gives the Board confidence of the Groups prospects both in 2015 and beyond.
Governance Playtech is committed to the highest levels of corporate governance and has strengthened its regulatory and internal audit teams with senior management appointments, while appointing Hilary Stewart-Jones as Deputy Chairman at the Alan Jackson beginning of December.
Chairman 26 February 2015 Dividend In line with the Companys dividend policy of distributing 40% of adjusted net profit, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 17.5 cents per share, giving a total ordinary dividend of 26.4 cents per share for 2014 2013: 23.2 cents per share, an increase of 13.8%.
10 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
