Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Group Chief Executive Officers review A proven strategy and business 306 US$m 893 US$ GE oz Free cash flow for 2014 All-in sustaining cash costs in 2014 model that continue to deliver 122% -18% growth and value If 2013 was a testing time for gold miners, As a result of the acquisition, our gold guidance of 1.3 Moz of GE by 10% Employee safety and Weak commodity prices then 2014 will be remembered as the equivalent reserves increased by about and the updated guidance of 1.365 Moz well-being are paramount persisted with debilitating year when commodity-price weakness 50%.
The project has a mine life of at by 5%.
persisted with material consequences least 20 years with substantial exploration We are saddened to report the loss of outcomes for many.
within the global mining industry.
Many potential, allowing us to deliver significant, three colleagues during 2014 and also Annual gold production for the year Polymetal, however, companies were forced to make cuts in long-term shareholder value.
This one workplace fatality at a contractors increased by 17% to 945 Koz exploration and development spending as acquisition also leverages our business operation.
The increased fatality rate 2013: 805 Koz.
Annual silver production bucked the market well as operating and capital expenditure.
presence in Kazakhstan, where we have is of great concern at both Board rose by 5% to 28.7 Moz 2013: 27.2 Moz.
trends and delivered been operating successfully since 2009. and executive management level.
Gold production now accounts for For Polymetal, however, it was a different Our investigations show that the lapse over two-thirds of our total revenue a strong set of results.
We continued to deliver on our With all our production assets operating in safety performance was in part due 69%, up from 63% in 2013. promises and demonstrated resilience stably, our main focus has shifted to the increased scope of underground to both current market trends and to delivering growth post-2017.
We mining in complex geotechnical The full ramp-up of our Mayskoye geopolitical challenges.
are concentrating on Kyzyl and other conditions at these operations.
underground mine and strong operational Open-pit outline of the Kyzyl project development projects: Svetloye, where delivery at the Dukat and Omolon hubs construction will begin later this year with It is vital that we significantly reduce were the key drivers in helping us achieve Outstanding operating a view to production starting in Q3 2017, risks and improve health and safety completed preliminary public these record figures for the business.
performance and our greenfield PGM platinum group performance during the year ahead, consultations with the Bakyrchik At Mayskoye, the total gold produced metals exploration projects.
aiming for zero fatalities in 2015.
The full feasibility study For the third consecutive year, we during 2014 increased almost three-fold already launched new risk assessment for Kyzyl is due to be published by the beat our production guidance despite to 142.6 Koz 2013: 48.4 Koz, due systems and the implementation of end of 2015 with the start of full-scale challenging market conditions.
Our gold to a full year of design throughput Capital discipline delivers returns additional measures to ensure proper construction in 2016. equivalent GE production was 1.43 Moz and recovery.
We also commenced On the back of a very successful enforcement of existing safety standards 2013: 1.28 Moz, up by 12%.
This concentrate processing at the Amursk production year, Polymetal was and management procedures is under Our operating mines are set to deliver exceeded both our original production pressure oxidation POX plant while also able to deliver a solid financial way.
We are also actively reinforcing on our annual production guidance of sales of concentrate to China more than performance, due in part to the current the need for individual responsibility 1.35 Moz of gold equivalent for 2015: doubled.
Our state-of-the-art Amursk macroeconomic environment in Russia.
for personal safety and risk awareness with current guidance for 2016 set at the POX plant performed in line with The devaluation of the Rouble against across our operating mines.
Our financial performance will expectations and we exceeded design the US Dollar and the two-fold drop inevitably be influenced by the Rouble recoveries for both Albazino and in the price of oil were significant factors We continue to support the well-being devaluation and the drop in oil prices.
in bringing down operating costs across of our employees and communities This will support our cost performance on our promises the business and the corresponding in the current complex macroeconomic and cash flow generation, despite being Growth by strategic acquisition increase in free cash flow generation.
We are mindful of partially offset by rising inflation and demonstrated Our high-grade assets and the the need to take account of the increase during 2015.
Our adjusted EBITDA increased by 15% resilience to current completion of a major construction cycle in consumer prices and the inevitable to US$685 million, while pre-acquisition in advance of the drop in the price of gold impact this has on our workforce.
With that, I am confident in our outlook market trends.
free cash flow more than doubled to put us in a unique position in the sector.
We will be monitoring the situation for Polymetal in 2015.
We are committed US$306 million.
The underlying return We entered the year with a strong cost and providing salary increases to delivering value to our shareholders on equity excluding non-cash foreign and operating profile and comfortable to match the rising inflation levels.
through meaningful dividend payments exchange losses and impairments leverage.
The turn of the commodities in the current market environment while increased from 9% in 2013 to 21% in 2014. cycle created a window of opportunity preparing the Company for the next Looking to the future This has allowed us to offer a substantial for Polymetal and allowed us to invest growth stage.
58% dividend payout in the reporting year, At Kyzyl, initial exploration and testing in an exciting growth project, Kyzyl.
while maintaining a comfortable leverage is already providing more clarity and ratio of 1.82x Net debt EBITDA.
comfort regarding the chosen project Located in a traditional mining region development route.
The pilot metallurgical with good infrastructure in northeastern Our commitment to capital discipline testing confirmed the viability of ore Kazakhstan, Kyzyl is ready for fast-track has been and will remain central flotation to concentrate and signals the development.
The project exactly matches to our ability to deliver such a dynamic potential to improve on the parameters our strategic target characteristics: a financial performance.
Even after a major achieved in previous testing.
The Vitaly Nesis large, high-grade asset with a clear path investment like the Kyzyl acquisition, decommissioning of old infrastructure, Group Chief Executive Officer to production and cash flow generation, the Company is able to continue paying site clearing and various licencing 30 March 2015 which leverages Polymetals core regular dividends and declare a special applications including environmental strengths in selective mining and dividend, while still maintaining and social impact assessments refractory ore processing.
We have successfully 8 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 9 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Strategic expansion and growth through...... a selective acquisition strategy 16% Reserve grade increase designed to increase our resource Driven by the Kyzyl acquisition, and supporting our preference for high-grade assets base for the long term The successful Varvara deposit was Polymetals first investment in Kazakhstan Map key Our commitment to establishing an Operating mines Kyzyl project extensive pipeline of growth projects Town Russia Russia Kostanay Rail connection has continued with the acquisition Airport Varvara Railway of the Kyzyl gold project.
Based in Pavlodar one of Polymetals core jurisdictions, Oskemen Semey Ust-Kamenogorsk Kazakhstan, Kyzyl is set to become Bolshevik Kyzyl Karagandy a priority development project deposit project Bakyrchik Kazakhstan for our Company.
deposit Ayaguz Zaysan Balkhash Strategic rationale for the deal Lake Caspian Sea Large high-grade reserves Refractory competency Lepsy Balkhash Mineral reserves: 6.7 Moz of gold Leverages Polymetals core China at 7.5 g t JORC competencies in pressure oxidation POX processing and refractory Uzbekistan Expected production start in 2018 gold concentrate trading Expected annual gold production Concentrate will initially be sold of 325-375 Koz Almaty to offtakers Significant exploration upside Favourable location within Significant new reserves Growing Kazakh portfolio oxidation, which will enable the Company to Matching our strategy familiar jurisdiction Substantial exploration potential The acquisition provided an excellent Polymetals footprint in Kazakhstan, where access the double refractory ores at the site, opportunity for Polymetal to significantly grow it is one of the only foreign-based companies through resource-to-reserve and a strong track record of refractory gold Well-understood and Strategic focus its reserve base with a high-grade gold deposit mining for gold, takes a major leap forward trading with third-party offtakers.
conversion straightforward operating The acquisition is consistent with the in a well-known jurisdiction for the company.
with the acquisition of the Kyzyl project.
environment a country in Companys longstanding strategy to target Resources additional to the We first entered the country in 2009 through Timeline Kyzyl is ready for fast-track development high-quality, low-risk assets with large which we have successfully reserves of 3.8 Moz of gold at the acquisition of the Varvara project, which We expect to have the permits and revised and increases Polymetals gold equivalent reserves and high grades.
operated since 2009 has since been developed into an open-pit 6.9 g t JORC feasibility study for Kyzyl completed by the reserves by about 50%.
The project features operation that features a modern, 4.2 Mtpa fourth quarter of 2015.
We will be looking to Our Company will have the opportunity to the large, high-grade Bakyrchik property, Excellent infrastructure capacity processing plant and produced start active construction sometime in the leverage its competitive strengths in pressure which contains 6.7 Moz of gold at 7.5 g t Conventional mining 106 Koz of gold equivalent in 2014. spring of 2016.
The goal is to then produce oxidation and refractory gold concentrate JORC and, based on existing reserves, the first concentrate in the third quarter of trading once Kyzyl reaches production.
Initial development via open-pit a mine life of at least 20 years.
There is also 2018 before we ramp up to full capacity a significant exploration upside.
mining up to 10 years of production Kyzyl is located within a traditional mining in 2019. region in northeastern Kazakhstan, 750 km Cut-and-fill with consolidated backfill Processing competence To fund construction, we will look at securing east of the capital city Astana and 75 km west followed by underground mining A key element behind the Kyzyl acquisition a project financing deal or use existing bank of Oskemen, a key mining and metallurgical strategy was the opportunity it presented for arrangements with the equity component industry centre.
This location provides Polymetal to take advantage of its process to be sourced from existing operational Polymetal with good access to established technology expertise.
infrastructure, including power and rail.
to capitalise on its strengths in pressure 10 Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2014 Polymetal International plc 11
