Chairmans Statement Ronald G. Hanna, Chairman 2013 also saw the completion of our initial People The Groups results are again investment in our new production and I am delighted that Pam Powell joined excellent, outperforming the U. K. warehousing facilities at Milton Keynes.
I welcome soft drinks market and delivering I am delighted that the first phase of this her experience and continued contribution growth in profit before tax and investment is now complete on time following an established career in innovation exceptional items of 9.6%: sales and to budget which was a significant and brand strategy in fast moving consumer increased by 6.9% to 254.1m.
It achievement for all of the team and goods and latterly within beverages through now equips us with a highly efficient and her nine year tenure at SABMiller plc.
was an eventful year including the flexible site, increasing our capacity termination of the proposed merger immediately and providing further Finally, I would like to thank all of the with Britvic plc, which despite the scope for future growth.
team at A. G. BARR on behalf of our initial recommendation of both shareholders and Board for delivering Boards and eventual clearance Dividend superior performance in what has been by the Competition Commission, The Board is pleased to recommend a a challenging period for all.
could not subsequently be final dividend of 8.19p per share to give a total dividend for the year of 11.02p agreed by both Boards.
per share, a full year increase of 10.0% on the prior year reflecting the financial I reported last year that, despite the strength of the business and our potential distraction of the Britvic deal, confidence in the future.
Ronald G. Hanna our priority remained on the business Chairman elements within our control building brand Future Prospects equity, driving sales fundamentals, seeking We continue to operate in challenging efficiency gains and controlling costs and markets but our combination of great that is exactly what we have done.
As people, strong brands, proven business a consequence, our business has had model, excellent asset base and growth another strong financial year.
potential gives us real confidence in our future prospects.
In addition to our efforts to deliver our financial plans, the business has also The markets in which we operate have embarked on a number of structural performed relatively robustly despite the improvement initiatives, outlined in more economic, regulatory and consumer related detail in the Operational Review which are headwinds.
However we are cognisant that designed to support the long term delivery we must remain vigilant to the fast pace of of sustained business performance and change in our markets and ensure we are maximisation of shareholder value.
This is fully focused on consumers.
We face these an exciting time for A. G. BARR, in which challenges from a position of strength, we aim to accelerate our growth, building with a clear growth strategy, well invested on the strong platform we have created.
asset base, strong balance sheet and a committed and capable team.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 01
