18 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Chairmans statement Financial performance This year, Premier Farnell has continued to pursue As market conditions became more favourable in the its strategic vision to become a unique partner for second half of the year, the Groups top-line trajectory improved.
Encouragingly, every division delivered sales customers and suppliers globally.
As our rened per day growth during the second half and, for the full strategy and the related investments we have made year, the Group returned to sales per day growth.
begin to take effect, the Group is well positioned to There were strong performances by Asia Pacic, Akron Brass and MDD Other which all outperformed their deliver enhanced financial performance to the benefit markets this year, while Europe performed solidly in of its stakeholders.
The Americas had a more challenging year but, with a new leadership team, plans are in place to improve the businesss performance.
Last year, we outlined how we would aim to optimise financial performance through focus on operating margin delivered through the balance of sales, gross margin and costs.
In particular, this more exible approach to gross margin allows us to take care ofcustomers in our targeted segments through the economic cycles.
By meeting customer needs more consistently, the Group is better placed to capitalise on its growth opportunities and build share in the fragmented global marketplace, while ongoing management of costs in response to changing market conditions will balance the impact of uctuations in gross margin.
This year, the Group delivered adjusted operating margin of 9.6% for the full year, an improvement on the levels seen at the end of the prior year after Valerie Gooding, CBE adjusting for the extra week in the prior period.
Chairman A broadly stable performance across the year was achieved as the impact of a lower gross margin was offset by operational leverage and the implementation ofoperating efficiencies.
In the year ahead, the Group will make incremental investments in its customer proposition to accelerate the execution of our strategy and increase our differentiation in the marketplace.
As we make these investments, the Groups operating margin is anticipated to remain at a broadly similar level in the coming year.
By enhancing our customer and supplier proposition, we expect to deliver enhanced financial performance in 2015 16 by accelerating our sales growth and as the Groups operating margin progresses towards our target of 10% to 12%.
The Groups financial position is robust and has allowed us to invest in the enhancement of our customer proposition.
Free cash ow this year reects the phase of planned inventory investments to strengthen our product offering, undertaken to position the business for future growth.
Despite these investments, net debt decreased to 225.8 million, which was 2.0 times adjusted EBITDA.
indd 18 24 04 2014 16:01 Our market & business Performance & risks Strategic focus Sustainability & employees Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 19 The Board remains confident that the Groups balance Governance and the Board sheet provides a stable and long term funding platform During the course of the year, we were pleased for the business as we enter this new financial year.
to appoint Peter Ventress to the Board as a NonIn light of this years performance and the improving Executive Director.
Peters strategic and commercial trajectory we have seen, together with both the level skills, along with his experience of different regions and of earnings and cash requirements of the Group, the industries, make him well qualied to make a significant Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0 pence contribution to Premier Farnell.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Last year, the As Chairman, it is my role to lead the Board and Meeting AGM on 17 June 2014, this will bring the ensure its effectiveness.
The Board has a full schedule Groups strategy full year dividend to 10.4 pence per share, unchanged of meetings, presentations, training sessions, papers from last year.
was evolved to and time spent one-to-one between the Executives and the Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the better serve the Strategic progress Board functions effectively, stays informed and knows the business and its people in depth.
The breadth of future needs of our The Board constantly reviews Premier Farnells issues addressed by the Board this year is illustrated performance and the effectiveness of our strategy customers and on page 49.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors have in optimising the value the business can deliver to conducted site visits to various locations around our suppliers in the its shareholders.
businesses, including my visits to Chicago, Leeds, Last year, the Groups strategy was evolved to serve context of an Krakow and Lyon as well as to Akron Brass and MCM better the future needs of our customers and suppliers in Ohio.
As part of a regular programme to increase ever-changing in the context of an ever-changing technology market.
access to the Board and the Boards exposure to The opportunities in our fragmented and growing technology market.
the businesses, the Board held one of its scheduled marketplace are considerable.
As we evolved our meetings at our Chicago ofces this year.
strategy, we also set out the KPIs by which we would measure the success of the Group.
Taken together, Employees and sustainability these metrics are designed to provide a framework to indicate the financial performance that we expect to The calibre and commitment of employees throughout achieve over the course of the economic cycles and the organisation continues to impress me.
I would like incorporate measures of growth, efficiency, profitability to thank all our 4,500 employees for their continued and cash.
efforts as they focus on executing the Companys strategy and putting our values into action for the Over the past year, our KPIs illustrate some notable benefit of all our stakeholders.
The Group returned to sales per day growth, made good progress in the development We are proud to be a leader in business diversity, of its business in emerging markets and delivered a asoutlined on page 43, with our European business stable operating margin, while cash ow reected the winning the Company of the Year at the UK National strategic investments made in the first half of the year Diversity Awards this year.
As a global organisation, to enhance our product proposition.
Performance in we recognise that it is not only gender diversity the active customer base and eCommerce KPIs, where that supports the strength and future success of progress was not made, reects actions to phase out the business: and, while we continue to make non-profitable customers and the decommissioning appointments based on the best candidate for every of technology used for the automated processing of role, we remain focused on achieving the right level faxes, which was no longer nancially beneficial to ofdiversity whether related to ethnicity, gender, sexual the Group.
As Laurence explains in his review, beginning on Demonstrating our continued commitment to operating page 20, there were some significant advances in a sustainable way, we were delighted to be awarded made this year as the Group delivers the three pillars a Platinum Big Tick by Business in the Community of its strategy: enhancing our customer proposition: and to be named by Ethisphere in their list of the providing a differentiating multichannel model: and worlds most ethical companies for the fourth year growing its developing markets.
For example, the Group saw record levels of customer Outlook satisfaction following investments in its product proposition, achieved significant growth in China and We are positive about the Groups ability to implement India and also successfully completed the first stage in our strategic vision.
We remain focused on optimising the roll-out of its upgraded global web platform, having the businesss financial performance in the year ahead gone live in North America.
as we execute the strategy, grow market share and deliver accelerated financial returns.
Following the successful acquisition of Embest in 2012 and its significant progress since then, the Group has Under the guidance of the Board, with strong Executive now signed an agreement to acquire the business and leadership and an enhanced strategic focus, Ibelieve assets of AVID Technologies, Inc. a full service product Premier Farnell is well positioned to capitalise on the development business, subject to certain conditions.
expected improvement in the wider economy, and its We look forward to being able to welcome the AVID extensive long term opportunities, to the benefit of our team to the Group.
Their technical capability will shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers.
enhance Premier Farnells capability at the front end of electronics, providing further competitive differentiation Valerie Gooding, CBE in high service distribution.
