Mike Welton Chairman The industry context CHAIRMANS STATEMENT From a macro perspective, 2014 was a year of two halves: oil prices remained steady above US$100 per barrel bbl in the first half, as they have done broadly for the last four years, before falling significantly, to close the year at less than US$60 bbl.
The fall was driven by strong global supply, particularly the growth in unconventional resources in North America.
One direct consequence of lower oil prices is a fall in the cost of services to the industry and this is already evident across the supply chain.
The fall in prices should also lead to a supply correction as more marginal projects are cancelled and free cash flow for near-term investment across the industry is reduced.
However, it will take time for oil prices to reach a mid-cycle equilibrium and, as a company, we must and we are taking steps to ensure we are well positioned to withstand a prolonged period of weak commodity prices.
The sector has seen these price cycles before and few believe that the oil price will not eventually recover from current levels.
This view is supported by the forward curve which shows rising oil prices.
We are highly leveraged to such a recovery with a low cost, stable production base and an improving portfolio mix.
Beyond this year, we have little committed expenditure.
Our unsanctioned projects, however, offer future growth at a lower cost base.
Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 05 Premiers performance Premier delivered a strong operational performance in 2014.
We achieved a record annual average production rate of 63.6 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day kboepd, exceeding our expectations due to significantly improved uptime across the majority of our assets.
This performance was delivered despite the continuing supply disruptions at Huntington due to circumstances outside the joint ventures control and is testament to the hard work and successful efforts of our operated production teams.
WE CONTINUE TO PROGRESS OUR PIPELINE OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND WERE DELIGHTED TO ACHIEVE NEW PRODUCTION FROM TWO OPERATED FIELDS IN ASIA OVER THE COURSE OF THE YEAR.
In the UK North Sea, installation of the facilities at our Solan development West of Shetland was completed in September and while it is disappointing that commissioning has progressed slowly during the winter and costs have increased on the project, the Solan field will be a material contributor to Premiers cash flows once on-stream.
Significant progress was also made on our other operated North Sea projects, namely Catcher which received development sanction DELIVERING and Vette in Norway where front end engineering and design FEED work was completed, while the scope and size of the initial phase of the Sea Lion development in the Falkland Islands has been scaled-back.
This project is now much more manageable for a OUR VISION company of Premiers size in the current environment and the focus in 2015 will be on progressing the project to the point of investment decision.
Our exploration team continued to bring new, material projects into the portfolio with notable success at Kuda Singa Laut on the Tuna Block in the Natuna Sea, Indonesia.
This oil and liquids-rich gas discovery is strategically located in a core area for Premier and appraisal activity is planned for 2016.
A key tenet of our strategy is to realise value from our non-core assets and to reallocate our financial and human resources to our key projects.
This continued in 2014 with the announced sale of undeveloped resources in Indonesia and Norway and the disposal of our non-operated stake in the Scott area assets in the UK North Sea.
In total, these asset sales will raise around US$190 million in disposal proceeds.
DURING THE YEAR, WE ENHANCED THE GROUPS FINANCIAL LIQUIDITY POSITION WITH THE SUCCESSFUL REFINANCING OF OUR PRINCIPAL DEBT FACILITY ON IMPROVED TERMS.
Our long-term, unsecured debt structure and supportive banking relationships leave us well placed, although we will need to continue to manage our covenant headroom if current oil prices persist.
Health, safety and environmental matters continue to be of paramount importance to us and, while cost cutting is clearly a focus in the current climate, we will not compromise on the integrity and safety of our operations.
Our safety performance in 2014 saw a substantial reduction in our TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate which reached a five-year low of 1.5 per million man-hours.
Our production operations management systems at Balmoral in the UK, and at Anoa and Gajah Baru in Indonesia, retained their OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications, as did our worldwide Drilling Management Systems.
We are particularly proud of our track record on our operated Anoa platform in Indonesia which, by year-end 2014, had reached 1.6 million man-hours without a lost time injury.
06 Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Despite our much improved occupational health and safety performance in 2014, I regret to report two fatalities in South East Asia: one contractor fatality as a result of an offshore vessel collision and a third party fatality as a result of a road traffic accident on a public highway.
No blame was attached to Premier in either case but we have taken steps to reduce the risk of these incidents recurring.
We are all saddened by the tragic outcomes for the families involved.
Our annual reporting on corporate responsibility performance is aligned with IPIECA Guidance and the Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting.
We are also a long-standing member of the FTSE4Good Index and the UN Global Compact and in 2014 were accepted as a member of the Corporate Pillar of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
We remain committed to protecting our people, our assets, our environment and our reputation by maintaining the highest possible standards.
Future plans In 2015 a key priority is to progress our sanctioned projects Solan and Catcher through the execution phases and to deliver safely the major four well exploration campaign on our Falkland Islands acreage.
FINANCIALLY, WE WILL MINIMISE OUR COST BASE AND TAILOR OUR CAPITAL ALLOCATION TO ENSURE THAT WE ARE WELL POSITIONED THROUGH THE CURRENT COMMODITY PRICE CYCLE.
Our substantial 2015 hedging programme has ensured that our near-term cash flows are well protected and our debt position of US$2.1 billion at yearend is manageable at this point in our investment cycle.
We are also taking further steps to dispose of, or monetise, assets to reduce our debt position.
We have significant liquidity if the weak macro environment offers new opportunities, as it has done in the past, although management remain focused on ensuring that debt levels are kept under control.
Board changes I was pleased to announce that Tony Durrant, our former Finance Director, accepted the role of Chief Executive during the year replacing Simon Lockett.
During Tonys tenure as Finance Director, the company has maintained excellent relationships with our capital providers and the Board believes he has all the right qualities to take the company forward in the next stage of its evolution.
We also welcomed Richard Rose onto the Board as the new Finance Director, bringing with him a broad range of experience from accounting, industry and capital markets.
I would like to pay tribute to Simon Lockett who guided the company through a substantial growth period and who ensured a smooth transition to the new management team.
Andrew Lodge, our Exploration Director, has indicated that he will retire effective 30 June this year and will therefore not seek re-election as a board director at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
A new head of exploration will be appointed in due course.
Stephen Huddle, who has been General Counsel and Company Secretary for 14 years, will also retire on 31 May.
Rachel Benjamin, currently Deputy Company Secretary, will become Company Secretary on Stephens retirement.
We wish all our leavers well in their future endeavours.
These changes, together with other senior management changes, refresh the leadership of the company and, in addition, will contribute to a reduced cost base as we adapt to a new oil price environment.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Premier Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 07 Shareholder returns and share price performance As we have stated in the past, our goal remains to deliver consistent, measurable capital growth to our shareholders.
Implied within this strategy is a commitment to return cash to our shareholders via distributions, after balancing the capital needs of the business, when the performance of the company has not been materially reflected in the share price.
Over the course of 2014, our share price fell by 47 per cent, although this was not out of line with the rest of the sector which also suffered with the fall in commodity prices.
During the year, we paid a dividend of 5 pence per share and returned a further US$93 million of capital to shareholders through a share buyback programme.
This was in acknowledgment of the significant gap between our share price and underlying net asset value NAV.
It also reflected surplus cash flow generated by our production base in the first half of the year, above the level expected using our long-term oil price planning assumption.
As we enter 2015 with a significantly lower oil price than in recent years, the Board believes it is not prudent to propose a dividend payment for the full year or, as previously announced, to continue with the share buyback programme.
Our focus in the near-term is on preserving cash, maintaining access to liquidity and reducing gearing levels while continuing to invest in our sanctioned development projects.
We would expect to revisit our decisions around shareholder distributions should the oil price recover above our long-term planning assumption.
On behalf of the Board as well as myself, I would like once again to express my appreciation for the hard work and effort put into the business by Premiers staff.
Their continued dedication and enthusiasm in what are trying times for the industry should see us well placed amongst our peers to prosper in the future.
