2 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Chairmans Statement The Group has delivered a strong set of results withSterling operating profits 7% ahead of the prior year.
This has been achieved despite a significant weakening in currencies which impacted profits by circa 12 million and without which profits would have been 18%higher on prior year.
It has been particularly pleasing to see Our overall performance since the progress of the palm oil joint venture the year end has been in line with with Wilmar with the brands Mamador .
and Devon Kings performing well and the refinery operating close to capacity in its James Steel, Senior Independent Director first full year ofoperation.
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will retire from the Board at the During the year we acquired Raffertys end of his term of office immediately after Garden and sold our Polish Home Care the 2014 Annual General Meeting on 23 brands as we continue to seek to focus September.
He will be succeeded as Senior the business on areas we perceive have Independent Director by John Arnold and as high growth potential and where we can Chairman of the Remuneration Committee add substantial value.
The acquisition of by Helen Owers.
James has served as a NonRaffertys Garden marked our entry into executive Director since October 2005 and the Asian Food and Nutrition category, a has made a huge contribution to the Board sector we believe is particularly exciting and and the Company over that time.
We wish where we are developing plans for further him all the very best for thefuture.
Having disposed of the Polish Home Care brands we are now focussing Sadly, this year has marked the death of onthe Personal Care and Beauty business Sir John Zochonis our former Chairman.
Sir John will be sadly missed by all at PZCussons and we will proudly continue Our balance sheet remains strong and his legacy by striving to deliver the Groups we have the appetite to pursue further growth agenda through our commitment investment opportunities which fit our toour CAN DOvalues.
I would also like to take this opportunity The 5% increase in the Groups dividend to thank all of the Groups staff for their marks the 41st year of consecutive year-oncontinued hard work and dedication which yearincreases.
continues to drive our growth.
Your efforts are highly appreciated both by me and by Whilst trading conditions in most markets the Board of Directors.
remain challenging, the Group continues to focus on a dynamic and fast brand Richard Harvey renovation and innovation programme and  successful delivery of new areas of growth such as Raffertys Garden and the Wilmar 29 July2014 joint venture.
These initiatives will help to offset the continuing macro challenges, including foreign exchange volatility and the reduction in profits from Poland as a result of the strategic Home Care brandssale.
3 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Sir John Zochonis Tribute 19292013 Sir John, great-nephew of the Groups Outside of work, Sir John founded the We pay tribute to Sir John co-founder George Basil Zochonis, joined Zochonis Charitable Trust which has helped Zochonis, our former Chairman the Group in 1953, becoming a Director in numerous charitable causes for over 35 and philanthropist, who passed 1957 and serving as Chairman from 1970 years and received his knighthood in1997.
away in November 2013 at the Sir John is sadly missed by everyone at PZ age of84.
During his time as Chairman, the Groups Cussons who had the privilege to know and footprint in Europe, Asia and Africa was work with him.
He will be remembered for expanded including the strategically his kindness and generosity, his sharp mind, important acquisition of Cussons in 1975. his wit and humour and for his humanity, Following Sir Johns retirement, the Groups humility andphilanthropy.
established footprint and strong balance sheet served as the platform for future growth resulting in the Groups entry intothe FTSE 250 in2002.
Sir John stayed very close to the business, frequently coming into the office in Manchester right up until a few weeks before his death.
He remained proud of the Group, and of its employees, and was excited for ourfuture.
