Chairmans statement STRENGTH THROUGH CHANGE QinetiQ is a company clearly focused on the future, with skills and technologies that will help shape and secure that future.
However, in a year that sees many nations marking the 100th anniversary of the First World War, it is appropriate to recognise the ongoing contribution that science and technology make to our security, and to note that QinetiQ is the custodian of a rich heritage.
With this heritage comes distinctive knowledge and unique facilities that are utilised for the benefit of our customers.
The results The results for the year were in line with the Boards expectations.
In the year to 31 March 2014, Group revenue was 1,191.4m 2013: 1,327.8m, and underlying operating profit was 132.7m 2013: 168.7m due to the impact of US military drawdown on product sales.
Full year underlying earnings per share were 16.0p 2013: 18.9p, in line with the lower underlying operating profit partially offset by the reduced net finance costs and lower underlying effective tax rate.
Underlying operating cash conversion remained strong at 103% 2013: 104% with net cash increasing to 170.5m 31 March 2013: 74.0m.
Strategy We believe that driving an increase in sustainable earnings represents the best route to delivering shareholder value and I am encouraged that our Organic-Plus strategy has recorded notable milestones this year.
During the year the Group initiated a strategic review of US Services, because the division was not delivering its role in the portfolio which, as a small player in a large market, Key highlights was to grow profitably by building market share.
The division Organic-Plus strategy has recorded some notable milestones this year was too small to benefit from significant economies of scale, but too large to benefit from US Government small-business Sale of US Services provides route to maximum value from this division set-aside initiatives.
The Board intends to return 150m to shareholders by way of Following a market testing exercise, the Board concluded a share buyback that a sale of US Services provided the route to maximum The full year dividend represents an increase of 21% value and that the price agreed after the year end with The SI Organization, Inc. fully recognised its market position The Boards policy is that the dividend will be progressive from and future prospects.
this new base Following the disposal the Board considers the continuing Ensuring effective stewardship of QinetiQ is a priority for the Group to be highly differentiated and well positioned to Board along with succession planning and strategic growth deliver an increase in sustainable earnings.
Capital return Given the strength of the balance sheet, I was pleased to be able to announce that we intend to return 150m to shareholders by way of a share buyback.
The Board believes that the scale of the return reflects the strong cash generative characteristics of the Group, as well as its confidence in the Organic-Plus strategy, while taking into account the continuing uncertainty in QinetiQs end markets, its pension obligations and the strength of its working capital position.
We remain committed to maintaining an efficient balance sheet.
Dividend The Board proposes a final dividend of 3.20p per share for the year ended 31 March 2014 2013: 2.70p making the full year 2 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: overview Directors report Financial statements Additional information dividend 4.60p 2013: 3.80p.
Subject to approval at the Outlook Annual General Meeting AGM the final dividend will be Notwithstanding the strong performance in EMEA Services last year, the MOD paid on 5 September 2014 to shareholders on the register transformation programme is likely to create some short-term uncertainty in at 8 August 2014.
The full year dividend represents an the UK defence market, and the divisions performance as a whole is expected increase of 21% reflecting the Boards confidence that to remain steady this year.
the Groups Organic-Plus strategy will deliver value to shareholders over the medium term.
The Boards policy is that the dividend will be progressive from this new level At the same time there is a wide range of possible outcomes for the performance which is consistent with the strength of the retained Group.
of Global Products as the division has a lumpy revenue profile which is dependent on the timing and shipment of key orders.
Although newer products are recording The Board notable milestones, the drawdown of American overseas military forces is The priorities that I have set for the Board are strategic expected to continue to depress demand for conflict-related products, and growth, succession planning and to ensure the effective the division is unlikely to see significant benefits from the repositioning of its stewardship of QinetiQ through appropriate governance US operations until later in the year.
processes and systems of control.
Strong corporate governance is essential in ensuring that the Groups The Board is maintaining its expectations for overall Group performance in the transformation and growth are sustainable and create long-term value.
Earlier this year we announced the retirement of Colin Balmer effective at the end of January 2014.
He participated in the formative years as QinetiQ became a commercial entity and provided important insight to the current Board and Executive team as we have continued the transformational journey.
I thank him on behalf of the Board and the shareholders.
I would also like to welcome Susan Searle who joined as a Non-executive Director in March.
I am confident Key governance highlights that her experience in the commercialisation of technology Good corporate governance is fundamental to the successful running of a will reinforce the Boards contribution and oversight of the Groups implementation of its Organic-Plus strategy.
business and remains a Board priority.
Key areas of focus during the year were: Our people The oversight of strategy and leadership, particularly in light of the QinetiQ is a people business and I am proud of the expertise establishment of a new Operating Committee and the strategic review of our people, and the drive that they exhibit in the day-toof US Services day service of our customers.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for the commitment that Succession planning, with changes in the Board taking place during they have demonstrated again this year.
the year We encourage diversity and believe that a diverse workforce The review of risk management and assurance processes, with the setting can make the biggest contribution to helping our customers up of the Governance Committee occurring during the year meet their challenges.
We also prioritise the development of The review of financial reporting systems and processes, to ensure robust our employees, particularly in commercial skills and technical financial oversight and reporting knowledge that contribute to our customers future success.
The safety of our people is an absolute requirement across Read more on page 48. all of our sites, as well as proper recognition of the role that we play in local community and in the environmental stewardship of these sites.
Our leaders play a crucial role in the ongoing transformation of QinetiQ.
We encourage candour, transparency and empowerment amongst our leadership team.
This underpins our prized possession of trust driving ethical and responsible business practice throughout the organisation.
I would like to thank all our leaders for continuing to drive a more open and commercial culture across the Group.
Mark Elliott Chairman 22 May 2014 Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 150.
3 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
