Chairmans statement CHRISTOPHER COLEMAN th As it enters its 20 year of operation, Randgold can truly be said to have come of age in 2014, and it has been my great privilege to take over the chairmanship at this pivotal point in the companys development.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 6 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 6 Against the background of a bear market in gold and an consideration, the value it is able to create for all of them industry under pressure, it is a remarkable achievement will be maximised.
This spirit of partnership is an essential that Randgold increased its production to over one million component of the social licence which Randgold sees as ounces, thereby achieving a long term goal, and at the essential to operating in Africa.
Among other things, it same time reducing its costs per ounce of production.
encompasses the companys policy of employing, training The flagship Loulo-Gounkoto complex pushed its and advancing the citizens of the countries in which it performance to record levels again, Kibali continued to operates: virtually the entire workforce at its mines, shape up as another world-class mine and the group including the senior management, are nationals of its host reserve base was strengthened.
It also includes a wide range of educational, year with no net debt, and some $100 million in cash healthcare and environmental initiatives which are and gold in hand on the balance sheet.
While the profit comprehensively detailed in the sustainability report line was inevitably impacted by the gold price, the board starting on page 96 of this annual report.
nevertheless felt sufficiently confident in the companys prospects to propose a 20% increase in the annual The significant voluntary contribution dividend to shareholders.
Randgold makes to its host Response countries was also evident in its to Ebola Randgolds core strategies have response to the Ebola outbreak in remained intact since its foundation West Africa.
As it did to rescue the regions failing tropical Core but their implementation is under disease control programme a few years ago, Randgold strategies constant review and, where mobilised industry support for the Malian health authorities necessary, adjustments are made to accommodate in their effort to contain the spread of the disease after the changing circumstances.
When the gold price started its first case was reported there.
Thanks in no small measure decline, management identified this as a fundamental to the additional medical expertise, capacity and funding shift in the market and were able to take prompt action to the private sector provided, Mali was officially declared ensure that the companys operations would still be Ebola-free at the beginning of 2015 by the United Nations profitable at a price of $1 000 oz.
The effectiveness of Mission for Ebola Emergency Response.
those measures is reflected in the past years results.
Randgold continues to play an active part in the Ebola There are signs that the gold price is stabilising and the Private Sector Mobilisation Group, which coordinates cost pressures on the industry are likely to ease as a result the industrys response to the disease across the region.
of the drop in the price of oil and other consumables.
The effectiveness of the Malian initiative has shown what The overall operating environment, nevertheless, is more can be achieved through cooperation and local capacitycomplex and volatile than at any time since the Nineties building.
and the board and management continue to look closely at all the realistically conceivable scenarios for the next My predecessor as chairman, Philippe Litard, was a five years, identifying the opportunities and obstacles that strong advocate of Randgolds sustainability programmes lie ahead, and incorporating them in our planning.
and he has been appointed as the first chairman of the Nos Vies en Partage Foundation, the charitable foundation It is worth noting that the model Randgold established in 2013.
The foundation, which of stakeholder capitalism grew out of the series of fundraising motorcycle safaris Stakeholder Randgold has developed led across Africa by Mark Bristow in recent years, model served it well again in 2014.
In supports poverty relief, education advancement, primary essence, the company believes that if it treats investors, health care improvement, food safety and security, and host governments, workers and communities with equal the creation of employment and training programmes.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 7 SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE AND GOLD PRICE Share price Gold price $ oz 100 1 600 80 1 400 60 1 200 40 1 000 20 800 0 600 Source: Factset With a special focus on those left behind by economic One of the key success factors in mining is management, progress in Africa, particularly women and children, it and for Randgold the routine challenges of managing operates alongside Randgolds own social responsibility complex engineering and industrial sites are compounded initiatives.
by the fact that its mines are located in remote regions, surrounded by impoverished communities and based in Randgold owes Philippe an enormous debt for his sometimes volatile emerging countries.
leadership of the board through a crucial growth phase.
On behalf of the board, I thank him for his years of Last years robust performance, and the foundation invaluable service and wish him every success at the that has been laid for sustainably profitable growth, are helm of Nos Vies en Partage Foundation.
a tribute to the long term vision of the companys future shared by Randgolds board and executives, and to the The composition of the commitment with which it is being pursued by Mark board is regularly reviewed Strengthening to ensure that it has the Bristow and his management team.
the board right balance of international business acumen, industry sector knowledge and I speak on behalf of the board, our shareholders and emerging markets experience.
The board has recently indeed the other stakeholders when I thank Mark and his appointed Safiatou Ba-NDaw as a non-executive director.
team for their continued creation and delivery of value.
She brings a wealth of experience and her skills I should mention that the government of Mali recently complement those of the other directors.
As part of the conferred the honour of Chevalier fide lOrdre national du succession planning of the board, Jamil Kassum will be Mali on Mark in well-deserved recognition of his personal appointed chairman of the audit committee and contribution to that countrys development.
Andy Quinn will be appointed chairman of the remuneration committee, both with effect from I also take this opportunity of thanking my fellow directors 4 May 2015.
They will succeed Karl Voltaire and Norborne for their support and for the vision and intellect that they Cole who will remain on the board and committees until bring to the board.
Christopher Coleman Chairman Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 8 Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Aug 14 Sep 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Jan 15 Feb 15 Share price $ NASDAQ: GOLD Share price LSE: RRS Gold price Randgold Resources Annual Report 2014 9
