Strategic report Chairmans statement Creating shared experiences 3.
Retail channel improvements Dear shareholder During the year particular focus was placed As outlined in our interim statement, on improving the performance of our the Group had a challenging H1 where Mecca venues.
Further detail is provided a weaker performance from our London in Meccas venues performance review.
casinos and the highly competitive market adversely affected our financial There still continues to be some performance compared to the prior underperformance in the Group, which period.
As a direct result, we undertook has resulted in the Group having to three actions in H2 aimed at delivering recognise 12.9m of impairment charges improved performance: 1 improving at 30 June 2014 in respect of certain the value for money for our customers, venues in the UK and Spain.
2 tightening of our cost controls and Board changes 3 a more focused capital expenditure John Warren programme.
We are pleased to report On 17 October 2013, John Warren that the 21% increase in H2 operating stepped down from the board after profit versus H1 highlights the success serving more than seven and a half of these actions.
years as non-executive director and Last year the following priorities were chairman of the audit committee.
Here we provide Colin Child an update on our progress made in On 18 March 2014, Colin Child, Ranks each area.
Integration of acquired casinos from the board.
Colin joined the board Ian Burke, Chairman This year we worked hard to successfully on 1 January 2012 and was Ranks senior integrate the former Gala casino venues independent director, chairman of the which were acquired back in May 2013. nominations committee and chairman With 17.8m of capital invested in the of the audit committee.
Following Colins Rank is in a strong year, we have made significant departure, I was appointed chairman of financial position, improvements to the estate while also the nominations committee and Owen implementing operational improvements.
ODonnell chairman of the audit possesses marketThe 19 venues are on track to deliver the committee.
I am currently leading leading brands and anticipated level of returns and, along the search for a new senior independent with our existing estate, before central director.
An update will be provided as has a clear strategy costs, represent 60% of the Groups and when appropriate.
for long-term operating profit for the year.
Growth in digital After eight years as chief executive of The Group continued its focus the Group I decided it was the right on growing the digital channels.
time to step away from the role.
com 27 March 2014, the Group announced continues to grow strongly and the appointment of Henry Birch as now offers its bespoke live casino Ranks new chief executive and Henrys product.
Our growing live casino is appointment took effect from 6 May 2014. now a major revenue contributor to My time as chief executive has been our digital casino channel.
challenging and rewarding, and I wish Henry all the very best in his new role.
8 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 For more information see pages: 48 Board of directors 51 Corporate governance On 6 May 2014, I became non-executive Taxation minimum free oat requirement remains chairman and have been working The 2014 Budget statement contained at 25%, however they stated that they alongside Henry to ensure a smooth two major changes to the taxation of the will take into account certain factors transition of executive responsibilities.
Groups activities: when making any decision to modify the 25% requirement.
Rank has therefore Dividend A reduction in bingo duty from 20% made a formal submission to the FCA The board is pleased to recommend a to 10% to take effect from 30 June requesting it to modify LR 6.1.
19 R so final dividend of 3.15 pence per share be 2014: and that Rank can continue to be a premium paid on 22 October 2014 to shareholders The application of remote gaming listed company with a slightly lower free duty RGD, at 15%, to all online on the register at 12 September 2014. oat percentage than 25%.
gaming involving consumer 1 Regulatory reform transactions in the UK regardless Current trading and outlook Rank has been lobbying for regulatory of where the operator is based to take Since the beginning of July performance modernisation within gaming for a effect from 1 December 2014. has been in line with managements number of years.
Following the successful As a consequence of the reduction expectations and ahead of last year.
campaign to cut bingo duty, Ranks in bingo duty Rank has committed to While such a short trading period can current objectives reect restrictions the construction of three new bingo be distorted by external factors, we are on our ability to meet customer venues, the re-starting of its venues pleased with the underlying trends.
demand for casino gaming and are: refurbishment programme and providing Rank remains in a strong financial An increased provision of slot better value for customers in terms of position, possesses market-leading machines in casinos Great Britains game prices and prize funds.
brands and has a clear strategy for casinos currently have less than 2% Rank has been working hard on assessing long-term growth.
of the machines in Great Britain : and the full impact of RGD and developing The right for local authorities to elect ways to reduce any negative impact on whether to license casinos the majority shareholder value, for example through Ian Burke, Chairman of local authorities in Great Britain do not currently enjoy this right.
the renegotiation of key digital contracts 13 August 2014 and reviewing the effectiveness of digital While achievement of these objectives marketing campaigns.
The Group remains uncertain, progress was anticipates the majority of the duty made in 2013 14 with increases in cost will impact digital profitability.
maximum stakes from 2 to 5 Listing Rules and prizes maximum of 10,000 for On 16 May 2014, new Listing Rules Category B1 slot machines in casinos came into force for all premium listed and an increase in the maximum prize companies.
The Financial Conduct from 70 to 100 for Category C slot Authority FCA confirmed that the machines in the Groups bingo venues.
1 Total advisory service fees for engaging with Government, Parliament and the media in the period were 0.1m 2012 13: 0.1m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 9
