Strategic Report Chairmans Statement A year of progress introduction Three years ago the Group set out a clear strategy to focus its brand portfolio on the faster growth and higher margin consumer health and hygiene categories, and to redeploy its resources to deliver a more evenly balanced revenue stream from emerging and developed markets.
The Groups results for 2014 are a clear testament to the validity of this strategy, which is working to create significant value for Shareholders.
Like-for-like net revenue growth was up 4%.
Reported operating profit grew 15% on actual currency and 25% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusted operating profit grew 2% on actual currency and 11% on a constant currency basis.
Reported diluted earnings per share were 441.1p, 85% versus prior year.
Total adjusted diluted earnings per share were 268.5p, consistent with 2013.
The Board is confident that the business is in a strong position to deliver sustainable, profitable growth in 2015 and beyond.
Supercharging our earnings model It is a testament to the Groups culture that there is a restlessness and ongoing ambition to improve both delivery to consumers and customers, as AdriAn BellAmy Chairman well as reigniting the earnings model.
I am therefore extremely pleased to announce Project Supercharge, an initiative which is fully explained on page 17, which I am confident will make RB a more efficient and effective business.
RBs purpose driven strategy has The organisational changes will provide the framework to deliver bigger, better and more scalable innovation, combined with improved in-market delivered another year of growth activation at a country level.
I am confident that this, combined with the cost savings initiatives, will deliver continued growth and outperformance.
This and outperformance in 2014. will provide rewarding returns for you, our Shareholders.
improved focus on our core business The Group continued to improve its focus on its core business with a strategic acquisition and further brand rationalisation throughout the year.
Shareholder information Investor presentation webcast RB.
com RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 www.
co. uk Sustainability Report available April 2015 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 02 Strategic Report Following the strategic review in October 2013, RB Pharmaceuticals was Case study demerged on 23 December 2014 and listed on the London Stock Exchange as Indivior PLC.
It was the Boards view that a stand-alone business will be Dettol India a nationwide campaign best placed to create value for Shareholders as it manages the challenges for a cleaner India Banega Swachh and seizes the opportunities within the field of addiction.
In May 2014 we acquired the K-Y brand from Johnson & Johnson in most Since 2006, Dettol has reached over 6 million children with handwashing major markets, which will improve our presence in the sexual wellbeing education.
In 2014, RB launched a nationwide movement to promote a category, particularly in the US, Canada and Brazil where we were cleaner, healthier India.
The programme aims to improve hand hygiene underrepresented.
Over the next five years, our Swachh Express bus will reach out to 2,000 villages to co-design and deliver community-based Board changes and governance hygiene campaigns.
On Global Handwashing Day 2014, we set a world As I shared in my statement last year, during 2014 we have been record with 1.4 million children across India.
particularly focused on strengthening and refreshing the composition of the Board.
In addition to Nicandro Durante, who was appointed as We have partnered with Facebook and one of Indias leading TV stations.
a Non-Executive member of the Board in December 2013, three NonOur 12 hour nationwide Cleanathon reached over 12 million people Executive members were appointed in 2014: Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim and on air and online.
Three further appointments of Non-Executive members were effected in February 2015, in Mary Harris, Pam Kirby and Chris Sinclair.
These new members will bring a broad range of skills to the Board, and I would like to warmly welcome each of these new appointments.
The Board completed its annual assessment of corporate governance, including 12 hour nationwide Board effectiveness, and took proactive steps to address recommended Cleanathon reached improvements.
Strong corporate governance is a key element of our business success and remains at the heart of the Groups delivery of its long-term strategy.
My full report on Corporate Governance is given on pages 30 to 63.
AGm resolutions 12m people The resolutions, which will be voted upon at our Annual General Meeting AGM on 7 May 2015 are fully explained in the Notice of Meeting.
I encourage all our Shareholders to attend our AGM.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Rakesh Kapoor and his leadership team for their excellent management of the business and nurturing of an employee culture that continues to drive such excellent results.
Many thanks go to our employees globally for their achievement indelivering another strong year for RB.
My thanks go also to my Board colleagues for their continued commitment and guidance.
The Board is grateful for the support of our Shareholders and we thank you for your ongoing commitment to RB.
I am confident that the strategy being followed by the Group is the right one, and our strong management team is in place to continue to deliver the Groups stated aims of growth and outperformance.
AdriAn BellAmy Chairman RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 03
