Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Group Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2014 3 Chairmans statement Balance sheet Net debt was 3.5bn 4.6bn on 31 December 2014, compared with 3.1bn 3.7bn last year.
Net debt EBITDA on a pensions and lease adjusted basis for 2014 was 2.3x, up from 2.1x last year, and on an unadjusted basis, it was 1.7x, up from 1.6x last year.
Adjusted cash ow conversion was 96%, down from 97% in 2013, with capital expenditure at 4.7% of revenues.
Share buybacks During the year, we continued with our share buyback programme.
In 2014, we deployed a total of 600m on share buybacks.
In 2015, we intend to deploy a total of 500m on share buybacks.
By February, 100m of this years total had already been completed, leaving a further 400m to be deployed during the year.
The Boards Following the resignation of Duncan Palmer, Nick Luff joined the Group as Chief Financial officer in September.
I would like to take Anthony Habgood this opportunity to thank Duncan for his contributions over two Chairman years, and welcome Nick to our Boards.
Corporate structure and corporate entity names Once again underlying revenue We are proposing measures to shareholders at our Annual General Meetings in April which will simplify our corporate structure, and profits grew across all major clarify the economic interests of parent company shareholders, and increase share price transparency.
None of the changes business units during 2014, as we impact the economic interests of any shareholder.
continued to streamline our We are also proposing to shareholders to align the two parent company names with RELX Group plc, the name that we adopted operations.
We are now proposing for the new single group entity on 25 February.
The proposed new names are RELX PLC for the London listed shareholding vehicle measures that will modernise and and RELX NV for the Amsterdam listed shareholding vehicle.
Webelieve it to be in the interests of the shareholders of both simplify our corporate structure, parent companies to make the company into a more understandable group with a more modern name to reect increasing transparency without wherethe company is today.
impacting the economic interests Corporate responsibility We remain focused on corporate responsibility, which continues to of shareholders.
be a source of strength at the company.
The Boards are particularly proud of the initiatives we are taking, which build on our unique Growth of underlying revenues, which exclude the effects of contributions to society.
Our commitment to the highest standards currency translation, acquisitions, disposals and biennial of ethical management also underpins the vitality of the company.
Underlying adjusted operating profits Here, the Boards monitor performance to ensure sustained grew 5%, with the improvement in profitability reecting a progress in areas ranging from governance and diversity to combination of underlying revenue growth, process innovation responsible supply chain management.
Adjusted operating profits fell 1% to Anthony Habgood 1,739m expressed in sterling, and increased 4% to 2,156m Chairman expressed in euros.
Adjusted earnings per share grew 4% to 56.3p for Reed Elsevier PLC, and 8% to 1.07 for Reed Elsevier NV.
Reported earnings per share fell 12% to 43p for Reed Elsevier PLC, and 7% to 0.85 for Reed Elsevier NV.
The year-on-year declines largely reect the absence of a non-recurring tax credit which was taken in 2013.
Dividends The Boards are recommending equalised final dividends of 19.00p for Reed Elsevier PLC and 0.438 for Reed Elsevier NV, up respectively 6% and 17% against the prior year.
This brings the total dividends for the year to 26.00p for Reed Elsevier PLC, up 6% and 0.589 for Reed Elsevier NV, up 16%.
The differing growth rates of the interim and final dividends for the two parent companies reect movements in the sterling-euro exchange rate between dividend announcement dates.
