Chairmans statement The Group has had a good year.
It significantly increased the size of its network while also growing revenues and profits.
As a result, we continued to deliver attractive returns on investment.
Douglas Sutherland Chairman During 2014, Group revenues grew to Returns to shareholders are further enhanced number of initiatives to ensure that the 1,676.1m 2013: 1,533.5m, an increase through our focus on efficient and scalable strategy can be delivered successfully.
Our of 15.8% at constant currency 9.3% at operations at both the centre and Group ongoing efforts to focus on our strategic actual rates.
Our efforts to improve the objectives and initiatives in both Board by 27% at constant currency to 104.3m communication of our performance against and management activities is paying off, 2013: 90.8m, up 15% at actual rates.
our strategic objectives are reflected in this evidenced in the numbers we are able to This performance is all the more pleasing Annual Report.
We continue to review and given the adverse impact of start-up costs monitor our remuneration policy to ensure We continue to benefit from the trend of associated with our higher investment in that the execution of our strategy includes businesses looking to outsource non-core growth in recent years.
an alignment of interests and incentives activities, of which real estate is one, and the between our shareholders and executives.
We evaluate the underlying performance of shift from fixed to flexible working.
These the business by looking at the returns we changes occur even through variations in the In May 2014 we welcomed Nina Henderson are able to generate from the investments macroeconomic climate and, as such, they to the Board.
She has already made a we have made.
During 2014 I am pleased to continue to present the Group with strong contribution and recently assumed report that locations opened on or before significant opportunities for growth.
chairmanship of the Remuneration 31 December 2011 which for clarity are Committee.
We have a strong and well Staying close to our customers and locations opened over the first 23 years of balanced team with skills and experience providing them with the very best service is operation achieved an annual post-tax that complement each other well.
We continuously 4 cash return on investment of 20.9%, well look for ways to improve the customers People above our cost of capital.
The specific experience and this underlines the To achieve these results we rely on the calculation methodology for these returns importance of our continued investment in commitment and skill of our talented and is covered in detail in the CFOs review innovation.
Our ability to invest in R&D at a experienced people.
It is because of their on page 16-19. scale unmatched by our competitors helps dedication, energy and total focus on the Given these strong returns, the board was define and reinforce our leadership position.
customer that the business is the success it encouraged by the ability of the business is.
To each and every one of them, thank you.
We understand the benefits of engaging to fund additional attractive investment with the local economies in which we Dividend opportunities during the year, well ahead operate and have expanded the support Over the last five years we have doubled of its original estimate of at least 300 new for projects of our team members in their our dividend payment per share.
In addition, while flexible committed to the payment of a sustainable further strengthens the foundations for working helps our customers reduce their and progressive dividend.
It underlines our enhanced long-term shareholder returns.
carbon emissions, we are working to confidence in the long-term performance of Furthermore, we achieved this whilst minimise the inevitable environmental the business, the strength of our balance maintaining a robust balance sheet and impact resulting from our significant sheet and the quality of our assets.
investing less of our own capital indeed, growth through ongoing energy saving we actually generated net cash of 23m I am therefore pleased to announce that and sustainability initiatives.
in the second half of the year, a period in the Board is recommending an increase in which we added 258 new locations.
We Board the final dividend of 10% to 2.75p.
Subject have also taken the opportunity provided Key roles of the Board include: assuring a to the approval of shareholders at the by good access to debt capital to increase sound strategy is in place and adapted to 2014 AGM, this will be paid on 29 May and diversify our available facilities.
changing conditions: ensuring we have the 2015 to shareholders on the register at the management and resources to deliver that close of business on 1 May 2015.
Strategy strategy: overseeing managements progress Our strategic objectives include growing the Douglas Sutherland in its execution: and ensuring the Company underlying value of our business through Chairman and attendant risks are well managed.
disciplined investment in quality workplaces 3 March 2015 that expand our national networks while As the breadth and scope of the Groups 4 Post-tax cash returns on net invested EBITDA providing attractive returns to shareholders.
operations expand, we have undertaken a less amortisation of partner contribution, less tax, less maintenance capex Gross capital 10 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 expenditure less partner contribution.
