Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance 43 Chairmans Statement at Board level, which makes us consistent with the recommendations John McAdam of the Davies Review.
We will continue to look to enhance the Chairman composition and diversity of the Board over time, with a view to equipping the Board with the optimum range of skills for the business future development, and this will remain an important topic for the Board in 2015.
The Board evaluation for 2014 reconfirmed the positive outcome of the previous year, the ongoing improvement in ratings versus 2013 and previous years, and confirms that the Board functions effectively.
Some suggestions for improvements were identified which are set out on page 46.
Challenge A major responsibility of the Board is to challenge the Executive team constructively over its execution of strategy and hold it to account Dear fellow shareholder over actions taken.
During the year the Board has held meetings in Strong corporate governance underpins the successful execution Oslo with the team leading the business across the Nordics, with the of our strategy, and helps drive growth in our business and the leaders of the business in North America and Benelux, and with the creation of shareholder value.
By insisting on high standards digital marketing and innovation teams.
One of our Non-executive ofgovernance across the Company, we help create a stronger Directors visited our Pacific business head office in Australia and performance culture and ensure, throughout the business, better, spent time with its management while in the region on business.
These engagements not only help Directors to develop a better We have continued to streamline our portfolio of businesses in understanding of the issues faced in implementing strategy but also 2014 under our Chief Executive, with the sale of Initial Facilities provide reference points for the assessment of the management inMarch to Interserve plc, and have made substantial progress in cadre in the organisation.
We continue to ensure that the induction executing against our new corporate strategy put in place at the process for Directors includes time with frontline staff and detailed end of 2013 and outlined in last years Annual Report.
briefings on the operational businesses, as well as information on their responsibilities and the governance framework of the group.
As described in the Strategic Report, we believe that the clarity ofour plan, supported by an appropriate governance framework, Reporting and engagement will deliver a tangible improvement in the return to shareholders.
I hope that you have found the Strategic Report to shareholders onpages 1 to 38 a helpful explanation of our strategy and of how Sale of Initial Facilities the strategy is executed through our business model.
This year After the sale of City Link in 2013, the sale of Initial Facilities wehave taken into account the guidance of the Financial Reporting removed a non-strategic business in our Manage For Value Council FRC on strategic report preparation, issued in June 2014, quadrant from the group, and allowed the Board to focus on the changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code, following its thecore categories of Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear.
reissue in September 2014 and ongoing developments in remuneration reporting under the new regulations.
Our remuneration Board composition policy, appended to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages The composition of the Board has continued to evolve in 2014.
61 to 68, was approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014 Atthe AGM in May, Duncan Tatton-Brown stepped down after and will not be put to thevote again until 2017. nine years on the Board, latterly as Audit Committee Chairman.
In July we were delighted to appoint Julie Southern to the Board as I hope that the remainder of this report gives you a clear our new Audit Committee Chair.
As mentioned in last years report, understanding of the governance process as well as how the Board Peter Long, our Senior Independent Director, who joined the Board complies with its obligations under the UK Corporate Governance in 2002, stepped down at the end of 2014.
Peter has made an Code 2012, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency enormous contribution to the work of the Board in his 12 years as Rules.
We will continue to keep these obligations under review a Non-executive Director and my colleagues and I on the Board during 2015. have benefited greatly from his wise counsel during that time.
Alan If you are able to attend the AGM, I look forward to seeing you Giles has taken over the role of Senior Independent Director from inMay.
In the meantime we are keen to engage with shareholders 1 January 2015, combining it with his role as our Remuneration and other stakeholders and would welcome your feedback on this Committee Chairman.
com and let It is my responsibility to ensure that Board members have a diverse usknow what you think.
range of backgrounds and skills and that they all contribute to our Yours faithfully decision-making.
Each Board member brings his or her viewpoint to Board discussions and collectively, as well as individually, Iam confident the Board demonstrates the highest standards of governance and integrity which is essential to ensuring that these standards are reflected across the group.
John McAdam With the appointment of Julie Southern in July 2014, I am pleased Chairman to report that we now have a 25% level of female representation 26 February 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
