16 Annual Report 2014 The Restaurant Group plc Chairmans statement Investing in the next stage of growth Like-for-like sales were 2.8% ahead of the previous year and I am very encouraged that this positive trend has continued into 2015.
Alan Jackson Chairman 15.4p Total dividend Over 470 restaurants 40 new restaurants Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2014 17 The Group has delivered another record set of results in the The new financial year has started well with total sales growth 2014 financial year with significant growth in revenues, profits of 9.5% and like-for-like sales growth of 2.5% for the first eight and cash flow.
These results have been achieved following weeks of the year.
We have an outstanding business with more than a decade of consistent year on year growth in market leading brands across a range of segments in the earnings, underscoring the strength of the Groups business.
eating out market and an experienced management team with real strength and depth.
With these core strengths and Like-for-like sales were 2.8% ahead of the previous year and an improving UK economy, I am confident that TRG is well I am very encouraged that this positive trend has continued placed to continue making further profitable progress in 2015 into 2015.
We again increased our openings programme and over the coming years.
during 2014 with a total of 40 new restaurants opened in the year.
Since 2009 we have increased the number of new site openings every year, and we fully expect this trend to Alan Jackson continue going forward.
We have excellent visibility on our Chairman opening programme over the next few years.
27 February 2015 During the year the Group passed a number of key milestones, with turnover exceeding 600m and the total number of restaurants in our portfolio increasing to over 470.
The continued growth and success of the Group is the product of the hard work, experience and dedication of our Directors, senior management and staff.
On behalf of the Board I would like to record our thanks and appreciation to all of our teams across the country.
As a result of the strong financial performance in the year, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.3p per share to give a total for the year of 15.4p, an increase of 10% on the prior year.
This dividend is covered almost two times by earnings per share, in line with our stated dividend policy.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 8 July 2015 and the shares will be marked ex-dividend on 18 June 2015.
Danny Breithaupt took over as Chief Executive of the Group on the 1 September 2014, following the retirement of Andrew Page.
I am delighted to report that the transition has gone extremely smoothly and Danny has already clearly demonstrated that he is the right person to lead The Restaurant Group through the next stage of its evolution.
During the year Sally Cowdry joined the Board as a nonexecutive Director and is making a valuable contribution to the work of the Board.
Since the year-end we have announced that Debbie Hewitt will be joining the Board from 1 May as non-executive Director, further strengthening and broadening the skill base of the Board.
