02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT on 27 May 2015 to shareholders on the register On 19 February 2015, the boards of Ball Corporation on 1 May 2015.
This takes the total dividend for 2014 to 17.7p, up 2% from last year.
Ball and Rexam announced that they had reached During the year, we also returned value to agreement on the terms of a recommended offer for shareholders through the 450m return of the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital cash following the completion of the sale of the Healthcare packaging business.
In recent years Rexams management page 44.
As we have said before, we will return surplus cash as additional distributions team has led a transformation of the Group, returning if we do not find the opportunities for approximately 1.5bn of cash to shareholders since investment with the right levels of return.
We expect to sustain the dividend in 2015 2010 and creating a focused beverage can maker with despite the fact that our free cash flow a promising future.
Notwithstanding that, the Rexam board generation will be constrained by the plans we have for the business see page 15 as believes that consolidation in the beverage can industry well as by trading headwinds.
We measure value not only in economic terms.
We also will bring an enhanced ability to serve the demands of identify and prioritise issues that concern our our increasingly global customers and would represent internal and external stakeholders such as environmental and societal issues so that we a compelling opportunity for our shareholders.
can align ourselves to their priorities and expectations.
During the year, we progressed I will now turn to matters concerning 2014. our thinking in these areas with a new materiality study involving a broad base of stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and relevant NGOs.
The result is a new sustainability framework and a set of metrics that will enable us to measure our progress for 2014 IN SUMMARY the period 20142020 in three main areas of Like many other UK based global companies focus: products, operations and people.
You we were buffeted by foreign exchange can read more about this on page 9.
On a constant currency basis, however, we continued to INVEST WITH DISCIPLINE 2% increase grow profits despite the impact of an Our capital expenditure in 2014 remained in total dividend unprecedented rise in aluminium premiums within our guidelines.
We are disciplined in The board is proposing a final and an economic environment which may our financial choices, selecting the options dividend of 11.9p per share, prove to be the new reality.
that can help best meet customer demand making a total dividend of 17.7p and generate value.
The board works with per share for the year.
Subject to The full report of our performance is on the leadership team to ensure the Group shareholder approval, we intend pages 40 to 46.
That we made progress in spends its capital allocation wisely and that to pay the final dividend on such tough conditions is testament to the investments deliver good returns.
Timely 27 May 2015 to shareholders strength and resolve of everyone at Rexam, execution of projects is key, and it is on the register on 1 May 2015. from Graham Chipchase and the executive encouraging to see that the investments leadership, to the management teams and we have made in recent years, for example, employees across the business.
Hard work bolstering our capabilities in the energy drinks and adherence to our core values helped sector, investing in extra capacity in the Africa, shape our performance.
They will also help 450m Middle East and Asia AMEA business, the us as we move forward.
new plant in the Nordic market and the Cash return conversion to more specialty can lines in In 2014, following the successful DELIVERING VALUE Brazil and Chile, have all progressed and sale of our Healthcare packaging We are conscious of the need to balance the are delivering the results we expected.
business, we returned 450m of long term capital investment requirements for cash to shareholders.
tomorrow with the rewards for shareholders today.
Returns to shareholders are a key constituent of our investment proposition and, within this, the dividend is a core element.
Subject to shareholder approval, we intend to pay a final dividend of 11.9p STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2014 03 PRIORITIES AND PRINCIPLES Jean-Pierre Rodier stepped down from the Our aim is to help make Rexam the best board in May 2014 after nine years.
I would LIMITED EDITION WORLD CUP CANS beverage can company in the world.
Our again like to recognise Jean-Pierre for his The football designs on Jim Beam first priority is to ensure that we run a safe outstanding contribution, and in particular Bourbon & Cola in Germany for the operation.
I am very glad to report that our for his role as chairman of the remuneration FIFA World Cup used Rexams innovative safety record improved significantly on last committee for the last two and a half years.
Editions technology which allows year see page 31.
Sadly, there was a fatality I am also pleased to confirm that Ros Rivaz multiple designs of the same label to at the newly acquired United Arab Can UAC replaced Jean-Pierre as chair on his be printed simultaneously on one pallet.
plant in Saudi Arabia before we took control.
Within our executive leadership Targeting football fans and their passion It is a stark reminder that danger is ever team, Rich Grimley, who has been with for the national team, the cans show present.
It demonstrates that we need to Rexam since 2001 and in charge of our silhouette images of German football challenge ourselves continually to ensure that North American beverage can operations players, along with common German anybody working at or with Rexam can return since 2012, assumed the role of Group football phrases.
The cans also had a home to their family and friends safely at the Director of Operations at the start of 2015, collect and win promotion using a red end of each and every working day.
His brief is to lead the coloured tab with a unique promotional manufacturing activity for the Group, engraving underneath.
See more World We also need to be trustworthy: businesses ensuring that we maintain our tireless pursuit Cup cans on page 21. are subject to ever intensive scrutiny by of operational excellence and achieve cost the media, politicians and NGOs, and leadership.
He is succeeded in the North The FIFA World Cup proved a popular expectations of companies such as ours are, theme in 2014.
American team by Claude Marbach who with every good reason, very high.
We need has more than 20 years experience in our to work hard and consistently to maintain business and who most recently was VP Sales peoples trust and respect.
I believe we are and Marketing for North America.
doing just that through our adherence to strong governance principles and our PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE transparency and willingness to engage.
The Ball offer for Rexam is indicative of the The boards duty is to ensure that the changes that our industry is going through.
principles on matters such as leadership, Customers are using their global presence to board effectiveness, financial accountability lower prices.
They are also demanding levels of and risk management underpin everything flexibility that stretch the limits of can making we do and are rigorously applied.
You will capabilities in an industry whose profitability find more on page 47 but throughout 2014, is essentially based on long runs of one size as a board we continued to challenge each of can and simple delivery models.
other to ensure the quality of our decisions.
We must and will continue to pursue our In the annual effectiveness review, the own plans as an independent company to progress we are making against our goals, confront these challenges and ensure that our collective and individual effectiveness, we are positioned to compete.
We are in and the independence of our non executive a strong position financially and we have directors were all scrutinised and found to skilled and capable people.
Effective risk management Graham lays out these plans and, while we is central to us achieving our strategic expect to see some benefit in 2016, their objectives: in this respect, all our decisions impact will only be fully felt in 2017.
The from succession planning to capital milestones we set will be an important investments were discussed within the measure of progress and, as a board, context of the risks involved.
And in terms we will be monitoring them closely.
of engagement, there were a number of meetings throughout the year to maintain That said, our record shows that once set strong relationships and an open dialogue a task, Rexam delivers.
I am confident that the with both private and institutional investors.
long term drivers that underpin our market remain in place and that these, along with our BOARD AND LEADERSHIP CHANGES programme to revitalise our operations, will My ambitions for the composition of the ensure progress and deliver continued value board are, as before, to broaden the range to shareholders, customers and employees of expertise, experience and diversity.
Part as well as wider stakeholder groups.
of our duty is to ensure effective succession plans are in place.
On 10 June 2014, we were delighted to welcome Carl-Peter Forster to the board as a non executive director.
Carl-Peter is the Stuart Chambers former Chief Executive of Tata Motors parent Chairman of Jaguar Land Rover and part of the global Tata Group and previous to that he was 12 March 2015 Group VP and Regional President of GM Europe.
He also spent 15 years in various senior management roles at BMW AG.
His considerable operational and manufacturing expertise and the knowledge and experience gained as a leader in global organisations are real assets to our board discussions.
