Chairmans letter We operate in a complex and interconnected world where global and local Dear shareholders, issues such as biodiversity, climate change, livelihoods, and regional During 2014, your company maintained its steadfast commitment to generate economic development bring both risk and opportunity to the design, sustainable shareholder returns by supplying the commodities essential for development and management of our operations.
As this report shows, we delivered strong financial and operational performance against a challenging market backdrop.
Our success is Societys expectations are increasing, and we will continue to listen carefully to underpinned by our strong safety performance, operational excellence, our stakeholders, as we strive to create mutual value.
values-driven approach and the best people in the industry.
Our operations can have a substantial positive economic impact on the regions and countries in which we operate.
Over the past four years, our I am very pleased to report we delivered on our commitments during 2014.
We economic contribution has exceeded US$230 billion.
achieved underlying earnings of US$9.3 billion and our focus on cash generation led to net cash from operating activities of US$14.3 billion.
We We lead our industry with our ongoing commitment to tax transparency, exceeded our cost reduction target and lowered net debt significantly while publishing our annual Taxes Paid report to hold ourselves and host governments reducing capital expenditure to US$8.2 billion.
We hope others will be encouraged to follow our example.
Most importantly we fulfilled our promise to you, the owners of our company, It is through this combination of facilitating social development, acting as a to materially increase cash returns.
Our primary commitment in terms of catalyst for growth, and behaving in an environmentally responsible way, that shareholder returns is our progressive dividend policy.
In February 2015 we we manage our risks and deliver value for you, our shareholders, and also announced a 12 per cent increase in our full year dividend as well as a create projects of worth for the communities in which we work.
These represent a total cash return to shareholders, in respect of 2014, of almost US$6.0 billion.
They underscore the Governance a balance of diversity and depth confidence your board has in the resilience and strength of the company The past year has again seen a broadening of experience and diversity on your despite ongoing uncertainties in our external markets.
We believe that board as we welcomed a number of new non-executive directors.
delivering returns to shareholders is an important component of our overall Michael LEstrange joined the board in September 2014 and Megan Clark in approach to creating shareholder value.
They bring to Rio Tinto a mix of backgrounds deeply relevant to our strategy and culture, including mining, science and technology, public Value through the economic cycle policy and international relations.
At our Australian annual general meeting in early May, Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick will step down after many years of This improved performance reflects the strategic approach the company has wonderful service.
I thank them both for their dedication and immense embedded throughout our more than 140 year history: to invest in and contribution to Rio Tinto.
operate long-life, low-cost, expandable operations in the most attractive industry sectors.
We focus on the best assets, because they are capable of I am delighted that Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch agreed to extend their tenure delivering value throughout the cycle.
They have provided transformative leadership since 2013, and I am confident that their experience will continue to drive the Volatility has become a characteristic of the rapidly-evolving world in which we delivery of sustainable results.
Each year presents a new economic challenge.
The past six months in particular have seen increased uncertainty in energy, metals and foreign A key role of the board is to ensure it has the appropriate succession exchange markets.
The prices for many of the commodities we produce were arrangements for its senior leadership team and that it has the next significantly lower during 2014, with average iron ore prices down 30 per cent generation of leaders moving through the company.
Rio Tinto has always prided itself on the breadth and depth of the talent within our organisation, and the capabilities of our people across more than However, given the decisive action we have taken over the past two years, your 40 countries are highly regarded.
I would like to thank Sam, the Executive company is in a strong position to capitalise on the positive long-term Committee, and all of our 60,000 employees across the world for their fundamentals for our key commodities, despite the short-term market challenges.
Rio Tintos position as a pre-eminent supplier of raw materials and refined metals and minerals products places us in an enviable position.
At a time of Looking forward with confidence significant distress for late-entrant or high-cost producers, Rio Tinto has been Markets are challenging, and in this environment investors seek strength, able to go about its business in a disciplined and orderly way.
This is due to reliability and consistency.
It is in these periods that your company thrives and our world-class assets, the quality of our products and customer relationships, the quality of its assets, operational excellence and balance sheet strength and the decisive actions we have taken to strengthen our balance sheet.
We continue to focus on maximising returns from our existing assets while Let me assure you that your board, our management, and all our people, ensuring only the best growth projects attract fresh capital.
are committed to delivering sustainable returns to you, our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued investment in Rio Tinto.
I look forward to We also continue to optimise our portfolio, and in 2014 divested the Clermont reviewing progress in 2015 with you next year.
Joint Venture and Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique coal businesses, the Sral and Alucam aluminium businesses, and the Copper groups Sulawesi and Pebble projects.
As we disclosed in October 2014, Glencore contacted Rio Tinto regarding a potential merger in July 2014.
The Rio Tinto board, after consultation with its financial and legal advisers, concluded unanimously that a combination was not in the best interests of Rio Tinto shareholders.
Jan du Plessis Chairman A responsible and transparent business The methods the company employs to deliver superior results are as 4 March 2015 important as the results themselves.
We remain deeply committed to being a responsible company providing products the world over to support economic improvement and social progress.
