4 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am very pleased to report another excellent year for Ashtead with our third set of record annual results and entry into the FTSE 100 for the first time.
It is enormously satisfying that our optimism last year has proved to be justified.
Meanwhile we maintained our debt I am enormously grateful to all our leverage below two times EBITDA and are employees for their hard work and committed to maintaining this over the long commitment, and to our experienced and term.
Our recent performance has been exceptional management and leadership supported by the structural change in the US teams.
They all make Ashtead a very special market and our ability to respond accordingly.
business, which I am pleased to report the CHRIS COLE We now believe that improving general Board experienced first-hand in February CHAIRMAN market conditions will further reinforce 2014 through their attendance at the Sunbelt our progress supporting both our growth management meeting with 700 key people.
We continue our progressive dividend policy, 2013 saw the introduction of a new reporting while considering underlying profit and cash framework and we are pleased to report we generation and sustainability throughout the Both Sunbelt and A-Plant enjoyed strong are compliant with the new regulations.
In view of our excellent performance with full-year Group revenue also confident that we continue to maintain performance, the Board is recommending at 1,635m compared to 1,362m last year.
and develop a balanced and diverse Board a final dividend of 9.25p per share making Our underlying pre-tax profit was 362m, up that promotes good governance.
We say 11.5p for the year compared to 7.5p in 2013.
50% at constant exchange rates from 245m goodbye and thank you to Hugh Etheridge Assuming the final dividend is approved at last year, due to a combination of the strong who retires as our senior independent the Annual General Meeting, it will be paid revenue growth and ongoing operational director and chairman of the Audit Committee on 5 September 2014 to shareholders on the efficiency.
Our Group EBITDA margin on 30 June and who has supported us so register on 15 August 2014. improved further to 42% compared with well over the last 10 years.
I am pleased We remain confident of further growth as our 38% last year.
to welcome Wayne Edmunds, the former markets continue to improve and we build on chief executive of Invensys plc, as a new Sunbelt rental revenue grew 23% to $1,973m, the momentum, reputation and experience non-executive director and our new Audit driven by a 17% increase in fleet on rent and a that we have established.
Continuance of our Committee chairman.
Ian Sutcliffe, who 4% improvement in yield.
With the acquisition well-articulated strategy and remaining alert joined us in 2010, will be our new senior of Eve Trakway, A-Plant delivered rental to opportunities will, I believe, ensure ongoing independent director.
revenue of 244m, up 33% on the prior year, creation of shareholder value.
reflecting 21% more fleet on rent and a 9% The theme of this years report is What we improvement in yield.
What we do is solve problems for our customers who are central to all of our Our strategy, detailed on page 10, continues planning.
This customer service ethos is to be focused largely on organic growth, supported by all aspects of the business, supplemented by greenfield openings but most of all by the people on the ground and a range of carefully selected bolt-on CHRIS COLE who make things happen.
We invested 741m in capital CHAIRMAN of our new Strategic Report we feature some expenditure, primarily to support our growth, 16 June 2014 of those people who embody what we do, and 103m on 12 acquisitions over the year providing exemplary customer service.
and added 39 new locations in the US.
