Strategic Report CHAIRMANS REVIEW After a decade of strong performance and growth, 2014 was a year of mixed fortunes for our Company.
We are totally focused on returning the Company to its long-term trajectory of profitable growth and of superior shareholder returns.
IAN DAVIS Chairman 10 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report There have been some real pluses and SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS achievements alongside a number of Despite the short-term challenges, the challenges that held back the Companys fundamentals of the business remain financial performance.
Rolls-Royce is a growth company, PAYMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS well positioned in long-term growth During the course of the year, our order markets that offer the prospect of book reached its highest ever level.
23.1p 2013: 22.0p celebrated the delivery of the first Airbus A350 XWB to our launch customer Qatar We know that shareholders do not invest Airways, powered by Rolls-Royce Trent XWB in growth alone, they invest for growth engines.
Our record of customer service thats profitable.
Our payment to UNDERLYING EPS continues to improve, in Civil aerospace shareholders of 23.1p reflects the confidence for example, we have maintained a record the Board has in the Companys profitability of 100% on-time delivery to Airbus for the and cash generation prospects.
In the same period our time we are committed to retaining a strong Marine business improved original balance sheet.
Civil aerospace in particular, equipment on-time delivery by 11%, while although an attractive long-term business, spares delivery improved across the Group.
can still be prone to external market shocks.
ORDER BOOK We still have more to do here and we are Our customers, who depend on our service totally committed to enhancing customer support for periods of up to 25 years, satisfaction with our products and services.
both expect and demand a financially 74bn 2013: 72bn However, progress is encouraging and resilient supplier.
bodes well for the future.
Happy customers are a precondition for a successful, STRATEGY long-term business.
Rolls-Royce is intrinsically a long-term RETURN ON SALES business and has to be directed and Set against these achievements, 2014 was managed as such.
In Civil aerospace the first year in a decade in which revenue for example, products take many years 11.5% 2013: 11.8% and underlying profits, on a like-for-like to develop, test and bring to market, and basis, did not grow.
The Defence business are quite rightly subject to strict regulatory was hit hard by constraints in government process.
Revenue from the sale of original MORE FINANCIAL INFORMATION expenditure.
In our Land & Sea Division, equipment and subsequent aftermarket ON PAGES 26 TO 31 we faced tough market conditions, services generate cash flows for decades.
characterised by pricing pressure and deferred or cancelled orders by customers, The Board reviewed the Groups product particularly in the oil & gas, construction portfolio and corporate structure in and mining industries.
light of these financial and investment characteristics.
This review led to the In addition to some difficult trading decision to divest our Energy business conditions, we did not make as much and we completed its sale to Siemens progress as planned on improving our cost in December.
At the same time we The and cash performance.
We fully recognise strengthened our position in the core fundamentals this is a priority if we are to provide division of Land & Sea by completing the attractive returns to shareholders as well acquisition of the shares held by Daimler of the business as to fund the investment requirements in Power Systems.
We are focused on the remain strong.
that will underpin long-term growth.
twin pillars of Aerospace and Land & Sea Ours is a business that requires significant because of their technology and service up-front cash investment to generate model synergies and their combined ability long-term cash flow.
to create shared competitive advantage.
Our strong belief is that shareholders, as well as customers and employees, will be best served if the Company continues to focus on expanding its position in the highly attractive global markets for power and propulsion.
We have long-established and 11 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS REVIEW CONTINUED PEOPLE AND TALENT competitive technology platforms, as well 357 apprentices across the world.
I am We are exploring ways of accelerating as customer relationships, in gas turbines, pleased that 26% of our graduate recruits and broadening career paths for our reciprocating engines, nuclear services and and 10% of our UK apprentices are female highest potential talent across the world controls.
We see substantial long-term value not good enough but progress.
Our and for further increasing diversity as an creation and growth potential from these community programmes remain directed important element of changing and products, not least from aftermarket towards encouraging young people, strengthening our culture.
services where Rolls-Royce has been a particularly females, to choose science, pioneer.
There will be cyclicality and technology, engineering and maths STEM MORE INFORMATION ON PAGES 42 TO 43 volatility external and internal risks are subjects.
We are in the process of reviewing not insignificant however, our long-term our training and leadership development aspiration is to build on our position programmes, particularly for middle as a leading global provider of complex managers.
We are also exploring ways of integrated power systems for use in the accelerating and broadening career paths air, on land and at sea.
for our highest potential talent across the world and for further increasing diversity INNOVATION as an important element of changing and Innovation has been, and is, critical to strengthening our culture.
the long-term success of Rolls-Royce.
We cannot depend on size and scale alone CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for competitive advantage.
We invest more The Board recognises that strong than 1 billion a year in research and governance is a hallmark of excellent development R&D to ensure that we companies.
We remain committed to conceive, design and deliver world-class being a leader in ethical behaviour and in technology that meets our customers environmental and social responsibility.
We current and future requirements.
are updating and upgrading our governance structures and controls, with a particular Innovation is not just about R&D numbers focus on risk and compliance procedures.
and not just about product technology.
The concerns about bribery and corruption An increasing focus, for example, is on data involving intermediaries in overseas analytics and on control systems to reflect markets, and the subsequent SFO enquiry, our customers increasing requirements for together with wider speculation, have been integrated solutions.
Rolls-Royce has long a body blow to the Company and we have been an innovator in services and we will responded accordingly.
We have expanded be looking to build on this.
I am especially significantly our compliance team, invested proud of our collaborative approach to heavily in training and awareness building innovation, particularly our work with across the Group and strengthened our leading universities across the world on internal controls.
Our staff have received a designated topics and technologies.
We are new Global Code of Conduct, together with quite clear that we must improve our capital mandatory training.
We have established or efficiency, our cost competitiveness and our expanded our own offices in many We are cash generation.
However this will not be at international markets and reduced the expense of our strategic commitment to dramatically the number of external committed to being a innovation and development.
Further details are contained leader in environmental the drivers of long-term profitable growth in the Safety and Ethics Committee Report and value creation.
We are grateful to Lord Gold and social responsibility who continues to advise us on compliance and to being regarded as TALENT AND CAPABILITIES and ethics best practice.
I would like to touch on some of the key a good corporate citizen.
enablers that will be required to deliver BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND CHANGES our strategy and our operational plans.
In Ruth Cairnie, formerly an executive vice particular, we need to attract, develop and president with Royal Dutch Shell, joined retain outstanding talent everywhere we the Board in September.
In addition, operate, commercial and functional talent Pamela Coles, previously at Centrica, has as much as engineering talent.
In the past joined Rolls-Royce as Company Secretary.
year we recruited 354 graduates from 112 We are lucky to have both of them.
universities in 11 countries and we recruited 12 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report I was also very pleased to welcome David and the Safety and Ethics Committee from I would also like to thank John Rishton, his Smith to the Board.
David was appointed the date of her appointment.
She brings a management team and all our employees Chief Financial Officer CFO in November, wealth of experience from international for their hard work and exceptional replacing Mark Morris who left the banking along with a passion for driving dedication in a demanding year.
David joined Rolls-Royce at culture change in large organisations.
the beginning of 2014 as the CFO of the I hope this review demonstrates our Aerospace Division.
Prior to that, he had Irene was CEO and president of HSBC understanding of the concerns about extensive international experience in USA until December 2014 where she was Rolls-Royces financial performance in 2014 engineering and technology companies.
responsible for all of HSBCs operations and the 2015 outlook.
We are totally focused A particular focus for David will be to in the US and played a key role in on returning the Company to its long-term strengthen further our financial controls strengthening their risk processes.
During trajectory of profitable growth and of and management information systems her 29-year career at HSBC, she held a superior shareholder returns.
We will as well as improving our communications number of international roles.
She was continue to focus on the 4Cs of Customer, with the investment community.
the first woman to lead HSBC in Malaysia Concentration, Cost and Cash to improve and launched its Islamic banking unit.
performance, and we will strengthen our I would like to thank Mark Morris for his She is a passionate advocate of diversity financial controls and communications.
We years of service and contributions to the and inclusion.
will sustain our commitment to innovation Company and to the Board.
like to thank Iain Conn who stood down There have been some adjustments to the from the Board after nine years of dedicated committee structure of the Board, explained The fundamentals of the business remain and exemplary service.
He was succeeded as in more detail in my introduction to the strong.
They are underpinned by our record Senior Independent Director by Lewis Booth.
Safety and order book and our expanding installed Ethics have been combined into one equipment base that will generate value After a successful career spanning 17 years committee under the chairmanship for years ahead.
This is a sound business with Rolls-Royce, James Guyette will step of Sir Frank Chapman, formerly CEO of with continued growth potential.
down from the Board at the conclusion of BG Group.
I have also established a Science the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM and Technology Committee, under the IAN DAVIS and retire from his role as President and chairmanship of Warren East, formerly Chairman Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North CEO of ARM Holdings.
Science and 12 February 2015 America on 31 May 2015.
James has made a technology are critical to the Companys tremendous contribution to the Company success and warrant the attention of a over many years.
He has helped guide the focused committee, in addition to general business through a period of significant board oversight.
expansion, especially in the North American market.
His energy, good humour and We have benefited again from the insight commitment to our customers will be and experience of our International Advisory missed by us all.
Board IAB the composition of which is described on page 57.
The role of the IAB John Neill has also indicated that he will is to provide contextual understanding step down from the Board after just over of international economic and political six years as a Non-Executive Director and developments, and to help management will not therefore put himself forward and the Board better understand long-term for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
I would geographical opportunities and risks.
like to thank John for his tremendous Members of the IAB are also available to our contribution to the Board and his exemplary senior management on specific issues and commitment to Rolls-Royce over the last areas of expertise.
We are fortunate to have six years.
He will be missed and we wish such a wealth of experience and knowledge him well for the future.
I am very grateful to them and in particular to Lord Powell for his I am pleased to announce that Irene Dorner exemplary chairmanship of the IAB.
will be joining the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 27 July 2015.
I would like to thank my fellow board She will also become a member of the members for their diligence and Nominations and Governance Committee outstanding commitment to Rolls-Royce.
