STRATEGIC REPORT WEREGROWING AND DRIVING FORWARD GROWING Our acquisition strategy remains unchanged: we continue to look for opportunities to grow through acquisition.
Our target companies will be in the field of flow control and are tested against our criteria.
They should satisfy at least one of the following criteria: enhance our position in an end-user market, enhance or extend our product offering or enhance our position in a geographic market.
14 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information CASE STUDY Young Tech Co. leads the way in tough applications Process industries often depend on high Triple module remote positioners performance valve actuation in harsh Remotely mounting the sensing unit provides environments.
Despite the difficult dramatically improved reliability and surroundings, process plants demand the latest performance, but at longer distances between technology, such as smart positioners, which the sensing unit and the control housing allow technicians to use auto-calibration and pneumatic signal loss may occur.
In extreme simple diagnostics to commission and monitor situations this could lead to hunting and their entire system at the push of a button.
In oscillation of the electronics and reduced valve many cases, the valve, actuator and smart and actuator positional stability.
positioner package is exposed to extreme temperatures, dirty conditions and other To assure superior performance in these challenges such as high vibration.
difficult applications, in 2014 YTC developed the YT-3302 positioner.
With this product, a third Young Tech Co. YTC has developed two smart module, housing the driving components of the positioner products that thrive under these pilot valve and torque motor assembly, is harsh conditions and which have paved the way mounted at an intermediate location between to expansion and growth in tough process the remote sensing unit and the main control control applications.
This configuration delivers higher performance with dramatically increased Remote sensing unit positioners positional accuracy.
The YT-3301 introduced the concept of isolating and detaching the sensing feedback Added benefits include the ease of maintenance portion of the positioner from the main control for each of the modules and the ability to gang housing.
The sensing unit accurately detects mount modules at convenient locations.
the position of the valve stem and provides a Standardisation of modules and components feedback signal to the main housing.
This dual also facilitates spare part simplification and unit design allows the operator to locate the inventory cost reduction.
precision electronics elements at a considerable distance from the valve environment, providing The flexibility of modular smart positioners the best of both worlds precision engagement will enable the Instruments business to grow at the point of valve movement and a clean, dry by offering more user friendly solutions and and ambient temperature for the electronics.
simplifying end-users valve control and This also facilitates mounting multiple control maintenance tasks.
The increasing requirement housings in close proximity for convenient and for smart positioners in the markets that we time saving monitoring and adjustment of serve mean that we are well placed to increase valves in the plant.
our presence in this market.
3 COMPANIES ACQUIRED IN 2014: YTC, KOREA ROTORK MIDLAND, UK MASSO, ITALY ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15
