Strategic report Governance Financial Shareholder statements information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 View from the Chairman I am pleased to be able to report that the Group has made significant progress in delivering against its strategic objectives during the year.
J R P Pike Chairman Overview of the Year minimis through the cycle levels for RONOA of Governance 20% and return on sales of 8%.
The expectation Sales for continuing businesses grew to 1,047m The Board continues to focus on ensuring that 1 is that the ROCE for the group of businesses prior 2013: 982m and adjusted operating profit the UK Corporate Governance Codes principles of to the recent acquisitions will continue to achieve reached 101.3m 2013: 91.6m with the leadership and board effectiveness are applied.
a return of 20% through the cycle.
subdued economic environment beginning to Corporate governance continues to evolve and show some signs of recovery in the second half Good progress has been made during the year in emerging practice has remained a regular subject of the year.
Contributing to this improvement implementing all of these work streams, including for discussion at the Board.
We seek to run our were the impact of two acquisitions made in the achievement of the financial KPI targets.
businesses in a responsible way, recognising December, M&H Plastics and Helioplast, which Organic growth was strong, with sales revenues that good corporate governance supports are being successfully integrated into the Group, for continuing operations excluding the impact the long-term health of the Group.
The new as well as the benets of the restructuring of acquisitions 4% higher than the previous year.
appointments to the Board, whilst bringing new activities relating to Fitter for the Future, the final Selective consolidation in Europe was achieved skills and experience to constructively challenge phase of the European asset base optimisation through the acquisitions of M&H Plastics in the and support the executive team, increase the 2 programme.
Adjusted earnings per share was UK and Helioplast in Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Boards cultural and gender diversity.
With the 41.1p 2013: 36.9p and net cash from operating the acquisition of the M&H business in the USA, appointment of Lynn Drummond, 25% of the activities was 105.0m 2013: 85.5m.
the expansion of the Groups existing facilities in Board will be women.
Morgantown, PA USA and the recent acquisition The Group is able to provide many opportunities Strategy and Performance of Ace Corporation Holdings in China, have for individuals to make their own contribution The Group announced its Vision 2020: Focused together signicantly increased RPCs presence to the business.
On behalf of the Board I would Growth strategy in November 2013, which outside Europe.
like to thank all employees for their outstanding builds on RPCs strong market positions, leading The Fitter for the Future programme is proceeding efforts, often in challenging circumstances.
innovation capabilities and the success of its well, with three sites closed, three surplus They have enabled the Group to deliver another investments in recent years.
There are three core properties sold, and three non-core businesses robust financial performance for its shareholders, elements to Vision 2020, which are: put up for sale of which the disposables trading and I look forward to their continued contribution 1. continuing our focused organic growth strategy business at Offenburg was sold in May 2014. in achieving our strategy for the Group.
in selected areas of the packaging markets: Board Dividend 2. the selective consolidation in the still Ron Marsh, the former Chief Executive, retired In line with the progressive dividend policy, the fragmented European packaging market as a director on 10 July 2013, having transferred Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.0p through targeted acquisitions: and his executive responsibilities to Pim Vervaat on per share making a total for the year of 15.5p 3. creating a meaningful presence outside Europe.
At the same time Simon Kesterton 2013: 14.9p.
This will be the 21st successive year During the formulation of Vision 2020 the Group became Group Finance Director, having been of dividend progression since RPCs otation.
also identied a number of further opportunities appointed to the Board on 1 April 2013.
I am Subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM, the to optimise its existing asset base resulting in the pleased to welcome Lynn Drummond and Godwin final dividend will be paid on 5 September 2014 to final phase of the Fitter for the Future business Wong who have been appointed as non-executive shareholders on the register on 8 August 2014. optimisation programme.
This included the directors with effect from 16 July 2014.
Both of decision to sell the Cobelplast and Offenburg these appointments will enhance the breadth of businesses.
Alongside the targeted focused expertise and experience of the Board.
J R P Pike growth strategy, the Group established fide Chairman 09 June 2014 1 Adjusted operating profit is dened as operating profit for continuing operations before restructuring, closure and impairment charges and other exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension administration expenses.
2 Adjusted earnings per share is dened as adjusted operating profit for continuing operations after interest and tax adjustments but excluding pension interest costs divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
