04 Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 Chairmans statement I want to pay tribute to Graham Mackay, our late chairman.
He was an outstanding leader and everyone in the SABMiller family has been blessed by his vision, his loyalty and his friendship during his 35 years with the group.
Dear Shareholder I had hoped with all my heart that Graham Mackay would be writing this years Chairmans statement.
He died on 18 December 2013, peacefully, with his family at his side, following the discovery in April of a brain tumour.
Grahams personal modesty and willingness to share credit with others could make those who were close to him forget what a giant he was.
To many of us, he was the most successful South African businessman and one of the two or three outstanding leaders of a consumer company of the modern era.
Everyone in the SABMiller family has been blessed by his vision, his loyalty and his friendship during his 35 years with the group.
He will be deeply missed, and our thoughts and prayers remain with Grahams wife and family.
Results and dividend The group delivered earnings growth in the year, despite headwinds in several markets.
The depreciation of key currencies against the US dollar had a significant negative impact on the translation of financial results in South Africa, Latin America and Australia, resulting in a 1% decline in reported group NPR and a 1% increase in EBITA.
Group NPR growth of 3% on an organic, constant currency basis was driven by our developing market operations in Latin America, Africa, Asia Pacific and South Africa, through a combination of volume growth, selective pricing and improved brand mix.
On an organic, constant currency basis EBITA grew by 7%, resulting in a 90 basis points bps increase in our organic, constant currency EBITA margin.
Input cost increases were mitigated by procurement savings, leaving raw material input costs in line with the prior year on a constant currency, per hectolitre hl basis.
The groups gearing ratio as at 31 March 2014 was 52%.
Netdebt reduced by US$1,297 million, ending the year atUS$14,303 million.
The board has recommended a final dividend of 80 US cents per share, to be paid to shareholders on 15 August 2014.
Thisbrings the total dividend for the year to 105 US cents pershare, an increase of 4% over the prior year.
Notwithstanding the challenges of the year, our share price performance over the period from 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2014 continued to outperform both the International Brewers Index and the FTSE 100.
Strategic report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2014 05 Shareholder engagement announced retirement date by a year to July 2015 to allow During April 2014 we invited our 20 largest shareholders adequate time for the search process.
Guy Elliott, who joined in addition to those represented on the board to meet the the board in 2013, succeeded me as Deputy Chairman and Deputy Chairman and me to discuss any governance or other Senior Independent Director on 18 December 2013. issues which they wished to raise.
These invitations were taken In light of Grahams illness and the attendant uncertainties, up by 10 shareholders.
Matters raised in these meetings the board concluded that it would not be beneficial to included executive and non-executive succession planning, carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the boards long-term sustainable growth prospects in developing markets, effectiveness for the year, but we conducted a detailed dividend policy, regulatory developments, and the principal internal review of performance this year, ably orchestrated risks facing the group.
Our conversations were constructive again by our Company Secretary.
The results of the and appropriately challenging, and we welcomed the performance and effectiveness assessment process were opportunity to engage with shareholders.
reviewed in full and approved by the board.
Matters identified Our new remuneration committee chairman, Lesley Knox, as requiring further consideration included board composition also undertook a consultation exercise with our 50 largest and succession planning: the search for a suitably qualified shareholders, of whom 12 took up the invitation to engage.
candidate to replace Cyril Ramaphosa: the search for a longer More details of that exercise are set out in the directors term chairman both of which are now under way : and a remuneration report on pages 62 to 84. continued focus to allow the board additional time to consider group strategy.
Corporate governance and the board In the corporate governance report on pages 49 to 58 you Finally, we say farewell this year to Miles Morland, who, after will find a detailed description of the directors approach 15years of distinguished service since our listing in London in tocorporate governance, the boards application of the UK March 1999, has decided that it is time to step down from the Corporate Governance Code and the role and effectiveness board.
Miles experience in identifying business opportunities of the board.
and running successful investment funds in Africa and other developing markets over many years has been hugely The boards principal focus this year, in addition to delivering valuable to the board, and he also served with a unique blend performance in challenging circumstances, has inevitably of candour and insight as the chairman of our remuneration been on matters of succession.
Alan Clark succeeded committee for nine years, until he handed that role on to Graham Mackay as Chief Executive, as planned, although LesleyKnox after last years annual general meeting AGM.
this took place in April 2013, a few months earlier than we His expertise will be difficult to replace.
had envisaged owing to Grahams illness.
The transition was smooth and I am pleased to report that Alan has shown strong The board has every confidence that, under Alan Clarks leadership and focus in his new role.
I spent part of 2013 as leadership, we will continue to build on Graham Mackays Acting Chairman, standing in for Graham during his illness.
Following his death, the board requested that I step in as Chairman while we search for a longer term successor.
I was John Manser pleased to offer my support and have deferred my previously Chairman The board Corporate accountability Nomination Disclosure Audit Remuneration and risk assurance committee committee committee committee committee Chief Executive Executive committee
