Chairmans statement We remain on course to deliver the financial targets we have set for 2015, with organic revenue growth of 5% and organic operating profit margin of 27.5% reflecting continued progress towards our goals.
Nothing ever stands still at Sage.
We have seen another by global breadth, delivery of a truly localised customer year of improved revenue growth in 2014 and have experience and 24 7 support.
At the other end of our size made significant progress towards our aim of delivering spectrum, Sage ERP X3 continues to prove its attractiveness a step-change in both the level and sustainability of growth.
as our global solution for mid-market customers.
We remain on course to deliver the financial targets we have We continue to transform the value we offer customers set for 2015, reporting organic revenue growth of 4.9% by providing the benefits of online, connected and mobile and organic operating margin of 27.5% for the year.
Importantly, we do this through powerful acceleration of the move to subscription driving strong technology that is non-disruptive for the customer, which recurring revenue growth demonstrates the quality of supports their progressive move to the cloud.
Our disciplined this revenue growth.
approach to portfolio management has seen investment We have appointed Stephen Kelly as Chief Executive Officer.
prioritised to these key initiatives at the expense of legacy We will now drive the next phase of our strategy.
Effectively, the portfolio is self-funding the building on sound foundations.
Purposeful innovation is a feature across our portfolio.
Our portfolio modern, innovative solutions We have built cloud solutions and brought them to market addressing the needs of our customers across our three segments.
We are investing in mobility, The key initiatives underpinning the strategy continue to with a focus on applications that bring value to all progress well.
We are capturing the benefits of a more global our customers across a range of user requirements.
approach: think globally whilst delivering locally.
Sage One For example, for micro businesses, we have launched and Sage ERP X3, as global products, demonstrate this the Sage One mobile app, whilst with Sage ERP X3 change.
Sage One is well established as our global cloud version 7, we have a mid-market solution with mobility solution for smaller businesses, differentiated in the market at its core.
4 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our work on modernising existing products means that The Board on-premise customers can benefit from mobility without Early in the year, Guy Berruyer indicated his desire to compromising their core solution.
We are also investing in retire from the Company.
In the 21st century, natural remote collaboration, ensuring our customers can work retirement like this will become increasingly rare, and The Corporate efficiently with their accountants and across their businesses.
it is to his credit that Guy has reached the end of his governance report 17-year career with the Company happily in this manner.
starts on page 66. Business model transition to drive He has made a major contribution to the Company and shareholder returns has established platforms and structures that will last long There are many commentators who wonder how well Sage after he has retired.
We all wish him well in his retirement.
can transition its business model to cope with the cloud.
Sage has only had three Chief Executives in its history Quietly, and without fanfare, Sage is doing this.
By putting and I am delighted that Stephen Kelly joins us as the fourth.
customer needs at the heart of all we do, the Company is He has a deep background in software success and in showing in its rapid roll-out of cloud services, and related understanding the needs of SMEs.
Whilst, of course, he features, its responsiveness to change.
The Company also will want to consider for himself Sages evolution, he has has not forgotten its installed base of customers, not all of indicated his support for the key pillars of the Companys whom want to travel on this journey at the same pace.
In strategy: increasing revenue growth through focusing our offering customers choice in how they deploy their software, business, capturing the technology opportunity, and gaining combined with customer support which is second to none, the benefits of subscription.
Sage is differentiated in the market.
We consider customer satisfaction is a better measure of progress than simple We were also joined by Inna Kuznetsova, Drummond Hall cloud-based contract numbers.
and Steve Hare on the Board during the past year.
They bring valuable and different perspectives to our deliberations.
Sage has built a subscription pricing capability that is making Finally, on Board-related matters, Drummond Hall has a tangible difference in the business, with more to come.
succeeded Ruth Markland as Chairman of the Remuneration Linking subscription to pricing, product and technology Committee with effect from 5 December 2014.
Ruth remains initiatives has proven an effective strategy to drive strong as Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
I am grateful growth of Sages subscription base.
The transition to a for all her diligence as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
subscription-based model creates a more active and more valuable relationship with a customer for life.
Subscription is In summary a key driver for Sage, supporting both our customer-centric It has been a year of further progress strategically, approach and our strategy for growth.
There is, however, no A focus on shareholder returns is at the heart of the complacency, and in such rapidly changing markets we strategy.
The Board believes that high-quality and sustainable continue to need to focus our energies on shorter decision long-term revenue and earnings growth, combined with a timelines, rapid deployment and strong customer focus.
disciplined approach to capital allocation and progressive We can only do this successfully with excellent people Read more about dividend policy, will drive superior returns for shareholders.
and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our the Board on pages 62 and 63. employees and partners for their very considerable efforts In the past year, we have made new investment in payroll in the past year.
I look forward with confidence to your software in the United States with the acquisition of Companys response to further changing customer PayChoice.
This acquisition strengthens Sages position in demands in the year ahead.
payroll and HR services in the US and accelerates Sages move to the cloud in this market.
The acquisition is wholly consistent with our strategy of putting customers at the heart of what we do and provides greater service to our core customer base.
We will continue, in a disciplined way, to seek such opportunities.
Donald Brydon, Chairman The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5
