STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1 Chairmans statement aCquisitions past seven years, as Group Chief Executive.
In As well as growing organically, Senior seeks this time, Senior has been transformed from a to increase shareholder value through the lowly rated, industrial conglomerate to a quality acquisition of capabilities adjacent to its existing global engineering business, focused on the portfolio.
This strategy continued in 2014 with aerospace, defence, land vehicle and energy the acquisition of Upeca, a Malaysian-based markets.
The Groups financial performance manufacturer of high-precision engineered and market capitalisation have increased components serving the aerospace and energy significantly during this period and Mark leaves sectors.
Upeca has two manufacturing facilities the Group in good health, with encouraging in Malaysia, one selling to the aerospace prospects for continued, long-term growth.
industry and the other to the energy market, On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank and a third facility in China, which specialises Mark for his dedicated and successful service in energy applications.
Upeca employs around throughout his Senior career and to wish him all 650 people and the Board is delighted to the very best for a long and fulfilling retirement.
welcome these employees to the Group.
emPloyees sustainability Seniors continued strength is a reflection Senior delivered a healthy Environmental stewardship and corporate of the quality of the people within the Group.
responsibility are values core to Senior and Senior now employs over 7,400 people with performance during 2014 performance in these areas is increasingly around 1,200 located in Asia, demonstrating and is well positioned for important to our investors, customers and the ever-increasing global nature of the employees.
As the Group expands, the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like the future.
responsibility to improve the environmental to thank all of the Groups employees for their performance and strengthen the focus on significant contribution to Seniors success 2014 PerformanCe over the past year.
safety within newly acquired businesses is a Senior delivered another year of progress in key operational aim.
Consequently, this years 2014, with adjusted profit before tax increasing strategy annual report includes examples of how Senior to 102.6m, up 5%, or 11% on a constant The Group continues to operate in its five creates value through its acquisitions by currency basis, over the prior year.
This was strategic market sectors: three in Aerospace making them more efficient, environmentally mainly due to encouraging organic revenue Fluid Conveyance Systems, Gas Turbine responsible and safer businesses.
This year the growth in the large commercial aerospace Engines and Structures and two in Flexonics Group achieved its long-term goal of improving and North American heavy-duty truck markets, Land Vehicle Emission Control and Industrial the energy efficiency of its operations, the operational improvements in the Flexonics Process Control, with each strategic single largest component of Seniors carbonDivision and inclusion of the newly acquired marketsector offering deliverable growth footprint, and remains on track to achieve its Upeca Technologies Upeca.
The Groups strategy has long-term target for safety.
the previously discussed challenges and costs provento be successful over recent years and, associated with the industrialisation of new Changes to the board whilst evolving as the Group gets larger and aerospace programmes continued throughout In August 2014, it was announced that Mark market conditions change, it continues to the year and certain industrial markets, such Rollins, Group Chief Executive, had decided to provide a solid foundation for the Groups as Brazil and Europe, remained weak.
Further, retire from a full-time executive career during future growth aspirations.
on 20 January 2015, Bombardier informed all the first half of 2015.
Following a thorough outlook of its suppliers of the suspension of its recruitment process, undertaken by the Boards Overall, progress is expected to be made Learjet 85 L85 business jet programme independent directors, David Squires was across the Groups operations during 2015, which resulted in the Group taking non-cash announced as his successor in January this year.
with the growing large commercial aircraft non-recurring exceptional charges of 1.8m market, the healthy North American heavyDavid joins Senior from Cobham plc and recognising a 9.4m goodwill impairment truck market and the Groups growing in 2014.
Cobham, where he is currently its Chief presence in Asia being the anticipated key Operating Officer.
David will join Senior and Group cash generation was good, with free drivers.
The challenges associated with the the Board on 1 May 2015 as Group Chief cash flow of 57.8m for the year resulting in successful industrialisation of new aerospace Executive-designate, before taking over as a strong financial position for the Group at programmes and weak industrial sales in Brazil Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015 when the end of 2014.
Accordingly, the Board is and Europe are, however, expected to continue Mark Rollins leaves the Group.
David clearly has proposing a final dividend of 3.96 pence per into 2015.
In addition, the recent suspension by the depth and breadth of experience, together share which would bring total dividends, paid Bombardier of its L85 business-jet programme with the personality and drive, to lead Senior and proposed, for 2014 to 5.63 pence per is expected to have an adverse impact on the through the next stage of its development.
The increase of 10% over 2013 is ahead ongoing performance of one of the Groups confident Senior will continue to make strong of the increase in adjusted earnings per share smaller aerospace operations.
In particular, his reflecting the Groups encouraging prospects 25 years of experience in the global aerospace Looking further ahead, a number of new and dividend cover of 3.5 times.
and defence industry, working in both aerospace programmes going into production These underlying results reflect Seniors strong developing and larger organisations, will be a and build-rate increases, together with niche market positions, its focus on tough-tosignificant benefit to Senior as it grows and economic recovery and expected market make, highly engineered products and the increases its profile with its customers.
share gains in both the Aerospace and continued emphasis on serving its customers Flexonics Divisions, mean the outlook for Mark Rollins has made an enormous by delivering excellent operational performance Senior remains encouraging.
contribution to Senior in a career spanning 17 where on-time delivery, quality and value are all years, including 15 years on the Board, initially Charles Berry key measures.
as Group Finance Director and then, for the Chairman www.
