Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement With the benefit of hindsight and our Strategy Review, Since the traumatic events of 2013 one can see the challenges in the Groups previous when overbilling in our Electronic strategy and implementation.
The move into private sector BPO was intended to reduce the Groups Monitoring contracts and misreporting dependencies upon the UK and the public sector, and of data on the Prisoner Escort & gain exposure to a market with a clear momentum of Custody Services contract was growth, whilst adding a new capability in middle and back office processing, alongside Sercos historic identified, I have sought to stabilize strength in the delivery of frontline services, allowing Serco with the recruitment of strong us to offer a wider range of services in the public sector.
In the event, however, it turned out to be more new management and Non-Executive difficult than we expected to build private sector Directors: building a much improved BPO distribution using our public sector marketing relationship with the UK Government: resources, and the market for whole-agency outsourcing, which would demand integrated and bringing clarity to our strategic  office processing, developed direction.
During the course of 2014 at a far slower pace than anticipated.
In addition, the integration of the Groups acquisitions in this sector, we undertook a Strategy Review particularly of Intelenet and The Listening Company, which reassessed the Groups future both with each other and the rest of the Group, was prospects, including Contract and not well executed.
Balance Sheet Reviews and identified The in-depth analysis of our business model the right capital structure, to which the and operational design undertaken by our new management, which followed on from the rights issue launched 12 March 2015 for independent reviews commissioned by the Board in approximately 555m is central.
All of the second half of 2013, revealed limitations in the these are necessary steps in putting Groups infrastructure and processes.
It is now clear that these had not been developed to the degree Serco back onto an even keel and appropriate for Sercos increasing scale, breadth, and giving our new management team the complexity.
Serco had sought to maintain a strong entrepreneurial drive to achieve and succeed through firm foundation for taking the Company operating a devolved structure that gave significant forward again.
responsibility to those closest to our customer.
This flexibility and speed of decision-making was muchwelcomed by our public sector customers.
How our Contract Directors applied their autonomy was very much for them to determine, subject to their delivering against their revenue and profit commitments.
Similarly, how Units and Divisions developed their businesses was largely for them to decide within the constraints of policies and operating procedures, with a relatively light touch of central management oversight.
Group policies and systems, in particular as regards bidding and contract management, that seemed sensible and proportionate when viewed from an oversight perspective, now appear too often to have been considered to be advisory rather than prescriptive.
The creation of Group-wide information systems beyond merely financial reporting, identified as a development need during a previous review of the Boards effectiveness, was handicapped by the fragmented nature of our contracting business much of which operated on systems inherited from, and shared with, our public sector customers.
Alastair Lyons CBE Chairman 04 Strategic Report In my statement last year I wrote of the findings of the Rupert has already added considerable talent to his independent review of Sercos culture, in particular, executive leadership team.
We welcome Kevin Craven the Group having an inappropriately strong drive to and Liz Benison as CEOs of the UK Central achieve top and bottom line growth.
That said Serco Government and UK & Europe Local & Regional had a well-developed and successful history of Government Divisions, both are established executives broadening its business by moving into new areas with a strong track record in the supply of outsourced of activity.
Typically, Serco inherited much of the services.
They join Dan Allen at Serco Americas: technical capability for the diverse activities covered Mark Irwin and David Greer who lead, respectively, under our contracts, such as helicopter flight our AsPac and Middle East businesses following the simulation or North Sea ferry operations, when it retirement of David Campbell as CEO of what was took over the contract.
In addition, Serco brought previously our AMEAA division: and Susir Kumar who transformational business re-engineering, private runs Serco Global Services.
David Eveleigh has also sector leadership and people management practices, joined us from BT Global Services in the new role of and long experience in managing outsourced public General Counsel and Company Secretary may I take sector activities.
The ability to broaden in this way is, this opportunity to thank John Hickey, our previous however, dependent upon the contractual framework Company Secretary, for his enormous commitment of risk transfer, something that has changed materially and contribution during a difficult period.
Increasingly, Governments look to their suppliers to take on risks which the suppliers can do Three new Non-Executive Directors were appointed to little to manage or mitigate: examples would be the the Board in 2014, adding considerably to the available number of people applying for asylum, or requiring range of business and Board experience at a senior healthcare.
Where there is both a high level of risk level.
Mike Clasper assumed the role of Senior transfer by the public sector customer, and entry into a Independent Director in September, having joined the new activity, there is a need for intense risk assessment Board in March.
Rachel Lomax and Tamara Ingram also and management scrutiny, identifying at an early stage joined in March, Rachel to take the chair of the newly if a contract is failing to perform, and taking corrective created Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee, steps.
This in turn requires a more interventionist and whilst Tamara has joined our Remuneration better informed management structure than Serco Committee.
Taken together with our executive typically needed under earlier models of outsourcing.
appointments, Serco has a strong Board to steer the Previous shortcomings in both contracting process company through its recovery over the next few years.
and risk assessment are now evident in the substantial onerous contract provisions that the Group has been Personally, I will be very sad to stand down later this required to make in its 2014 accounts against a limited year once my successor has been selected, but the number of material contracts, albeit the factors ultimate responsibility for what happens in any contributing to the severity of these provisions, many Company rests with the Chairman.
The last two years outside the Groups control, changed materially during have been hugely challenging for the business and the course of the year.
greatly destructive of shareholder value, which I deeply regret.
However, despite the strategic and There have been extensive Board and management operational mis-steps of the past few years Serco has, changes over the course of the last year.
I am over the past 25 years, built powerful positions in its delighted that Rupert Soames has accepted the principal frontline services both in the UK and overseas Boards invitation to become our new CEO.
He brings in the US, Middle East, Australia and New Zealand.
In considerable experience in providing mission-critical these areas Serco has depth of know-how and a track services to a wide range of customers, many in the record of successful delivery which has allowed it to public sector, across a broad geography.
He has an take capability developed in one geography and enviable track record at Aggreko of successful create a relevant presence in another the export of sustained growth and profitability over an extended our justice and non-clinical healthcare experience from period, and has already made a great impact on Serco the UK to Australia is a case in point.
Going forward, with his open and straightforward approach to issues in pursuit of the strategy set out later in this report great and small and his infectious enthusiasm.
I am by Rupert Soames, Serco will focus on growing its equally delighted to have Rupert reunited with Angus business within those areas where it has sustainable Cockburn as CFO.
Angus is highly respected in the competitive advantage, whilst at the same time City for his candour, prudence, and clarity of thought: reducing costs by simplifying our organisational he is steering the Group through a demanding design and sharing common services across the covenant reset and rights issue process, developing Group.
All this will be developed within a control the necessary financial models to support the framework based on clear understanding of, and prospectus disclosures of cash flow and profitability.
adherence to, Group best practice supported Our third Executive Director is Ed Casey.
I would like to by focused, timely performance information that put on public record my personal gratitude to Ed for highlights unplanned exceptions at an early stage stepping into the breach as Interim Group CEO allowing effective management intervention.
following Chris Hymans resignation, despite the personal impact of moving across to the UK from his role as US CEO, and for the considerable leadership and inspiration he gave the business during an intensely difficult period.
I am delighted that he has now taken the role of Group COO in which he is able to bring to bear his extensive operational experience of Sercos business.
05 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued As a shareholder myself, I look forward to seeing Serco realise its strategic objectives and recover lost value.
Significant change is necessary in the way we do things, how we are organised and this will take time to achieve.
We have also lost considerable momentum, particularly in new business generation, over the past couple of years and this will also take time to reestablish given the length of bid cycles in long-term contracting.
However we have a highly effective management team and a deeply committed workforce that cares passionately about the delivery of public services to the benefit of citizens.
Above all, I would like to thank them for all that they have continued to contribute: it is because of what they have achieved that we are able to adopt a strategy that is based on maximising the potential of our areas of strength.
Our competitors tend to be based on multiple sectors in a single geography or a single sector in multiple geographies.
Serco has breadth across both sector and geography allowing it to achieve strength of presence across a number of Business to Government markets at the same time.
We will in future focus on being a superb supplier of public services across five pillars: Justice & Immigration, Defence, Transport, Citizen Services and Healthcare: and in four geographies: North America, UK & Europe, the Middle East, and Australia & New Zealand.
This is Sercos competitive differentiation and represents a strong base for future growth.
Alastair Lyons CBE Chairman 12 March 2015 06
