Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report another year in We have continued to make which our focus on water and waste water services has delivered benets significant long term investment in forour customers and our shareholders.
our regional water and sewerage Sustainable returns infrastructure, whilst keeping bill We have made progress this year in a number of areas and again delivered a rises on average below the rate good financial performance.
Total group revenue rose by 1.4% to of ination.
1,856.7 million, while underlying group profit before tax was 7.1% higher at Andrew Duff, Chairman 269.1 million.
This resulted in adjusted basic earnings per share of 88.4 pence, down 4.5% from 92.6 pence.
For 2013 14, the board is proposing a final dividend of 48.24 pence, to be paid on 25 July 2014.
This will result in a total dividend for the financial year of 80.40 pence, representing growth of 6.0%.
This is in line with our policy for the current regulatory period to March 2015 of growing the dividend each year by 3% more than the retail price index.
As ever we aim to strike a balance between improving our services and keeping bills low for our customers, whilst providing a fair return for our shareholders.
Our shareholders and our customers have benefited from our consistent delivery over recent years.
Since 2005, weve delivered a total shareholder return of 205.7%, wellahead of the 86.8% return from the FTSE100.
In May 2012, we announced that we would invest a further 150 million in improving our water and waste water networks for our customers whilst at the same time returning 150 million to shareholders by way of a special dividend.
To date we have invested a further 120 million in our networks and services with more to come in 2014 15.
Our contribution At Severn Trent, we make an important economic, social and environmental contribution to the regions we serve.
Whilst the general economy shows signs of recovery, we recognise that customers incomes have been squeezed and our focus remains on managing our business as efficiently as possible, so we can keep our costs and bills down.
02 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our price increase for 2013 14 was again At Severn Trent Water, over 98% of our Were supportive of the Water Act below the rate of ination, making this people are customers too, which helps us 2014 and are well positioned to take the fourth consecutive year in which to understand our customers better.
advantage of the changes it will bring, weve maintained or reduced average including the move towards greater Its also important to align our bills in real terms.
Well continue to make employees interests with those of our combined average household bills for the case for further change where we shareholders and to share the benets water and sewerage remain the lowest in see opportunities for efficiency, greater of our success with them.
More than England and Wales.
5,000 Severn Trent Water employees Over the last year, we have also are members of our Share Incentive We also continue to work with Ofwat to continued to make significant long term Plan through which eligible employees nalise our business plan for the next investments in our regional water and had the potential to be awarded shares, regulatory period and are committed to sewerage infrastructure, supporting up to a total maximum value of 583 an open, fair and transparent dialogue many thousands of local jobs and small in 2013.
We also offer to all eligible UK with our regulator.
Our plan is driven by businesses.
We also remain committed employees the opportunity to take part in and for our customers and is shaped by to investing in skills development and a Sharesave scheme, which is a savings the philosophy that underpins Changing apprenticeships, supporting young people plan that provides an option to buy Course, providing a solid and sustainable to join our industry.
As the economy discounted shares in Severn Trent.
foundation for the longer term.
struggles to emerge from recession, Protecting our employees health, safety Board changes our commitment to investment in and wellbeing is fundamental to the During the year the board announced infrastructure as well as providing way we do things.
If we take good care the retirement of Dr Bernard Bulkin opportunities for young professionals of our people, we believe they will take and the appointments of Dr Angela makes a real difference.
I am particularly Strank and Philip Remnant as nonFrom 20152020, we expect to invest proud that the last two years have been executive directors.
around 3billion to help us deliver the our safest ever, and our injury rates Following the year end, the board service improvements that our customers are among the lowest in the industry.
announced the appointment of John want and which the environment needs, Our aim is that no one should be hurt or Coghlan as a non-executive director whilst still keeping prices as low as made unwell by what we do.
with effect from 23 May 2014 and the possible.
The impact of this investment Our future retirement of Baroness Noakes as a nonwill go beyond our core services and will During May and June 2013 the board executive director with effect from the again be felt by a wide range of people received a series of conditional proposals conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and businesses across our region.
from the LongRiver consortium, on 16 July 2014.
Severn Trent makes a major contribution which included Borealis Infrastructure Finally, Im delighted to welcome to a healthy environment and we are Management Inc, the Kuwait Investment our new Chief Executive, Liv Gareld.
committed to operating our business in Office and Universities Superannuation Tony Wray former Chief Executive did aresponsible and sustainable way.
The board unanimously an outstanding job of putting Severn Over the last year, we have reduced concluded that the proposals failed to Trent in a strong position to deliver its serious pollution incidents by over a reect the significant long term value objectives, grounding the business third.
We have also achieved 99.29% of Severn Trent or to recognise its future in quality management process and compliance at our waste water potential.
The LongRiver consortium ethical standards.
I know that Liv has the treatment works.
Reducing greenhouse decided not to make an offer for qualities to build on these achievements, gas emissions from our operations is also Severn Trent.
to inspire our employees to continue to important to us.
Over a number of years Looking ahead, Severn Trent is confident deliver better value to our customers, weve built an industry leading position in continuing to deliver value for all and investors and other stakeholders, and in renewable energy, which now provides we are well positioned to take advantage to keep Severn Trent at the front of the 23% of the energy we use.
of changes in our industry.
debate about the future of our industry.
Our people Over recent years, Severn Trent has Our performance during the year reects actively informed the debate about water the expertise, professionalism and industry reform through our Changing dedication of our great people.
We have advocated changes which will help the Severn Trent is fortunate to have an Andrew Duff, Chairman UK make the most efficient use of water engaged and loyal workforce who are resources, improve outcomes and service passionate about providing the best for customers and deliver sustainable possible service for our customers.
