Chairmans review At Shire we focus on people.
Those that work for us, partner with us, invest in our strategy and, above all, those who dependon the medicines we make every day.
Our purpose is tohelp people with life-altering conditions lead better lives.
We ask the questions that are raised by rare and specialty diseases and pursuenew possibilities through thoughtful and innovative science.
Creating exceptional value When we do what is good, we believe good follows.
Value iscreated not just for the patients, but for physicians, caregivers, employees, communities, payers, policymakers, and shareholdersfor anyone or any institution that our global company can touch.
And value, we were reminded thisyear, can be createdand recognizedin so many ways.
Susan Kilsby Chairman 02 02 SHIRE PLC SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2014 T 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Extraordinary results Executing our strategy We had an eventful year in 2014.
We had unprecedented Our plan moving forward is to emerge as a leading global fi financial results as youll see in the pages to come.
We biotech focused on rare diseases and other speciality completed our acquisition of ViroPharma and successfully conditions.
To get there, well continue our investment in integrated this organization, serving new patients with the ourfour key strategic drivers: growth, innovation, effi ciency, product CINRYZE, a medicine for the infl ammatory condition and people.
Under the leadership of our Chief Executive known as Hereditary Angioedema.
At the same time, we Offi cer, Dr. Flemming Ornskov, well strengthenand acquired two rare diseases entitiesLumena and Fibrotech.
sustainour platform through our focused approach to We fortifi ed our presence in established therapies and opened mergers and acquisitions, pipeline advancement, and cash doors to new ones, including Ophthalmics.
Well rely on the people who make Shire what our new International Operational Headquarters in Zug, itisa diversifi ed team representing many skills and broad Switzerland and reinvigorated our presence in Europe, Asia experiences.
We continued to streamline operations Outstanding contributions and to put the right people into the right jobs to complement Our Board of Directors made signifi cant contributions to Shire the immediate impact of mergers and acquisitions with our throughout 2014going far above and beyond expectations focus on continuing organic growth.
On behalf of adults with to render opinions and weigh choices.
I have the distinct Binge Eating Disorder, we fi led in the US for a supplemental pleasure of working with Board members who bring the full new drug application for VYVANSE which the Food and Drug complement of scientifi c, medical, fi financial, organizational Administration FDA approved on January 30, 2015 as the and commercial insights to bear on complex opportunities.
fi first and only medication for the treatment for this disorder.
And, most recently, we acquired NPS Pharma bringing two In closing, I would like to extend my gratitude to the people exciting rare disease therapies into our product portfolio.
ofShire who remained focused on what mattered most throughout the yearour patients.
The world is a healthier We were again recognized as a constituent of the FTSE4Good place, thanks to Shire.
Our people are the reason.
Index Series, a leading responsibility investment index, and also earned the distinction from Corporate Knights in their Susan Kilsby ranking of the 2015 Global 100 Most Sustainable Chairman Corporations in the World.
We accomplished all this while responding to AbbVie as itconsidered the role that Shire might play within its own strategic framework.
We never lost sight of the company that Shire is throughout the process.
We have a strong, independent future.
And were passionate about building it.
And were passionate aboutbuilding it.
