Chairmans Statement 2014 was a year of good progress for SIG in what continues to be a transformational period for the Group as it changes and becomes Stronger Together.
We continually aspire Despite weak Mainland European markets, SIG delivered reported sales growth of 2.5% and 5.6% in constant currency on a continuing to meet the highest operations basis.
Together with a 10.1m net benefit from its Strategic Initiatives this enabled the Group to grow underlying corporate governance earnings per share by 11.2% to 11.9p 2013: 10.7p and increase its total dividend by 23.9%.
SIG also increased its key financial metric, post-tax Return on Capital LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN Employed ROCE by 90bps to 10.3% 2013: 9.4%.
The Group is now targeting ROCE in excess of 11.0% in 2015.
STRATEGY OUR PEOPLE Although the Group is of significant size and benefits from leading On behalf of the Board and Shareholders I would like to thank our positions in its core specialist markets, our businesses have, management and employees for their dedication and continued historically, tended to operate independently of each other.
hard work during the year.
Therefore, in order to better leverage our scale and improve I would also like to welcome two new members to the Groups business performance we have outlined four Strategic Initiatives, Executive Committee, those being Mark Pearson, who was appointed which are based around a common theme of working more closely to the newly formed role of Chief Information Officer, and Len together as a Group.
I am pleased to report that these initiatives Lvovich, who is SIGs new Director of Corporate Development.
have started well, significantly overdelivering on savings in 2014, the first year of the programme, compared to our original expectations.
DIVIDEND The Board has proposed a final dividend of 2.98p per ordinary GOVERNANCE AND BOARD share, an increase of 24.2% on prior year.
Taken together with the As Chairman I am responsible for ensuring good corporate interim dividend of 1.42p per ordinary share, this provides a total governance and that we continually aspire to meet the highest dividend of 4.40p per ordinary share for the year 2013: 3.55p, an standards possible at SIG.
Further details on this can be found in the increase of 23.9% on prior year.
The final dividend is expected to Corporate Governance Report on pages 55 to 65. be paid on 29 May 2015 to Shareholders on the register at close of business on 1 May 2015.
The ex-dividend date is 30 April 2015.
It is important that the Board provides strong leadership to the Company, engages well with its management and stakeholders and Going forward, the Board is committed to a progressive dividend has a diverse composition.
In last years Annual Report I set out policy while maintaining a dividend cover of 2-3 on an underlying our aim of achieving at least 25% female representation among the basis over the medium-term.
I am pleased to report that following the appointment of Andrea Abt as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 12 March 2015, this aim has now been achieved.
Andrea brings significant experience of European markets and knowledge of supply chain management LESLIE VAN fide WALLE from her various global roles at Siemens AG, which I am sure will be Chairman invaluable to SIG at this stage of its development.
