Introduction Chairmans statement I am pleased to report growth of 6% in adjusted earnings per share for the financial year.
4 has confirmed the abolition of sugar quotas from October 2017, and world CHAIRMANS sugar prices have declined dramatically.
We have seen increased competition as European producers position themselves for a post-quota market.
This has driven a STATEMENT fall in prices which we expect to continue in 2015.
We anticipate restructuring in the European sugar industry and, as the high stock levels are liquidated, we expect to see volatility in market prices.
This structural change is painful, but AB Sugar has risen to challenges of this nature before, and does so this time with a programme of continuous performance improvement.
We are one of the most efficient producers in the EU and will I am pleased to report growth of the challenges of recent years with the continue to take the neccessary action to 6% in adjusted earnings per share promise of further improvement to come.
ensure that we are well placed to operate for the financial year.
Significant AB Agri achieved another record result.
progress was achieved in operating Primark had another magnificent year, profit by Grocery, Agriculture, We have a good track record of investing increasing profit by 30% at constant Ingredients and Primark, all of for the long term and this year was no currency and adding a net 1.2 million sq ft which substantially outperformed exception with net capital investment of of selling space taking our total estate to last year.
Much lower sugar prices 691m, up from 600m last year.
The over 10 million sq ft at the financial year in the EU held back the groups higher level of capital expenditure was end.
Our highly successful entry into profit growth, although operationally driven by a larger number of new Primark France this year brings the number of Sugar performed well.
Earnings stores opened, or still to open but in the countries in which Primark operates also benefited from the strength process of fit-out, during the year.
Primark has now developed of the groups balance sheet and five-year investment programme at Allied experience in establishing the brand effective cash management which Bakeries to create a state-of-the-art in new markets and has achieved resulted in amuch lower interest baking capability across the UK is now considerable trading success in each charge than lastyear.
substantially complete and ensures the of them.
We recently announced that reliable supply of high quality bread to our The financial year was characterised by the next new market would be in the customers.
This programme also sets a price deflation in many food commodities north-east of the US, with the first stores new benchmark for standards of food and a strengthening of sterling against our expected to open late in 2015 and with safety in the bakery sector and has major trading currencies.
The impact of up to ten stores by the end of 2016. enhanced safety in our workplace.
this is evident in the lower revenues of our The results of our sugar operations reflect food businesses and, in this context, the Cash flow was again stronger than the a major fall in EU sugar prices and a very profit growth in Grocery, Agriculture and previous year driven by a working capital low world sugar price.
Looking back to Ingredients is all the more impressive.
inflow more than offsetting the increase 2011 12, a shortage of sugar available for Grocery margin advanced with strong in net capital investment.
Net debt at the sale in the EU and relatively high world performances from Twinings Ovaltine year end was 358m lower than last prices at the time drove EU prices to and ACH Foods in the US and Mexico, year at 446m.
With the groups cash very high levels which clearly benefited and a further recovery in the bakery and generating ability, the lower net debt our Sugar profit in that year.
This was meat businesses of George Weston and the committed borrowing facilities exceptional.
Since then more sugar has Foods in Australia.
Our yeast and bakery available, we have the capacity to become available, sugar stocks in the EU ingredients business, AB Mauri, is meet our growth ambitions for the have risen, the European Commission achieving a strong turnaround from foreseeable future.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Introduction Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Ingredients, and have become part decline in adjusted operating profit for the Last year we published a comprehensive of everyday business at AB Sugar.
group but the impact on earnings will be Corporate Responsibility Report which Together with the excellent performances mitigated by much lower tax and interest outlined the close alignment between from Agriculture and Primark these charges.
We therefore see limited our values and good business practice, results are a tribute to the dedication opportunity to grow adjusted earnings per and highlighted our commitment to and commitment of our employees.
share in the new financial year.
With the improving productivity and reducing strength of the groups balance sheet and Dividends waste.
This report was well received by strong cash generation, we have every I am pleased to report that a final dividend all of our stakeholders and updates are reason to be confident of further progress of 24.3p is proposed, to be paid on now available to reflect the achievements for the group thereafter.
9January 2015 to shareholders on the of the last 12 months.
The report is register on 12 December 2014.
Together Charles Sinclair available online at www.
co. uk with the interim dividend of 9.7p paid on Chairman responsibility.
Of particular note is the 4July 2014, this will make a total of 34.0p further progress Primark has made in its for the year, an increase of 6%.
ethical trade programme with an enlarged team of specialists, now located in seven Outlook countries, which is critical to supporting In the coming year, we expect Primarks 5 sustainable improvements within supplier expansion to continue and Grocery, factories.
As a responsible business, Ingredients and Agriculture to make AB Sugar is actively contributing to the further progress.
With the continuing debate about the role that sugar can play fall in EU sugar prices and volatility in the as part of a healthy, balanced diet, with world sugar price we expect a further its Making Sense of Sugar campaign.
large reduction in profit from AB Sugar The board remains committed to the but this will put much of the effect of the highest ethical standards across structural changes in EU prices behind us.
At this early stage we expect a marginal The board The Senior Independent Director, TimClarke, was appointed to the board in2004 and, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, having completed nine years service, his independence must be confirmed annually by the rest of the board.
This having been done, we are delighted that Tim has agreed to continue as a member of the board and as the Senior Independent Director.
Three other independent directors will complete nine years on the board in 2015 and 2016.
To avoid the possibility of a significant loss of experience in a short period we have temporarily expanded the board.
Ruth Cairnie was appointed as an independent non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2014.
Ruth was recently Executive Vice President Strategy & Planning at Royal Dutch Shell plc where she had also held a number of senior commercial roles gaining experience in European and emerging markets.
We very much look forward to Ruths participation in the boards deliberations.
Employees I would like to thank all our employees for their contribution to the groups success in the past year.
Operational improvements have underpinned the increased profitability in Grocery and
