STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder, Board changes First impressions I joined Smith & Nephew in December Sir John Buchanan retired as Chairman in My first impression of Smith & Nephew was 2013, and succeeded Sir John Buchanan as April at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, of a Company with strong leadership, a clear Chairman in April 2014.
In my first letter to you after nine years of outstanding service.
On strategy and sound financial platform.
The I am pleased to report that Smith & Nephew behalf of the Board and the whole of Smith open communication between the Board and made good progress last year, delivering & Nephew I thank him for his leadership.
the executive team is a real strength of the strong earnings growth and enhanced value business.
I was particularly impressed with Richard Dick fide Shutter also retired at the for shareholders.
We did this whilst making the execution of the ArthroCare acquisition, Annual General Meeting.
In his role as Senior major investments to reshape the Group for especially the thoroughness of our due Independent Director, Dick provided wise future success such as the acquisition of diligence and how well the team is managing counsel through a period of significant growth ArthroCare Corporation for $1.5 billion net.
Ajay Piramal retired in March, Revenue was $4,617 million, up 2% on an having provided valuable insight into the I have also been able to spend time visiting underlying basis or 6% on a reported basis.
emerging markets as we built our presence our sites and meeting employees, including Trading profit was $1,055 million, up 3% on an there.
Pamela Kirby retired from the Board attending a Sports Medicine procedure to underlying basis or 7% on a reported basis.
She also made a major contribution witness how our highly-skilled reps assist The trading profit margin of 22.9% was 20bps particularly as Chairman of the Ethics & surgeons in improving outcomes.
I have up on the previous year.
The Board is pleased Compliance Committee.
I thank Dick, Ajay consistently found a business with a strong to propose a Final Dividend for the year just and Pamela for their service.
culture, particularly in areas of ethics and gone of 18.6 per share, giving a total dividend compliance, and people who are proud of their It is a credit to the growing strength and for 2014 of 29.6, up 8% year-on-year.
reputation of the Company that we have attracted top global talent to succeed these Looking ahead I see many exciting individuals.
Vinita Bali joined the Board in opportunities in the Established Markets December following an impressive career at where we are challenging the status quo blue-chip global corporations such as The through new commercial models, in the Coca-Cola Company in multiple geographies Emerging & International Markets where including India, Africa, South America, the US we have a leadership platform and from and UK.
Her strong appreciation of customer recent acquisitions.
In 2015, I believe we service and marketing will bring deep insight will begin to see more clearly the benefits to Smith & Nephew as we continue to develop of the transformational work that has been innovative ways to serve our markets.
Erik undertaken at Smith & Nephew, and I look Engstrom, the CEO of Reed Elsevier, joined the forward to sharing more news of these Board in January 2015.
His understanding of achievements next year.
how technology can be used to transform a Yours sincerely, business will be invaluable.
Roberto Quarta Chairman Smith & Nephew made good progress last year, delivering strong earnings growth and enhanced value to shareholders.
