Chairmans statement A tough trading environment Smiths Group has proved its resilience in a challenging While a few sectors of the global economy trading environment.
Its broad diversity of markets and have grown, trading is still tough in many of the end-markets we serve.
John Crane geographies provides both scope for business growth and Flex-Tek, which operate across a and security against adverse trading conditions.
diverse range of commercial markets, have continued to thrive.
In contrast, Smiths Detection and parts of Smiths Interconnect have struggled more lately as government-funded programmes in defence and homeland security are fettered by tough budgetary constraints.
Healthcare spending in developed markets has shrunk significantly, squeezed by Obamacare and the new medical device tax in the US and cuts in state-funded health budgets elsewhere around the world.
So Smiths Medical is bruised by these changes.
Foreign exchange translation has also proved a very significant drag on our figures, as with all UK-based global companies.
Despite these challenges, we are confident in the long-term attractiveness and robustness of our end markets and the ability of our businesses to compete effectively in those markets.
Government purchasing is the largest single market in the world and governments are generally a good credit risk.
But we must adapt and adjust to these changed competitive Sir George Buckley circumstances and press ever harder Chairman for cost-effective and timely innovative breakthroughs.
This is the one way to avoid I am honoured and delighted to join Smiths left me in no doubt that Smiths boasts competing only as commodity players and Group as your Chairman, all the more so as people of the right calibre.
Of course, as suffering the price and margin pressure we celebrate a remarkable 100 unbroken in all businesses, there is always room for which comes along with that.
years on the London Stock Exchange.
As improvement and Smiths is no different an engineer, I have long held the venerable in that regard.
We could most certainly Growth as a value lever Smiths name in great respect and affection.
be closer to our customers, helping us Much can be done to enhance our current I well remember the heyday of the British commercialise our products more quickly and future competitiveness.
Greater motor industry when handsome Smiths and effectively.
We could also improve our investment in product innovation is speedometers and gauges were a byword manufacturing capability and significantly needed to differentiate us from commodity for engineering excellence.
Our products simplify its footprint.
It is far too complex players, expansion in high-growth markets may be much changed now and our market for our needs.
These are part of our new should be accelerated, and more focused reach is global, but the gold standard of mission going forward, along with the sales and marketing efforts will all help excellence established all those years ago most important one: driving faster growth, us towards that goal.
We also have to remains the same.
organic as well as acquisitions.
To my relentlessly drive efficiency.
However, mind, the innate capability of a corporation our best incremental value creator is The Smiths Group of today is fortunate to to adapt and reinvent itself is measured simply organic growth itself consistent, have some truly world-class businesses.
in its ability to drive organic growth at sustainable, above-peer growth.
This is In a year of familiarisation, I have visited higher than market rates.
It is also a good particularly true for our businesses where many manufacturing sites that are as forecaster of new, incrementally higher margins are already relatively high.
good as the best I have seen anywhere.
Thats The quality of their advanced technologies If more than 40 years in business has good news for everyone.
Growth and the commitment of our highly skilled taught me one lesson, it is that a company is an everyone wins philosophy.
Innovation can neither save nor spend its way into is and must always remain at the heart However, in stressing growth, we should prosperity.
If business success can ever be of our mission as a technology company.
not overlook our impressive success in guaranteed, it is only through imagination, cutting costs to improve margins, driving innovation and sustained investment in Although it is brought to life in the better cash generation and enhancing the future.
Growth will inexorably gravitate laboratory or test site, innovation stems returns.
But now we have to take on the towards the mean market rate unless we from the imagination, talent and industry really hard part of business life the of our people.
It also requires up-front need for a step change in innovation and investment and takes time to deliver imagination to grow the company faster.
My many site visits and detailed This is a theme I will return to several conversations with Smiths colleagues have times in this statement.
20 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 keep relentlessly focused on expanding People and responsibility A moment in time and reinventing our core markets.
As we Having the right people with the right skills This, the Annual Report for your 100th drive market share we must also seek is the single most important key to the AGM, marks another milestone.
As a ways of penetrating new market segments successful implementation of our strategy.
self-exile individual but one with strong either geographically or through line The next is relentless execution.
Let no-one ties to the UK, I possibly appreciate its extensions.
Another way to grow is by underestimate the power of able people, historic resonance more than most.
Smiths moving resources to markets where the coached by inspired leadership, all driving shares were floated in London just two average growth rate is higher or even hard towards a believable dream.
What weeks before the start of the First World smarter by creating entirely new markets.
always separates the best from the rest of War, which promptly forced the Exchange These last options require some courage corporations is the people they employ and to close for six months.
Not the most on the part of leadership as they move us how they inspire and reward them.
But Smiths had already a little outside our comfort zone.
Again, overcome its fair share of setbacks since its We feature in this Annual Report just a few our people and to some extent how we birth as a family clock-maker and jeweller of the employees who have been involved organise ourselves, hold the key.
This report itself is testament in the cutting edge of new products or and faith in the power of research, allied to to its success in reinventing itself many important new projects.
Our challenge technological excellence, offer by far the times over as technologies came and now is to inspire our people with a dream best route for converting ideas to profitable, went.
Ourfascinating history has now been that we can really become a truly worldcommercial realities.
recorded in a new book, A Long Time in class engineering business, the very best Making The History of Smiths, which will Under the leadership of our CEO, Philip that Britain has to offer.
This will build be published by Oxford University Press in Bowman, Smiths is already beginning our employment brand and slowly, but October.
It will be available at a discount to to reposition itself for higher growth.
gradually, make us a magnet for the most shareholders via our website.
However, change and innovation are talented people around.
I believe that I can so-called diffusion processes and the help the Company along that path.
In closing, rest assured that I already results are not instantaneous.
We can feel at home in a company somehow Providing a safe place for our employees all easily understand that there is a finite so quintessentially British while to work is a key priority and I am pleased time for the invention and development of simultaneously very modern and global.
to report that we have made further new products and technology.
So this will I would also like to thank Philip and all the progress in improving our safety statistics.
take time and it will require patience and employees for their kind welcome and, An impressive outcome given the determination to complete.
It also involves much more important, for their sterling significant progress the Company has some uncertainty since there is no data efforts in steering Smiths into its second already made in recent years.
It is up to your Board and century as a public company.
been helped in large part by tracking the Smiths senior management to nurture leading-edge indicators for the causes of Sir George Buckley the right environment of encouragement accidents or injuries and dealing with them.
Chairman and stimulation tempered by discipline On the same theme of responsibility, we and urgency.
In this way, we can truly also recorded further good progress across drive higher long-term value for our a range of environmental and energy shareholders.
Operational excellence Board changes and corporate governance Our growth agenda must be also supported The Board has changed since the last by an equally tireless pursuit of operational report, not least with the retirement excellence.
Higher productivity will boost of Donald Brydon after nine years as our overall competitive position, a process Chairman.
His will be a hard act to follow accelerated by lowering our cost base given his considerable contribution to through a smaller factory footprint, better Smiths and the transformation he oversaw sourcing and value engineering.
In this including the 2007 sale of Aerospace.
context, simplicity is the key.
Enhanced My resolve to help grow Smiths is spurred customer service and quality control should not only by an enduring affection for a differentiate our competitive offering to great company but also the desire to give help support cost benefits.
Another area something back to Britain after a long of operational excellence is working capital career across the pond.
I also welcome A Long Time in Making: efficiency.
Fortunately, Smiths businesses The History of Smiths by Bill Seeger to the Board.
A US citizen, Mr are generally good cash convertors with Seeger spent nearly 30 years in top finance James Nye will be available relatively low capital intensity.
Even so, we from October 2014 jobs in American engineering before will continue to strive to improve the cash latterly becoming Group Finance Director of characteristics which underpin our ability GKN plc.
Such a background ideally equips to invest in organic growth and acquisitions.
him to succeed David Challen as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In other governance matters, the 2014 Annual Report is the first to follow standards outlined in the new UK Narrative and Remuneration Reporting regulations.
More details can be found in the Corporate governance and Strategic reports.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2014 21 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
