Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Dear shareholder As 2014 finished, it brought to a close an exceptional year for AstraZeneca.
We ended it fully focused on the delivery of our strategy as an independent company.
This means turning our attractive growth prospects and a rapidly progressing pipeline into life-changing medicines and value for shareholders.
Net cash shareholder distributions In his Review on the following pages, In the wake of that decision, I believe increased by 9% Actual growth to your Chief Executive Officer outlines the we have taken full advantage of the $3,242 million 2013: $2,979 million: progress we made during the year in opportunity to galvanise employees and 2012: $5,871 million delivering our strategic priorities.
I would build on our demonstrable progress as like to concentrate on the context in an independent company.
which that progress was made and the $3.2bn implications for you, our owners.
A responsible business Of course, acting responsibly is not Clear decisions, responsibly made restricted to the AstraZeneca boardroom.
When Pfizer approached AstraZeneca Itapplies to all our activities.
External during 2014, our responsibilities as Directors recognition is particularly helpful in providing were clear: to act in a way that promoted independent validation of our performance.
the success of the Company for the benefit Iwas therefore pleased that we were once of its shareholders.
In addition to assessing again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability the value and deliverability of Pfizers World Index in 2014.
We also retained our proposals, we had to have regard listing on the European Index for the seventh to the long-term consequences of our year running.
decisions, the interests of employees, relationships with customers, our impact In the biennial Access to Medicines Index, on the wider community, including patients, we were disappointed to find ourselves in and the reputation of the Company.
We remain determined to find stage of the process, it was my duty as new ways to improve access to healthcare.
Chairman to ensure we carried out our Iam confident that our Healthy Heart Africa deliberations responsibly, with those duties programme, which aims to improve the lives in mind.
After extensive review and of hypertensive patients across Africa discussions, your Board rejected Pfizers through increased education, screening, various proposals.
We did so because diagnosis and treatment, will make an important contribution.
the proposals fell short of AstraZenecas value as an independent, science-led Improved access matters because our company innovative medicines can make a global AstraZeneca had excellent momentum in contribution to better health.
They help the delivery of our clearly defined strategy, increase survival rates and improve quality underpinning the Boards confidence in of life for patients in important areas of our long-term revenue targets and medical need.
profitability Pfizers proposals brought uncertainty and risks for AstraZeneca shareholders.
4 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Loss of exclusivity Established Markets facing rising healthcare The loss of exclusivity referred to above, and costs.
On the supply side, the industry faces its timing, has had, and continues to have, an ongoing R&D productivity challenge.
Over the coming Costs have risen significantly and, while in Revenue was in line years, this trend will continue as medicines 2014 the FDA approved the highest number such as Nexium and Crestor continue to of new medicines for 18 years, there is still with our upgraded lose exclusivity in key markets, including the some way to go in improving the probability guidance and reflected the US and Europe.
of success of our projects.
fact that the accelerating Of course, loss of exclusivity is a normal Return to shareholders performance of our partof an innovative medicines life-cycle.
Consistent with our progressive dividend Itcomes at the end of the period when a policy to maintain or grow the dividend growth platforms more new medicine is safeguarded from being eachyear, the Board has recommended than offset the impact of copied so that we can generate returns asecond interim dividend of $1.90 per onthe investment we have made.
This brings the dividend for loss of exclusivity.
well-functioning intellectual property system the full year to $2.80 per Ordinary Share.
of this type, which rewards innovation, is theprincipal economic safeguard in our The Board regularly reviews its distribution industry.
It is why we commit significant policy and its overall financial strategy to resources to establishing and defending strike a balance between the interests Financial performance in 2014 ourpatent protections.
ofthebusiness, financial creditors and Revenue was up 3% to $26,095 million, shareholders.
We continue to target a which was in line with our upgraded The challenging environment strong, investment grade credit rating.
On an actual basis, revenue continues was up 1% as a result of the negative More generally, we continue to face Outlook impact ofexchange rate movements.
While the As we look to the future, we expect sales Core operating profit in 2014 was down world pharmaceutical market is growing revenue to decline by mid single-digit 13% to $6,937 million while Core EPS andunderlying demographic trends remain percent at CER in 2015.
favourable to long-term growth, many of the our business model, we will continue to drivers of demand and supply in the sector seek externalisation revenue from Our performance reflected the delayed are under pressure.
collaborations and licensing select products launch of generic Nexium esomeprazole and technologies.
Core EPS is expected in the US as well as the accelerating On the demand side, we face increased to increase by low single-digit percent at performance of our growth platforms, which competition from generic drugs as some CER.
This expectation involves a number of now contribute over half of our revenues.
ofthe worlds most successful medicines assumptions, including the imminent launch Taken together, they more than offset the come off patent.
In addition, securing an of a Nexium generic in the US market.
impact of loss of exclusivity.
Our strong appropriate level of reward for our medicines performance in Emerging Markets was a is becoming more difficult in the face of Appreciation particular highlight, with China becoming intense pricing pressures, particularly in Before closing, and on behalf of the our second largest market.
Board, Iwant to thank the employees of AstraZeneca.
Their outstanding efforts helped us achieve so much in 2014 Distributions to shareholders $m towards leading in science and returning to growth.
In particular, I want to express my 2014 2013 2012 appreciation to Pascal and all the members Dividends 3,521 3,461 3,665 of the Senior Executive Team for showing Proceeds from issue of shares 279 482 429 1 such inspirational leadership throughout Share repurchases 2,635 a challenging year.
Total 3,242 2,979 5,871 Dividend per Ordinary Share $ Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Directors for the quality of their contributions 2014 2013 2012 and conscientiousness they brought to our Dividend per Ordinary Share 2.80 2.80 2.80 discussions throughout an exceptionally Dividend for 2014 busy 2014.
$ Pence SEK Payment date First interim dividend 0.90 53.1 6.20 15 September 2014 Second interim dividend 1.90 125.0 15.62 23 March 2015 Total 2.80 178.1 21.82 1 The share repurchase programme was suspended effective 1 October 2012.
Leif Johansson Chairman AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 5
