Strategic Report Chairmans statement A remarkable year Garry Watts Chairman his is Spire Healthcares first Annual 2014 was a remarkable year for Spire Report following our successful Initial Public Offering IPO in July Healthcare.
We have been well received as a public company: the combination of a a public company, but we also bought a growing market and award-winning clinical outcomes, coupled with our diversified payor hospital in Cheam Greater London, opened mix and strong investment strategy, has led to a high and sustained degree of interest our first cancer treatment centre in Bristol, from UK and international investors.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE finalised a new agreement with Bupa and Our financial performance in 2014 was strong.
Our seventh full successive year reached the end of the two year industryof growth resulted in total revenue of 856.0 million and an operating profit wide investigation with the Competition of 114.1 million.
We continue to invest significantly in new services, treatments, and Markets Authority CMA all while hospitals and equipment.
In the last year, we have invested 105.1 million across providing high-quality care to more patients these areas, developing further our key role in the UK healthcare economy.
than ever and achieving our highest patient and consultant satisfaction scores.
Operating profit, adjusted to add back exceptional items.
04 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information GOVERNANCE DIVIDEND As part of the IPO, we appointed four As indicated in our IPO prospectus, we intend experienced non-executive directors to our to adopt a progressive dividend policy based Board in June 2014.
They have significantly on a payout ratio of around 20% of profit 93% strengthened the range of skills and after taxation each financial year, in the Patient satisfaction 2013: 92% expertise in the Boardroom and are helping approximate proportions of one-third to guide the Company through its inaugural interim and two-thirds final, respectively, phase as a public entity and into the future.
of the total annual dividend.
John Gildersleeve, our Deputy Chairman, Subject to shareholder approval, the 92% has extensive retail and plc experience, Company will pay a final dividend in respect of staff believe what they do makes having served on the Boards of Lloyds of the current financial year of 1.8 pence per a positive difference 2013: 91% TSB Bank plc, Vodafone Group plc and ordinary share.
as a director of Tesco plc for 20 years PEOPLE until he retired in 2004.
He is the current I would like, on behalf of the Board, to Chairman of The British Land Company plc.
extend a heartfelt thank you to everyone 105.1m John chairs our Nomination Committee.
at Spire Healthcare for their extraordinary invested in 2014 including St Anthonys Dame Janet Husband brings with her performance during 2014.
Of particular acquisition 2013: 53.7 million a vast range of clinical expertise.
She is note was the role of the management Emeritus Professor of Radiology at the team during the flotation process.
The Institute of Cancer Research and currently float was achieved during tricky market serves on the Boards of Royal Marsden conditions, and under strict timeframes.
NHS Foundation Trust and Nuada Medical Their dedication reflects the distinct Group.
Janet chairs our Clinical Governance culture at Spire and supports our value and Safety Committee.
Robert Lerwill, an experienced finance Our hospital staff continued to deliver director, currently serves as a non-executive excellent care throughout the year, director of ITC Limited, a large Indian illustrated by further improvement in our conglomerate, and DJI Holdings plc.
It is our culture, His depth of experience across health supported by our values, that enables us and telecommunications means he brings to continue to deliver to those that matter a unique perspective on our business.
Robert chairs our Audit and Risk Committee.
THE FUTURE Tony Bourne is familiar with the healthcare Our results this year have been strong.
We sector, having served as CEO at the British have further developed and strengthened With the great Medical Association for nine years.
He our relationships with insurers and the NHS, is currently a non-executive director at and we are confident of continued growth team we have various companies, including Barchester across all our payors.
The success of the IPO Healthcare and Bioquell Plc.
Tony chairs has been pleasing: there will be challenges in place, we can the Remuneration Committee.
ahead, but I know, with the great team we have in place, we can look forward to the look forward Further information on our governance future with confidence.
can be found on pages 56 to 92. to the future Garry Watts Chairman withconfidence.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2014 05
