86.7 2014 84.2 2013 80.1 2012 75.0 2011 70.0 2010 66.0 2009 60.5 2008 55.0 2007 46.5 2006 42.5 2005 37.7 2004 35.0 2003 32.4 2002 30.0 2001 27.5 2000 25.7 1999 Strategic Report Chairmans statement Lord Smith of Kelvin Focused on our customers and investors SSEs core purpose is to provide The announcement by Ofgem of a referral Indeed, across all of SSEs businesses employees of the energy market in Great Britain to the have shown outstanding commitment and the energy people need in a Competition and Markets Authority CMA professionalism, with which I am very proud reliable and sustainable way.
In should also be seen as an opportunity.
For over 10 years they were led of the key features of the energy market have by Ian Marchant, an outstanding Chief Executive, fulfilling this purpose, SSE requires become politically contentious and been subject who was succeeded on 1 July by his deputy, the support of shareholders, to to significant change designed to achieve a Alistair Phillips-Davies.
Alistair has made a very whom this report is addressed.
SSE has demonstrated impressive start in his new job and has been consistently its appetite for reform that is in able to count on an excellent contribution from It summarises SSEs performance the interests of customers and believes that a the senior management team and the rest of in 2013 14 and looks ahead to market reference should provide a platform the organisation.
for achieving greater political and regulatory 2014 15 and beyond.
stability for the GB energy market, for the Change has extended to the non-Executive benefit of customers and investors.
team also, with Susan Rice and Thomas Thune As an energy provider, SSE has a key role to play Andersen stepping down after 11 and five years in addressing the energy trilemma of security There will be a degree of uncertainty while the service respectively, having been first class of supply, decarbonisation and affordability.
CMA looks at the market and uncertainty also Directors in that time.
I am delighted that The companys decision-making, for both arises as a result of the Scottish referendum in SueBruce and Peter Lynas agreed to become operations and investment, aims to reflect all September, about which SSE is strictly neutral.
non-Executive Directors as they each bring three parts of the trilemma and in this way be We take account of all uncertainties in our perspective and judgement that is invaluable as consistent as possible with the direction of decision-making and will engage constructively in the work of any Board.
energy policy and politics in the UK and Ireland.
with the UK and Scottish governments whatever During 2013 14 it became clear that while there the outcome of the referendum, so that we can There is no doubt that plenty of work lies ahead.
rightly remains widespread political support for best meet the needs of all of our networks and At the same time, I believe that SSE is wellaction to address climate change there is also energy supply customers, while safeguarding placed for the future.
The company is listening a requirement to ensure such action does not the interests of investors.
to and helping customers with the longest-ever make energy unaffordable for the most energy price freeze in the GB market: it has vulnerable customers.
Meeting the needs of customers has presented well-defined plans for net investment of around significant challenges over the past year.
In 5.5bn between now and 2018 to maintain, SSEs decision to freeze until at least January particular, the severe late autumn and winter upgrade and build the assets the customers 2016 household electricity and gas prices in weather put SSEs electricity networks under depend on: and it is committed to giving Great Britain was a practical response to the unprecedented strain and caused networks investors a fair return through an annual concerns of customers and the politicians they customers to be without electricity more dividend that at least keeps pace with inflation.
The price freeze also provides SSE with often and for longer than would normally be All of this means that SSE is not part of the an opportunity to work constructively with expected.
We have carried out a wide-ranging problem but part of the solution to meeting legislators, regulators, consumer bodies and consultation to see what we can do better in the the energy needs of customers in Great Britain other stakeholders to secure practical changes future, but in the meantime I have no doubt that and Ireland.
that will benefit energy bill payers now and in our engineers and support teams did an the future.
outstanding job in difficult conditions.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Performing for shareholders Full-year dividend payable to shareholders pence per share Delivering dividend increases SSE aims to remunerate shareholders for their 100 investment through the delivery of annual 80 increases in the dividend of at least Retail Price Index RPI inflation.
