2 SSP Group plc annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Chairmans statement This year has been one of change for SSP with the successful completion of ourIPO.
Our performance throughout the year has been encouraging and we continue to grow strongly.
Vagn Srensen, Chairman I am pleased to be able to report a good performance across the European business now coming from Rainforest Alliance certified Group during the last year.
Furthermore, this performance has been sources.
I am also proud of the fact that 663 apprentices started delivered against the backdrop of achieving a successful listing on their careers in the food and beverage industry with SSP this year, the London Stock Exchange in July, and managing the transition including young people from deprived backgrounds as part of our from being privately owned by EQT Partners to becoming a FTSE partnership with The Princes Trust.
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the The Group made progress in the implementation of its strategy, year.
Three new Independent Non-Executive Directors joined and we have continued to invest in the business around the world, during the year: John Barton as Senior Independent Director : supported by our strong cash flow and our balance sheet which was Denis Hennequin: and Ian Dyson.
They bring with them a wealth significantly strengthened during the year.
We delivered good sales of experience in the food and beverage, retail, travel and leisure growth in all geographies with total sales up 4.0%, and achieved industries.
My colleagues and I are very pleased to be working with a strong profit performance with underlying operating profit up them as we enter a new era for SSP as a listed company.
Full year operating profit was Finally my thanks go to all of our staff across the Group: without 40.0m, after exceptional costs which principally related to the IPO.
their commitment and hard work and the support and dedication of A dividend has not been proposed in respect of the 2014 financial their management teams, we could not have achieved these results.
As signalled at the time of the IPO, in the absence of I believe that we can look forward with real confidence.
The Groups unforeseen circumstances, the current intention of the Board is that strong profit performance and cash generation, combined with a the first dividend to be declared by the Company will be in respect strengthened balance sheet and a very clear strategy mean that of the six months ending 31 March 2015.
If declared, this dividend it is well placed to benefit from the underlying positive trends in would be paid during the second half of the 2015 financial year.
The principles of sustainability have been important to SSP for many years and I am pleased to report good progress in many areas of our programme, including the installation of new LED lighting to improve energy efficiency, and a further extension of our sustainable Vagn Srensen sourcing strategy which sees the majority of the coffee used in our Chairman 26 November 2014
