Chairmans statement The Group has delivered on our expectations for the financial year ended Our UK Rail division has performed in line with expectations in the face of 30 April 2014.
We have further grown our businesses in the UK and North severe weather which affected the UK rail network over several months.
America, adapting to changing circumstances, improving services for our We are pleased that we have extended our innovative alliance with customers and adding value for our shareholders.
Network Rail at South West Trains, which is planned to operate until April 2019.
We are continuing to work closely with government to improve The Group achieved further revenue and profit growth in the year.
services, deliver better value for rail users and taxpayers, and address Revenue was up 4.5% at 2,930.0m 2013: 2,804.8m.
Total operating capacity and infrastructure challenges.
We are working closely with profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items was up Network Rail to ensure our passengers benefit from the 38bn 1.2% at 223.3m 2013 restated: 220.7m.
Earnings per share before programme of planned infrastructure investment between 2014 and intangible asset expenses and exceptional items were 5.7% higher at 2019.
Our Virgin Rail Group joint venture has reached an agreement with the UK In line with the Groups performance, the Directors have proposed a final Department for Transport to return its West Coast rail franchise to more dividend of 6.6p per share.
This gives a total dividend for the year up normal commercial terms following an 18-month management contract.
The proposed final dividend is payable to Under the new agreement, the West Coast rail franchise is now planned to shareholders on the register at 29 August 2014 and will be paid on run until at least March 2017.
We are continuing our discussions with the 1 October 2014.
Department for Transport regarding the terms for our continued Our businesses have a focus on delivering our services commercially and operation of our two wholly-owned franchises.
The South West Trains growing organically.
They have been able to manage the implications of franchise is currently due to expire in February 2017 but the Department reduced public sector investment in transport services and absorb the for Transport plans to extend our tenure to April 2019.
The East Midlands impact of extended severe winter weather.
Trains franchise is due to expire in October 2015 and it is planned we We believe passionately in the benefits of the public and private sector would operate it for a further two years to October 2017. working in partnership to improve bus and rail services.
As public sector We submitted what we considered to be a compelling yet deliverable bid budgets continue to be squeezed, innovative, efficient and customerfor the complex Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern franchise.
focused commercial operators are key to securing the future of our public While we were disappointed not to secure the franchise, we continue to transport networks.
We are one of three bidders shortlisted Stagecoach has built a sustainable business through low fares, continued for a new Docklands Light Railway franchise, and we expect Transport for investment, financial discipline, rising customer satisfaction and passenger London to announce the winner soon.
We have also recently submitted a growth.
We believe the lessons from this approach can help governments bid with Virgin for the new East Coast franchise and we expect the and local authorities develop appropriate policies to tackle the interDepartment for Transport to announce later in 2014 which one of the connected issues around travel costs, road congestion, rail capacity and three bidders has been awarded the franchise.
investment in our road and rail infrastructure.
We are finalising a new fiveOn behalf of the Board, I would like to congratulate Sir Ewan Brown, one year sustainability strategy to further improve our environmental of our non-executive directors, on being awarded a knighthood in the performance and reduce costs.
recent Queens Birthday honours list for his service to business, public life Across the Group, each of our divisions has delivered further revenue and philanthropy in Scotland.
growth and we continue to invest in better bus and rail services for our I would like to thank our employees for the huge contribution they make customers.
We are committed to maintaining the Groups strong financial to our Group, often in challenging circumstances, as shown by their position and our success is providing good returns to shareholders.
response to the extreme weather in the UK and North America during the In the UK, our regional bus services have performed well, with both year.
Recent independent research has shown we are leading the way in passenger volumes and revenue growing year-on-year.
We have placed delivering high levels of customer satisfaction in the bus sector, with high orders for over 90m of new greener buses for our regional bus services levels of passenger endorsement also achieved in our rail and tram in England, Scotland and Wales for 2014 15, which is a sign of our operations.
These results and our financial performance are driven by the confidence in our ability to continue to get people back on board the bus.
hard work of our bus and rail teams who serve the many customers who In London, where we are also investing in our bus fleet, we are seeing the travel with us every day.
benefit of our focus on efficiencies and cost control flow through into new Stagecoach has made a satisfactory start to trading in the financial year contract wins and improved profitability.
The Group is in a strong financial position, with Our growing megabus.
com business is continuing to expand in the UK, investment grade credit ratings, and I believe the prospects for our mainland Europe and North America.
We are also continuing to innovate customers, employees and our shareholders are positive.
and our new inter-city sleepercoach services in the UK are achieving good load factors.
In North America, trading has been satisfactory, despite the prolonged period of adverse winter weather across the United States.
com in North America is the fastest-growing part of the Group and we have significantly expanded our footprint.
New services have been added in Florida and North and South Carolina, while our Texas and California networks are performing well.
We believe there is a large market for high Sir Brian Souter quality, good value inter-city coach travel.
Chairman Trading in the increasingly competitive New York sightseeing market remains challenging and we anticipate that our share of profit from Twin 25 June 2014 America will further reduce in the year ending 30 April 2015.
However, we are pleased that we have made progress in resolving the current litigation involving Twin America and are working to seek a full resolution of the cases.
