Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 05 Chairmans Statement.
Whilst the growth opportunities are wide ranging, the This has been another year of progress for challenges for SuperGroup are to ensure that the attractiveness SuperGroup Plc.
Revenues have grown by of the Superdry brand for its customers is maintained and that almost 20% and underlying profit before high quality execution is sustained as the business expands tax by nearly 19%.
Continual improvement and innovation in its product ranges is crucial in ensuring that the Company The scale of the Group has continued to increase with delivers the expected returns to shareholders.
The Board further new store openings, and a significant programme closely monitors performance in these areas and is seeking to of infrastructure developments has been delivered aimed at ensure the development of the organisation and infrastructure supporting future growth and efficiencies.
Although like-forkeeps pace with the growth ambitions of the business.
like sales growth in the final quarter fell short of expectations, the financial performance for the year as a whole was broadly The Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report in line with market expectations and produced largely positive illustrates the steps taken through the year to ensure that movements on the Groups key performance indicators.
the Group operates responsibly and in the interests of its stakeholders.
SuperGroup is making good progress in the In last years Annual Report I commented that FY14 would see key areas of employee welfare, workforce in the supply the Group enhance its capacity for future growth and enable chain, environmental sustainability, and supporting the efficiencies within its existing operations through substantial communities that it interacts with.
There is more to do in investments in its IT and logistics infrastructure.
I am pleased developing SuperGroups agenda to operate responsibly, but to report that the planned projects were delivered on time and the foundations are now in place to deliver through the team on budget.
Whilst there are still more improvements to make, established during the last 12 months.
these initial investments have delivered a solid platform for the Groups growth aspirations, improved its processes and On behalf of the Board I would like to thank everyone at controls, and will provide cost savings and efficiency gains SuperGroup for what has been achieved over the last year from financial year 2015 onwards.
and wish them well for the year ahead.
International growth opportunities will provide the major Peter Bamford sources of expansion for the Group.
Of the new owned retail Chairman space opened in the last year 43% was outside the UK.
The 9 July 2014 buy out of the distributor in Spain and the German agency and franchise business, together with the opening of 59 new franchise stores and the roll-out of two new websites demonstrate the potential for further international growth.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 06 SuperGroup.
Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
