Strategic report Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to report that Synergy has continued to make further progress with its objective to expand internationally, win new contracts and to build a forward order book that will result in a sustainable increase in growth.
Our decision to enter the US market has resulted in two of the largest contract wins in Synergys history, worth a combined 40 million of annualised revenues, and will pave the way for future development of the US outsourcing market.
Similar progress, albeit on a smaller scale, is being made in China with the rapid expansion of our hospital sterilisation network.
Results Our progress in 2014 delivers a robust set of results achieved in challenging economic conditions, with significant growth in operating profit and earnings per share.
Reported revenue of 380.5 million 2013: 361.2 million was up 5.3%, and after removing the impact of currency movements was up 4.1%.
Adjusted operating profit was 61.3 million 2013: 56.2 million, representing an increase of 9.1%.
Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 7.9%.
Adjusted operating margin increased to 16.1% 2013: 15.6%, an increase of 50 basis points.
Over one quarter of our revenue now comes from our Americas and Asia & Africa regions, up from 22% in 2013, and we expect this trend to remain in place for some time.
We have continued the restructuring of our Dutch linen Synergy remains well placed business and closed and consolidated a further two facilities during the year.
The combined effects of acquisition-related expenditure and Dutch restructuring to exploit its core competitive costs resulted in non-recurring costs of 3.3 million.
After taking account of amortisation, non-recurring items and strengths, strong operational acquisition-related costs, profit before tax increased by 13.0% to 42.9 million 2013 restated: 38.0 million.
capabilities and internationally Shareholder return Driven by the growth in revenue and operating margin, respected brand.
adjusted basic earnings per share before intangibles, amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs amounted to 70.59p 2013 restated: 65.58p, an increase of 7.6%.
After taking account of amortisation, non-recurring items and acquisition-related costs, basic earnings per share were 57.81p 2013 restated: 53.00p, an increase of 9.1%.
The final dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder approval, on 4 September 2014 to shareholders on the register as at 8 August 2014.
An interim dividend of 8.57p per share 2013: 7.90p was paid to shareholders on 13 December 2013.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 14.20p, which together with the interim dividend would give dividends for the year totalling 22.77p 2013: 20.70p representing a 10.0% increase.
8 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business development and acquisitions Corporate responsibility In 2013 14, we won a number of contracts that in We give high priority to compliance and ethics, as well aggregate added 0.5 billion to our forward order book, as health, safety and the environment.
Our core values which now stands at 1.5 billion including contracts at of integrity, innovation, accountability and achievement preferred bidder stage.
In addition we opened one new are central to the relationships we have with all our gamma irradiation facility at Marcoule, France and, after stakeholders, and underpin how we treat our customers, the close of this financial year, acquired the Bioster Group our suppliers, and the wider communities in which we for 29 million net of cash and debt, extending Synergys operate.
Details of the Groups approach to corporate Applied Sterilisation Technologies network into Italy and and social responsibility are disclosed on page 38 of Eastern Europe.
Further details of this acquisition and other investments are Our people disclosed in the Regional Operating Review, and in the I would like to take this opportunity to thank all staff for notes to the financial statements.
Our strategy of growing their focus and engagement throughout the year.
Synergys key industry sectors through acquisitions is unchanged, well-earned reputation for operational excellence, and and with our strong financial position we will continue to its ability to deliver on its commitments to customers, is consider targeted bolt-on acquisitions and to evaluate testament to the effectiveness of those efforts and the strategic acquisitions to increase shareholder value.
shared values to which we all subscribe.
The Board Outlook On 25 July, 2013, it was announced that Dr Richard Synergy remains well placed to exploit its core Steeves, Group CEO would succeed me as Non-Executive competitive strengths, strong operational capabilities Chairman of the Group upon my retirement on 31 March and internationally respected brand.
The business 2014, and that Dr Adrian Coward would take over from has a number of opportunities for earnings-enhancing Richard as Group CEO.
On account of the expanding investment, and the Board is confident that these opportunities for growth in outsourced hospital sterilisation will deliver strong growth in shareholder value over services in the US, and as the Group continues to grow, the coming years.
there is a need to split strategic and operational oversight via a separate CEO and COO.
Therefore, the Board has decided that Dr Steeves should defer his move from CEO to Chairman and similarly I have delayed my retirement.
Dr Sir Duncan Nichol Adrian Coward, formerly CEO for the UK & Ireland region, Chairman has now taken on a broader role as Chief Operating officer 4 June 2014 for the Group and joined the Board on the 31 March 2014.
Jeff Harris joined the Board as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in September 2013.
Jeff brings impressive business and governance experience from his time as Chief Executive and then Chairman of Alliance UniChem plc, and through serving on a number of other plc boards.
Tim Mason, Group Company Secretary, is to retire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting 'AGM', on 23 July 2014.
Jon Turner, currently Head of Tax and Treasury, will assume a broader role, becoming Group Company Secretary at that time.
The Board would like to thank Tim for his excellent support over the last five years, and wish Jon every success in his new role.
The Board places great emphasis on governance and is mindful of its responsibility to promote the long-term interests of the Company for all our stakeholders.
This is described in detail in the governance section of our Annual Report, on pages 40 to 74.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9
