02 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 Chairmans statement Overview Strategy After a positive start to the year, the European economy Our strategy remains unchanged and we continue to focus faltered causing demand to weaken during the second half.
on delivering growth through geographic expansion in In Asia, we saw the opposite, with a more intense competitive emerging markets, where mega-trends, such as population environment putting pressure on nitrile margins during the growth, urbanisation and increasing wealth, are driving first half of the year, but an improving position during the demand for our products.
In these high-growth regions, second half.
In the final two months, we saw a substantial we are able to leverage our European Centres of Excellence decline in our raw material costs as the price of oil fell and in leading technology, R&D and manufacturing capability these movements are expected to have some benefit on to give us a strong competitive advantage.
We have started the performance of the Group in 2015. to see the results of the operational efficiency programme we began during 2014 in Europe, and we anticipate this In the context of this challenging macro-economic will be rolled out into key facilities in Asia later in 2015. environment, the Groups underlying volumes in 2014 remained in line with 2013.
As I wrote last year, Synthomer Additionally, as part of this strategy, we continue to look has continued to demonstrate its resilience, and focus on for further investment opportunities to expand our footprint cost control, product innovation, research and development in Asia.
and capacity expansions in emerging markets.
Investment Full year performance Synthomer continues to be a highly cash generative business, Underlying Group total sales declined 6.1% to 990.5 million giving us the means to invest in future growth.
During the 2013 1,054.9 million, although, on a constant currency year, we commissioned a new 28 kte dispersion line in our basis, sales reduced by 2.0%, on underlying volume in line Saudi Arabian plant, and we completed the upgrade of one with the prior year.
of our German plants to allow us to produce our bio-latex products for the paper industry.
Our investment in R&D Underlying Group operating profit for the year was continues to benefit the business, with 16% of 2014 sales 96.5 million, down 7.9% 2013 104.8 million.
This was coming from products developed in the last five years, and partly due to the weakening of the Euro that impacted a further seven patent application filings during the year.
operating profits in our European and North American ENA business by 3.4 million.
On a constant currency basis, profit Balance sheet was down by 3.4%, mainly due to the lower margin issues Net debt, at 112.1 million, was 21.5 million lower than the we had in nitrile in our Asia and ROW business ARW in start of the year.
This represents a net borrowing to EBITDA the first half.
ratio of less than one times, which the Board considers to be at the lower end of our target leverage position.
Underlying Group profit before tax was 86.0 million 2013 90.1 million, a decline of 4.6%, whilst earnings Dividend per share at 19.5p 2013 20.7p were down by 5.8%.
The Board has recommended an increased final ordinary After deducting special items, IFRS profit before tax dividend of 4.8p per share, making a total ordinary dividend was 53.8 million 2013 59.1 million.
The full year ordinary dividend represents an increase of 30% over the previous year, and a dividend cover of 2.5 times, in line with the policy we announced with our interim results.
In the interim results, we also set out our new framework for balance sheet management, and consistent with that, I am also pleased to announce that the Board recommends a special dividend of 7.8p per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 15.6p.
Overview Synthomer plc Annual Report 2014 03 Safety, health and environment Outlook The Group is committed to the continuous improvement We remain cautious on the European economy and its of its performance in respect of safety, health and the impact on demand, but some benefit from lower raw material environment.
I am pleased that we have been able to improve prices may help offset any volume weakness.
However, our safety record yet again and reduce our greenhouse gas the weakness of the Euro, will affect the translation of our emissions.
Continuous improvement of our safety, health European business results.
In Asia, we expect to see an and environmental performance remains a key priority for improved performance from nitrile given the continuing the Group going forward.
tightening in the supply demand position and improving margins.
Overall, the Board is confident the Group is well Our people positioned for future growth.
One of the keys to our continuing success is our people.
This year the Group introduced a Core Values programme that defines the qualities and characteristics that we would Neil Johnson like to see in ourselves, our colleagues and our business.
Chairman These core values have at their foundation safety, health 25 February 2014 and environment and will be an important element in defining the Group and its ongoing success.
I would like to thank our people for the positive way they have embraced this programme and for their support and hard work during 2014.
Board composition I am delighted that Calum MacLean has joined as CEO just after the year end.
He was previously at INEOS where he held a number of senior roles since 1998, most recently as Board Director INEOS Group and Chairman Styrolution & Petroineos.
He has succeeded Adrian Whitfield who has, over the last eight years transformed the Group from a diverse chemical conglomerate into the focused aqueous polymer business that you see today.
I would like to thank Adrian for his enormous contribution to the Group, and, on behalf of the Board and the Group, wish him every success for the future.
As previously announced, David Blackwood, Chief Financial Officer for the past seven years, advised the Board in December of his intention to retire from the Company during 2015.
Similarly, after eight years as a non-executive Director, Chairing the Audit Committee and more recently fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director, Jez Maiden has indicated that he will not be standing for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Searches for suitable successors for both positions are well advanced.
There will be other opportunities to thank both David and Jez for their outstanding contributions to Synthomer but I would like to record my personal thanks to all three departing Board colleagues, Adrian, David and Jez, for their support and hard work over many years.
