Strategic Report ChaIRmanS Statement Corporate Responsibility The Board is confident Pages 32 to 37 that our strategy of Governance Pages 40 to 46 becoming a leading global provider of speciality food ingredients will create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Introduction Sir Peter Gershon I could not open my statement on the performance of Tate & Lyle during the year without first addressing safety and the three tragic fatalities that have occurred over the last 12 months.
Two accidents in Europe one in Hungary and one in the Netherlands and one just after the year end in Singapore, resulted in three people who came to work at our facilities not returning home to their families.
At the time of writing, one other person remains in a critical condition in hospital in Singapore.
I know I speak for the entire Board and the Company as a whole when I express my deep regret and sincere condolences to those families.
We will continue to provide them with all the support that we can and our thoughts and prayers remain with them.
The tragic loss of these colleagues reminds us that safety is, and must always be, our first priority.
With that in mind, we are re-doubling our focus on safety, with Javed Ahmed and his team leading a series of fresh initiatives to further improve hazard identification and accident prevention at all of our sites.
These new measures will be closely overseen by William Camp and our Corporate Responsibility Committee.
We will consider what other measures are required when the results of the official investigations into the causes of the fatalities are known.
Group performance We have faced a number of challenges over the last financial year.
Unseasonably cold weather on both sides of the Atlantic 04 | Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information in the first half of the year reduced demand accelerate the growth of our Food Systems Dividend per share pence for our bulk sweeteners and this, along with business in China.
The acquisition of an increasingly competitive environment Winway Biotechnology, a Chinese 1 for SPLENDA Sucralose and lower returns producer of polydextrose, which we expect 27.6p from co-products in volatile corn markets to complete later in the year, will further in the US, offset a good performance enhance our presence in Asia and our in a number of areas, notably the offering in the fast-growing bre category.
Work to lay the foundations for future 1 27.6 26.2 Although we are now facing the headwind long-term growth derived from new 24.9 from lower SPLENDA Sucralose prices, ingredients continues within our Innovation the Board is confident that our strategy and Commercial Development group ICD.
of becoming a leading global provider While the contribution from recent launches of speciality food ingredients will create is modest, we are encouraged by the long-term sustainable value for our pipeline of customer projects and the 2012 2013 2014 shareholders.
Accordingly, in the year strength of our innovation pipeline which ahead, we will continue to put in place remains robust.
Within ICD we have also 1 This includes the proposed final dividend.
the investment required to ensure the made excellent progress building a worldcontinued execution of our strategy and to class marketing function which has begun for responding to actual events that may build on the solid foundations laid over the work on a range of initiatives to promote occur.
Corporate responsibility matters are last four years under Javeds leadership.
our business and products globally.
integrated into the Groups enterprise-wide Strategic progress Our investment in our global Commercial risk management and reporting process Realising our vision of becoming and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, see page 29. a leading global provider of speciality USA is not only helping us bring new During the year, we have engaged with food ingredients and solutions requires products identied by ICD to market faster, customers and other key stakeholders to us to explore new horizons and broaden it is also helping to generate stronger, better understand the environmental, social the geographic reach of the business.
more collaborative relationships with and governance matters and potential risks While we continue to develop the business our customers.
Further information that they see as particularly important.
within what have historically been our core on this is on page 16.
We have used this feedback to review how markets of North America and Europe, Governance we report on corporate responsibility in this I am pleased to say we have made very As the business expands, my fellow Annual Report and through other means good progress over the last few years directors and I are devoting more time including our corporate website.
building our speciality food ingredients to obtaining a better understanding of the business in both Asia and Latin America.
Dividend markets in which we operate and how our The Board recognises the importance During the year, the Board visited China business is evolving to meet customer of the dividend to shareholders and follows and Singapore to see our Asia Pacic needs.
As well as individual non-executive a progressive dividend policy with the aim operations and to gain a better directors site visits to our operations, and of growing the dividend over time, taking understanding of the opportunities that the Board visit to the Asia Pacic region, into account the long-term earnings exist in the region.
Against a backdrop members of the Audit Committee also prospects of the business.
of rapid urbanisation, rising household visited our global Shared Service Centre income and changing tastes, the role of in dz, Poland to review its work and The Board is recommending a 5.3% innovation and new product development future initiatives with the local team.
increase in the final dividend to 19.8p is becoming increasingly important in 2013 18.8p per share making a full-year This year, we agreed that the annual review these regions as food and beverage dividend of 27.6p 2013 26.2p per share, of Board effectiveness should be externally manufacturers look to respond to a 5.3% increase on the prior year.
We felt that given the importance consumer demand.
We were able to to shareholder approval, the proposed final of inclusive leadership and the changes see first-hand how our investment in new dividend will be due and payable on to the Board in the previous financial year capabilities and customer-facing facilities 1 August 2014 to all shareholders on the there would be significant benefit in is helping our customers meet their Register of Members at 27 June 2014. undertaking this review from a diversity and objectives and get their new products In addition to the cash dividend option, inclusion perspective.
Further details on our to market faster across the region.
shareholders will continue to be offered visits and the effectiveness review are set a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP I am in no doubt that, alongside this out within the Governance section.
investment, the strength of the Tate & Lyle Corporate responsibility brand and our reputation for delivering Finally, I would like to acknowledge the hard and risk management innovative food ingredients and solutions work of all our employees in a challenging We have continued to strengthen our with the highest standards of quality, year.
We continue to make good strategic internal control arrangements and external traceability and reliability have played progress in transforming Tate & Lyle and reporting on environmental, social and an important part in building our presence we have them to thank for that.
governance matters, including in relation in these markets.
to safety and business continuity Sir Peter Gershon The formation of Tate & Lyle Howbetter management.
Our approach to safety, Chairman earlier in the year which combines business continuity and risk management 28 May 2014 Tate & Lyles global blending capabilities focuses on preventive programmes, and recipe know-how with Howbetters approaches and actions to reduce the strong local expertise and infrastructure, risk of experiencing any incidents: and provides us with an excellent platform to on advanced planning and preparedness Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2014 | 05
