Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans Statement Focused on creating value and delivering quality across the housing cycle and additional surplus cash returns at the appropriate time in the cycle.
More information on our dividend policy and strategy can be found on page 12.
We remain committed to paying a regular annual maintenance dividend.
Reflecting both confidence in our performance and the resilience of the UK housing market, we have announced our intention to double this pay-out to 2% of net assets subject to shareholder approval.
The 2014 final maintenance dividend of 1.32 pence per share 2013: 0.47 pence per share, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid as a conventional cash dividend on 20 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 April 2015.
Shareholders are once again being offered the opportunity to reinvest all of their maintenance dividend under the Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
In February 2014, we set out the principles and the first I am delighted to report that in 2014 stages of our cash return plan and returned 49.7 million in July 2014.
Through 2014, we have continued to shareholders have continued to benefit outperform our own expectations, both in terms of from the results of our strategy.
cash generated, and our forecast cash requirements.
Reflecting this performance, at our half year results in July 2014, the additional cash return in 2015 was increased by 50 million to 250 million, equating to 7.68 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval, this will be paid on 3 July 2015 as a cash Kevin Beeston dividend to all shareholders on the register at close of Chairman business on 22 May 2015.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 144.
Following a change in the law, with effect from April 2015, companies are 2014 performance and positioning the business for the future unable to offer shareholders a choice over the form of It is very pleasing to note that, during the period since we set out our strategy a cash return.
Shareholders will however be offered the in 2011, we have seen the transformation of Taylor Wimpey, underpinned by opportunity to reinvest all of their 2015 special dividend our clarity of focus and value driven business model.
During this time, we have under the DRIP your attention is drawn to an important consistently outperformed the pace of improvement that we aspired to, whilst message regarding the DRIP on page 152.
The Board continuing to improve the quality of our business and positioning it to achieve intends to keep the mechanics of how the Company our vision of becoming the UKs leading residential developer for creating value will pay its special dividends under regular review.
I am delighted to report to you that 2014 has not only been a further step in the journey to achieve this long term ambition but that we also The way we do business delivered an excellent in-year performance, delivering 54% growth in operating For Taylor Wimpey, the way in which we conduct profit, converting a record 10,779 plots from the strategic land pipeline more ourselves both internally and externally matters.
than any time in our history and commencing an additional cash return policy The Board is firmly of the view that strong values and to shareholders over and above our regular maintenance dividend.
I set out culture are the cornerstone of our success and that they more details on this below.
In December 2014, we were also delighted to be are key to protecting and enhancing our reputation, both re-admitted to the FTSE 100 Share Index.
We recognise that we have both the obligation and the opportunity to lead by example Returns to shareholders and that, whilst we inevitably do not get everything right, In 2014, shareholders have continued to benefit from the results of our strategy we continue to embrace these responsibilities and strive with a 26% increase in 2014 total shareholder returns and 433% cumulative to improve in everything we do.
earnings per share growth in the last three years.
Our dividend return is an inherent part of our strategy and the Board has set out a policy of making cash During the year, we have had a particular focus on returns to shareholders through both regular maintenance dividend payments customer service, following a fall in our externally rated 8 Strategic Report p2-43 Directors Report: Governance p44-91 Financial Statements p92-143 Shareholder Information p144-153 www.
co. uk customer satisfaction score from 90% to 87% and a The Board has reviewed the 2014 UK Corporate general belief that customers expect and deserve an Governance Code the Code announced in September enhanced level of service.
Whilst an external score 2014, and welcomes the new changes which will apply of 87% continues to be high by industry and historic to our 2015 financial year.
Consistent with past practice, standards, we are committed to improving further our the Board has already moved to comply with certain service to our customers.
We have embarked on several aspects of the Code.
initiatives and introduced additional resourcing to improve 2014 Board evaluation what we do and how we do it for our customers further In accordance with the Code, the Board is required to detail is set out on page 38. undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of We have an implicit obligation to serve the local communities its own performance and that of its Committees and in which we operate and firmly believe that this responsibility individual Directors.
It is also a requirement that the grows with our success.
In 2014, we invested 300 million evaluation should be externally facilitated at least once in communities pursuant to planning obligations in England, every three years.
The evaluation is a very important part Wales and Scotland 2013: 227 million providing of the corporate governance framework and is taken very infrastructure, affordable housing and community seriously by the Board, its Committees and also by each facilities including schools, transport and play areas.
In 2014, the evaluation was externally facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation via a very More information about our efforts including local comprehensive process involving all Directors and sponsorships and partnerships and our support of others who work closely with the Board, both internal charity partners can be found on page 31 and within and external.
I am pleased to report to you that this our Sustainability Report which will be available from review confirmed that your Board is a well-functioning 27 March at www.
co. uk corporate and effective board which serves the Company well and sustainability takes its duties and responsibilities very seriously.
Naturally, there are areas for improvement and the Board has Corporate Governance reviewed and will be acting upon the recommendations.
We have a strong track record of good corporate A summary of the main findings from the evaluation are governance which your Board will continue to strengthen, outlined on pages 50 to 51. underpinned by a robust and effective governance framework and risk management structure.
More Our people information on what this means can be found within The Board is particularly proud of the level of eligible our Corporate Governance Report and the reports employee participation in the Companys all-employee of the Board Committees on pages 46 to 85.
This is share plans, namely Sharesave 37% and SIP 27%.
further enhanced by the policies and guidelines we have Each plan gives employees the opportunity of owning in place, setting standards concerning ethics, sound their own personal stake in Taylor Wimpey and our future business practices and wider governance, which are success.
We believe that this is important as it encourages regularly reviewed and can be found on our website.
a greater sense of alignment between our employees and We value open and honest dialogue and work hard our shareholders, together with a greater sense of pride and sense of ownership.
Further, all Executive Directors to maintain high levels of trust and transparency with all of our stakeholders.
As your Chairman, I continue to hold shares significantly in excess of individual guidelines and similar individual guidelines have also been applied proactively meet with a number of investors and industry representatives to answer their questions and to gain to senior management below Board level.
More details of our share schemes can be found on pages 70 to 71. a better understanding of their policies and views on governance.
We continue to progress our diversity and inclusivity We also understand and support the importance of initiatives as we recognise that there are still improvements to be made and that we are still in the early part of the linking executive reward to the longer term objectives of Taylor Wimpey and, in turn, the longer term interests overall journey.
More detail on our initiatives is set out in the Corporate Governance section.
of shareholders and are very alert to the need for fair and proportionate remuneration arrangements.
We have again As I reflect on a very successful 2014, I would like to Corporate Governance KPI consulted very constructively with our major shareholders pages 46-51 express my sincere thanks and appreciation to all 4,014 and their representative bodies concerning both 2014 and Taylor Wimpey employees for their professionalism, hard 2015 policy and practice.
More information on this can work and dedication throughout 2014.
I am confident Board of Directors KPI be found in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 44-45 that we have in place the strategy, people and framework pages 66 to 85. to continue to create value and deliver quality for all our stakeholders in the years ahead.
Board diversity Senior Management diversity Employee diversity Male 6 Male 6 Male Female 2 Female 2 Female 25% 25% 33% 67% 75% 75% 9
