CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a strong Exceptional costs incurred during the year of 1.0m 2013: performance across all channels during the 52 weeks to 25 2.6m include 0.7m of impairment charges in respect of January 2014 the period, resulting in a 26.5% increase some retail assets and 0.3m due to an onerous lease on a in Group revenue to 321.9m 2013: 254.5m and a 26.7% store where we are no longer trading.
increase in profit before tax and exceptional costs to 40.0m Adjusted basic earnings per share, which exclude exceptional 2013: 31.5m.
costs, increased by 22.3% to 69.0p 2013: 56.4p and basic The retail division performed very well in what remained earnings per share increased by 30.5% to 67.2p 2013: 51.5p.
a competitive trading environment, delivering an increase The Groups net borrowing position at the end of the year was in revenue of 24.6% to 259.1m 2013: 208.0m, on an 8.8m 2013: 10.0m.
This reflected the on going significant increase in average square footage of 10.7%.
Gross margins investment in capital expenditure during the year, increased were largely in line with last year at 66.1% 2013: 66.2%.
inventory to support future growth and the earlier receipt of Performance in our established territories was strong and we inventory into the business at the year end to meet demand.
continue to invest in newer markets where we see long-term opportunities for the brand.
Dividends Wholesale sales for the Group increased by 35.0% to 62.8m The Board is recommending a final dividend of 24.2p per 2013: 46.5m, which reflects a strong performance from share 2013: 18.7p, making a total for the year of 33.7p per our UK wholesale business, which includes the supply of share 2013: 26.6p per share, an increase of 26.7% on the goods to our licensed stores and our export business and prior year.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual a very good performance from our US wholesale business.
General Meeting to be held on 10 June 2014, the final dividend will be paid on 20 June 2014 to shareholders on the Licence income from our territorial and product licences register on 9 May 2014. increased by 18.4% to 8.9m 2013: 7.5m.
Financial Reporting We continue to focus on the long-term development of Ted Baker This years Annual Report incorporates a number of new as a global lifestyle brand.
We developed our presence in both features in line with the revised UK Corporate Governance new and existing markets and have further invested in people and infrastructure to support our long-term growth opportunities.
These include the Boards confirmation that the report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the This included the development of a new e-commerce platform, Groups position and prospects, and an enhanced audit report.
which was successfully launched in November 2013 and is a key part of our growth strategy.
I am also pleased to announce People that we have recently agreed with Microsoft to deploy and support Microsoft Dynamics AX business systems globally This strong performance is testament to the skill, passion across the Group.
These new systems will enable us to enhance and commitment of the Ted Baker team and I would like to the efficiency of the business, streamline our operations and take this opportunity to thank all of my colleagues around the provide a solid platform as we continue to grow and develop world for their hard work.
On 9 January 2014, we were delighted to announce the Results appointment of Andrew Jennings to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director, effective from 1 February Group revenue for the period rose by 26.5% to 321.9m 2014.
Andrew brings a wealth of international retail experience 2013: 254.5m.
The composite gross margin decreased gained over 40 years at some of the worlds most respected to 61.7% 2013: 62.4%, reflecting an increase in wholesale high-end department stores.
His experience will be invaluable sales as a proportion of total sales and a decrease in the and we are very much looking forward to his contribution as wholesale margin.
This decrease in wholesale margin was a the brand grows and develops.
Andrew has recently been result of a greater proportion of sales to our territorial licence appointed to the Audit Committee and will join the Nomination partners, which carry a lower margin and a slight reduction and Remuneration Committees after a suitable period of in the underlying wholesale margin due to product mix in the induction, in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate first half of the year.
Governance Code applying to larger companies.
Profit before tax and exceptional costs increased by 26.7% to 40.0m 2013: 31.5m and profit before tax increased by 34.6% to 38.9m 2013: 28.9m.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT It is with great sadness that I have to report that Robert In the US, our growth continues with the opening of three Breare, a colleague and former Non-Executive Chairman, new stores as well as further concessions through a leading t passed away in July.
During his eleven year tenure, Robert department store.
Following the successful UK launch, our combined his entrepreneurial insight with an infectious US e-commerce site will also undergo migration to the new enthusiasm for the business to make a major contribution to platform in the year ahead, delivering improved design, the Group during a significant period of global development.
performance and personalised content that creates a more The Group acknowledges his contribution with gratitude and relevant customer experience.
he is sadly missed by his colleagues.
In Asia, following a year of significant expansion, we remain focused on building brand awareness in these markets where Current Trading and Outlook we remain in the relatively early stages of development.
We Ted Baker continues to perform well in a competitive trading have very recently opened a concession through a leading environment and we remain focused on the long-term department store in Tokyo, Japan.
development of the brand globally.
Further openings are planned across all of our markets.
In our newer markets, Wholesale where we are investing for the longer term, we are also Our wholesale business is delivering a good performance focused on enhancing brand awareness.
that is in line with our expectations.
We anticipate further We continue to invest in people and infrastructure to support growth across all of our wholesale businesses, which should the future growth of Ted Baker.
The Group is well positioned to result in low double-digit growth in sales in the coming year.
deal with the challenges and opportunities ahead, particularly during the implementation of the new Microsoft Dynamics Licence Income AX business systems across the Group to support our future Our product and territorial licences continue to perform well growth.
We anticipate that the roll out of these systems will and are in line with our expectations.
commence at the start of 2015 and, whilst there will be an element of additional costs whilst we run down our existing Our licensed partners recently opened stores in Dubai systems, we will continue to ensure that our costs and and Egypt with further openings planned in Saudi Arabia, commitments are controlled.
Capital expenditure in the current Abu Dhabi, Taiwan and Thailand during the year.
year is anticipated to be higher than last year at 25m, in part I am pleased to announce a new agreement with a licence due to the investment in new systems across the business.
partner in Central America, who plans to open one new store in Panama during the year.
Retail Our retail business has started the new financial year well, Group and we are encouraged by the reaction to our Spring Summer collections.
We continue to develop our UK business with The Group continues to perform well and we remain focused on the long-term development of the Ted Baker brand.
We store openings planned in Glasgow and London Heathrow are pleased with the achievements we have made this Terminal Two and the relocation of our outlet store in York.
Following the successful launch of our new e-commerce year and look forward to another year of progress across all platform, we will further develop our e-commerce site to markets and channels.
provide a more relevant customer experience and advance We intend to make our next interim management statement, the local content provided to our European customers, covering trading since the start of the financial year, in mid including language options specific to key countries.
In continental Europe, we have recently opened further concessions in France and the Netherlands with further David Bernstein openings planned in Spain.
We will also be opening a store Non-Executive Chairman in Marseille in May and an outlet store in Paris in March.
