4 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chairmans statement Disciplined growth, solid results and increased shareholder returns TelecityGroup made further progress in 2014 with the delivery of another solid set of results, underpinned by increased discipline around capital allocation to maximise returns from our John Hughes, CBE Executive Chairman data centre estate, positioning the Company well for increased shareholder returns.
TelecityGroup enjoyed a satisfactory year in 2014, working hard capabilities, including the establishment of a Strategic Customer to drive value from the connected data centres we have deployed Accounts Programme designed to deepen and enhance across Europe.
relationships with certain key customers.
During 2014 the Board and I remained focused on value creation The Group has not undertaken any M&A activity in 2014.
Previous for shareholders through driving the performance of the business acquisitions are integrating well, with the exception of Turkey in specific targeted areas, a focus which continues into 2015. where it is taking longer than expected to realise its potential.
Our priorities were profitable growth across the estate, improved Uncertainty over the performance of this business in the medium discipline around capital allocation, and enhancing our approach term has resulted in an impairment loss on this investment.
A full discussion of our performance in 2014 starts on page 24.
Despite the weak macroeconomic backdrop in 2014 across the In August, we announced that Michael Tobin would be stepping Eurozone, our Rest of Europe business was particularly strong, down from the role of Chief Executive Officer on 31 October 2014. highlighting the resilience and relevance of our business model On behalf of the Board and former colleagues I would like to thank to our customers and the robust market demand, driven by Mike for his service, leadership and many achievements, and the continuing growth in the digital economy.
The UK business, I wish him every success for the future.
Until his replacement supported by an increased focus on sales and marketing, has been appointed I have taken on executive responsibilities generated high levels of gross order wins in 2014, a trend we in my role as Chairman.
expect to continue going forward.
The effect of these strong wins on UK revenue growth was suppressed by the previously Eric Hageman joined the Board as a Director and Chief Financial forecast elevated levels of churn.
However, they stand us in Officer on 1 September 2014.
In his short tenure, I am very pleased good stead for 2015 when churn is expected to reduce as we with the contribution Eric has made in his role.
have already seen in the second half of 2014.
As part of our on-going commitment to good governance a further To capture the robust demand seen during the year we opened full Board assessment has recently been completed by an new capacity across the portfolio.
This was predominantly external party.
This included a review of areas such as composition, focused within existing city markets where demand from structure, processes and performance.
The outcome of this customers is strong and connectivity is high.
We also worked exercise was positive, both in terms of existing good practice to ensure that our customer offering remains core to the and informing potential enhancements to Board process.
European digital economy as it evolves.
Our Cloud-IX platform I am pleased with the continued progress that we have made went live during the latter part of the year, enabling us to offer with our Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR programme our customers access to leading cloud service providers from and governance objectives.
We continue to attach a high priority within our data centres in a resilient, high performance and cost to being a good corporate citizen and consequently are effective way.
To develop our share of the European data centre committed to strengthening and deepening our CSR activities.
colocation market we invested in our sales and marketing Overview Strategy and performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 5 Final dividend Earnings per share Our board 9.0p 39.2p See p44-45 for more detail This year we undertook our first Materiality Assessment As a result of this work the Group has concluded that a leverage to further demonstrate that we have a robust approach to ratio of up to 3.0 times is appropriate.
In order to achieve this, understanding both our responsibilities and the key CSR risks and in light of the future expected capital expenditure levels, and opportunities facing the Company.
We also undertook the Group intends to continue its progressive dividend policy an extensive Group-wide anti-bribery training programme.
with the aim of moving towards a 50% pay-out ratio within three years and shall also initiate a 400m share buy-back programme Our full governance review, including a report from the CSR covering the same period.
I am confident this puts the Group on very solid foundations to Since assuming executive responsibilities, Eric and I have deliver strong shareholder returns into the future.
undertaken a review of our capital structure, capital allocation and operational priorities.
The focus has been on maximising Finally, I would like to thank our employees, customers, suppliers cash generation from profitable growth, which has included and shareholders for their on-going support, as we continue to increased emphasis on capital discipline and working capital build a leading carrier-neutral data centre business in Europe.
to further enhance cash flow generation and consequently returns to shareholders.
We have explored in detail how the technology and customer landscape will evolve and what role TelecityGroup will play in that landscape in the longer term.
This work has reinforced our belief that we operate in an industry sector we expect to grow for the foreseeable future, and that we are located in the key European markets for our services.
New bandwidth-intensive John Hughes, CBE applications, the growth in enterprise outsourcing and wider Executive Chairman technology innovation in general all ultimately drive growth and the need for underlying IT systems to be housed in highly- 10 February 2015 connected data centres.
The Groups high quality assets in key European locations position us well to capture these customer trends, most notably around cloud, from both enterprise and cloud service providers: it is our aim to support the development of the cloud-enabled enterprise.
Continued evolution of the Groups sales and marketing strategy will involve a modest near term increase in our investment in systems, processes and people, particularly in the UK, as well as continued focus around our Cloud-IX platform and wider commercial capabilities, especially the Strategic Accounts Programme.
However, we believe that by prioritising certain investments, implementing cost saving programmes and improving our operational efficiencies within the Group, these efforts will, in the medium term, enable the EBITDA margin to return to current levels with the opportunity for further improvement.
