10 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Strong progress is clearly visible and solid foundations for the future have been laid.
However, we recognise that there is much more to do.
Frank Meysman Chairman Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 Overview: Chairmans statement More resilient in a 1 tough and competitive environment Dear Shareholder 2 I am pleased to report the continued success of our ongoing Transformation with progress being made against our important strategic targets and KPIs.
We have delivered a significant improvement to underlying EBIT for the second consecutive year of our Transformation and have further reduced our net debt, whilst investing significantly in the business in the form of capital expenditure and Transformation costs.
Importantly, all our businesses have delivered increased profitability on a likeforlike basis and, atthe Group level, wereport our ninth consecutive quarter ofprofit growth.
3 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 12 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Transformation Year 2 Overview: Chairmans statement continued Our people across the organisation are central to the ongoing delivery and sustainability ofourTransformation.
There are great examples of our people working together and bringing about improvements inmany areas ofourorganisation.
During the first phase of the Transformation I and the Board would like to thank them for over the last two years, the Company has their huge contribution towards delivering a evolved rapidly and remarkable progress has sustainable future for all our stakeholders.
been made: Thomas Cook is in much better shape than before and we have a clear path Transformation is not a linear process.
for our Transformation and profitable growth We have delivered some aspects of it faster strategy.
I would like to thank Harriet for her than originally expected, like our costout tireless contribution during this critical period.
Other aspects take more Overall, the Company has become more time to achieve our targets, even though resilient in a tough and competitive macro continuous progress is made, like with user economic environment: demonstrated, for generated content.
We are well on track to example, by our ability and speed to offer new meet the longerterm targets and strategic and alternative winter sun destinations to KPIs.
Our Executive Team have shown the offset events such as the unrest in Egypt.
necessary and exemplary leadership during a difficult chapter of this great Companys As the Company enters into the next phase history and they remain fully committed to of its Transformation and the execution of delivering our strategy, working together as our profitable growth strategy, we believe it one Group, across nations and functions.
is time to hand over to a new CEO.
The Board is delighted that Peter Fankhauser, our Chief Strong progress is clearly visible and solid Operating Officer with a long and successful foundations for the future have been career in the travel industry, will become our laid.
However, we recognise that there is CEO and will join the Board with effect from much more to do and we have the right 26 November 2014.
Peter has a strong and Management Team in place to fully deliver committed Management Team in place to against our stretch KPIs in the future.
fully support delivery in the future.
Corporate culture Our employees We fully recognise the importance of The Board firmly believes that our people building and maintaining a single culture across the organisation are central to the amongst our employees across the whole ongoing delivery and sustainability of our organisation.
There are great examples of Transformation and we are pleased to see our people working together and bringing a significant overall improvement to our about improvements in many areas of our Groupwide employee engagement score.
The excellent and profitable Our progress, now and in the future, is due to CRM from Scandinavia is being rolled the continued efforts and successful delivery out across the Group and they in turn by all our management and employees, are expanding their dynamic packaging working together collaboratively.
Once again, business, following success in the UK and Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 Launch of international web platform Frank Meysman, Chairman, visits our Bluewater store to experience our new OneWeb platform and our omnichannel approach.
Enabling customers to access our services through multiple channels 1 in a seamless manner is a key part ofour strategy.
At the heart of this omnichannel approach is the integration of our online and offline customer proposition.
With the launch of our new international web platform, OneWeb, to the UK market in May, customers are now able to browse and book on desktop, tablet and mobile devices, and directly connect their online searches with instore bookings and vice versa through new features such as MyAccount and Wishlist.
We have created a single includingskills, experience, gender and Our stakeholders hotel purchasing unit for the whole Group nationality.
Our Executive Committee also 2 We recognise that all our stakeholders play and our segments are sharing allocations hasan exemplary range of diversity reflecting an important role in the sustainable future within our concept hotels.
The One Airline that ofour customers and employees.
of our Group and we have benefited from says it all.
The heart really unites our people their loyalty in recent years.
In addition to and businesses.
Our new Directors have been fully supported our Shareholders, we thank the banks, by a comprehensive induction programme, bondholders and regulators for their ongoing I reported last year that, as a major feature which has been complemented through support.
We will continue to engage with of the Transformation, we had made huge a series of training and strategy support them as we progress our Transformation progress in the development and rollout presentations for the whole Board andstrategy for profitable growth.
of Groupwide values, ways of working throughoutthe year.
This enhanced the and standards combined within a Code of overall effectiveness of the Board in a Conduct.
Every employee has been given relatively short period and ensured that Sustainable future training on the Code and this is a feature for eachof our Directors was able to participate The Group is much stronger and more all new employees as part of their induction.
fully in the Boards review of strategy at its efficient as a result of the sound progress Given its importance in the sustainability of meeting in September 2014. made in the many areas of our Transformation, our Transformation, this important area is as detailed within this Annual Report.
monitored on a regular basis and the Board is Roger Burnell and Peter Marks retired at our Our ambitions are high and the targets we pleased with the improvement to our culture AGM on 20 February 2014 having served have set ourselves are tough as we aspire that implementation of the Code has brought.
for over 10 years and two years respectively.
tobe an industry and market leader in I would like to thank them both for their 3 everything we do.
High tech, high touch contributions to the Board and specifically, The Board and diversity isand will be a unique positioning and a Roger as Senior Independent Director and roadto market leadership.
When I was appointed as Chairman in Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and December 2011, I set out to strengthen Peter as Chair of the Health, Safety and Having laid firm foundations, our the Board with the right mix of highcalibre Environmental Committee.
Roger chaired Management Team, under Peters leadership, individuals who possessed a complementary the Remuneration Committee during are totally committed and well positioned range of skills and experience to meet the a period when significant change and to deliver our strategy of sustainable, challenges ahead.
Building a worldclass improvements were introduced to our profitable growth.
Whilst recognising there Board was completed with the appointment executive remuneration arrangements.
is much more to do, the Board is confident of Carl Symon and Warren Tucker in October These improvements and our ongoing of a sustainable future with the potential to 2013 and Annet Aris in July 2014. policy were fully supported by Shareholders generate superior Shareholder returns.
I am pleased We strongly believe that diversity adds that Warren Tucker has taken on the role Frank Meysman significant value at Board, Executive and all of Chairof the Remuneration Committee: Chairman other levels throughout the organisation.
EmreBerkin is our Chair of the Health, Safety 25 November 2014 At the Board level, our new Directors bring, and Environmental Committee: and Carl along with the other Directors, strong Symon is our Senior Independent Director.
diversity across a range of measures, Financial statements Governance Strategic report
