SECTION HEAD John Rogers and Pete Redfern joined the Board as Results non-executive directors on 1 November 2014, whilst Coline As a result I am pleased to report another good year, in which McConville has joined it in the same capacity on 1 February CHAIRMANS STATEMENT the Group once again outperformed its sector.
The Board believes that it will be enhanced by the newly FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 appointed directors as they bring a wide range of skills and The improvement in market conditions has led to revenue experience to the Group.
increasing by 8.4% to 5.6bn 2013: 5.1bn, whilst adjusted profit before tax rose by 41m or 12.8% from 321m to Andrew Simon became senior independent director on 362m.
Adjusted earnings per share were up 15.4 pence to 1 August 2014.
Having joined the Board in 2006, he completed 119.0 pence, a 14.9% increase over last years 103.6 pence.
nine years of service as a director on 20 February 2015 and would normally have retired at that time.
However, with all INTRODUCTION As a result of the Group recognising a net 23m of pre-tax the changes to the composition of the Board over the past exceptional items 2013: 9m credit, profit after tax fell by A few introductory points, by way of context.
eighteen months Andrew has agreed to its request to defer his 6m to 259m and basic earnings per share was 3.6% lower retirement until 31 October 2015, by which time the recently at 105.9 pence.
appointed directors will have settled in to their roles.
Net debt has risen slightly to 358m 2013: 344m despite, During the years 2008 to 2013, as planned, the Group increasing the dividend payment to Employees the Company adopted a measured investors, commencing its investment programme in branch The successful implementation of the Groups strategy is and store expansion, distribution centre restructuring and approach to trading and investment, wholly dependent upon the quality of the entire Travis Perkins extension and in IT developments and completing a bolt team.
During the year, the already successful team was joined on acquisition.
Overall gross capital expenditure, before combining self-help initiatives and by a number of new colleagues bringing skills to support the acquisitions and disposals, increased by 58m to 165m selective acquisitions Toolstation and growth and development of the business.
to welcome all of those new colleagues to the Group and thank BSS, which reflected opportunities at everyone who has contributed to what has been yet another Dividend successful year for Travis Perkins.
that stage in the business cycle.
The strong performance of the Group in 2014 combined with the Boards confidence that the Groups self-help strategy and Outlook underlying market indicators will result in continued strong Good progress has been made implementing the Groups future earnings growth, has enabled the Board to propose a updated strategy, although there remains much still to do.
Whilst 22.6% increase in the full year dividend.
it is early in the recovery of the construction industry, the new A final dividend of 25.75 pence, payable on 1 June 2015 to housing market, new commercial and industrial markets and shareholders on the register on 1 May 2015, will give a full year the repair, maintenance and improvement markets have been During the second quarter of 2013, however, the Group saw The Groups five year strategic direction was presented to dividend of 38 pence 2013: 31 pence which is covered performing largely as the Group expected.
early signs of recovery in the sector and decided to adopt a the City in a Capital Markets presentation in December 3.1 times by adjusted earnings per share.
The proposed The key lead indicators monitored by management show that more expansionary stance, investing ahead of the cycle and 2013: this was followed by a further operational briefing dividend brings cover to within the Boards target range of the drivers of activity have settled into a more sustainable and planning accordingly: day in November 2014, when many of the Groups senior 2.5x to 3.25x in the medium term.
Mortgage approval rates and subsequent executives presented their individual businesses.
The Contin uing to carefully plan and execute CEO succession, housing transactions began to moderate in 2014 and this is not Group plans to continue this high level of communication Board of Directors with the pending retirement of Geoff Cooper expected to significantly reverse in 2015.
The upcoming general Developing longer term str ategies for each of the The Group believes that it is best served by directors who have The new devolved organisation is clearly working.
There election may also create some short-term volatility.
However, Groups businesses demonstrated a successful track record of leading businesses is significant commitment and energy in each of the consumer sentiment has improved, employment is rising, as either CEO or CFO.
The evolution of the Board, which Realigning the Gr oups senior management teams and businesses aimed at innovating their business models mortgage rates are at an historical low and the Group has begun started two years ago, continued at pace during 2014.
Two new devolving more operating authority to each of the Groups to serve customers better to see wage price inflation above consumer price inflation.
non-executive directors joined the Group during the autumn businesses to take full advantage of the Groups traditional However, the Groups growth plans are not just predicated on Board recruitment is now complete.
The Group now has and a further appointment was announced during December strengths as operators resurgent markets, but on active investment programmes a talented Board, comprising directors with extensive following the retirement of John Coleman, and in advance of Planning w ell in advance for a series of Board retirements to drive sustainable competitive advantage and long term experience, many of whom are current and past CEOs the planned retirement from the Board of Andrew Simon in and recruiting a Board fit for the future improvements to shareholder returns.
Through investing and CFOs October 2015.
Commencing a discip lined approach to capital allocation in customer propositions, optimising the branch network, During 2014, 183m of capital investment was approved.
John Coleman retired from the Board on 31 October 2014. that fully reflected the Companys most attractive accelerating the scale advantage the Group enjoys and Disciplined processes are in place to monitor this He has served the Group with distinction since he became investment choices disciplined portfolio management the Group remains confident investment to ensure that targeted returns are achieved, a non-executive director in February 2005 having been it can continue to outperform the markets it operates in over the and future capital is put to best use One year into this new direction, I am pleased to report a member of the remuneration, nominations and audit year ahead and the medium-term.
Point by point, addressing each of the committees and also fulfilled the role of senior independent Finally, and despite good progress to date, the Board five points above: director from January 2013 until August 2014.
The Board remains vigilant about future political and market would like to express its thanks to John and wish him well for Robert Walker uncertainties, and it will continue to ensure the Group John Carter, taking over as Chief Executive Officer CEO the future.
Chairman retains significant flexibility to adjust its in January 2014, has had a strong first year and has 2 March 2015 stance, should conditions change.
established a close working partnership with Tony Buffin, the Groups Chief Financial Officer CFO 16 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 17
