Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SIMON THOMPSON CHAIRMAN BALANCING RISK & REWARD IN A CHALLENGING MARKET 2014 was a challenging year for the oil industry and for Tullow, which was reflected in our financial and share price performance.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER For some years, cost pressures have been building across Responding to change the industry, which have depressed returns on new projects, Throughout the year, Tullow responded to the changing despite high oil prices.
The industry as a whole, including landscape.
At the beginning of 2014, we took the decision to reduce our future expenditure on complex deepwater Tullow, has also experienced low levels of commercial exploration until the costs of exploration and development exploration success.
Over the past three-to-four years, oil reduced sufficiently to render the risk reward ratio attractive production from unconventional oil shale projects in the once again.
When the oil price started to fall in mid-2014, USA has experienced major growth.
This has come at a time we moved even more decisively to reduce our overall when demand from the developed world has been subdued exploration budget from $0.8 billion in 2014 to approximately and demand growth from China and the other major $0.2 billion in 2015, in order to conserve cash and refocus emerging economies has slowed.
The growing imbalance our exploration programme on lower-cost onshore and low between supply and demand was brought to a head at the complexity offshore exploration and appraisal that have OPEC meeting in November 2014 when low-cost producers, the potential to yield early production and cash flows.
including Saudi Arabia, signalled that they were no longer prepared to cede market share to accommodate rising Prioritising shareholders interests production from the USA.
As a result of these pressures, A core part of our strategy over the past few years has been the oil price collapsed from a peak of $115 bbl in mid-2014 to monetise our exploration success by selling part of our to $53 bbl at the end of the year.
The combination of high equity interest to fund the development of new projects.
costs and falling prices means that the whole industry As industry conditions deteriorated, and competition for faces a significant margin squeeze until operating and assets reduced, it became clear that this part of our capital costs can be reduced to more sustainable levels, strategy was no longer in the best interests of our shareholders.
a process that is already under way.
We therefore decided to retain our full stake in the TEN 4 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our focus is on maximising cash flow from our existing producing assets and advancing our world-class portfolio of development assets in Ghana, Kenya & Uganda.
We took steps to strengthen and diversify and social performance, and our leadership position on our balance sheet by issuing a second bond in early 2014. transparency of payments to governments has been widely We also reallocated our capex to projects, such as TEN, recognised.
We have also reinforced our commitment to the that will generate new production and cash flow in the safety of our workforce and the protection of the environment, short-to-medium term, and protected part of the downside and our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
risk on our existing producing assets by hedging some 60% An exceptional team of people of our 2015 entitlement oil sales with an average floor price In these unsettled times we are more than ever reliant of around $86 bbl.
upon the talents, enthusiasm and commitment of our people.
I have been impressed by the way in which the whole Prudent financial management organisation, led by Aidan Heavey and the other members Despite these steps, 2014 was still a difficult year.
of the Executive team, has moved quickly to refocus and Production was down on the prior year at 75,200 boepd, streamline the business to deliver our revised strategy.
primarily due to European gas asset sales, field performances During the year we also welcomed Mike Daly to the Board, and lower Gabon production because of licence disputes.
who brings directly relevant experience of the oil industry As a result, revenues dropped from $2.6 billion in 2013 to and has already made a valuable contribution to our debates.
The Board has carefully reviewed the exploration assets held on the balance sheet, writing off a Ready for a revival total of $1.7 billion exploration costs.
This write-off includes The oil industry is cyclical.
As majors and independents a number of past activities predominately associated with alike cut back or defer capital investment in new production offshore drilling in French Guiana and Mauritania, and while in response to lower prices, the industry is already creating these assets have been written-down to zero, they remain in the conditions for a revival of the oil price.
In the Chief our portfolio and in due course could have value for your Executives Review, Aidan Heavey sets out the future Company.
A further assessment of the likely date of receipt for strategy and prospects for Tullow, which the Board fully certain Uganda project approvals was carried out at the end of endorses.
I am confident that we will emerge from the the year.
With FID now expected towards the end of 2016, a current downturn with a leaner, more cost-conscious charge of $0.4 billion has been recognised in the income organisation.
Our operating and development capabilities statement for the year as we no longer expect to receive the will be enhanced and our entrepreneurial and exploration contingent consideration due from the Partners.
We will be both willing and able to respond to the opportunities that the market will In common with other oil companies, we also impaired the undoubtedly present.
But in the meantime, our focus is on carrying value of our producing assets as a result of lower maximising cash flow from our existing producing assets oil price assumptions and higher decommissioning costs.
and advancing our world-class portfolio of development The effect of the write-offs and impairment charges was assets in Ghana, Kenya and Uganda.
to reduce net income after tax from $0.2 billion in 2013 to a loss of $1.6 billion in 2014.
In view of the fall in the oil price, the Board is recommending that no final dividend be paid this year, bringing the total payment for the year to 4 pence per share.
At a time when Tullow is focusing on capital Simon R Thompson allocation, financial flexibility and cost reductions, the Chairman Board believes that Tullow and its shareholders are better served by investing these funds into the business.
Creating in-country value MORE INFORMATION Despite the turbulent market conditions, we have not Chief Executives review 12 lost focus on our objective of creating long-term value in the Our strategy & business plans 14 countries where we operate.
We continue to invest in building Governance & Risk Management 40 capacity and expertise to improve our community engagement www.
