Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder 2014 was an important year for UBM.
We have appointed a new CEO, set a new strategy and acquired a sizeable US events business through a rights issue Management changes In March, David Levin stepped down as CEO.
I would again like to thank him for his commitment to the Group he led a remarkable transformation of the Company.
In May, our new CEO, Tim Cobbold, joined the Board.
Tim brings with him a wealth of experience of running international organisations and delivering operational excellence.
There have been other changes on the Board.
In January, John McConnell joined us and in March he took on the role of Audit Committee Chairman, taking over from Jonathan Newcomb.
Id like to thank Jonathan for his excellent sixyear leadership of the Audit Committee.
In August, Mary McDowell also joined The strong management the Board.
Their valuable professional experience is detailed on pages 40 and 41. team, now with new Karen Thomson left the Board at the leadership, has ensured end of March, having served as an independent Non-Executive Director that the business has since 2006.
I thank her warmly for her support and contribution to the Board.
performed well during 2014 Dame Helen Alexander Chairman Fully diluted adjusted EPS 1 2013: 41.6p 38.2p Dividend per share 1 Up 1.0% 2013: 21.1p 21.3p 1 Restated to reflect rights issue 08 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance We decided to finance the acquisition Code of Business Conduct was launched I am keen to ensure that the Board with a rights issue to provide UBM across the organisation in November and continues to work effectively and serves with a stronger capital structure and we are developing a series of programmes, stakeholders as well as it possibly can, improve our balance sheet flexibility.
including e-learning modules for our staff, across all areas of responsibility.
The to underpin and embed the Code in summary below sets out some We were delighted that the acquisition everything we do.
of the highlights during 2014. was supported so fully at the General Meeting, together with a 96.5% The leadership development programmes Strategy acceptance level on the rights.
As an During the year the business conducted advocate of gender diversity in business, an in-depth strategic review of UBM.
This 2014 Performance I am also pleased that the Board has resulted in the Events First strategy, which The strong management team, now approved a new Diversity Policy which was presented to investors in November.
with new leadership, has ensured that aims to increase the proportion of female the business has performed well during Directors on the Board to 30% by the Advanstar 2014.
Currency fluctuations have adversely end of 2015.
We remain committed to UBM, as a matter of course, always affected the reported results with total our environmental initiatives which have examines sizeable event businesses which Group revenue down 6.0% and adjusted yielded further progress, most notably, 1 are up for sale.
The Advanstar acquisition fully diluted EPS of 38.2p 2013: 41.6p.
becoming one of only six organisations fits neatly with and accelerates our new However, the Company delivered 3.6% to achieve the Carbon Trust Standard Events First strategy.
The strategic logic underlying revenue growth and the globally.
We have also now reduced our for the deal is clear: it increases our focus adjusted operating margin increased emission per person by 9% since 2010. on events, positions us as a leader in 0.6%pt to 24.1%.
The Board is a new vertical market fashion, creates recommending a final dividend of Looking forward the leading events business in the US, 16.0p, bringing the total dividend for The Advanstar deal fits and helps to enhances our bias towards large events the year to 21.3p.
accelerate our Events First strategy which tend to have higher margins and and I look forward to seeing the enlarged balances our Emerging Markets exposure, People and culture developments Group develop, as it focuses upon its bringing us more in line with the global The UBM Commitments detailed on five key strategic priorities see page 13. events industry.
Additionally, given the price page 5 have been embedded in the 1 Restated to reflect rights issue paid of $972m, coupled with operating organisation during the year which, together synergies and a tax efficient structure, with the new well-defined strategy, gives it is financially attractive for shareholders.
us a clear sense of corporate purpose.
Our Summary of governance What has the Board achieved during the year?
Strategy People Financial Strategy reviews throughout the year: Recruited and appointed new CEO Approved 2013 financial results and 2014 half year results a strategy and scene-setting Recruited and appointed two new discussion in May 2014: independent Non-Executive Directors Agreed to maintain our progressive dividend policy targeting 2x earnings followed by a strategy review in Approved new Diversity Policy which cover through the economic and October 2014: and aims to increase the proportion of biennial cycle female Directors on the Board to 30% approved new Events First strategy by the end of 2015 Approved dividend payments for full in November 2014 year 2013 and half year 2014 Considered succession planning for Approved proposal to acquire Executive and Non-Executive roles Approved 2015 budget Advanstar for $972m Asked shareholders to approve a Values and governance Further reading four for five rights issue to part fund Governance Report: pg 44 Launched UBM Commitments, our the acquisition in November 2014 values programme 197m new shares began trading on Launched Doing Business at UBM, 12 December 2014 The Code of Business Conduct Completed acquisition of Advanstar Launched a suite of e-learning on 18 December 2014 modules, the first being anti-bribery Established Disclosure Committee Completed Board evaluation and introduced measures to enhance effectiveness UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
