52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report Governance Chairmans governance statement As the Directors review the strategy and carry out their other duties, it is my role as Chairman to lead the Board effectively.
To my mind, good governance is at the heart of that.
Douglas Caster CBE Chairman Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 53 Corporate Governance Report continued Good governance As was reported in the 2013 Annual Report Dear shareholder, As the Directors review the strategy and and Accounts, having served for over ten One of the key responsibilities of carry out their other duties, it is my role as years as a Non-Executive Director, Chris a board of directors is to agree Chairman to lead the Board effectively.
To Bailey will resign at the 2015 Annual General my mind, good governance is at the heart Meeting.
He will hand over the Chair of the its companys strategy.
In order for you to see clearly how Audit Committee to John Hirst and Chair of Chief Executive outlines in his we achieve that, we have provided a the Nomination Committee to Douglas Review on pages 4 to 7, and as corporate governance overview on pages Caster.
Sir Robert Walmsley has agreed to we seek to demonstrate 54 to 61.
We also briey describe how this take the role of the Senior Independent structure supports the delivery of our Director following Chris retirement.
On throughout this Annual Report, business strategy.
You can nd more detail behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Ultra has a very clear strategic in the full Corporate Governance Report.
Chris for his excellent service in these roles path.
Despite sustained pressures On pages 36 to 39, we have also provided and wish him well in his retirement.
In on government budgets, at an overview of the principal risks that might November 2014, Martin Broadhurst became prevent us from achieving the full potential Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
home and abroad, Ultras of our strategy.
On page 58 we explain how Appreciation strategy, reinforced by its guiding those risks are actively managed.
Before closing, and on behalf of the Board, principles, culture and approach Board changes I want to thank the employees of Ultra to good corporate governance, During the year, the Board was engaged in whose efforts helped us achieve so much in recruiting a Non-Executive Director.
Details what has been a difficult year.
I want to ensures Ultra remains a strong, of the process we followed are set out on express my appreciation to Rakesh and all sustainable business.
Mr John Hirst CBE joined the the members of the Executive Team for the Board on the 1 January 2015 and will seek leadership they have shown.
Finally, I would election at the 2015 Annual General like to thank all my fellow Directors for the Meeting.
Johns strong industry experience contribution they have made to our and his understanding of the role risk discussions throughout a busy 2014. management plays in strategic decisionmaking, combined with his knowledge of Douglas Caster CBE regulatory and governance issues, will Chairman 27 February 2015 further strengthen the Boards governance processes.
A summary of Johns biographical details is on page 57.
