Chairmans statement I AM PLEASED TO REPORT THAT 2014 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF PROGRESS FOR UNILEVER ACROSS A NUMBER OF FRONTS DESPITE A DIFFICULT ENVIRONMENT FOR THE BUSINESS.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC DISCUSSIONS UNILEVERS AUDITOR Tough economic and financial headwinds The Boards held in-depth discussions with Our shareholders appointed KPMG as our with continued competitive intensity made management on strategy and portfolio new auditor at the AGMs in May 2014 and 2014 one of the most challenging years that development with particular attention to a smooth and well managed transition has the industry and Unilever have faced for changing market dynamics especially in been completed.
A slowdown in the growth of emerging markets.
Despite the short-term emerging markets proved a testing challenges, the Boards believe the growth BOARD EFFECTIVENESS environment while consumers in developed story in these markets remains intact.
Our Board evaluation in 2014 was externally markets continued to show caution.
Volatile The challenges in developed markets facilitated and the results were discussed currencies were a further negative.
are no less important: one response to at the November 2014 Board meeting.
which is our new Baking, Cooking and The Boards continue to function well with However, Unilevers business model Spreading Business Unit in Europe and good leadership and competent and and strategy proved robust, delivering a North America.
Good progress has competitive performance with underlying been made on the actions agreed in sales growth ahead of the market and solid The Boards also reviewed the progress previous evaluations.
The actions agreed by margin expansion.
Our growth model is made under the Unilever Sustainable Living the Boards in the 2014 evaluation included based on a leaner, more agile Unilever and Plan USLP.
The Directors are confident the continued focus on overall strategy, consistency of delivery in this more volatile that the USLP remains hugely relevant in portfolio management, and succession market is key.
The Boards remain addressing todays global challenges and and induction planning.
convinced that a clear, purpose-driven will continue to be a long-term driver of business model is the best way for Unilever profitable growth for Unilever.
SHAREHOLDER AND to continue generating sustainable, STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT long-term returns for all stakeholders, BOARD COMPOSITION In May 2014 we bought out certain third including our shareholders, as proved by a AND SUCCESSION party rights that were convertible in 2038 year of strong, dependable cash flow and We continue to work on succession planning into over 70 million PLC ordinary shares.
The full year for both the Boards and management, and This simplified Unilever's capital structure dividend paid in 2014 rose to 1.12, a 7% thorough processes are in place.
and enhanced core earnings per share.
In addition, in 2014 we rolled out a new Our Directors bring complementary and employee share scheme to align our HIGHLIGHTS relevant skills to the Boards.
In addition to employees interests with those of For me, the Boards highlights of 2014 were: wide global experience, these skills include shareholders.
expertise on finance and accounting, DEEP UNDERSTANDING consumer markets, science and technology, Unilever values open, constructive OF THE BUSINESS customers and marketing as well as and effective communication with Investing in people and in innovation is government and legal experience.
In 2014, I again met with crucial in this tough environment.
To that principal shareholders in Europe and end, the Boards were pleased to spend time Im delighted that Feike Sijbesma has the US.
Together with management, at Unilevers new state-of-the-art training joined the Boards with effect from we explained our strategy to shareholders facility in Singapore, and to see first-hand 1 November 2014.
Feike, who has a wealth through meetings, conferences and at our the high-quality innovations being developed of experience as a sustainable business annual investor event.
for the Refreshment category at Unilevers leader and in finance, food and nutrition, global R&D laboratory in Colworth, UK.
has already added considerably to the In line with the focus on simplification in Boards discussions.
the business, the Boards have decided to The volatile currency environment made our simplify the 2015 AGMs.
We will revert review of the Groups treasury operations DIVERSITY to holding the NV and PLC AGMs on particularly pertinent.
The Boards also spent Over 40% of our Non-Executive Directors consecutive days and will host our AGMs at time assessing the quality of talent are now women.
This is not surprising for Unilever offices in the Netherlands and the management and Unilevers competitive a Group that has long understood the UK.
More information can be found within environment.
Broad exposure to senior importance of diversity within the the NV and PLC AGM Notices which will be managers in 2014 allowed the Directors to workforce and wider value chain.
The published on 17 March 2015. gain a deeper understanding of the business progress made in employee diversity over and helped in the wider strategy discussions.
recent years has been among the best in our sector and led to widespread external recognition.
2 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRATEGIC REPORT 1 2 3 The Boards objective is to meet high standards of disclosure and we consider this Annual Report and Accounts to provide a fair, balanced and understandable account of Unilevers year in 2014 with the information required to assess performance, business model and strategy.
This 2014 Annual Report and Accounts is 4 5 6 published in a two-part format: a standalone Strategic Report and a separate Governance and Financial Report.
Among many other things, this Strategic Report explains how Unilever fulfils its core Purpose of making sustainable living commonplace for consumers, society and 7 8 9 people and how that delivers sustainable value for shareholders.
Finally, on behalf of the Boards, I would like to thank all Unilevers 172,000 employees for their hard work in delivering good results in a challenging environment.
Byron Grote Chairman Non-Executive Director 2.
Mary Ma Vice-Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director Independent Director 10.
Paul Polman Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer 11.
Jean-Marc Hut Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer 12.
Laura Cha Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 13.
Louise Fresco Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 14.
Ann Fudge Non-Executive Director For more information on Board evaluation and Non-Executive Director For Directors biographies, shareholder engagement, see pages 42 and 45 please see page 54 of the Governance and Financial Report.
of the Governance and Financial Report.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 3
