STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS The changes we made to the business a year ago STATEMENT underpinned the improvement we saw in 2014, as the business delivered strong operational and financial performance and returned to positive free cash flow for the first time in three years.
Kelvin Dushnisky Chairman of the Board What makes us different?
Leading asset portfolio Proven management team Operational delivery Financial flexibility Cost discipline Dear Shareholders, Change of name to Acacia Mining 2014 was an important and pleasing year for An important development in 2014 was the the Company as we reaped the benefits of change of the Companys name to Acacia Mining strengthening the Board and Management LSE:ACA, which our shareholders voted in team in 2013.
Whilst the gold price ended the favour of in November.
The decision to change year at US$1,206 per ounce, only 1.6% down on the name was made in order to reflect the new the previous year, there was significant volatility culture and strategic direction of the business.
throughout 2014, with a low of US$1,142 per The Acacia tree is hardy and resilient, and ounce putting further pressure on the sector.
We believe In spite of continued challenges in the gold that these characteristics reflect our enhanced and wider mining market, Acacia achieved operational capabilities and goals, and the significant share price outperformance against adoption of the new name is already driving both the UK market and the wider gold mining a change of perceptions of the business with sector, ending the year up 37.5%.
This reflected our stakeholders both in Tanzania and beyond.
our continued operational delivery, with a second successive year of production increases and significant further reductions in the cost base that led to a return to free cash generation.
6 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board skills Effective governance We review Board composition regularly Our Directors have considerable to ensure the range and breadth of skills knowledge and experience of the provided as a result of Director appointments mining industry and bring other remains appropriate for our business.
relevant experience to the Board to assist Acacia in achieving its 2 strategic goals.
2 2 4 Geology Board composition Engineering During the year, we saw two changes to the Financial Board of Directors, with Rick McCreary stepping African and regional affairs down as a Non-Executive Director in August and David Hodgson not standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
We would like to Board independence Board diversity thank both Rick and David for their contributions The Board believes that its current composition Board appointments are made on a merit to the Company and wish them well for the and its size are appropriate for the Companys basis and measured against objective criteria.
Following the changes, the Board has ongoing requirements.
Generally, we strive to attract a broad mix ten members, including seven independent of individuals in order to create a diverse Non-Executive Directors, two Non-Executive workgroup to support Acacias culture.
Directors and one Executive Director.
1 Final dividend for 2014 To ensure that our dividend policy is more closely 3 aligned with the cash generation of the business, we have amended our existing dividend policy such that it is now based on operational cash flow after sustaining capital and capitalised development but before expansion capital and 7 dividends, rather than on net earnings.
9 The Board believes this metric more appropriately reflects Acacias and the wider Non-independent Female markets focus on cash flow generation as Independent Male well as our commitment to ongoing capital returns to shareholders.
The dividend payout ratio of 15 to 30% and the timing of the payment, being one third of the dividend as an interim dividend and the balance as a final Looking forward to 2015, we expect to 46 dividend, remain unchanged.
see further improvements in our business For more information on Governance as we continue to implement our strategy In line with the above change, the Board and optimise our high-quality asset base.
of Directors is pleased to recommend the With the team now in place continuing to payment of a final dividend for 2014 of US2.8 drive operational performance I believe we cents per share, representing two thirds of the are well positioned to become a leader in the total dividend payable in respect of 2014 of African mining industry in the coming years.
US4.2 cents per share, an increase of 40% when compared to 2013.
On behalf of the Board, I sincerely thank all Acacia employees for their hard work and Outlook dedication over the past year.
I would also like The team continued to make significant changes to thank our shareholders for their continued to both the operations and the way they are support and commitment to the Company.
run over 2014 to great effect and we are now closer to getting each of the assets working to its full potential.
This step change has meant that the business is now set up to be able to thrive, even in a lower gold price environment.
Kelvin Dushnisky Chairman of the Board ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 7
