Strategic Report Chairmans statement Diversified portfolio delivering consistent performance in a challenging market.
In particular we were delighted with the performance of the Oil & Gas division, Cairn India, which passed two notable milestones during the year.
The onshore, prolific, Rajasthan block achieved the landmark of 200 million barrels of cumulative oil production over its life, and also reached a production rate of 200,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in March 2014, against a production rate of 125,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, when we acquired this business.
I warmly congratulate the team on this fine achievement, and I also thank the Indian government whose partnership has been crucial.
Cairn now produces 27% of Indias oil production and with the Governments focus on increasing Indias oil production, it can contribute further to helping reduce Indias dependence on imported oil & gas which still accounts for 75% of its needs.
Zinc India is the second largest integrated zinc producer globally with a mine life of more than 25 years and costs in the lowest quartile of the global cost curve.
It delivered an excellent performance I have always believed that the ability to produce robust results with a record production of mined in volatile markets is the hallmark of a strong and agile company.
I am therefore pleased to announce another set of commendable operating and financial results delivered by our management Financial performance team and employees, as we mark a decade at Vedanta.
The year saw revenues of US$12.9 billion and an EBITDA of US$4.5 billion despite lower commodity prices.
EBITDA reflected weaker global commodity Ten years ago we had a vision to create a We now stand as one of the worlds and oil prices, increased rate of share of profit large global diversified natural resources largest diversified resources company with on petroleum to the Government of India, major that unlocks the remarkable resource operations in India, Zambia, Namibia, although these were partly offset by lower potential of India, meets the growing South Africa, Ireland, Liberia, Australia and costs in aluminium, increased volumes at demand of a nation of a billion people, and Sri Lanka, which directly and indirectly, Zinc India and our record oil production.
gives investors an opportunity to participate enhances the lives of at least 4.1 million in the journey with the comfort of a premium people across the world.
As we look back We also experienced lower volumes at listing on the London Stock Exchange.
over this first decade I am proud of the Konkola Copper Mine KCM and Zinc contribution that we have made, both International and Iron Ore, where the We believe the benefits have been felt fiscally and socially, to the exchequer, our state-wide bans on mining in Karnataka all-round: since our IPO at 390 pence in employees and the numerous communities and Goa were lifted in December 2013 December 2003, shareholders have seen in and around our operations.
and April 2014 respectively, albeit with a Total Shareholder Return of over 200% conditions.
We resumed mining in Karnataka and we have paid a progressive dividend Highlights of the year in December, and are currently working with that was increased in nine out of 10 Vedanta has again shown that the the State Government and the Environment years and held constant for one year.
fundamentals of our business remain Ministry to restart operations in Goa.
We have a diversified portfolio of assets that have cost-efficient operations, are highly productive, and have generated strong free cash flows of US$1.6 billion after capital expenditure on sustaining and expansion projects.
10 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information 10 years of delivery 1 2 Maintained progressive dividends US share 61.0 58.0 55.0 52.5 45.0 41.5 41.5 14% 35.0 CAGR since IPO 20.0 17.05 16.5 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 My vision at flotation was to deliver the potential Share price 3 902p of Indias resources to 200% 131% 2.2x investors, within the Total shareholder return 12%CAGR comfort of a London 390p Market listing.
$1.4bn Capital returned to shareholders since IPO At IPO End FY2014 1 Night view of Tuticorin We have delivered results not only for smelting complex, SesaSterlite.
our shareholders but also created many $15bn 2 Engineers at iron ore thousands of jobs, supporting our Contribution to exchequer operations, Sesa Sterlite.
last three years employees with housing, education and 3 Engineers reviewing plans at healthcare, and made a vital difference aluminium smelter, BALCO.
$134m to communities across India and Africa.
Social investment in communities last three years Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 11 Strategic Report Vedanta Strong market positioning in India 1 1 FY2014 India Market Shares 89% 49% 48% 29% 1 5% 5% Vocational training for women at self help groups, HZL.
Zinc Lead Silver Copper Aluminium Oil 1 Based on domestic consumption.
Vedanta Other producers Imports A partner in the growth of India India is blessed with abundant natural resources and I believe Vedanta has an important role to play in unlocking the potential of those resources as a partner in Indias future growth.
Shared geology and mineral potential with Africa & Australia and abundant natural resources 2 My vision for the future is to Indias global ranking based on Reserves continue to fulfil Vedantas potential whilst helping to advance the worlds largest 295bn tonnes 5th Coal R&R democratic developing nation economically, socially 2 Engineers at iron ore operations, Sesa Sterlite.
50mn tonnes Low per capita consumption 6th Zinc R&R Metals CY2013 per capita consumption in kg: Oil CY2012 per capita consumption in barrels 15.4 29bn tonnes 7th Iron Ore R&R 7.2 6.6 4.2 3.5bn tonnes 2.7 4.6 8th bauxite R&R 1.5 3.5 1.0 0.5 0.4 1.9 Total estimated reserves & resources based upon Aluminium Copper Zinc Oil public sources including GSI, GOI, Wood Mackenzie, UNFC and IBM.
India World China Wood Mackenzie, BP Statistical Report, Global Insight, Indian Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, IBIS, Aluminium Association of India, ILZDA, company sources.
12 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Chairmans statement continued Delivering against our strategy It was good to see a reduction of 37% in lost As well as producing satisfactory results, we time incidents over the last four years, and Vedanta is well positioned remained focused on our core strategy.
74% of non-hazardous waste being recycled to supply to Indias need during the year which shows an encouraging It was a year when we eased back on progress.
Over the past year, I have been forcommodities while capital expenditure and concentrated on particularly pleased with the success our operating at international production.
Despite inflationary pressures, businesses have had in implementing our we succeeded in controlling our costs: in Sustainability Framework underpinned by standards of sustainable aluminium, for example, we rank in the our successful Scott Wilson audit and the second quartile, even ahead of many others insights we have gained from this exercise.
who enjoy the advantage of captive bauxite.
Out in our communities, we continued We continued to reduce net debt to expand our support programmes.
Outlook which now stands 8% down at We have seven discrete focus areas: Indias per capita consumption of US$7.9 billion, and generated strong health, education, sustainable livelihoods, commodities is expected to rise consistently free cash flow of US$3.0 billion.
women empowerment, community and strongly over the next twothree asset creation, bio-investment and decades with favourable demographics I was also pleased to see further progress on integrated village development.
During and growing urbanisation, and as a large our goal to discover more than we mine out.
the year we spent US$49 million, and responsible corporation, Vedanta is During the year we delivered a 100% reserve benefiting over 4.1 million people.
well positioned to supply Indias need for replacement at Oil & Gas and Zinc India.
commodities while operating at international Read more about sustainability p24 standards of sustainable development.
In addition, we responded to an oftenFY201314 has been a year of building received feedback from shareholders for Governance momentum in the right direction, and I a simpler group structure by completing At the close of the year our CEO of five years see it as a powerful springboard for the the Sesa Sterlite merger during the year, MS Mehta took well-earned retirement.
I year ahead as we build on the significant which has eliminated cross-holdings, wish to place on record my thanks to him: headway achieved in production rampbetter aligns cash flow generation he joined us around 14 years ago and led ups, cost controls, regulatory clearances and debt across the Group structure various operations across the Group.
We remain focused on and delivers valuable synergies.
insight and leadership have been pivotal our stated strategic priorities of ramping to our success over this first decade and up production across our portfolio and Read more about our strategy p22 he departs with our warmest wishes.
to deleverage the balance sheet.
Sustainability We are also delighted to have secured a Anil Agarwal I have always felt deeply that it is our replacement of the calibre of Tom Albanese, Chairman employees who drive our success.
It has who took up the reins as our new CEO on 1 15 May 2014 therefore been a priority that they have April 2014.
Tom brings with him a lifetimes been able to grow with us, both financially experience in resource mining and operations and personally, and that we contribute to and will add considerable value as we meet their well-being and development.
Weve the opportunities and challenges ahead.
developed incentive plans to broaden share ownership among our middle During the year, Deepak Parekh, the and senior management, so they also non-executive Chairman of the Housing become shareholders of our Company.
Development Finance Corporation HDFC Limited, Indias premier housing finance However, even growth is a secondary company, joined the Vedanta Board as an consideration compared to the need to work independent Non-Executive Director.
I would safely and to minimise our impact on the also like to thank Naresh Chandra who retired environment.
We were deeply saddened from the Board following the conclusion of by the 19 fatalities that occurred during the 2013 Annual General Meeting having the year and both our incoming CEO and I served nearly nine years on the Board.
are determined to address this as we make Read more about governance personal safety an absolute priority.
p80 Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 13
