02 Vesuvius plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans statement Strategic focus The Board as a whole is very clear that the Companys ultimate focus must be on I am pleased to report that during 2014 creating sustainable value for shareholders, your Company has continued to make very and we are prepared to explore all options encouraging progress both in its financial that we believe can help achieve this.
This has performance and its strategic positioning.
been demonstrated in recent months and this open-minded approach will continue to be Your Board has adopted a clearly defined central to the way in which the Board sets the strategy for profitable growth and has already future strategic direction of the Company.
delivered substantially against that strategy.
Performance and dividend In 2013, the structure of the Company was successfully transformed, exiting non-core In 2014 the Company focused on exploiting businesses in order to create a fully focused its market opportunities to the full, whilst molten metal engineering company, with In 2014, the Company made good exercising firm financial and capital discipline.
global leadership positions in its chosen This resulted in a solid performance in 2014, progress on all five of its strategic markets, providing technologically advanced despite mixed trading conditions in endpriorities, whilst maintaining products and services that are critical to its markets and the unpredictable economic customers efficiency and profitability.
its ultimate focus on creating and geopolitical outlook globally.
Profit sustainable value for shareholders.
Having done so, the priority for the performance and margins have improved management in 2014 was to execute on again, cash generation has remained strong, John mcDonough cBE Chairman the five stated strategic priorities: and the Companys balance sheet is robust.
Vesuvius is a well-invested and inherently Reinforcing our technology leadership cash generative business.
Its dividend Enlarging our addressable markets through policy aims to deliver long-term dividend increased penetration of existing and new growth, provided that this is supported value-creating solutions by underlying earnings, cash flows, See Governance on p56-97: capital expenditure requirements and the Leveraging our strong positions in Chairmans governance letter on p60 prevailing market outlook.
The Board has developing markets to capture the growth therefore recommended a final dividend of opportunities that they represent Board effectiveness on p63 11.125pence per share for the year ended Improving our cost leadership and our Board accountability on p65 31December 2014 2013: 10.25 pence.
This margins would result in a total dividend for the year Audit Committee report on p67 of 16.125 pence per share 2013: 15 pence, Building an increasingly comprehensive an increase of 7.5%.
If approved at the Nomination Committee report on p73 technical services offering.
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend Remuneration Committee report on p75 Good progress was made on all five of these will be paid on 22 May2015 to shareholders priorities.
In particular, the business was on the register at 10 April 2015. strengthened in China, which remains a strategically important growth market for us in the long term, and two further technical services acquisitions in the US and Brazil were completed in August and October respectively.
Details of how management continued to deliver against all of these strategic priorities are set out later in this Strategic report.
OUR BUSINESS 03 Board and governance As a result of these initiatives, I can state with Our people confidence that yours is a knowledgeable, During the course of the year, your Board has We ask a lot of our people as do our cohesive and well-diversified Board with an continued to build an increasingly detailed customers and I continue to admire their appropriate mix of skills and experience and understanding of Vesuvius, its people, its talent, their commitment and their ambition a clear understanding of its responsibilities markets and the opportunities and challenges to deliver over and above what is expected of both to the Company and toshareholders.
This is vital if we are properly to them.
This professionalism, across the Group, discharge our responsibility for setting the Having created a substantially new Board at is the single most significant contributor to strategic direction of the Company, and for the time of the demerger in late 2012, there the Companys success and, on behalf of my ensuring that the appropriate culture is were no further changes to its composition Board colleagues, I thank them all.
embedded throughout the organisation during 2014.
Jeff Hewitt, however, is to stand In return, the Board recognises fully that the to deliver that strategy.
down at the forthcoming Annual General health and safety of our people, and the Meeting.
Jeff has been a Non-executive To that end, during the year the Board creation of opportunities for them to develop Director of the Company and its predecessor, conducted visits to the existing Vesuvius R&D and use their talents, is key to the sustainable Cookson Group plc, for nine years, has been and manufacturing facilities in Cleveland long-term success of your Company.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, and has and Pittsburgh, together with the building sections on Safety and on Human Resources served as the Senior Independent Director for acquired for the new R&D laboratory.
The within the Strategic Report set out how this the past two years.
On behalf of the Board, Board visited customers of the Foundry commitment is put into action.
I would like to thank him for his outstanding business, and conducted management service over that period of time.
annual General meeting meetings with both the Flow Control and Foundry groups in NAFTA.
In March, The Board has today announced the The Companys Annual General Meeting will Ipersonally visited the Companys Advanced appointment of two new Non-executive be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Refractories and Flow Control facilities in Directors, who will join the Board on 2April Fields, London at 11.00 am on 14 May 2015.
China and, in September, the Steel and 2015.
Douglas Hurt has been Finance Director The Notice of Meeting and explanatory Foundry operations in India.
of IMI plc, the global engineering group, since notes accompany this Annual Report and are 2006 and is also a Non-executive Director available on our website.
My Board colleagues The Board firmly believes that strong of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Hock Gohs experience and I look forward to meeting as many corporate governance is central to the delivery of working in China, and from his years at shareholders as possible at that time.
of sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Schlumberger, will be particularly valuable The Company continues to operate under a In the meantime, on behalf of the Board, as we continue to develop our businesses in robust governance structure which complies I thank all shareholders for their continued China and in Technical Services.
Douglas Hurt with the UK Corporate Governance Code, support of Vesuvius, and look forward to will succeed Jeff Hewitt as Audit Committee and develops governance arrangements to reporting on further positive progress in the Chairman and Senior Independent Director comply with best practice.
The Board also believes that thorough and Details of the composition, responsibilities structured long-term succession planning is John mcDonough cBE, Chairman and operation of the Board, and the current an important element of that governance.
3 March 2015 Directors biographies, are set out in the With that in mind, in June a dedicated Governance report starting on page 56. strategy day was held where, amongst other Biographical information for Douglas Hurt things, a review of Executive Director and and Hock Goh will be included in the Notice senior management succession planning of Meeting for the forthcoming AGM.
In November, we undertook an externally facilitated Board evaluation, The Companys Code of Conduct which which built on the themes identified from clearly sets out the culture, values and the evaluation undertaken in 2013.
The very behaviour that the Board expects from all positive results of this evaluation are set out our people is discussed further on pages 44 in the Governance report on page 64. and 45, and is available in full on the Companys website www.
04 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section One: Our Business OUR BUSINESS 05 Section One Our Business 1 In this section 06 Vesuvius at a glance 10 Our business model 12 Chief Executives strategic overview 22 Risk management The Strategic Report set out on pages 02 to 53 contains a fair review of our businesses, strategy, and business model and the associated principal risks and uncertainties.
We also deliver a review of our 2014 performance and set out an overview of our markets.
Details of our people, values and approach to Corporate Responsibility are also contained in the report.
This section shows how we are well-positioned to grow and to deliver superior returns toshareholders.
Franois Wanecq chris OShea Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
