04 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Chairmans review Our clear and focused product leadership strategy has underpinned our strong growth performance this year and keeps us well placed for the longer term.
Strategy Gross margins of 64.6% 2013: 66.6% reflected a marginally higher Our return to growth has been shaped by a strategy that focuses cost of manufacture in the first half which saw improvement in on larger and more impactful high volume and high value targets, the second half year and a softer sales mix driven by some shorter and utilises our strong technical excellence, marketing know-how lifecycle Consumer Electronics business.
Our long term pipeline of and innovation across our five chosen markets of Automotive, high volume and high margin opportunities keeps us well placed Aerospace, Electronics, Energy and Medical.
to retain our margin strength, with a complementary mix of future business opportunities.
As a global business and a major exporter Victrex is the world leader in high performance polymer solutions.
from our UK manufacturing base, we are not immune to the We are a global business, with UK headquarters, which continues to challenges of foreign currency and are redoubling our focus on steadily transform from its historic manufacturing and polymer sales cost efficiency and appropriate pricing, to ensure we can maximise focus into a more integrated global solutions provider, supporting profitability from top line revenue growth.
We believe that the medium and working with customers on short, medium and longterm term opportunities to improve in these areas remain attractive.
With our investment in significant new production capacity nearing its conclusion, the combination of our The strong investment in our products, in capacity and in our market leadership, technical excellence and sizeable manufacturing research and development R&D capabilities to deliver technical capability offers us a strong platform to realise Victrexs future excellence remains a key differentiator for Victrex, particularly as potential and to truly differentiate ourselves from our competitors.
we move downstream into new added value products and closer toour customers.
By working with our customers and end users, Results weare working across the value chain producing PEEK, developing We delivered a strong and broad based growth performance PEEK and pioneering the market for PEEK in new applications.
R&D this year, with all of our markets performing well.
Group revenue expenditure of 15.7m was ahead of the prior year 2013: 14.6m, of 252.6m was 14% ahead of the prior year 2013: 221.9m.
Wecontinued our innovation and new business commercialisation Group profit before tax of 102.7m was 9% ahead of the prior year to reflect Victrex being more than just a manufacturer: we are 2013: 94.6m, as was earnings per share of 94.6p 2013: 86.5p.
becoming a more focused solutions provider for our customers.
As we start to see our capital expenditure reduce next year, our Our profitability and ability to invest, alongside delivering longer term cash position remains attractive.
The investment in new appropriate returns to our shareholders, remained strong this year.
PEEK and new Aptiv film capacity was underpinned by continued strong cash generation, with the Groups closing cash balance reaching 89.6m this year 2013: 91.6m and no debt.
Overall, ourbalance sheet remains robust, underpinning investment, providing reassurance to customers and enabling us to deliver appropriate returns forshareholders.
Looking ahead, we will refine our key financial metrics to focus on return on sales, earnings per share, research and development investment and sales from new products.
We will also ensure that the sustainable benefits our products can bring to customers are measured, with sustainability being embedded in everything we do.
Further details can be found in the CEOs Strategy and Business Model section on pages 7 to 9 and the Sustainability Report on pages 20 to 31.
The combination of our market leadership, technical excellence and sizeable manufacturing capability offers us a strong platform to realise Victrexs future potential and to truly differentiate Larry Pentz ourselves from our competitors.
com Overview Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 05 A sustainable business: At Victrex, sustainability isfirmly embedded in our business.
We are more efficient with resources and deliver products which help our customers improve environmental performance Dividends Sustainability Our continued confidence in the strength of and prospects for our We have made significant progress in our approach to sustainability business is reflected in our progressive and sustainable dividend over the last two years.
Sustainability for Victrex is now firmly policy, which applies to both regular and special dividends.
The embedded in our business, whether that be around our environmental Group is proposing to pay a special dividend of 50p per share, approach and maximising our resource efficiency: or in delivering which reflects our robust balance sheet and is underpinned by products and applications which support sustainability and help strong cash generation, even after a year of record capital reduce CO for many of our customers for example, in weight 2 expenditure.
Alongside our special dividend is a final dividend of reduction within aerospace or automotive.
Our medium refined its sustainability targets and we have a clear and bold vision term focus is to maintain cover around or above this level, thereby statement and targets to strive for over the coming years.
Further detail supporting a sustainable future dividend.
The full regular dividend can be found in the Sustainability Report on pages 20 to 31. for the year, incorporating interim and final dividend, is 45.15p per share 2013: 43.0p, anincrease of 5%.
People and safety Victrex relies on the skills, experience and competence of our people Board composition to drive our business into new applications and new geographies, as The Board has a diverse range of complementary skills to well as operating our assets to the highest standards of safety and support the strategic and operational direction of the Group.
with the highest regard for the environment.
We recognise the importance of diversity at Board level and our Victrex was recognised with the Order of Distinction for its Safety Board members comprise different nationalities with a wide range record and processes by the Royal Society for the Prevention of skills and experiences from different business backgrounds, of Accidents RoSPA this year, a strong achievement.
We also including international and industrial expertise.
Our current female recordedno lost time accidents, a measure of our safety practices.
representation on the Board is 29%, already consistent with the Victrex was also listed in the top ten UK companies for the quality recommended minimum representation by 2015. ofits goods and services by Management Today.
Anita Frew retired as Chairman of the Board in September 2014 and On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees I would like to thank Anita for her strong and inspired leadership and fortheir significant contribution in a year of strong performance her significant contribution during her 14 years as a Board member, forVictrex.
Whilst we face a challenging 2015, the inherent passion, six as Chairman.
Louisa Burdett joined the Group as Finance Director innovation and performance of Victrex employees remain key assets in January 2014 and brings her diverse career experience to bear, for Victrex and its success in the future.
helping Victrex shape its strategy and future direction as we become a larger and more focused international business.
Outlook Looking forward, our new PEEK and Aptiv film capacity investments Board effectiveness will put Victrex in a good position to capture more impactful and The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, value creating business over the coming years.
Our 2015 financial monitoring achievement of its business objectives, oversight of risk year has started well and although currency headwinds remain and maintaining a system of effective corporate governance, which considerable, we now anticipate being able to fully cover the FX includes the responsibilities for health, safety, environmental, social impact, reflecting our positive trading momentum and more recent and ethical matters.
A more detailed description of the governance exchange rates.
With a continued focus on growth and efficiency, processes that are embedded in our business are provided in the Victrex remains well placed for the year ahead.
Corporate Governance section of this report, starting on page 35.
Governance Sound governance is critical to our business and the Board regards the continuing setting, maintenance and review of the highest Larry Pentz standards of corporate governance as a key objective.
The framework Chairman for our approach is supported by the Audit, Currency, Nominations, 8 December 2014 Remuneration, Risk and Disclosure Committees.
For details of our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2014 see our Corporate Governance Statement on page 35. www.
