Vodafone Group Plc 02 Annual Report 2014 Chairmans statement Reflections on the year It has been a momentous year for Vodafone and our shareholders.
Wehave completed the second biggest transaction in corporate history, with the sale of our interest in Verizon Wireless: progressed our unified communications strategy with the acquisition of leading cable companies: and delivered the biggest ever return to shareholders, ofUS$85billion 51billion.
As a demonstration of our commitment to transparency in this regard, Three pillars of success our latest sustainability report includes a section on law enforcement Three distinct elements sum up why Vodafone has had such a strong disclosure.
This explains the nature and extent of government powers track record of shareholder value creation over recent years.
First, to order our assistance, together with information about agency and in response to the increasing demand for data we have formulated authority demands in countries where statistical data can lawfully a clear strategy of becoming a leading unified communications provider be disclosed.
and to strengthen further our network and service differentiation, through investments in mobile and fixed capabilities.
Second, we have We are dependent on government policies and regulatory frameworks.
made significant progress in executing our strategy.
We have actively While this applies to all our operations, it is critical for the development managed our portfolio, particularly disposing of our non-controlling of a globally competitive and healthy telecom industry in Europe.
interests, and used part of the proceeds to accelerate the roll-out of 3G Europe needs to find the right balance between protecting consumer and 4G mobile capability and the deployment of next-generation fixed interests and the consumers long-term interest in investment line operations in a number of key markets.
To accelerate our strategy in next-generation telecom infrastructure and innovation, that will further we acquired Kabel Deutschland in Germany and agreed the enable future growth and prosperity for its citizens.
So far that balance purchase of Ono in Spain two leading cable companies in their in our opinion has not been found in the proposals for reform of the respective markets.
Finally, we have extended our very strong track digital single market currently under consideration in Brussels.
record of balancing the long-term needs of the business with significant returns to shareholders.
We ended the year in a strong financial position Alignment with shareholders and with a clear strategy for long-term growth.
Our remuneration policies continue to ensure that management is strongly aligned with shareholders, with a focus on rewarding longOur role in society and protection of customer data term value creation.
After the return of value arising from the sale of our Verizon Wireless stake, Vittorio, and other members of the Executive Telecommunications technology has a significant positive impact Committee reinvested a significant proportion of their net proceeds back on economic development and individual wellbeing.
We remain into Vodafone shares to demonstrate their commitment to the business committed to enhancing the positive social impact of mobile and the strength of that alignment.
The Board continues to consider our networks and services are used to address everything from illiteracy the ordinary dividend to be the core element of shareholder returns, to supporting the local healthcare infrastructure and realising the and believes in a consistent dividend policy.
This year we raised the potential of budding entrepreneurs.
dividend per share by 8%, and as a reflection of our confidence in our Our technology helps people to connect and share information.
future performance, we intend to raise it annually hereafter.
In this context data protection is critical.
However, this year there have been a number of troubling allegations about the activities of security Changes to the Board agencies in accessing customer data.
As a trusted communications During the year, Andy Halford informed the Board of his intention service provider, we view our customers privacy as absolutely key.
I would like to thank him for his outstanding contribution to Vodafone during his eight year tenure as CFO and in his previous roles.
He has brought an invaluable rigour and clarity to our financial reporting and investor communication, while consistently driving significant improvements to our organisational efficiency.
I am confident that Nick Read, who joined the Board as CFO on 1 April 2014, will be a worthy successor.
During the year there were a number of changes to the non-executive team and these are set out in my Governance statement on page 49.
My medium-term ambitions for the composition of the Board are to bring in further marketing expertise, and achieve a greater gender balance.
By September we will have three female directors and we will be well on our way to our goal of 25% of Board members being women by 2015.
