Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 7 Chairmans statement The Group has grown its profit once again, demonstrating thecontinued success of our strategy.
Corporate governance Corporate governance remains an important area of focus for theBoard and underpins the sustainability of our business and the achievement of our strategy.
A more detailed explanation ofour approach to corporate governance can be found in our Corporate governance report on pages 23 to 28.
Corporate responsibility Good corporate responsibility CR remains a key focal point forthe business and we are making good progress towards our 2020 sustainability targets.
We have ongoing partnerships with awide range of stakeholders to achieve our CR objectives, for example, working with the Woodland Trust, where our carrier bagreduction policy has funded the planting of over 150,000 trees, and with the National Literacy Trust where we are helping Henry Staunton thousands of children discover a love of reading.
We continue to receive recognition from Business in the Community for our CR Chairman performance, with a Platinum ranking in their CR Index, a ranking I am delighted to report another year of good we have now held for seven years.
A more detailed explanation of our approach to CR can be found on pages 20 to 22. performance to 31 August 2014.
The Group has grown its profit once again, demonstrating the My sincere thanks extend to our 14,000 continued success of our strategy.
We continue employees across the Group.
togrow the Travel business, both in the UK and internationally, while actively managing space across the High Street business to optimise our People core categories.
My sincere thanks extend to our 14,000 employees across the Group.
We could not have achieved these results without their continued focus on our strategy and the ongoing hard work and The Group remains highly cash generative with support of our management teams and suppliers.
astrong balance sheet and we remain focused on profitable growth, cash generation and Outlook creating value for shareholders, while investing While we have seen some signs of improvement in the wider for future growth.
economy, we continue to manage both businesses tightly and remain cautious with our plans.
We are however well-positioned for the year ahead and are extremely focused on driving both businesses forward to maximise their contribution and best deliver value for shareholders.
