Strategic report 03 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 chairmans statement: an overview from A bUSINESS IN garethdavis GREAT SHApE We delivered an 11% increase in operating 1 profit in 2014, helped by a recordbreaking Worldcup, continued groWth in mobile  international diversification.
driven by our commitment to responsible gambling, We implemented the industrys voluntaryabb code and supported the Gareth Davis responsiblegambling trusts rgt groundChairman breaking machines research programme, andWe planfor further changes in 2015.
A record result in a year of change Corporate responsibility Outlook and governance I am pleased to report that William Hill has Looking ahead, while we face significant continued to perform strongly in the last year The gambling industry has attracted a lot additional indirect tax costs in 2015 with the in a period of significant change for the Group introduction of the Point of Consumption Tax of attention in recent times, particularly in and challenge for the industry.
relation to gaming machines and problem POCT and a rise in Machine Games Duty MGD in the UK and increased race field fees gambling.
We have taken an active and We made further progress on our leading role in improving responsible gambling in Australia, we are well positioned to continue diversification strategy, with our digital to gain share in our key markets, in particular measures in 2014, particularly in helping businesses Online and William Hill Australia to shape the industrys voluntary Code for as the UK online market evolves following 2 increasing to 40% of Group net revenue the introduction of POCT.
Our priorities for Responsible Gambling, supporting the RGTs 2013: 36% and with international markets two-year research programme and being a 2015 and beyond are to maximise the omni- 2 increasing to 18% of Group net revenue channel potential of our UK customer base, founder member of the Senet Group as an 2013: 15%.
Onlines performance benefited independent industry oversight body.
to take advantage of growth opportunities from strong growth in both mobile gaming in international markets and to evolve our and sports betting net revenue.
William Hill The Board continued to demonstrate good technology infrastructure to support these Australia has undergone significant change governance and during 2014 we completed growth strategies.
in terms of its management, operations, a successful transition to James Henderson marketing, user experience and product On behalf of the Board, I would like to record as our new CEO, taking over from Ralph range to increase its competitiveness in Topping.
James has outlined the Groups our thanks to our William Hill colleagues this attractive market and commencing for their continued commitment to high priorities for continuing our strategic evolution rebranding as William Hill in 2015 is another which the Board fully supports.
I am confident responsibility standards, to customer service key step.
Retail remains resilient, with profit excellence and to innovation at a time of Jamess 30 years experience across all parts declining only slightly despite weaker sporting of the Group gives him a unique insight as he significant change for the Group.
results, with good cost control demonstrated.
leads our next stage of growth.
William Hill US outperformed our expectations Find out more: and we continue to watch with interest the Page 49 in the Governance section potential for legal changes in that market.
Find out more: Page 18 in the Our key performance indicators section 1 Operating profit loss is defined as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specific identified intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
2 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue defined by the statutory accounts on page 95.
