Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 5 Chairmans review A DIFFICULT YEAR AND ASTRATEGIC SHIFT Over the past year, the grocery market has remained challenging.
Consumers have had to deal with difficult economic conditions and many have been constrained financially.
They have had to make trade offs in their spending, doing this through their choice of format, choice of products or simply buying less food.
This was reflected in market growth slowing in the final quarter of the year.
In this environment the discount sector has performed strongly, driving much of the market growth.
We believe that, unlike previous cycles, its performance is structural rather than cyclical.
The rest of the market has been working hard to counter this threat, with particular emphasis on loyalty programmes and personalised couponing, areas in which Morrisons has not been able to compete effectively fully to date due to outdated IT infrastructure and systems.
Whilst these factors, and the fact that we do not yet have a meaningful presence in online and convenience, the two fastest growing channels in the grocery market, have clearly held us back, the overall performance of our core business has been disappointing.
We have committed to Sir Ian Gibson address this through a significant and sustained investment in our Chairman proposition that underpins our determination to offer the best value, price and quality for our customers.
We will reset the profit base of the business to deliver this.
Details of our investment plans are set out on pages 24 to 26.
We have also described our plans to increase value elsewhere in the business in our financial strategy on page 9.
I am pleased to report that we have made considerable progress in advancing the strategic initiatives that we set out at the beginning of the year and which are laying the foundation for the long term future of our business.
In particular, and over a very short timeframe, we have successfully launched our own innovative, online food proposition STRUCTURAL CHANGE which will be available to half of UK households by the end of the current financial year.
We have also made considerable progress in developing our convenience network and now have over 100 M locals with dedicated FOR SUPERMARKETS distribution centres serving the North West as well as London and the South East.
MEANS A STRATEGIC The Boards confirmation of a 10% increase in the dividend for the year, in line with its stated target, and its commitment to a minimum 5% increase in 2014 15 demonstrates its confidence in the future of SHIFT FOR MORRISONS.
RESULTS In the year, total turnover of 17.7bn was down 2% 2012 13: 18.1bn.
When compared to prior year the underlying operating margin of 4.9% fell by 40bps.
This increased to 50bps after adjusting for the impact of a lower proportion of fuel sales in the mix this year.
Net finance costs of 82m increased by 12m over the prior period as a result of a planned increase in net debt to accommodate our peak investment of capital expenditure.
Underlying profit is calculated after removing property disposals, new business development costs, non-recurring exceptional costs and IAS19 pension interest.
Underlying operating profit of 865m fell by 11% when compared to the prior year, with underlying profit before tax of 785m, down by 13%.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 6 Chairmans review A DIFFICULT YEAR AND A STRATEGIC SHIFT CONTINUED RESULTS CONTINUED The Groups net debt grew, as planned, during the period, to 2,817m, Exceptional non-recurring costs of 903m were charged in the year 2012 13: 2,181m.
Gearing increased to 60%, which has been impacted including 163m in relation to Kiddicare, a business which is no longer by the write down of assets.
We anticipate that we will generate strategic.
We will look to sell this business in 2014.
319m relates to significant free cash flow in 2014 15 and that net debt will fall during elements of our store pipeline.
Following a reassessment of their potential the year to around 2.4bn 2.5bn.
to meet our required investment criteria we have impaired 90m of The Group continues to maintain a strong balance sheet in line with costs to date and provided for 229m of further costs.
A charge of 379m our stated principles.
This is securely financed by a number of long has been incurred in relation to trading stores, comprising of 330m of dated bonds and by revolving credit facilities of 1,350m with our banks impairment and 49m of onerous lease provisions.
of which 775m remained undrawn at the end of the year.
In June 2013 A further cut in the rate of corporation tax and the positive impact of the we increased the funds available to the Group and further improved the Groups equity retirement programme partly helped to offset the impact maturity profile of our borrowings, by issuing a 700m Euro bond with of the reduction in underlying earnings on earnings per share EPS.
Underlying basic EPS decreased by 8% to 25.2p 2012 13: 27.3p with Return on capital employed ROCE is a key performance measure for statutory basic earnings per share of 10.2 p 2012 13: 26.7p.
the Group and underpins our focus on capital discipline.
2013 14 marked As planned, capital expenditure and investments, including joint ventures, a peak year of investment for the business and, as a result, ROCE fell to rose slightly to 1,086m, an increase of 70m 7% over prior year.
8.4% after the effect of non-recurring exceptional costs 2012 13: 9.6%.
This included capital relating to the launch of our online food operation, We are committed to delivering improved shareholder returns over time.
The programme also reflected an acceleration INDUSTRY RECOGNITION in our convenience store opening programme, further expansion of our Morrisons is committed to providing its customers with great fresh vertical integration capacity and the conclusion of the major phase of our products from sustainable sources, backed by unrivalled service from six year IT systems development project.
our own in-store colleagues with craft skills.
We are delighted that this We are committed to capital discipline.
New core grocery space will has again been recognised with a number of prestigious industry awards.
reduce, our IT infrastructure is close to completion and our online food These include: Most sustainable retailer of the year, Seafood retailer business is now operational, therefore 2013 14 marks the peak of our of the year and Fresh produce retailer of the year at the 2013 Retail capital investment.
In 2014 15 we expect capital expenditure to reduce Industry Awards and BitCs European CSR Award.
Our support for our by around 50% to 550m.
Thereafter we expect it to be maintained at colleagues in making Morrisons a great place to work has been recognised a level of 400m annually.
by the award of Employer of the year, for the fourth consecutive year, at the Grocer Gold Awards 2013.
During the year we concluded the 1bn equity retirement programme we launched in 2011 with a final investment of 53m.
COMMUNITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT How we operate as a business is very important to us.
We care about where our products come from, the people that make them and how products are bought, made, moved and sold.
Our customers expect us to trade responsibly and we work within the communities in which we operate, to manage resources carefully whilst maintaining ethical standards.
We have a number of key programmes which support our commitment.
These include the Morrisons farming programme, the objective of which is to work closely with the UK farming supply base to ensure that its fit for the future: our Ethical Trading Code, which is incorporated into our terms and conditions with suppliers and includes payment of a living wage, non-excessive working hours and a safe working environment: GSCOP compliance: and our Great Taste, Less Waste campaign focusing on consumer food waste.
OUR COLLEAGUES Our industry awards were only achieved through the dedication, hard work and commitment to the cause of our 125,000 colleagues across Supporting the the business who every day seek to delight the nearly 12m customers on average who visit our stores each week.
I am pleased that their efforts, in what has been a challenging year for the business, have enabled them to share a profit share pool of 28m this year.
LOCAL Colleagues are key to being able to fulfil our promises and providing the best service to our customers.
We believe in building a healthy, high-performance culture and providing equal opportunities for all.
Community On behalf of the Board I wish to thank every one of our colleagues for their dedication, professionalism, service and commitment to our business throughout the year.
