Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Chairmans statement Another year of substantial progress Results and strategy Good governance and transparent reporting I am delighted to report that 2013 14 has been another year of substantial progress It is my role as Chairman to lead the Board in what continues to be a transformational effectively and central to this is good period for the Group under the stewardship governance.
So you can easily see how we of Ian Meakins, our Group Chief Executive, are governed, we have provided a corporate and his Executive team.
Like-for-like governance overview on page 57 of this revenue grew 4.2 per cent with a strong Annual Report.
We also briey set out how trading profit performance, up 8.6 per cent our governance structure supports delivery in constant currency.
Headline earnings of our business strategy.
You can nd more per share of 196.2 pence was 9.9 per detail in the Governance section starting on cent ahead of last year 2012 13 restated : page 56.
On page 42 we have also provided In summary 178.5pence.
We delivered an excellent an overview of the principal risks that might cash performance, which is enabling us to prevent us from achieving the full potential of Strong earnings per share both invest in the business and appropriately our strategy and the actions we are taking to reward shareholders.
You can read about growth of 9.9 per cent mitigate and control those risks.
this years performance in detail in the Hand in hand with good governance goes Financial review on pages 36 to 41. transparent reporting and this year we have Rebased total dividend Over recent years our priorities have made a number of changes to the Annual to82.5 pence developed from reshaping the portfolio Report to promote this.
Some have been towards driving profitable growth and required due to changes in UK reporting 2012 13: 66.0pence developing our business models.
The heavy regulations, others through changes to the lifting is now largely completed and the UK Corporate Governance Code and some business today is on a much stronger by ever-evolving reporting best practice.
We are now focusing on our significant changes include this Strategic buyback programme attractive businesses with strong market report, which starts by explaining our positions.
Today over 81 per cent of the business model and goes on to describe Groups revenue is generated by businesses how each element helps to deliver our Further strengthening that are either number one or number two strategic goals.
The growth opportunity of the Board with three Finally, running Wolseley on a sustainable in these markets remains large and we Non Executive Directors basis is an integral part of achieving our will continue to invest in and expand these overall strategy.
As such, the Board remains appointed in 2013 14 businesses in the future.
fully committed to this important aspect of Now that we have a strong set of how we operate.
Our progress and our drive businesses to invest in, we have rened for continuous improvement is set out in the ourstrategy to accelerate profitable growth.
Sustainability section of this report on pages In addition, we are also now stepping 48 to 53. up investment in new business models, The changes we have made to theAnnual infrastructure and technology to ensure Report are also intended to reect wedrive appropriate benets of scale.
our efforts to make it fair, balanced I amimmensely proud of the progress and understandable.
wehave made this year in this area and you can read about some of the exciting projects, benefiting both our customers andour businesses in Ians review on pages12 to 13.
Restated for IAS 19 Revised Employee Benets.
Wolseley plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Over the past three years I, alongside my Shareholder returns colleagues on the Nominations Committee, We are We are strongly committed to maximising have sought to ensure that the right balance shareholder value.
This year we rebased of skills and breadth of experience are our dividend with an interim dividend reected on the Board.
In particular, we strongly increase of 25 per cent.
The Board is now wanted to enhance the Boards retail and proposing a final dividend of 55.0 pence international experience and ensure we had per share 2012 13: 44.0 pence per share committed successors for the Chairmanship of the for payment on 27 November 2014 to Audit and Remuneration Committees.
shareholders on the register on 17 October tomaximising The retirement of former Non Executive 2014.
This represents an increase of 25 per Directors has afforded the opportunity to cent and will bring the total dividend for the augment the strength of our Board and we year to 82.5pence per share 2012 13: shareholder conducted a thorough search to identify the 66.0 pence per share.
On 1 May 2014, During the year we took the decision to Darren Shapland joined the Board as a value.
return 298 million of surplus cash to Non Executive Director, having previously shareholders by way of a special dividend, been Chief Financial officer of J Sainsbury paid on 16 December 2013.
Darren will succeed Michael Wareing sheet remains very strong and the Group as Chair of the Audit Committee following willcontinue to target net debt in the the AGM in November.
On 21 May 2014, range of 1x to 2x EBITDA, consistent John Daly and Jacky Simmonds joined withinvestment grade credit metrics.
the Board as Non Executive Directors.
John has over three decades of business Due to the continuing strong cash and management experience, including the generation of the Group and after taking last 14 years with British American Tobacco into account the excellent opportunities to plc in a variety of senior leadership roles invest in organic growth and acquisitions, running large international businesses.
the Board considers that the Group has Jacky is a highly experienced HR surplus cash resources available.
The Group professional in the international retail and will now commence a 250 million share leisure industry.
She is currently Group HR buyback programme with the intention to Director of TUI Travel plc, one of the worlds complete this within the next 12 months.
leading leisure travel companies, a role she has held since 2010.
In July 2014, Jacky Leadership and people took over from Alan Murray as Chairman During the year there have been a number ofthe Remuneration Committee.
of changes to the Non Executive Directors Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like serving on the Board.
In November to thank all of our colleagues throughout 2013, Andrew Duff stepped down from Wolseley for the tremendous efforts made the Board after nine years of service as by everyone to deliver the results this year, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
in what continues to be a very exciting Michael Clarke also stepped down in March period for the Group.
It is their continuing 2014 to take up a new executive role based commitment and focus to deliver great in Australia, having served on the Board service to our customers which enables since March 2011.
Finally, in July 2014, we the delivery of substantial progress for the also announced that Michael Wareing will be Group as a whole.
stepping down at this years AGM after over five years service.
I would like to thank them all for their dedicated service and significant contributions to Wolseley and Iwish them well for the future.
Gareth Davis Chairman Wolseley plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
