How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Report by Philip Lader Chairman of the Company and chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Dear share owner nother record year for WPP.
Fellow share owners, I suspect, do not tire of such repetition in these Annual Reports.
And all our people across the globe should take justifiable pride in 2014s robust financial A performance, impressive client wins and for yet another straight year the very top international creative and effectiveness awards.
Another thought, however, preoccupies me this year.
Nothing is different, but everythings changed.
Hackneyed, certainly: but a poignant refrain in the lyrics of a Paul Simon song.
And as my 14-year-period as chairman of this Company concludes, that notion prompts several central questions for me.
Transition of a non-executive chairman warrants minor note, but might be, for some share owners, a punctuation point that stirs the same reflection.
A cynic, hastily reviewing our business from 2001 through today, might edit the phrase to Everythings different, but nothing has changed.
Admittedly, the communications services industry, as well as its geopolitical and economic context, are extraordinarily different.
And WPP may appear to remain a small central administration overseeing legions of far-flung corporate tribes and associates.
With the same chief executive.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 113 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report But that view massively misses the mark.
Having had In 2001, operations in Mongolia and Myanmar where the privilege of serving as your Companys chairman for WPP now operates were improbable.
Fourteen years ago, almost half of its life, I find todays WPP to be a vastly an automated media trading platform our Xaxis today different business.
Strikingly, however, some fundamentals and high-tech partnerships like ours with AppNexus, have not changed.
Rentrak and comScore would have been regarded as The differences since 2001 are stunning: futuristic fiction.
Back then, some 65 acquisitions or billings have more than doubled to 46 billion: strategic investments in one year as we accomplished revenues have grown from 4.0 billion to 11.5 billion: in 2014 would have seemed preposterous.
Rendering headline profit before tax has trebled, from no fewer than four of our marketing and communications 500 million to 1.5 billion: services to more than 500 clients was an ambitious dream our market capitalisation has increased from until our recent years focus on horizontality.
Even only 8.7 billion, and from the 2008 low of 5.0 billion, a few years ago, the magnitude of, and insights from, big to 20.5 billion: data todays WPPs capacity to integrate our substantial the size of our workforce including associates, proprietary data with voluminous market and consumer has grown from 65,000 to 179,000: data from other sources were fanciful notions.
the number of offices is up from 1,400 to 3,000: and countries in which they are located, from 103 to 111: the number and breadth of our environmental, Amidst the earliest mentions of corporate social responsibility and employee training and welfare programs now overflow their own, thick BRICs and long before general annual report: recognition of the digital age, your our dividend per share has increased from 4.50p to 38.20p: and our dividend payout ratio, then 15%, Companys investments and hires now stands at 45%: pioneered the embrace of fastData Investment Management and direct, digital and interactive services have grown from 35% to 50% developing economies, emerging of revenues: digital-related services, then 5%, are now 36% technologies and innovative services of total revenues: over this 14-year period, WPP has invested some 8 billion in 700 acquisitions: and These landmark differences illustrate the continuous, WPP was honored to be included and the only consistent evolution of WPPs strategy.
They evidence current advertising or marketing services company listed in industry leadership.
They represent an unparalleled reservoir Forbes 2015 list of The Best Companies to Work For.
of competencies to assist clients in communicating their Different, indeed.
In fact, led in these years by a messages and marketing their products.
They, and hundreds singularly tireless and entrepreneurial chief executive, of similar examples, constitute the core of your Companys this enterprise has been literally transformed: a unique positioning for continued growth and profitability.
transformation resulting from prescient evolution Just as new technologies, new media, new markets and of strategy and painstaking management execution.
new players have transformed WPPs business, your Boards WPPs value, to clients and investors alike, has thereby composition is significantly different.
A mandatory been enhanced beyond even these numbers.
retirement policy for non-executive directors instituted: New markets, new technologies, as well as media appointment of 10 new directors, including my successor, and data investment management are now fixtures of completed: and the phased retirement of nine long-serving the industry lexicon.
Yet amidst the earliest mentions of directors underway: your Board global, independent and BRICs and long before general recognition of the digital experienced in highly relevant commercial arenas has age, your Companys investments and hires pioneered been refreshed for a new era.
the embrace of fast-developing economies, emerging Although my intent, as I stated in the 2013 Annual technologies and innovative services.
Report, had been to retire from this post in December WPP 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report 2014, I agreed, at the Boards request, to continue through WPP businesses, reviews scores of personnel changes and the appointment of my successor.
In Roberto Quarta, it succession plans, and challenges management on potential has selected a seasoned non-executive chairman of FTSE torpedoes or side-swipes.
companies, successful investor and respected, former chief From every evidence, there has been no change, executive.
Subject to share owner approval, he will assume except possibly for even the better, in the experience and the chairmanship at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual independence of your Board.
Our share owners will find General Meeting.
in these relatively new non-executive directors the wisdom, discipline, diversity, and vision necessary to challenge and support management, seize opportunities, make tough choices, honour commitments to our people and the clients Your Board global, independent and places WPP serves, and act in your best interests.
and experienced in highly relevant A noteworthy change over these 14 years, since none of our leadership is getting any younger, has been the commercial arenas has been emphasis on succession-planning.
All business leaders refreshed for a new era named in this report, other senior talent, and rising stars, and the relevant succession options for each of their roles, are reviewed by the full Board.
As to this process, we insist Whats not changed?
WPPs most recent achievements on confidentiality: yet it has become, especially in the past reflect several enduring commitments.
Foremost is to serve seven years, steadily more rigorous and comprehensive.
And by those standards, If so much is different, why has there not been a change our fourth consecutive top Cannes prize for advertising of CEO?
holding companies and yet another Effie as Most Effective My last two years letters summarised the issue of Holding Company best illustrate how the industry itself WPP CEO succession with reference to another well-worn ranks your Company.
phrase: [Theres] no elephant in this room.
Our veteran In the provision of such client services, there has been not and more recently-appointed non-executive directors alike the slightest easing of WPPs intense management discipline.
are unanimous in the view that Martin Sorrell is the best That principally explains how buffeted by economic winds, chief executive officer in this industry and the person who a currency roller-coaster and fierce competition your can best serve the interests of share owners in this role at Company has continued this string of record years financial this time.
And for enhancement of both our services and As I am soon to depart, let me take the liberty of a our controls, we have undertaken a seven-year, 1.25 billion personal, up-close aside.
IT initiative to modernise back-office operations and expand Some observers might prefer a CEO to opine less our capabilities in the use of big data and analytics.
on politics, to be less available to media and conference Has the Companys commitment to its share owners rostrums, and to resist requests to comment on changed?
WPP, however, is a marketing business, Like Dominos, WPP continues to deliver.
Your Board and few can match Sir Martin Sorrell in capturing media has boosted dividend growth by hitting our 45% dividend attention, coining a substantive phrase, or promoting their payout ratio target one year ahead of schedule.
He is indefatigable: nary a trip or day without five years, share owners aggregate return taking into client meetings, keynotes at major forums, and social events account share price appreciation, dividends and share to secure or strengthen client relationships.
His insights are buy-backs has totalled 12.8 billion.
sought in countless quarters, benefitting WPPs and its Whats not changed about your Companys governance?
constituent companies brands and bottom lines.
The full Board of Directors, not merely the Audit Meticulous about corporate governance and compliance Committee, is still deeply engaged in risk management.
issues okay, with occasional grumbles, he does not Meeting over two days, six times each year, the entire manage WPP as a personal fiefdom.
This mythology is as group beyond fiduciary requirements, finance and much the product of journalists repetition of Sir Martin treasury responsibilities, and customary practices Sorrells WPP as his own energy and influence.
examines, at each session, the list of WPPs top 100 clients, An unwelcome, but understandable spring ritual for evaluates the business environment for dozens of the major this chairman has been the media attention to our CEOs WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 115 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report compensation.
Given the quantum, little surprise.
Yet who run all WPP businesses day-to-day, with far more several misunderstandings persist.
authority than occasional observers suggest.
Martins These long-term awards were performance-based, friendship and insights certainly are highly valued by contractual obligations, approved by more than 80% vote clients: but on marketing matters, these business leaders of share owners, and not in the Boards discretion.
Under look principally to those more directly responsible for the plan, the cadre of senior executives, including the CEO, WPPs services.
had the opportunity rather than a grant of options or Future chairmen, directors and share owners will other long-term incentives to make substantial, personal determine not only how well this CEO continues to investments in WPP shares and to receive, potentially, perform on their behalf, but also what kind of management multiples of their share purchases based on WPPs will then best serve their, clients, and employees interests.
comparative record, measured against competitors over Whoever follows Martin, whenever, will inevitably have a five-year period.
a different style, different strengths and different organizational structure requirements.
As I have said, ultimately confronting the succession elephant will be part science, part art.
Your Board, I trust, will continue Led by a singularly tireless and to be prepared for this transition.
entrepreneurial chief executive, this Meanwhile, there may have been no change of CEO: but measured by early discernment of emerging trends enterprise has been transformed: a and opportunities, continuous calibration of strategy, transformation resulting from openness to course correction, rigorous financial discipline, navigation in distant markets and fluency in new media and prescient evolution of strategy and technologies there has been remarkable change in, and painstaking management execution because of, this CEO.
So, much is different with WPP since I came aboard in 2001: but also much not changed, particularly in core Two years ago, when the formulas arithmetic values of integrity, client focus, creativity, ambition and computation and our shares exceptional performance, in stewardship.
I have great confidence in your Boards both absolute and relative terms, yielded pay-outs beyond profound sense of responsibility for the future of this UK custom, your Board proposed, and share owners Company, the clients we serve, the welfare of our people approved, a new prospective long-term incentive program and the investment of our share owners.
with three separate, even tougher criteria for future, As I depart, Exit, Stage Left especially resonates with potential five-year pay-outs.
The existing plan, in which me.
This idiom is defined as the direction in theatrical these participants all highly sought-after by our scripts, marking the disappearance of a character from the competition had made substantial long-term personal stage in the normal manner: an orderly departure, timed investments, however, still had several years to run.
so as not to detract or distract, making way for more Few would deny a certain Sorrellcentricity to the interesting events.
Group: pronounced even among founders.
This CEO, at What has, perhaps most of all, not changed about heart and in practice, acts as an owner-entrepreneur, within WPP?
More interesting events, with the prospect of the governance requirements of public ownership.
Without ever greater achievements, undoubtedly lie ahead.
excess, there is merit to this approach.
Indeed, several years ago, the editor of Fortunes list of The Worlds Most Admired Companies noted that one-man phenomena Philip Lader accounted for seven of the lists top 10.
20 April 2015 Yet as enormous as Martins impact has been over nearly three decades and as much as he merits principal credit for extraordinary leadership in strategy and execution WPP is, I can attest, far more than one individual.
Notwithstanding Martins high profile and incessant emails, it is more than a dozen group and functional heads WPP 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2014
