06 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Performance In our 75th year, we celebrated I am pleased to report that the Group delivered another set of good results.
our worldwide reputation for During the year, we have made significant progress on the delivery of our strategy.
excellence in design, engineering Our operational excellence programme and project management.
has been rolled out into our North America and Middle East regions.
The portfolio optimisation pillar of our strategy is now almost complete, following the sale of our UK highways services business to Skanska, the final stage of which was completed in early October.
The disposal of our construction management at risk business, Peter Brown, was also completed in a similar timeframe.
The diversity, breadth and depth of our geographic and sector spread continue to provide the Group with growth opportunities, particularly in our sector focus area of Energy and our regional growth area of Asia Pacific.
We were delighted to welcome Confluence Project Management Pte.
Ltd. the project and programme management business headquartered in Singapore, to the Group in October.
The team is already fully integrated with our Faithful Gould business across the regions and has added an attractive client base.
Furthermore, we are now reaching the final stages in achieving regulatory approval for the acquisition of Nuclear Safety Associates Inc. an engineering and technical services firm based in North America.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 07 Chairmans Statement continued We welcomed Confluence Project Management Pte.
Ltd. to the Group in October.
During the year we also invested in our People Dividend employer brand known as the Atkins Way, I would like to thank our people for their The Board is recommending a final which is a celebration of how our people quiet brilliance in helping us to deliver dividend of 23.25p per ordinary share in behave and what motivates them.
We some of the most time-critical, complex respect of the year ended 31 March 2014, believe that nobody can tell the story of solutions to our clients this year.
We have making the total dividend for the year an organisation as effectively and as a highly engaged and aligned team of 33.75p 2013: 32.0p, an increase of genuinely as the people who work for it, people who continue to work together 5.5%.
If approved at the Companys so we are using the Atkins Way as the to make the world just that little bit annual general meeting, the dividend foundation of all our communications better as a result of the projects they will be paid on 22 August 2014 to with existing and potential colleagues.
I would also like to thank families ordinary shareholders on the register and friends for supporting our people on 11 July 2014.
Further details regarding as they go about their work for Atkins Board of directors dividend payments can be found in in all corners of the world.
We welcomed a number of new Investor Information page 182.
Board members this year as Admiral the Maintaining our focus on bringing more Lord Boyce retired from the Board and Outlook young people into the engineering sector, Joanne Curin stepped down as she took As we look forward to the new financial we welcomed 500 new graduates across up a new position in the Middle East.
year, we are confident of making further the Group and accelerated our apprentice I would like to thank both for their service, progress towards our strategic goals.
programme to attract school leavers by support and commitment to Atkins.
While our markets and clients needs are recruiting over 90 apprentices in the UK.
Lord Boyce has been highly influential constantly evolving, we will continually as our senior independent director seek ways to deliver their requirements This year we worked hard to achieve and I have greatly appreciated his wise effectively and efficiently.
We believe our our commitment to build a diverse counsel.
We were pleased to appoint exposure to transportation markets across organisation.
We created a womens Fiona Clutterbuck as senior independent the UK and North America provides us leadership council to enable the 50 director in his place and to welcome with a good backlog of business.
Our most senior women in the business to Allister Langlands and Thomas Leppert, Middle East region is benefiting from our support, mentor and encourage the next who joined the Board as independent more focused approach and in Asia Pacific generation of Atkins female leaders.
non-executive directors during the year.
we are investing to diversify beyond our Also, womens professional networks Allister has succeeded Joanne as chairman historic Hong Kong base.
In Energy we around the world became more active of the Audit Committee.
Joanne has see an attractive pipeline of opportunities.
in their work to ensure women feel made a great contribution to the Board Overall, we see positive momentum in well-connected across the Group.
In and to the leadership of the Audit the year ahead.
addition, the UK business was recognised Committee over the last five years and by workingmums.
co. uk, winning awards for this we thank her.
Allan Cook CBE for Overall Top Employer and Innovation Chairman in Flexible Working.
I am personally Rodney Slater will be retiring from the 11 June 2014 leading an industry group for the UKs Board after our annual general meeting Royal Academy of Engineering with the on 30 July 2014.
He has served the Board purpose of increasing the number of for three years and I would like to thank women engineers in the sector.
him for his input during that time.
Our 75th anniversary celebrations in 2013 Alun Griffiths, our Group HR director, will gave us an excellent opportunity to involve also be retiring from the Board after our and unite our people around the world.
annual general meeting on 30 July 2014.
Related sections We joined together for celebratory Alun has been with the Group for 28 years events and recognised 89 colleagues and has served on the Board as an Human Resources Review with the Sir William Atkins medal for executive director for the past seven years.
Find out more about their outstanding achievements.
I would like to thank Alun for his longour people on page 48 standing dedication to the Group and for his contribution to the Board.
He will be Our Board of Directors succeeded as Group HR director by James Find out more about our Cullens, who joins us from Hays plc and Board of directors on page 60 who will join the Board on 1 July 2014.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
