Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4 Chairmans statement A consistent focus on creating value I am pleased to report, once again, that in-line with our strategy and marks Statutory results Babcock has announced record results for another exciting development in our the 2014 financial year.
Peter discusses the continues to demonstrate that we have strategic rationale and the new growth Group revenue the right business model, that we are opportunities Avincis brings to the Group operating in the right markets and have on pages 16 17.
3,321.0m 10% been following the right strategy to 2013: 3,029.4m This year underlying basic earnings per deliver growth.
This in turn means we share increased by 13% to 70.3 pence have been able to achieve our core Operating pro t 2013: 62.2 pence and the Group objective of delivering consistent and continued to deliver strong cash ows, sustainable value for our shareholders 233.1m 15% achieving a cash conversion rate of for well over 10 years.
Looking forward, Central to our successful and long-term the order book and bid pipeline remain Pro t before tax track record of growth is our strategy.
strong giving us excellent visibility During this year the Board has reviewed of future revenue and further 218.8m 20% and discussed the strategy, ensuring all growth opportunities.
2013: 181.8m options for growth, including acquisitions, The Boards con dence in the long-term are carefully considered.
On 27 March future of our business remains strong Basic earnings per share from 2013, we were therefore delighted to be and we are therefore delighted to continuing operations able to recommend to shareholders the recommend a 14% increase in the acquisition of the Avincis Group, a leading final dividend per share for 2014 of 50.1p 14% provider of specialist aviation mission 16.4 pence per share 2013: 14.4 pence critical services.
The acquisition, which 2013: 43.9p per share.
This will give a total dividend shareholders voted whole heartedly in for the year of 21.4 pence per share favour of on 16 April 2014 and which 2013: 19.0 pence per share, an completed on 16 May 2014, is fully Total revenue 2SHUDWLQJ SURW Underlying results Throughout the Overview and Strategic report, 3,547.6m 9% 377.9m 9% unless otherwise stated, revenue, operating pro t, 4,000 400 operating return on revenue, net finance costs, pro t before tax and earnings per share refer to results before amortisation of acquired intangibles 3,500 350 and exceptional items and include the Groups share of joint ventures jv and include investment 3,000 300 income arising from IFRIC 12 Accounting for Service Concession Arrangements.
2,500 250 Collectively these adjustments are made to derive 2,000 200 the underlying operating results of the business.
A reconciliation of statutory to underlying results 1,500 150 is set out on page 44.
The underlying gures provide a consistent 100 1,000 measure of business performance year-to-year thereby enabling comparison and understanding 500 50 of Group financial performance.
The final dividend will be openness, honesty and transparency, I am delighted that we continue to take paid on 12 August 2014 to shareholders values that I believe are embedded on young people, as apprentices, trainees on the register at 4 July 2014. within the culture of our Company.
or graduates, and train them in vital engineering and business skills to support As a result of the new ordinary shares The Board the long-term future of our organisation.
created by the Rights Issue in respect of During this year we have made no In support of this, and UK industry more the acquisition of Avincis, which started changes to the Board.
However, I am widely, we have joined the 5% Club and trading on 7 May 2014, the dividend delighted to welcome Jeff Randall to have committed to having 5% of our numbers and the comparatives referred Babcock as a Non-Executive Director with workforce on structured training schemes to above have been adjusted accordingly.
As a business over the next five years.
journalist and broadcaster, Jeff will bring Babcock has had a consistent dividend a wealth of experience and a distinct and Reporting policy for a number of years that, over fresh perspective to our proceedings.
For the first time this year, as required by the medium-term, the dividend should the new narrative reporting regulations, be covered on average between 2.5 In accordance with corporate governance pages 1 to 71 of the annual report form and 3 times by underlying basic earnings best practice, Justin Crookenden intends our Strategic report, which is intended per share.
Following completion of the to retire from the Board on 30 November to provide readers with a fair, balanced Avincis acquisition and taking into 2014 after serving nine years as an and understandable explanation of the account the availability of distributable independent Non-Executive Director.
companys strategy, business model, reserves and cash as well as the enlarged Justin will step down as Chairman of the key risks and performance.
We believe Groups working capital and investment Remuneration Committee with effect we have met these requirements and requirements, the Board intends to from the AGM and Jeff Randall will assume have continued to describe the Groups maintain this policy.
Justin has helped guide the activities with clarity and transparency.
Group through a period of substantial trusted to deliver growth and transformation and has Looking forward In the current economic environment, our made a signi cant contribution to the The Board remains con dent that the focus on using the depth and breadth of effectiveness of the Board.
Group has excellent long-term growth our engineering and technical knowledge prospects.
We have further strengthened and expertise to do what is right for our In May this year, the Board was saddened the growth opportunities available to us customers, meeting or exceeding their to learn of the death of Gordon Campbell.
through a series of acquisitions, most expectations, sets us apart from many Gordon joined Babcock in 2000 as Chief notably that of Avincis, as well as a in our sector.
Our trusted to deliver Executive and was Chairman from 2001 number of signi cant contract wins.
reputation is key to the ongoing success to 2008.
During that time he was the We therefore believe the outlook remains of our business.
As Chairman, I believe it driving force in the transformation of positive and we look forward to making is my, and the Boards, responsibility to the Group and the driving force behind further strong progress in the 2014 15 maintain this reputation by ensuring the strategy that is still delivering financial year.
we adhere to the highest standards success today.
of corporate governance and risk Our people management across our operations.
Each year, on behalf of the Board, I am In the Chairmans corporate governance proud to thank all those who work for statement on page xx, I discuss in more Mike Turner CBE Babcock for their continued hard work detail how we seek to achieve these Chairman and dedication.
Over the years, our standards.
To safeguard our future we people have been central to our success.
