Strategic Report CHAIRMANS LETTER My first year as Chairman of the Company has been both stimulating and engaging.
I have visited our businesses throughout the United Kingdom, the United States of A YEAR OF STEADY America, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
Without exception, I have been impressed by the PROGRESS AND remarkable skills of our people, reassured by our commitment to good corporate governance and proud ofour determination to serve, supply and protect those ACHIEVEMENT.
that serve and protect us across the world.
The capabilities and pride of our people in what we do was particularly evident at the naming ceremony in Sir Roger Carr, Chairman Scotland of the HMS Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier in July, and at the prize-giving ceremony for the Chairmans Awards in Washington, D. C. in December.
The executive team has continued to demonstrate theirprofessionalism by effectively managing cost in achallenging business environment, and delivering underlying growth in earnings per share after adjusting for the one-off, retrospective bene t from the Saudi Arabian price agreement in 2013.
Group cash ow has continued to permit the buyback of shares, the support of our pension obligations and the recommendation of a final dividend of 12.3p per share, making a total of 20.5p per share for theyear.
The growing uncertainty and political instability in many parts of the world have undoubtedly increased many governments focus on defence and helped to stabilise budgets.
The message delivered by President Obama and Prime Minister Cameron at the NATO Summit in Wales, UK, calling for members to allocate 2% of Gross Domestic Product to their defence budgets, re ected the change intone and sentiment, and reinforced the importance ofa thriving and innovative defence industry in the UK, US and with other allies overseas.
Throughout the year, the Company continued to enjoy aprivileged position as a strategic supplier to the UK, US, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
We haveearned these positions over time through a mix of product excellence, service ethic and a commitment to working with each host nation to build local capability.
This approach was particularly visible this year in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where we announced a reorganisation of our industrial interests which will enhance our local relationships and will provide high-quality employment for young people in the years to come.
In the second quarter of the year, the Board initiated acomprehensive review of all our businesses in order todeepen our understanding of current activity and establish a platform for longer-term strategic planning.
BAE Systems 04 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report The review con rmed the importance of maintaining the DIVIDEND PENCE breadth of our geographic balance, continued investment in the development of our wide product offering and thevalue of the service relationships we enjoy with thearmed forces of the countries in which we operate.
Wewill manage the Groups business portfolio to address 2% changes in markets and emerging opportunities.
Whilst still a relatively small segment of the Group, prospects 2014 20.5 for growth in our Applied Intelligence business, which 20.1 2013 capitalises on our deep intelligence roots and bene ts 2012 19.5 from our wide commercial reach, are encouraging.
2011 18.8 Inelectronics, the leading-edge capability we have inmilitary areas was considered to offer material 2010 17.5 opportunities for further penetration of the civil aircraft and adjacent commercial markets.
The review also encompassed our commitment to apprenticeships, lifetime learning and bench-strength development to ensure we continue to attract and retain the nest engineering talent available in the marketplace.
Looking back, it has been a year of steady progress On behalf of colleagues and shareholders, I thank both andachievement.
We now look to 2015 with con dence Linda and Paul for all they have done for the Company based on the existing programmes in which we are and wish them well for the future.
engaged and the depth of order backlog we have secured.
Ian Tyler has now taken over the role of chairman of the With some reliance on anticipated naval and aircraft Corporate Responsibility Committee.
orders, there is, however, no room for complacency in aworld where competitive pressures are increasing, During the course of the year, the Nominations Committee customer demands for service and value unrelenting, commenced a long-term succession planning review and and government nances constrained.
We will respond agreed that our immediate priority was to search for a to these challenges with energy, enthusiasm and vigour, replacement for Paul who would have a general recognising that we cannot rely on past achievement management background, international experience, be forfuture success.
Picking up the pace, valuing the capable of assuming responsibility for the Remuneration customer, driving down costs and preserving quality Committee and improve the diversity of the Board.
The willbe the watchwords of the business model and the search is now in process.
Dividend Directors The Board has recommended a final dividend of 12.3p I succeeded Sir Richard Olver as Chairman of the Board pershare making a total of 20.5p per share for the year, on 1 February 2014 and Sir Richard stepped down from an increase of 2% over 2013.
At this level, the annual the Board on that date.
dividend is covered 1.85 times by underlying earnings 2013 2.1 times.
Subject to shareholder approval at the On 1 February 2014, Linda Hudson retired as President 2015 Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid and Chief Executive Of cer of BAE Systems, Inc. and on 1 June 2015 to holders of ordinary shares registered asan executive director of BAE Systems plc.
Linda made on 17 April 2015. a material contribution to both the development of our US operations and its important role within the Group.
On the same date, Jerry DeMuro was appointed as President and Chief Executive Of cer of BAE Systems, Inc. and as an executive director of BAE Systems plc.
Paul Anderson, a non-executive director, retired from theBoard on 31 December 2014 after six years of service.
Throughout the two terms of his appointment, Paul made a major contribution to the strategic thinking of the Company in addition to chairing the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Sir Roger Carr, Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 05
