4 CHAIRMANS REVIEW 2014: a challenging and redefining year In this part of the Group, we saw failures five years under Group ownership.
Continuing issues within the UK of risk management, and the control 93% of voting shareholders supported construction business made 2014 environment, particularly commercial and the Board in approving the sale.
a challenging and ultimately operational controls, was not effective.
Taking decisive action These were compounded by continuous redefining year for the Group.
In light of further write-downs, and upheaval, with substantial people changes its desire to accelerate refocusing and in the UK construction business.
Robust judgements and rapid decisions simplifying the Group, the Board decided were required: gripping, scoping, reviewing More details of KPMGs independent Chief Executive Andrew McNaughton and providing for the very significant levels review and resulting actions are in the should step down on 3 May 2014. of write-downs that emerged from the operational review on page 19 and the I was asked to step in to progress UK construction business.
There were risk management section on page 30. the following priorities: important changes in strategic direction The deterioration in performance started and in executive management, and also 1.
Recruit an experienced, top-flight before 2014, as many of the 45 problem the proposed merger with Carillion plc.
Chief Executive from outside the projects were tendered or started during Group with strong turnaround Such was the pace of events and change 2012 and 2013.
The majority of these are credentials.
that these seem improbable when listed expected to be operationally complete Outcome: Leo Quinn started as Group chronologically.
The Board met 26 times by the end of 2015.
Chief Executive on 1 January 2015. during the year and at every stage the The Board has considered the need for Board remained focused on how best 2.
Deliver a competitive sale process further provisions in addition to those to secure both present and future to enable PB to be sold at compelling announced in January 2015, and shareholder value.
concluded that a further 118 million Outcome: PB was sold for US$1.35 billion UK construction performance write-down is appropriate, having in cash gross proceeds in October 2014.
The performance of parts of our UK reviewed both individual contracts and 3.
Further underpin shareholder value construction business during 2014 has also the rest of the portfolio by taking by revaluing the Investments portfolio undoubtedly been very poor, having a a risk-based approach and enhancing awareness of its materially negative impact on the results These issues are localised and fixable, intrinsic value.
Total loss from but it will take time to work through legacy Outcome: the Directors valuation was operations over the year, including the contracts and uncertainty remains.
New increased from 766 million at December further provisions now announced, Group Chief Executive Leo Quinn has a 2013 to 1,050 million at June 2014: and amounted to 281 million.
This is a matter transformation programme for the whole 1.3 billion at December 2014.
This was of considerable regret to all concerned, Group, with phase 1 targeting 100 million reviewed and supported independently.
most especially the Board of Directors of cost reductions and 200 million of cash The value of the future pipeline is estimated and myself as Chairman.
Problems were flow improvements versus 2014. by the Board at a further 1015% of the mostly confined to the Engineering Directors valuation, demonstrating how Services and Regional parts of the Sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff integral this business is to the Group.
business operating in London and the The Boards strategic review concluded South West of England.
Progress management actions to during Q1 2014, ahead of any knowledge stabilise the underperforming parts of further UK construction write-downs, KPMGs independent review identified of the UK construction business.
that the Group had become too complex, three main dominant causes.
Firstly, Outcome: despite the recovery plans stretching financial and managerial tendering for certain lump sum fixed-price by new UK operational management, resources, and diluting strategic focus.
projects at very low margins at the bottom more losses emerged.
In October the And whilst the Parsons Brinckerhoff PB of the market, assuming optimistic buying Board appointed KPMG to review the UK business was of high quality, it required gains which didnt materialise as costs construction business and the conclusions substantial investment and its Group escalated during the course of the project, were published in January 2015.
Secondly, inadequate Board has made further provisions at commercial and contract management The Board announced in May its intention 2014 year end of 118 million.
processes, and a lack of management to sell PB, subject to an excellent price supervision, led to poor control over 5.
Simplify and fide-risk the Groups being achieved.
Following a highly projects and failures to recover genuine international and rail businesses in competitive auction, the sale completed contract entitlements.
Thirdly, poor cost territories where it lacked sufficient in October for gross proceeds of US$1.35 and programme forecasting, leading to critical mass or delivery capability.
billion, roughly doubling its value during its insufficient visibility on project deterioration.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 5 A new executive team and a refreshed Board is now substantially in place and they have the privilege of taking Balfour Beatty forward to its next chapter.
Outcome: concluded disposal of rail Loss from continuing operations was fide La Rue plc.
Leo sets out his initial businesses in Austria and Germany track 281 million 2013: 33 million.
The priorities on pages 6 to 7.
His appointment and plant : terminated US$1.5 billion of underlying loss per share for total has enabled the intended reshaping and bids in markets as diverse as Indonesia, operations was 8.0p 2013: earnings refreshing of the Board to progress rapidly.
Total loss per share was It is a pleasure to welcome Philip Aiken management oversight tightened and 8.6p 2013: 5.1p.
as Balfour Beattys new Chairman from made more challenging.
The Group had year end net cash of 26 March 2015, when I will step down 219 million: a strong balance sheet position after 10 years on the Board.
After 34 years Approach by Carillion plc despite continuing underlying cash outflow with the Company, including 24 years as a The initial approach by Carillion plc was in the construction businesses.
Director, Peter Zinkin retires from the Board opportunistic, coinciding with the frenetic in March 2015.
His commitment to the activity described above, including the PB The performance of the UK construction business has been unparalled and he leaves sale: all at a time when the Group lacked a business is covered in more detail on with our thanks and very best wishes.
Profitability in the US concluded it was in shareholders interests construction business increased slightly Duncan Magrath leaves the Group in to evaluate the approach, provided key and order book intake is growing amid May 2015, after seven years as Chief parameters were agreed to by Carillion signs of market recovery.
He steps down with the upfront.
Critically, these included achieving maintained revenue levels but saw a small Boards best wishes and I add my personal a significant valuation premium for Balfour decline in profits and margin.
Infrastructure thanks to Duncan for the huge personal Beatty shareholders, and Carillions explicit Investments increased both profits and commitment he has made to the Group support for the PB disposal, with proceeds the value of the portfolio.
during the last year in particular.
to be retained within the combined We are very pleased to welcome Philip business.
Key terms were agreed in Share buyback and dividend Harrison who will be joining the Board as writing and the Board engaged to jointly In order to maintain a strong balance the new Chief Financial Officer.
Philip is evaluate the possible benefits of an sheet, the Board decided to cancel the currently CFO of Hogg Robinson Group, all-share merger.
proposed 200 million share buyback and prior to that was CFO of VT Group.
following the PB disposal, and to rephase Whilst joint working was underway, pension fund payments.
Whilst the Board and despite a joint public announcement Balfour Beattys future recognises the importance of the dividend, a week earlier, Carillion surprisingly The Group has been significantly it will not recommend a final dividend withdrew its support for the sale of PB.
At its heart but will look to reinstate dividends at an This eroded trust and confidence.
The is an Anglo-American construction and appropriate level by March 2016.
Board also concluded that the combined construction services presence with business plan prepared by Carillion strong local market positions and deep Health and safety management had very significant delivery engineering expertise.
The Group has During the year, six workers lost their lives and financial risks.
There was also a real further construction capability through across the Group.
There is renewed focus risk that any agreed transaction might be its South East Asia and Middle East on fatal risks and health and safety targets aborted before it was consummated, given joint ventures.
Following the sale of PB, have been revised.
The primary KPI for the uncertainty regarding Balfour Beattys the Group has a strong balance sheet, safety has changed to Lost Time Injury UK construction business.
Unfortunately, underpinned by the valuable Investments Rate, which is a more thorough indicator.
this proved more than prescient.
business and the benefits it provides From 2015, the Group will be redoubling across the Group.
efforts on Zero Harm programmes.
The Board engaged for the right reasons, recognising the obvious risks.
It also A new executive team and a refreshed Board and executive management withdrew for the right reasons, given Board is now substantially in place and Andrew McNaughton stepped down as Directors were unable to recommend they have the privilege of taking Balfour Chief Executive after a 17-year career with the merger transaction as being in Beatty forward to its next chapter.
Balfour Beatty and goes with our thanks shareholders interests.
Results for the year Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas resigned Profitability was materially impacted from the Board in November 2014. by the significant UK construction The appointment of Leo Quinn as Group write-downs.
Conversely, the year end Chief Executive from 1 January 2015 is balance sheet benefited from the receipt a major step forward.
He was previously of the PB sale proceeds.
Steve Marshall CEO of Qinetiq plc and prior to that at Chairman balfourbeatty.
