Chairmans statement Ian Durant, Chairman DELIVERING VALUE WITH RESPONSIBILITY Capco has delivered another year of strong performance.
Since its Total return Dividend listing in 2010, the business has grown consistently, delivering market-leading total returns for its shareholders.
Through this time the management team has proven the strategy, invested in a unique skillset and deepened Capcos culture.
5p The business retains a strong focus on two prime locations in central London, Covent Garden and Earls Court.
We have a clear strategy and in 2014 significant milestones were achieved across the business.
The Board spends considerable time monitoring the changing risk prole of the business to ensure that the strategy continues to be appropriate.
Total shareholder return The balance sheet remains conservative with low gearing and high pence liquidity, strengthened by our new debt facilities including a US 400 Private Placement and a successful equity raise which allowed Capco to accelerate value creation across the business.
350 Covent Garden continues to thrive as a distinct and vibrant part of 300 London.
The valuation increased by 284 million to 1.6 billion, a 250 25 per cent increase on a like-for-like basis driven by strong leasing 200 and investment activity over the year.
The redevelopment of Kings Court, our largest development to date at Covent Garden, 150 commenced in October and we have further expanded our footprint 100 through 167 million of acquisitions on the estate.
50 Earls Court Properties saw positive momentum over the year and 10 May 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec the valuation increased by 18 per cent on a like-for-like basis to 0 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1.2 billion.
The Earls Court Masterplan remains a vital residential regeneration project for London in a key opportunity area.
An Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index 6 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements investment vehicle with Transport for London TfL was established early in the year to enable the development of EC1 & EC2 and detailed planning consents were achieved within the overall Earls Court Masterplan area.
At Lillie Square, our joint venture launched its first phase successfully and construction has started on a development that will deliver over 800 new homes in this popular and desirable part of London.
Olympia London has had a positive year following our investment and re-launch.
Over 80 per cent of shows transitioned from Earls Court, which closed at the end of 2014.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS In 2014, Capco delivered strong performance with a total return of 25 per cent which represents the growth in net assets plus the dividends paid during the year.
The valuation of the Groups property assets increased by 22 per cent on a like-for-like basis and total shareholder return, which reects the share price change and Capco Chairman Ian Durant and Creative Director Bev Churchill speak at South dividends paid, was 12 per cent.
Tyneside College to support the 30% Club, an initiative committed to achieving better The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share, gender balance in business which brings the total dividend paid and payable for 2014 to 1.5 pence per share.
encourages the development of future talent.
In support of this, I would like to thank Capco employees for their commitment and I, and a number of our Directors, have personally mentored hard work during a year in which they continued to generate individuals as part of Capcos leadership development programmes.
excellent performance and results for our shareholders.
The Board will continue to support such initiatives.
THE BOARD DELIVERING VALUE RESPONSIBLY The Board has taken the opportunity to review the Groups How we conduct our business in the communities and Executive structure to reect the growth and evolution of the environments in which we operate forms an important part of our business over the past five years.
Covent Garden and Earls Court culture.
As long-term stewards of some of the best addresses in Properties have reached a scale where they would benefit from London, we have a strong commitment to creating public value and specic leadership to reach their potential.
As a result Gary Yardley delivering with integrity.
Already at Lillie Square we are starting to and Soumen Das are promoted to the role of Managing Director deliver apprenticeships as the first part of our commitment to with responsibility for the oversight and investment performance training and skills in the local area.
At Olympia London we are of Earls Court & Olympia and Covent Garden respectively in proud to be leading the events industry by representing the UK addition to their existing responsibilities.
Garys title will be on the committees developing the international standards in Managing Director & Chief Investment Officer and Soumens title sustainable events management.
Our employees remain committed will be Managing Director & Chief Financial Officer.
Both Directors and engaged with our Corporate Responsibility programme, will continue to report to Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive.
I supporting worthwhile projects that maximise opportunities for would like to congratulate both Directors on their new young people where our assets are located.
Their appointments reect the growing needs of our business and our commitment under Ians continued vision LOOKING AHEAD and leadership to deliver long-term outstanding performance for London is a leading global city and continues to be a magnet for our shareholders.
These changes will take effect on 1 March 2015. people and investment.
Despite the uncertainty which may arise The Board has been active in planning Board succession to match from the upcoming General Election, we are confident that the future needs of the Company with a diverse set of skills, style Londons strengths and popularity will allow it to thrive and and experience.
As we recently announced, Andrew Huntley will prosper and our strategy to drive long-term value from our assets be retiring from the Board at our forthcoming Annual General remains clear and focused.
Capco has a deep understanding of Meeting AGM, and will step down from the Remuneration and London and our assets are uniquely well-placed both to benefit Nomination Committees on 1 March 2015.
The Board and I would from and contribute to Londons continued success and world-class like to thank Andrew for his contribution to the Board since its status.
We enter 2015 well positioned to deliver value for our establishment in 2010.
We will be welcoming Gerry Murphy as a shareholders and for London.
Gerry is a former partner of Deloitte LLP, and brings a broad range of experience to the Board.
A description of our recruitment process, which will continue in early 2015, is set out in the Nomination Committee report on page 64.
TALENT AND DIVERSITY The Board is committed to developing talent and diversity within Ian Durant the business, a key focus because of the increased span of activities Chairman undertaken by Capco.
In Capcos first five years we have seen that 26 February 2015 investment in talent and skills brings strategic advantage.
We are proud that Capco has a diverse management team, and the Board www.
