CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS OVERVIEW In 2014 we continued to make substantial PROPERTY PORTFOLIO The increase in EPRA net assets progress in a number of areas.
These included the completion per share was driven by a significant increase in values across of two important developments in central London, opportunistic our London portfolio, particularly in our Vauxhall heartland.
acquisitions in Germany and London and selective disposals in The Groups property portfolio grew by 177.2 million or London and Paris.
Furthermore, we extended our development 15.6% over the period to 1.31 billion, due predominantly pipeline, and the benefits from our active in-house asset to a revaluation uplift of 186.5 million.
France and Germany management resulted in our lowest ever vacancy rate across contributed positively, but the vast majority of the increase came the Group.
from the London portfolio, particularly from developments and long leases with secure Government income.
At the year end our property portfolio benefited from a 15.8% annual revaluation uplift to 1.31 billion, the highest ever level At the year end the contracted rent roll was 87.5 million in our history.
EPRA NAV rose 39.9% to a record 1,774.1 pence 2013: 85.6 million, of which 68% came from governments per share and following a five year compound Total Shareholder and major corporations and 58% was index-linked.
Return of over 25% per annum, in December 2014 we entered At Spring Mews SE11, our first student and hotel development the FTSE 350 index.
The student accommodation was The Group places a strong emphasis on cash generation.
Our completed in September, in time for the start of the academic portfolio produces a net initial yield of 6.5% and is financed year, and all 378 rooms were let.
We have already started by debt with a weighted average cost of 3.64%.
At Clifford's Inn, Fetter Lane EC4, rental income rose 11.1% to 84.4 million 2013: 76.0 million, construction was completed at the end of 2014 and we are benefiting from the effect of a full years income from the actively marketing the 2,769 sqm of new office space in a very Neo portfolio which was acquired last year, and EPRA earnings strong mid-town office market.
We have also secured detailed per share rose 16.9% to 77.4 pence 2013: 66.2 pence.
planning consent to convert and extend Westminster Tower SE1, providing luxury riverside apartments overlooking the Houses Our strategy of running a diversified, modern and efficient of Parliament, with a small amount of office space to be property portfolio with in-house asset management has retained on the lower floors.
We operate in close cooperation with our customers to meet their occupational At Vauxhall Square we have secured further planning needs, and this is reflected in a Group vacancy rate of 3.0%, consent for design enhancements, and agreed commercial well below the sector average.
terms to acquire additional adjoining land and properties.
In January 2014 we entered into a conditional agreement During the year we selectively acquired investments in to grant a long lease in relation to the student site in Miles Germany and the UK at an aggregate cost of 29.7 million, Street, on which an enhanced planning consent has also generating a net initial yield of 6.7% and financed by debt at been achieved.
We also made some opportunistic disposals in London positively to the uplift in value.
During 2015 we will explore and Paris at low yields, thereby recycling our capital for an all our available options for this major regeneration project enhanced return.
to make a constructive start in 2017.
The UK market continued to grow in 2014.
In London, In the second half of the year, the Group acquired Berkeley demand from overseas investors searching for prime yielding House in Datchet, Berkshire for 2.2 million on a net initial properties remained robust, with increasing interest beyond yield of 10.75%.
We also unconditionally exchanged contracts the traditional West End and City locations.
In Germany and to acquire two modern, multi-let, office buildings in Harburg, France the markets were characterised by low interest rates, a waterfront district in the southern part of Hamburg, a low level of new completions and improvement in occupier Germany for 32.4 million before costs.
Germany continued to offer the more attractive acquisitions shortly after the year end.
The Swedish market displayed lower yields and offices are located in a district which is seeing significant a high level of activity, driven mainly by domestic property investment in infrastructure and is developing into a popular investors, and we continued to find better value elsewhere.
4 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts In April the Group took advantage of a strong demand for More details of these initiatives are set out in the Corporate development opportunities, and disposed of Cambridge Social Responsibility Report on page 29.
In addition we have, House W6 for 29.5 million.
The price was 32% above the in line with our Green Charter established in 2011, committed December 2013 valuation and corresponded to an initial yield additional resources to our in-house sustainability team to of 2.34%.
Part of Le Quatuor in Montrouge, Paris was sold help minimise the impact the Group and its customers have for 9.9 million, 23% above the June 2014 valuation, to on the environment.
accommodate the Grand Paris Express project to improve BOARD CHANGES During the year Tom Thomson, Brigith Terry the railway system.
The station will be a major transportation and Claes-Johan Geijer retired as non-executive directors hub which will benefit our remaining holding.
and I wish to record our thanks for their contribution to our RESULTS EPRA net assets per share have risen by 39.9% to success.
We have welcomed Lennart Sten and Elizabeth 1,774.1 pence 2013: 1,268.4 pence, and net assets per share Edwards who have joined us in their place.
Profit after resigned as Chief Executive Officer in February and, following tax grew by 208.4% to 194.9 million 2013: 63.2 million and a successful search by an executive search firm, we were shareholders funds rose by 35.8% to 652.9 million, after pleased to welcome Fredrik Widlund as his replacement in distributions to shareholders of 15.5 million.
Fredrik joins us after a long career at GE Capital.
sheet remains strong, with cash and liquid resources of DISTRIBUTIONS TO SHAREHOLDERS In 2014, the Group 162.0 million.
distributed through tender offer buy-backs 10.0 million in Recurring interest cover increased to 3.3 times 2013: 3.2 times, May, equivalent to 22.65 pence per share, and 5.5 million as the Group continued to enjoy a very low weighted average in September, equivalent to 12.61 pence per share.
Similarly, cost of debt of just 3.64% 2013: 3.64%, one of the lowest the Board is proposing a tender offer buy-back of 1 in 80 shares in the listed property sector.
At 31 December 2014 the at 1,950 pence per share in April 2015, to distribute 10.4 million weighted average loan to value of our secured debt was to shareholders, equivalent to 24.4 pence per share.
bring total distributions for the year to 15.9 million, an annual increase of 6.4% and corresponding to an implied yield of 2.7%, FINANCING The Group continues its strategy of having based on the average market capitalisation for the Group in a wide variety of financing from banks and other debt the year.
A circular setting out the details will be sent to providers, and of ring-fencing debt against individual shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts.
We secured financing for the Harburg acquisitions with a seven-year fixed interest rate OUTLOOK Although its forthcoming general election may loan below 2% for the first time.
Since the end of 2014 we cause some temporary political uncertainty, we expect the have refinanced our largest individual property loan on Spring UKs economy to continue to grow and the commercial Gardens in Vauxhall for 6 years, and this, together with the property market to continue to perform well in 2015.
Harburg loan, has reduced our pro forma weighted average We also believe that the positive trends seen in London, cost of debt further to 3.58%.
Diversity of financing is important including increasing rents and declining vacancies, will to reduce risk and we enjoy active lending relationships with cascade into other parts of the country during the year.
Interest rates have remained very low, with The Groups portfolio is well-positioned to benefit from a further reductions in the Eurozone.
We expect this will remain continuing strong UK market.
the case for an extended period and as a consequence, 68% of Even though we expect economic growth in the Eurozone our debt is at floating rates, with 41% being protected against to remain slow, we believe our overseas assets will continue rising interest rates through interest rate caps.
to benefit from record low interest rates and a pick-up in The Groups corporate bond portfolio has continued to be a demand.
Our strategy, to invest in attractive, high-yielding valuable part of our cash management strategy.
The portfolio office properties in secondary areas of major cities, should outperformed the bond market during the year, delivering a continue to serve the Group well in 2015. total return of 7.7 million, or 8.7% on capital.
At the year end the portfolio consisted of 27 bonds valued at 61.8 million with a running yield of 7.4% on market value, and a weighted average duration of 15 years.
SUSTAINABILITY During the past twelve months we have continued our objective to further improve the quality of our portfolio through carbon reduction programmes, investments Sten Mortstedt in renewable technology and social engagement within the Executive Chairman communities in which we invest.
We have achieved two SKA 4 March 2015 Gold ratings and three BREEAM Very Good ratings through our refurbishment programme, and we have reduced the consumption of electricity, gas and water in our properties.
