OVERVIEW Chairmans statement Our broad geographical reach and diversified operations enabled us todeliver income growth across all divisions.
Grenville Turner Chairman In summary In my first term as chairman of the Group Return of capital and dividend policy Iampleased to report record financial results In July 2014 we announced that our ordinary 2014 has been a record year from Countrywide plc in 2014 against the dividend policy would target a return of 35% for Countrywide: background of a sluggish UK housing market to45% of the annual reported Group profits which emerged during the second half of 2014. after tax but before amortisation.
In addition, Strategic investment continued Income grew by 20% to 702.2 million and we declared that, in the absence of a major throughout 2014: acquiring adjusted EBITDA increased by 40% to reach acquisition and assuming continued recovery 38 businesses at a cost of 121.1 million.
in the residential housing market, the Board 48.9 million and investing anticipated that starting in 2015 the combined 2014 was definitely a year of two halves: the 13.3 million of seed capital value of the ordinary dividend and any first six months saw the UK housing market in a residential property fund supplemental return of cash would be between grow strongly compared to 2013, but demand 60% and 70% of reported Group profits after declined in the second half primarily at the Total income increased by tax but before any amortisation, which would topend of the London market.
However, 20% to 702.2 million and be further augmented by the realisation of thestrategic acquisitions and developments EBITDA increased by 40% value from our remaining Zoopla shareholding.
we have made over the past six years, to 121.1 million, reflected Our stated intention was that supplemental underpinning our broad geographical reach in an adjusted basic earnings return of cash would be by way of a special and diversified operations, enabled us to per share of 36.7 pence dividend or a share repurchase programme deliver income growth across all divisions.
depending on prevailing market conditions Strategic investment continued throughout and views of our shareholders.
Accordingly, 2014: we acquired 38 businesses at a cost we returned the 20 million proceeds from of48.9 million and invested 13.3 million the partial disposal of our Zoopla shareholding ofseed capital in a residential property fund by paying a special dividend of 9.0 pence aimed at the Private Rental Sector PRS, pershare in September 2014 and then which we have launched in conjunction accelerated our capital return policy by withHermes Investment Management, one commencing a share buyback programme of the UKs leading property fund managers.
inOctober 2014, purchasing 2.9 million Our fledgling investment in Zoopla Property shares at a cost of 13.3 million before Group from 2010 reaped rewards for our theyear end.
shareholders, by way of a subsequent return The Board announces an extension to the of cash when the Company floated on the existing share repurchase programme with London Stock Exchange in June 2014. plans to spend up to an additional 20 million, Following partial disposal of our shareholding subject to market conditions.
for proceeds of 20 million, which was returned to shareholders via a 9.0 pence per share On the basis of our strong results, the Board has special dividend, our residual investment recommended a final dividend of 10.0pence wasworth 33.2 million at the year end.
per share, giving a total 2014 dividend, including the special dividend, of 24.0 pence per share 2013: 8.0 pence per share.
Subject to approval at the AGM to be held on 29 April 2015 the dividend will be paid on 7 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at 27 March 2015.
For more analysis on markets see page 10 02 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION For more details on our Board see pages 42 to 43 Professional indemnity provision Corporate governance In 2012, the Group established an exceptional One of the Boards responsibilities is ensuring provision to cover the estimated cost of claims that the Group applies good corporate arising in our Surveying and Valuation division governance to facilitate effective management... the Group is fostering an relating to surveys carried out in the years of the Company.
As the Companys chairman environment of innovation 2004 to 2007.
The second half of 2014 was I am pleased to note that the Group is fostering always seen as a key period in assessing this an environment of innovation and progress and progress... issue as the six year primary statutory limitation ina framework of strong governance and period came to an end.
A detailed statement on tosee that high levels of claims continue corporate governance can be found in the tobe an issue across the industry.
Chairmans governance introduction and thecorporate governance statement.
We have performed a detailed review of the latest data and trends on professional indemnity Outlook and, consequently believe it is prudent to As noted in our January 2015 Trading Update, increase our provision which hasresulted in the slowdown in residential property market an exceptional charge in the2014 financial growth in the second half of the year, recent results of 15.2 million, consistent with the negative trends in mortgage approvals and expected charge noted in our trading update potential uncertainty regarding the general on 22 January 2015.
The principal reason election inMay are likely to create some behind this charge isanunexpected level sluggishness in market trends over the first ofclaims brought aboutunder common law, half of 2015.
However, the resilience we outside of the primary statutory limitation derive from ourbroad-based business, our period rather than under contract law, together low leverage and our proven ability todeliver with a slightdeterioration of claims previously growth inachallenging market position us notified and an increase in the average loss well totake advantage ofsustainable growth per claim.
inour Lettings and Commercial businesses and capitalise quickly on the upturn as the Board update residential sales market recovers in the I was delighted to welcome Alison Platt medium to long term.
Notwithstanding the aschief executive officer from 1 September market challenges evident going into 2015, 2014, at which point I assumed the role of Iam confident the Group is in a strong non-executive chairman, ensuring continuity, position to meet the Boards expectations.
and David Watson became deputy chairman and senior independent director.
Alison brings Our success this year would not have been a wealth of experience and renewed energy possible without the passion and commitment to the Board.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone across During 2014 we also welcomed Jane Lighting, the Group for their contribution in making Richard Adam and Rupert Gavin as independent this a record breaking year for Countrywide.
non-executive directors, with Richard taking the role of chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
We also accepted the resignation of Sandra Turner who we thank for her support to the Board during our first year as a listed Grenville Turner company.
The process of refreshing the Board Chairman allowed for further evaluation of the balance 26 February 2015 of skills, experience, capabilities and diversity within our new appointments, ensuring that the Board has the complementary cumulative experience to provide effective leadership and strategic direction to the Group.
