163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt1 163284 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2014 Pt1 23 07 2014 14:05 Page 2 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Chairmans Introduction Following the new requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Annual Report & Accounts include for the first time a Strategic Report which contains much of the information that I have customarily included in my Chairmans Statement which is therefore much shorter than usual.
I am pleased to report on a year which has seen a further significant increase in overall net asset value.
The net revaluation gain was 119.6 million which is 45% greater than the previous years gain 2013 82.7 million.
Net asset value per share has increased by 12.8% to 68.15 2013 60.44.
This years valuation has seen a continuation of the trends of recent years with our properties in the London area and the eastern seaboard of the USA generating gains which have been partially offset by some weakness outside London and the South East.
In the UK this year, operating conditions have seen modest improvement but the market for office space remains challenging with well covenanted tenants seeking significant rent concessions.
In contrast the USA has seen an across the board steady rise in demand and in rent levels, albeit somewhat slower than the increase seen in the immediate post-recession recovery period.
The letting of Africa House, WC2 earlier this month has fully justified our decision in 2010 to embark on this major scheme of refurbishment.
This years revaluation has benefited from a significant uplift in value of this property and following the letting we anticipate a further increase.
Dividend As stated in the Strategic Report, it is an objective of the Group to sustain regular increases in the dividend paid to shareholders.
I am pleased that we have been able to achieve this objective over many years.
This year is no exception and your Board has confidence in proposing an increase in total dividend of 3p to 82p 2013 79p.
Outlook A word of caution with a general election due in less than a year, there have been political proposals to regulate rent levels and to change arrangements for shorthold tenancies.
By making investment in residential property less attractive such measures are likely to achieve exactly the opposite of their stated purpose.
Nevertheless, with the general economic outlook continuing to improve in both the UK and USA, I have confidence that the Group is well placed for another successful year.
Further comment is contained in the Strategic Report.
Our thanks go to all who have contributed their efforts to deliver these results.
B S E Freshwater Chairman Pictures on these pages show the first floor and detail of the stairs of Africa House, 70 Kingsway, London WC2 Page 2
