Chairmans Statement A year of outstanding progress This has been a year of outstanding An improving market The UK housing market has continued to recover with progress for the Group.
In addition strength now being seen in all regions.
Mortgage lending to stronger market conditions, we has improved and the Governments Help to Buy scheme has had a positive effect in increasing the construction have benefitted from the underlying and sale of new housing.
improvements we have embedded We were particularly pleased to see that in March, the Help to in the business.
Buy Equity Loan scheme due to finish in 2016 was extended to 2020.
This provides the industry with more continuity, an important consideration given the investment timescales 1 As a result, our profitability has involved in buying and developing land.
more than doubled, we have hit The varied rates of recovery across different regions of the UK our return on capital target two have been challenging for policy makers.
In this context, the years early and have improved measures introduced by the Bank of England in June to limit high loan to value lending appear well targeted.
We welcome a policy environment that provides greater stability in the longer term, which enables us to drive sustainable improvements in our returns.
An improved operating performance During the year we have continued to benefit from the substantial improvements we have made to our operating performance.
Acquiring land suitable for development on the right terms is the fundamental building block of our business.
Whilst the land market has become more competitive, in particular in the South East, the quality and disciplined approach of our land teams means that high margin land in attractive locations continues to be secured.
The new sites already in production are exceeding our target returns.
There is no doubt that increasing volumes across the industry have put pressures on our supply chain.
I am pleased that the Ordinary dividend long term relationships with our suppliers have ensured that we have been able to work through these issues with little disruption to our business.
10.3 pence At the same time, operating costs remain under control with a per share 2013: 2.5 pence continued focus on process improvement, driven by the cost advantages of our centralised procurement systems, standardised build processes and IT systems.
Capital Return Plan Building quality homes During the year we have increased our focus on design and the 950m quality of the homes that we build.
The Board believes that this customer-first ethos provides a competitive edge in terms of over three years ending November 2017 customer preference and pricing, whilst driving out costs based on consensus earnings resulting from poor build quality.
For the tenth successive year the National House-Building Council NHBC has awarded our site managers more Pride in 1 Profit before tax 390.6m 2013: 192.0m before exceptional items the Job Awards than any other housebuilder.
We are the only 6 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Welcome to the new Chairman Designate proposed with our FY17 results payable in November 2017.
We I am delighted to be joining the Board as Chairman Designate will consider the best mechanism to effect the special cash of the countrys leading housebuilder.
Bob Lawson, who is payment programme such as using a B-class share scheme or retiring as Chairman, has led the Company with distinction a special dividend.
for the last six years in difficult market conditions: his wise counsel will be greatly missed.
He leaves with the business We therefore expect to return around 950m of cash B performing well, where profitability and return on capital are through ordinary dividend and special cash payments to our rising, and the balance sheet is strong.
I look forward to shareholders in the next three years, which equates to a total supporting the management team in further developing of 96 pence per share based upon 30 June 2014 share capital.
As the first payment in the Capital Return Plan, the Board John Allan CBE proposes a final ordinary dividend of 7.1 pence per share payable Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate in November 2014, which combined with the interim dividend of 3.2 pence per share, gives a total dividend for FY14 of 10.3 pence per share.
The dividend is covered three times by earnings, major housebuilder to achieve the Home Builders Federation achieving our target for FY16 two years ahead of schedule.
HBF Five Star recommendation from customers for five Special Total consecutive years.
Ordinary cash pence Capital Return Plan dividend payment Total per We are committed to Building for Life 12, the new Government Proposed payments m m m share A A endorsed design standard.
November 2014 70 70 7.1 B, C C Year to November 2015 138 100 238 24.2 Our employees B, C C Year to November 2016 164 125 289 29.3 The recent progress of the Group could not have been B, C C Year to November 2017 178 175 353 35.8 achieved without the talent and hard work of our employees.
D C On behalf of the Board, I wish to thank our employees for their Total 550 400 950 96.4 efforts that underpin the quality, the safety and the success of A P roposed final dividend of 7.1p per share as announced on 10 September 2014.
B B ased on Reuters consensus estimates of earnings per share of 42.3p for FY15, 50.2p for FY16 our operations.
We are committed to continuing the investment and 54.2p for FY17 as at 8 September 2014 and applying a three times dividend cover in line in the development of our people, which is at the heart of with previously announced policy.
creating a great place to work.
C Based upon 30 June 2014 share capital of 984,983,475 shares.
D A ll final dividends and the special cash payment programme are subject to shareholder approval.
The first special cash payment will be subject to shareholder approval at the Annual Improving returns and the Capital Return Plan General Meeting in November 2015 and subsequent special cash payments will be subject ROCE is an important performance metric for our business to shareholder approval.
and our initial target of 18% ROCE for FY16 has been achieved two years early.
The Board has therefore set a new target of The Board at least 25% for FY17 and, following recent consultation with The Board has set out a clear strategy for the future development shareholders, ROCE performance has now been linked to of the Group and this is being successfully implemented by the the Executive Long Term Performance Plan.
After six years as Chairman I will step down from the Board at the Companys AGM.
Looking at the medium term plan for the Group, with a backdrop of controlled volume growth, we expect to substantially increase I am grateful for the contribution of my Board colleagues in cash generation.
Whilst we will continue our disciplined approach developing the Groups strategy through market conditions that to investing in high quality land opportunities and targeting were challenging and are now improving.
They have consistently minimal year end net debt, we believe it is now appropriate supplied the right degree of support and challenge.
to supplement our ordinary dividend payments.
The Board is therefore pleased to announce a medium term Capital Return For the next stage of the Groups development, the Board has Plan that will combine the ordinary dividend, which will continue recruited an outstanding new Chairman, John Allan CBE.
He to be based on the dividend being three times covered by joined the Board on 1 August 2014 and I wish him and the earnings, together with a special cash payment programme.
Board well for the future.
Under the special cash payment programme we anticipate proposing a special cash payment with our FY15 results of Bob Lawson 100m payable in November 2015, followed by a special cash Chairman payment of 125m proposed with our FY16 results payable in November 2016, and a special cash payment of 175m 9 September 2014 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
