120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 4 Chairmans Statement The UK commercial property sector performed well during the year.
Performance was supported by the strength of the UK economy, and was widespread across sectors and regions.
Demand from overseas investors for the asset class continued to be substantial and was the main reason for the high returns during the year.
This led to further yield compression across the sector, with the yield gap between prime and secondary properties narrowing.
There was an improvement in the occupational market during the year as the economic recovery progressed but this part of the market remains polarised, with demand still weak for much of the secondary market.
The Company completed, in March and April, the purchase of four office blocks in Prime Four Business Park, Kingswells, Aberdeen, for a Chris Russell Chairman combined purchase price of 95.4 million.
These properties have already made a notable contribution Introduction to the portfolio, recording significant uplifts in 2014 was a significant year for the Company as it valuation compared with their purchase cost.
The approached the tenth anniversary of its launch in Company is also benefiting from the attractive net March 2005.
Shareholders approved the extension initial yield of 6.8 per cent, the full annualised effect of the Companys life for at least another ten years of which will be seen through next years Income and the 230 million bonds, which had been due to Statement.
mature in June 2015, were renanced with a new During the year, the Company also purchased a ten year loan at a signicantly lower interest rate.
new production and distribution unit at The Hive, Furthermore, the Company completed its largest property acquisition since launch and delivered Liverpool International Business Park, Speke, another year of outperformance, building further on Liverpool for 11.9 million.
It also acquired two units its strong long term record.
at the existing site at Sears Retail Park, Solihull, and a small property within St. Christophers Place Performance for the Year Estate, London W1.
The combined cost of these two smaller acquisitions was 10.8 million, but as The net asset value NAV total return for the year additions to existing sites owned by the Company was 22.1 per cent and the share price total return were considered to be good strategic acquisitions, was 18.8 per cent.
The total return from the portfolio creating opportunities to add value to the portfolio.
was 20.3 per cent, which compares favourably with a total return of 17.9 per cent from the Investment As well as seeking opportunities to acquire new Property Databank IPD Quarterly Universe.
properties, the Managers have continued a strategy The share price at the year-end was 136.4p, of investing in the existing portfolio which, given the representing a premium of 11.7 per cent to the NAV current valuation of the property market, is viewed per share of 122.1p.
as a cost effective method of adding value for shareholders.
Such expenditure amounted to 7.2 The following table provides an analysis of the million in 2014 see note 9 and has exceeded 13 movement in the NAV per share for the year: million over a two year period.
The main capital Pence expenditure projects undertaken during the year NAV per share as at 31 December 2013 105.3 included the refurbishment of vacant office floors at Unrealised increase in valuation of direct 82 King Street, Manchester, the redevelopment of a property portfolio 19.8 30,000 sq.
ft. retail warehouse unit at Sears Retail Costs of renance expensed during the year 0.8 Park, Solihull, which was pre-let to Next at Home, Other net revenue 3.8 and the refurbishment of office floors at Alhambra Dividends paid 6.0 House, Glasgow, pre-let to JP Morgan.
These, and other initiatives undertaken during the year, are NAV per share as at 31 December 2014 122.1 described in more detail in the Managers Review.
4 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 5 Continuation Vote and Discount Control Under the terms of the bonds, the Company was required to pay an early repayment premium, based At a General Meeting of the Company held on 7 on UK Gilt yields on the date of repayment.
The November 2014, shareholders approved a change to amount paid was 5.6 million see note 13 and this the Articles of Incorporation the Articles relating to has been fully recognised through finance costs for the continuation of the Company.
Prior to the the current year, although part of this cost will be General Meeting, the Articles required the Board to recouped in the next six months through the lower put a resolution to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2015, and five yearly thereafter, rate of interest payable on the new borrowings than approving the continuation of the Company.
In the would otherwise have been payable on the bonds.
light of the renancing described below, the Board The 30 million bank loan was repaid on 31 proposed a special resolution to amend the Articles December 2014 and the interest rate swap relating such that the next continuation vote will not be to this loan was broken at minimal cost.
required until 2024, when the L&G loan see below Following the renancing, the Groups borrowings is due to mature.
comprise the 260 million L&G loan and a 50 At the same time as extending the life of the million term loan facility provided by Barclays Bank Company, the Board amended the Companys plc.
This amounts to 310 million and represents discount control policy to reect market conditions 24.1 per cent of the total assets less current better.
The Board believes that the new liabilities of the Group as at 31 December 2014. arrangements are more appropriate for a listed Gearing net of cash at the year-end was 18.3 per property investment company and are in line with the cent.
The weighted average interest rate on the wider listed Real Estate Investment Trust REIT and Groups borrowings is 3.57 per cent.
Further details of both the continuation vote and the new discount control policy are included in the Business Model and Review of Core Principles Strategy on pages 8 and 9.
Following shareholder approval of the extension of the Companys life, the Board decided that it was Borrowings and Loan Renancing appropriate to review the Companys core principles As reported at the interim stage, the Board had and objectives.
We understand that shareholders been considering various options for the renancing view the Company as a well-balanced, of the Companys 230 million secured bonds and  property investment 30 million bank loan that were both due to mature company, with a quality  on 30 June 2015.
The Board was mindful of the risk, portfolio, attractive level of dividend and low gearing.
should the renancing of these loans, and the bonds We concluded that the existing investment objective in particular, be left until their maturity date and, in remains appropriate, that is: to provide an attractive light of the availability of longer term borrowings at level of income together with the potential for capital attractive rates of interest, decided that it was in the and income growth from investing in a diversified UK Companys interest for the loans to be renanced commercial property portfolio.
We also reviewed the strategic aims of the portfolio, Accordingly, and as previously announced, the and the Managers investment approach in seeking Company entered into a 260 million ten year loan agreement with Legal & General Pensions Limited to meet the objectives.
We concluded that the L&G in November.
The loan was drawn down in approach adopted to date should continue, namely full on 31 December 2014 and the interest rate to: payable over the term of the loan has been xed at Focus on core core properties 3.32 per cent per annum.
This compares with an Focus on sustainability and protection of income interest rate of 5.23 per cent per annum on the 230 million bonds.
Invest in the existing portfolio to add value The bonds were repaid in their entirety on 2 January Acquire properties with real rental growth 2015, although the accounting treatment followed in prospects the financial statements effectively presents the Increase development exposure if the right Balance Sheet as if the bonds were repaid on 31 opportunities appear but not as a core activity December 2014.
This Board considers this to be a Appraise shorter leases, refurbishment and more representative picture of the Companys longterm borrowings and risk prole.
repositioning opportunities Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 6 C Ch hai airrman mans s State Stateme men ntt c con onti tin nu ue ed d These principles will be core to the management of Board Composition the portfolio as we look forward to the next ten it did not The Board has previously stated that years of the Companys life.
anticipate making any significant changes to its composition in advance of the renancing of the Dividends and Dividend Cover bonds and continuation vote.
Following the Twelve monthly interim dividends, each of 0.5p per successful outcome of both of these matters, we share, were paid during the year maintaining the conducted a review of Board composition and have annual dividend of 6.0p per share and providing a put in place a plan of refreshment.
dividend yield of 4.4 per cent based on the year-end At the year-end, the Board comprised six Directors, share price.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, the three of whom had served since the Companys Board intends that dividends in 2015 will continue to launch in 2005.
All three have indicated that they will be paid monthly at the same rate.
retire in succession which allows refreshment of the The Companys level of dividend cover for the year Board without loss at one time of the embedded excluding capital gains on properties was 50 per industry, Company and shareholder knowledge and cent.
However, this gure includes exceptional costs experience they each represent.
relating to the continuation vote and renancing of Nick Tostevin, who has been a Director since 2005, the Companys long term debt arrangements.
As will retire from the Board at the Annual General disclosed in note 5 to the accounts, total finance Meeting on 28 May 2015.
On behalf of the Board, I costs for the year, including the early repayment would like to thank Nick for his outstanding premium on the bonds of 5.6 million, amounted to contribution and commitment to the Company over 22.2 million.
Assuming the Companys borrowings this time, both as a Director and as the Chairman of remain unchanged, its interest costs for 2015 are the Audit Committee.
estimated at 11.4 million, providing a saving of 10.8 million.
Adjusting the dividend cover for the Following a formal recruitment process, the Board is current year for this expected reduction in finance pleased to announce the appointment of two new charges, and removing other one-off expenses independent non-executive Directors, Peter Cornell relating to the continuation vote and renancing of and David Preston, both of whom will join the Board 636,000 see note 3, would give an adjusted on 1 May 2015 and stand for election at the Annual dividend cover for 2014 of 75 per cent.
The Company also held a larger than normal level of Peter Cornell was, until 2006, Global Managing cash earmarked for the acquisition of the ofce Partner of Clifford Chance.
He then joined Terra blocks in Aberdeen, which completed during the Firma Capital Partners where he was Managing year.
It is estimated that a full year of rental income Director until 2011.
He was a non-executive director from this property will improve dividend cover by a of Circle Holdings plc from 2011 to 2013.
Peter is a further 3 per cent.
The Company should also benefit founding partner of Metric Capital Partners in from the income generated from its other purchases Guernsey and has a wealth of legal and commercial during the year as well as the impact of recent experience which will be of significant benefit to the portfolio initiatives, described in more detail in the Board.
Shareholders should, however, David Preston is Managing Director of First Names appreciate that, during times when the Company is Guernsey Limited, a Guernsey based duciary and holding cash awaiting investment, either arising from fund services business.
He is a director of a number property sales or equity raising, there will be an of regulated, un-listed open and closed-end real adverse impact on dividend cover until such time as estate funds invested in the UK, Europe, Asia and this money is invested.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has significant property, financial, corporate Issue of New Ordinary Shares administration and regulatory experience.
During the year, the Company issued 40.7 million Following these appointments and Nicks retirement, Ordinary Shares at a premium to the prevailing NAV the Board will comprise seven Directors for a at the time of issue, for a net consideration of 49.5 transitional period.
One further long serving Director million.
The Board will seek new share issuance will retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2016, authority at the Annual General Meeting.
6 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 7 thereby taking the number of Directors back to six.
The Board believes that this is an attractive It is the Boards intention to continue to review and backdrop which will provide some good investment refresh its composition mindful that, with a Guernsey opportunities.
In reviewing these opportunities, the resident majority established, the next replacement Company will apply its core principles, focusing on can be made from a broader and diverse universe of new investments and investing in the existing non-executive directors irrespective of whether or not portfolio.
Sustainability and protection of income conversion to onshore UK REIT status becomes in remain key factors.
With the successful loan the best interests of shareholders.
renancing and removal of any short term continuation vote requirements, the Board believes Trudi Clark will become Chairman of the Audit that the Company is well positioned to make further Committee following Nicks retirement and the Board good progress towards meeting its objectives over has also decided that, in accordance with best the next year.
practice for FTSE 250 companies, it should appoint a Senior Independent Director.
Martin Moore will be appointed to this position immediately following his re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Chris Russell Chairman The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.30pm on Thursday 28 May 2015 at Trafalgar Court, Les 9 April 2015 Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey.
The Notice of the Meeting is contained on pages 63 to 64.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting are requested to complete and return their enclosed Forms of Proxy.
Outlook Although there are short term uncertainties, including the General Election in May and the possibility of a referendum on the UKs membership of the EU, the Board believes that the outlook for UK commercial property remains positive.
The sector should benefit from the strengthening economy and, with interest rates remaining low, investor demand in the asset class is expected to continue, particularly from overseas investors.
The Managers expect London and the South East to continue to out-perform the wider market, but to see good performance from some of the stronger regional markets.
The quality and security of the income stream will be key to delivering good performance.
