02 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Delivering shareholder returns I am pleased to announce in my final statement as chairman of Grainger that the Company has once again had a strong period of performance and is on solid foundations for continuing growth.
Robin Broadhurst Chairman During the year, our business has continued to produce strong growth in asset values Total dividend and increased profits.
We are also making good progress within the build to rent sector and towards our goal of substantially increasing our market rented assets across the country.
In addition, our regulated 2.50p tenancy and equity release businesses also performed strongly.
Return on shareholder Corporate Responsibility Dividend equity ROSE targets achieved The Company is declaring a final dividend of 1.89p per ordinary share FY13: 1.46p to be paid on 6 February 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 December 2014.
The total dividend 10 for the year will therefore be 2.50p per 25.6% ordinary share FY13: 2.04p, an increase of 22.6%.
This reflects our performance in the year whilst maintaining capacity for accretive reinvestment in the business.
Strategic report Governance Financials 03 2014 AWARDS 3 years Young Street won the Best Residential Asset Wellesley development in Best Private Rented Manager for the third Aldershot achieved a Built 8 5 Sector design award consecutive year for Life quality mark PRS Fund with APG, GRIP, was recognised Macaulay Walk development as Sector Leader for was named Best Development and 7 sustainability measurement 6 Best Mixed Use Development Board changes Fair, balanced and understandable development in Aldershot achieved a Built As previously announced, I will be stepping The Board has concluded that the 2014 for Life quality mark and our build to rent down as chairman at the AGM in February Annual Report is fair, balanced and development at Young Street won the 8 2015 and Ian Coull, who joined the Board understandable and provides the necessary Best Private Rented Sector design award.
in September 2014, will take over as information for shareholders to assess the These achievements are a direct result of chairman following that meeting.
Groups performance, business model the efforts of all of the staff at Grainger.
I am also pleased to announce that and strategy.
I will miss being part of the Company, but I Andrew Carr-Locke will be joining the know that it is also on solid foundations to Board as an independent non-executive Concluding remarks achieve even greater things.
director following the AGM in February The last few years have been a period of 2015, subject to normal FCA confirmations.
significant achievement and success for Andrew is a Fellow of the Chartered the Company.
It has been a privilege to Institute of Management Accountants work with so many skilled and committed Robin Broadhurst and has previously held directorships of individuals within the Company who do Chairman a number of listed companies including their jobs with great enthusiasm and with 20 November 2014 as Group Finance Director at George such enjoyment.
I am pleased that this has Wimpey plc and as Executive Chairman of been recognised by Grainger receiving Countryside Properties plc.
a number of industry awards this year I am confident that Ian will be a strong including: Best Residential Asset Manager 5 leader for the business, and that Andrews for the third consecutive year : Macaulay experience and expertise will be of great Walk was named Best Development 6 value to the Company.
and Best Mixed Use Development : our John Barnsley will also step down market rented fund with APG, GRIP, from the Board at the AGM, having been was recognised as a Sector Leader for 7 a Board director since 2003.
I would like to sustainability measurement : our Wellesley thank John for his significant commitment and contribution to Grainger over those years.
5 RESI Awards 6 Sunday Times British Homes Awards 7 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 8 Housing Design Awards
