Chairmans statement Successful implementation of our US growth strategy and improved business activity in many of our key markets resulted in record revenue and profits in 2014 2 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Results In the first seven months under Savills ownership, Studley, Inc.
The Groups underlying profit for the year increased by 34% to has performed exceptionally well in some of the most globally 100.5m 2013: 75.2m, on revenue which improved by 19% to important cities in the US and the way in which our people around 1,078.2m 2013: 904.8m.
The Groups statutory profit before the world have come together has exceeded our expectations.
In addition, we have looked at expanding the geographical Overview coverage of the Cordea Savills investment management platform.
With investors globally seeking secure income in a historically low During the year Cordea Savills took its first step outside Europe interest rate environment, the proportion of investment portfolios with the acquisition of Merchant Capital KK, a small investment allocated to real estate investment has continued to grow.
2014 management firm in Tokyo with approximately 250m AUM.
demonstrated the importance of Savills strengths in the prime We continue to evaluate opportunities to grow this important markets of many of the worlds key cities.
development of our US growth strategy, through the acquisition of Studley, Inc. in May 2014, enhanced our position in that market Board and specifically in transaction advice to occupiers.
Due to other commitments, Clare Hollingsworth retired from the Board on 12 May 2014.
On behalf of the Board I would like Our Transaction Advisory revenue grew by 38%, our Consultancy to thank her for her considerable contribution during her time business revenue by 13% and our Property Management at Savills both as a Director and as Chairman of the revenue by 3%.
Many of the principal commercial markets in Remuneration Committee.
which we operate experienced an exceptionally strong finish to the year, including record performances in the UK and Asia and On 24 June 2014 Liz Hewitt joined the Board as an independent a return to profit in Continental Europe.
Our Residential business Non-Executive Director.
benefited from a resilient market in Prime Central London and improved market conditions in the UK regions.
In Asia, the size Dividends and stability of our Property Management business, a record An initial interim dividend of 3.75p per share 2013: 3.5p performance in Japan and strong growth in Taiwan and Australia amounting to 4.9m was paid on 13 October 2014, and a final collectively helped to mitigate the effect of subdued investment ordinary dividend of 7.25p 2013: 7.0p is recommended, making markets in Hong Kong, Singapore and mainland China.
the ordinary dividend 11.0p for the year 2013: 10.5p.
In addition, a supplemental interim dividend of 12.0p 2013: 8.5p is declared, In Continental Europe, improved market conditions benefited our based upon the underlying performance of our Transaction predominantly transaction orientated businesses with revenue Advisory business.
Taken together, the ordinary and supplemental increasing by 19% and a return to profit for the first time since dividends comprise an aggregate distribution for the year of before the financial crisis.
Cordea Savills, the Groups Investment 23.0p per share, representing an increase of 21% on the 2013 Management business, delivered an improved performance aggregate dividend of 19.0p.
The final ordinary dividend of 7.25p across its European platform increasing Assets Under per ordinary share will, subject to shareholders approval at the Management AUM by 41% and attracting some high quality Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2015, be paid alongside the fund inflows, which drove an increase in revenue and profits.
supplemental interim dividend of 12.0p per share on 18 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at 17 April 2015.
The Boards ongoing focus on improving margin continued to drive an increase in profitability, with the Groups underlying profit People margin advancing to 9.3% from 8.3% in 2013.
Considerable On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my thanks to all our performance improvement in the broader UK market, together staff worldwide for their hard work, commitment and continued with elimination of losses in Continental Europe and the focus on client service, enabling the Group to deliver a very contribution of Savills Studley in the US, represented strong performance in 2014. the principal contributors to that increase.
Outlook Business development We have made a solid start to 2015 with performance in line Savills strategy is to be a leading adviser in the key markets in with management expectations.
We retain a cautious view on the which we operate.
Our global strategy is delivered locally by our timing of the recovery in the Hong Kong commercial market and experts on the ground with flexibility to adapt quickly to changes expect the UK residential market to remain subdued as a result in circumstances and opportunities.
They are supported by our of uncertainty around the General Election.
We expect that regional and cross-border investment and occupier service these factors will lead to a greater than usual weighting of our specialists.
Over the last few years we have acquired a number performance towards the second half of the year.
However, the of small businesses and added teams and individual hires to strength of our enhanced US operation, the scope of our UK our strong core business.
business and the breadth of our Asia Pacific coverage together with further improvement in Continental Europe, all position In light of the increasing internationalisation of both occupier Savills well for the future.
and investment markets, during the past few years, the Board has devoted considerable time to appraising the most appropriate Peter Smith route to build Savills position in the strategically important US Chairman market.
Having concluded that the acquisition of an appropriately positioned business was the ideal route, we entered discussions with Studley, Inc. in early 2013 and were delighted to announce the completion of the acquisition on 30 May 2014.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 3
