Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Bill Shannon Non-executive Chairman 15% i ncrease in total dividend fortheyear I am very proud to be reporting on a record year for St. Modwen with the business achieving 17% growth in net asset value to 324.9p per share 2013: 278.8p per share and profit before all tax of 138.1m 2013: 82.2m.
This outstanding set of results has been helped by strong valuation gains across our portfolio attributable to our planning and asset management initiatives, combined with positive movements in the UK residential and commercial marketplaces which reflect the overall upturn in the economy.
Sitting alongside our robust business strategy, at the heart of our success and inherent to St. Modwen, is a set of core values.
They reflect our strengths and our approach to all facets of regeneration.
In a year of record profits, these This is a record year values have never been more relevant.
We have set them out below, together with examples from our business activities highlighting our individual approach.
for St. Modwen with We think long-term Over the last few years we have continued to focus on our thebusiness regional portfolio, placing strong emphasis on asset managing our income producing properties and preparing sites for delivery for when the market conditions are appropriate.
achieving profit This long-term approach has positioned us well, enabling us to respond quickly to the increase in demand across the regional market as it continues to recover and benefit from the before all tax meaningful contribution the regions have made to this years record results.
Our long-term approach to regeneration is exemplified by the 1bn regeneration of Longbridge, Birmingham, one of our major projects.
Having started on site in 2007, we continued to deliver this important scheme throughout therecession, creating hundreds of new homes, the new 250,000 sq ft Bournville College and a 150,000 sq ft Technology Park.
We have since launched the new 100m Town Centre and in October 2014 we started on site with the second phase retail anchor, a 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store, drawn to our Longbridge development because of its vibrancy, connectivity and growing population.
We look forward to welcoming more national high street brands to the Town Centre during 2015.
12 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 We are innovative BOARD CHANGES We are continuously looking at new and inventive ways to We continue to refresh the composition of the Board to ensure develop our brownfield land portfolio in order to generate the that it is best placed to operate effectively.
In the year, John best value for the business, our shareholders and partners and Salmon, Audit Committee Chairman announced his intention to local communities.
retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM after We have also applied this innovative approach to strengthen more than nine years service.
On behalf of the Board, I would further our financial base, pursuing and securing alternative like to take this opportunity to thank John for his significant forms of funding to reduce reliance on bank finance whilst commitment and valued contribution to St. Modwen and to decreasing our gearing levels.
In the last three years, we have wish him well for the future.
issued a retail bond in October 2012 which raised 80m, John will be succeeded as Audit Committee Chairman by completed a 49m equity placing in March 2013 and, in Ian Bull, who joined the Board as a non-executive director in February 2014, successfully launched a 100m convertible September 2014.
Ian is Chief Financial Officer and a main board bond.
Also in 2014, we completely restructured our bank director at Ladbrokes plc, a position he has held since 2011. finance such that all of our corporate and joint venture facilities His strong financial and commercial pedigree will complement now extend until at least 2018. the existing experience of the Board and I am delighted that he will be continuing Johns excellent work as Audit We do what we say Committee Chairman.
No one can deny we are a straight-talking company and it is this direct approach that has cemented some important We announced in December 2014 that Michael Dunn, Group partnerships for the business and resulted in the success that Finance Director, would be leaving the Company.
The search we are reporting on today.
Colleagues, customers, suppliers, for his successor, which will consider both internal and external shareholders and major stakeholders rely on us to deliver on the candidates, is already well advanced.
Mike has played an promises and commitments we make to bring about long-term important part in the Companys success since his appointment sustainable regeneration.
in 2010 and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his valuable contribution and wish him well for the future.
We acquired the 2,500-acre portfolio of BP sites in 2009 at the height of the recession and are now delivering on our plans by transforming swathes of former industrial land across PROSPECTS South Wales into an innovative mix of housing, education and We are a national business with a UK-wide portfolio of energy-related projects.
These include a 30-acre Solar Park commercial and residential development opportunities.
at Baglan Bay which we launched in March 2014, the 450m We haveclear visibility on the progression of plans for our BayCampus for Swansea University and the 1,060-acre major projects and anticipate further growth in commercial residential-led regeneration at Coed Darcy in Neath.
development activity across the UK, leading us to extend our active pipeline of opportunities throughout 2015 and beyond.
DIVIDEND Our residential business continues to go from strength to In recent years, we have increased our dividends in line with the strength both in terms of its size and the reputation of the growth in net asset value and to reflect the Companys results.
brand, and we anticipate sustained levels of performance in the th For the year ended 30 November 2014, the Board has decided coming year.
to recommend a 15% increase in the total dividend for the year We remain well positioned to benefit from the growth potential to 4.60p per share 2013: 4.00p per share giving a final dividend in the UK economy and the property market as a whole and we for the year of 3.137p per share 2013: 2.67p per share.
nd look forward to further success in 2015 when we will continue The final dividend will be paid on 2 April 2015 to shareholders th to add value to our portfolio to ensure good long-term returns on the register at 6 March 2015. for our shareholders.
PEOPLE The dedication and energy of our staff personifies our values and they have made a significant contribution to the delivery Bill Shannon of this years excellent set of results.
Therefore, I would like to Chairman thank everyone at St. Modwen for their ongoing commitment, hard work and determination throughout the last 12 months.
nd 2 February 2015 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 13
