235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 5 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that, and the threat of a Greek exit from the Euro all represent in what has been a pivotal significant risks which have the potential to unsettle markets and period, significant progress could undermine growth.
However, even allowing for these risks, has been made both at a most forecasters expect the UK to continue on the path of stable, corporate and portfolio if unspectacular, growth with the IMF predicting the UK economy level in the evolution of the will grow by 2.7% in 2015.
Commercial Property Market At a corporate level, the In line with improved performance of the economy, the UK Company delivered above commercial property market was the best performing asset class benchmark returns in the in 2014 as values rose strongly, continuing the trend that emerged year, with a NAV total return in the summer of 2013.
Persistent investor demand for a limited of 19.7% and share price supply of property has underpinned this growth with many total return of 20.4%, investors, overseas and domestic, looking to acquire assets in the driven by strong portfolio performance.
In addition, following the regions given the current price of London commercial real estate.
change in dividend policy, the Company also grew by virtue of a number of equity issues which raised 82 million at premiums to The UK commercial property sector, as measured by IPD, recorded NAV.
These proceeds have been used to acquire properties that a total return of 17.4% in the year to 31 December 2014 with are in line with the Companys objective of providing an attractive capital returns of 11.4% being the main driver and income returns level of income together with the potential for capital growth.
Continuing yield compression across all the main sectors combined with rental growth, mainly in Just as importantly, following the year end, the Company secured London but importantly for the Company, spreading to some of 12 year financing at historically low interest rates and introduced a the regions, have been the main reasons for this impressive capital revolving credit facility to give the Investment Manager flexibility return.
to invest in suitable assets should the opportunity arise.
This is a very positive step for the Company as it has reduced the blended Significant Property Transactions cost of debt significantly and increased the resources available to There have been a number of property transactions up to the date invest in the portfolio strategy, whilst maintaining a prudent of this statement as set out below: gearing policy, which is still the lowest in the Companys peer group.
Completion in December 2014 of the acquisition and forward The Company has also made great strides both in terms of funding at Aberdeen Gateway resulting in the purchase of two performance and restructuring of the portfolio.
Over the industrial units and one office building.
This resulted in a 12 months to 31 December 2014, the Companys investment healthy valuation uplift relative to the combined cost of all portfolio outperformed the IPD benchmark, generating a total three assets: return of 18.4%.
Encouragingly, the portfolio continued to deliver Purchase of Regent Circus, Swindon increasing the Companys above benchmark returns on both a capital and income basis exposure to its favoured leisure sector: which is testament to its strength and quality and to the successful asset management initiatives undertaken by the Investment Purchase of two industrial units in Dartford which complement Manager.
This outperformance was achieved whilst completing the existing holding, leading to valuation uplifts: significant restructuring to prepare for future market trends, with a total of 150 million of assets traded up to the date of this report.
Sale of two small office blocks in Bristol at above valuation: Post the year end, sale of Pall Mall Court, Manchester and Economic Background Sovereign Centre, Weston-super-Mare at prices in line with In the 12 months to 31 December 2014 the UK economy started valuation.
to grow at rates which were closer to historical trends.
According to the Office of National Statistics, the UK economy grew by 2.8% From 1 January 2014 up to the date of this report, the Company in 2014, the highest rate of growth recorded since 2007. has purchased 97 million of assets including costs and, Importantly, while the dominant service sector was the largest including the two asset sales post year end, sold assets with a contributor, all the main sectors of the economy contributed to value of 53 million.
This demonstrates the significant progress this growth.
With unemployment continuing to fall, wage growth the Company has made in the implementation of a portfolio accelerating and inflation at a low level, the macroeconomic strategy that has increased exposure to the industrial and leisure picture for the UK is more positive than it has been for a sector, reduced retail exposure and sold assets where future return considerable time.
The UK General Election, which may be prospects are considered to be limited.
inconclusive, the Eurozone, which is now in a period of deflation, UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 5 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued Further details on these purchases and sales and the portfolio as a Based on an annual dividend of 3.68p and the share price at whole are set out in the Managers report.
31 March 2015 of 91.9p, the Companys shares produce a dividend yield of 4.0% which is attractive when compared to other asset classes.
Importantly, this yield is underpinned by a prime portfolio Borrowing of UK commercial property and, based on a 3.68p annual dividend As at 31 December 2014 the Companys gross gearing was 17.5%, rate, was fully covered in 2014. comfortably the lowest in the Companys peer group and significantly below the 25% limit set by shareholders.
The Share Issuance Company has taken advantage of this low gearing with the refinancing of the 80 million Lloyds Bank facility and on 8 April In total the Company issued 102,063,607 shares during the year, 2015 announced it had taken out a 12 year, 100 million loan from including 41,445,142 shares previously held in treasury, raising Cornerstone Real Estate Advisers Europe LLP, a member of the 82 million in total.
These share issues have been at premiums to MassMutual Financial Group, a large US based life company with NAV ranging from 4.3% to 7.1% and the majority of the proceeds AA rating from Standard & Poors.
The loan has a fixed interest have been invested in the acquisitions referred to earlier.
the first time the Company has been able to issue shares since 2010 and, underlining the ongoing appeal of the sector and the Post year end the Company has also taken out a 50 million Company even after such significant share issuance, the shares revolving credit facility for five years with Barclays Bank which can continue to trade at a healthy premium to NAV 10.7% at be drawn down or repaid at any time, at a margin of 1.5% over 31 March 2015.
As part of this facility, Barclays agreed to reduce the margin on the existing loan facility by 0.2% to 1.5% over three month Investment Manager LIBOR and extend the term of the loan to April 2020 from As previously reported Standard Life completed the acquisition of May 2018.
The Company also repaid the existing swaps and took Ignis Asset Management on 1 July 2014.
After extensive due out a new swap to match the extended maturity on this loan.
diligence, the Board consented to the change of control of its investment manager.
This has enabled the Company to utilise the This debt restructuring represents a significant opportunity for the significant resources that Standard Life has at its disposal, Company: long term debt with a mixed maturity profile has been something which was of great benefit during the recent debt secured at historically low interest rates and a more flexible form negotiations.
Having overseen the successful transition of the of debt has been introduced in order that the Manager can act portfolio onto the Standard Life platform, Robert Boag, the quickly should suitable opportunities arise.
The overall increase in Companys lead Fund Manager since 2009, has decided to seek debt of up to 70 million provides the Manager with additional fresh opportunities.
Robert has worked tirelessly on behalf of the resources to invest in a property market which remains strong but Company and he leaves with our gratitude and our very best still ensures that the Company is prudently geared, with gearing of wishes for the future.
Robert will be replaced by Will Fulton who 18.7% at an attractive blended interest rate of 2.89% assuming has 27 years of experience in real estate asset management the revolving credit facility remains undrawn.
In addition working on a number of different real estate vehicles.
The Board is continuation vote cycles have been successfully changed to tie-in confident that his management of the portfolio, supported by the with the dates of future debt re-financings.
rest of the UK Commercial Property Trust team, will sustain the good performance of the Company.
Dividends The Company declared and paid the following dividends during REIT the year: The Company has noted that a number of its peers have indicated Payment Date Dividend per their intention to convert to REIT status or have already done so.
2014 share p Having reviewed the position, the Board does not believe that converting to a REIT at the current time is in the best interests of 4th interim for prior period Feb 1.3125 the Companys shareholders.
The Board will continue to review the 1st interim May 0.9200 matter on a regular basis.
2nd interim Aug 0.9200 Outlook 3rd interim Nov 0.9200 The economic fundamentals supporting the UK economy remain Total 4.0725 robust.
Along with economic stability, business sentiment and consumer confidence remain at high levels and this can only be A fourth interim dividend of 0.92p was paid on 27 February 2015. helped by the fall in oil prices and the resultant impact on inflation.
6 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 7 In terms of the UK commercial property market, it is expected that careful choices of location and a continued focus on property fundamentals will be the defining characteristics contributing to returns over the next year.
Prime assets and good quality secondary assets in stronger locations are likely to provide the best opportunities in the robust economic environment anticipated in 2015.
With capital growth not forecast to be as strong in the next three years as in 2014, income will also play an increasingly important role in generating positive returns.
Both of these trends suit the current shape of the Companys portfolio with its regional bias and strong income profile.
Combined with the significant resources that the Company has to make further selective acquisitions, funded by additional debt raised at historically low rates, UK Commercial Property Trust Limited is in excellent shape to continue delivering positive performance for shareholders.
Christopher M. W. Hill Chairman 20 April 2015 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 7
