Chairmans Statement Responding to fastchanging markets Charles Berry Chairman 2014 saw the Group return to good constant currency growth as it benefited from its market leadership positions and strong aftermarket focus.
Results Our markets in 2014 It showed the necessary flexibility to seize Reported revenues were stable at Commodity prices declined as the year opportunities as they emerged, increasing 2.4bn, with pre-tax profits from continuing progressed as a result of increased supplies market share.
operations, before exceptional items and weaker than expected global economic and intangibles amortisation, of 409m: growth, particularly in China.
Upstream oil Following the change in market sentiment, a slight decrease of 2% on 2013.
Revenues and gas markets in North America grew the division took early action at the end of and operating profits were affected by strongly over the year, with technology 2014 to reduce costs and position itself to movements in foreign currency exchange and operational enhancements enabling respond to much tougher market conditions.
rates, an issue which impacted the majority operators to reduce their breakeven costs Similarly, the Minerals division responded of UK listed corporations with substantial substantially.
However, at the end of 2014 to continued reductions in spending by operations overseas.
In 2014, 95% of the we saw the first sign of the impacts on mining companies by consolidating its Groups revenues were generated outside industry activity of a very significant fall manufacturing footprint to increase the United Kingdom.
On a constant currency in oil prices, which has continued into 2015. efficiency and competitiveness.
In Power basis, revenues were 9% higher year on In mining markets, major commodities & Industrial, the division restructured year with pre-tax profits increasing 7%.
also suffered significant price reductions its operations to align them more in 2014, most notably iron ore, although closely with future growth prospects.
The Groups robust underlying performance, ore production levels continued to increase in a very challenging end market environment, and supported aftermarket demand.
Power You can read more about the performance is a tribute to Weirs 16,000 people and their markets were generally weak, reflecting of all three divisions in the operational continuing commitment to delivering the best global economic sentiment.
review section starting on page 32. engineering solutions in the oil, gas, minerals and power industries we serve.
These market conditions posed challenges Strategy for the Group but one of the great advantages This was my first full year as Chairman Dividend of Weirs long history is our experience and it has been a great pleasure to We are proposing a final dividend payment in responding rapidly to changing market reacquaint myself with a company which of 29p per share, making 44p for the full conditions.
We have developed a strong has played such a large part in my familys year, an increase of 5% and marking the business platform but have maintained the life.
My father worked for Weir up until 31st consecutive year of dividend growth agility to act quickly where it is necessary his retirement and I was fortunate to for the Group.
The Board rebalanced the to support performance and promote the serve as an apprentice with the Company phasing of dividend payments across long-term interests of shareholders.
before beginning my engineering studies at the year with the interim dividend now university.
The Group has been transformed representing around one-third of the In 2014, this was demonstrated with in the intervening years but I am glad to total payment.
the Oil & Gas divisions response to the report its commitment to innovation and speedy recovery in unconventional upstream serving its global customers remains as North American markets.
6 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements This is demonstrated in the Groups As a company operating in more than 70 We also expressed our appreciation to Lord strategy of building a strong installed base countries, our people call many communities Robertson of Port Ellen, who retired from the of highly engineered original equipment and home.
Weir spent 1.2bn in 2014 on our Board on 31 January 2015.
Lord Robertson supporting it with a market-leading service supply chain, helping to create and support was an invaluable source of wise counsel centre network, ensuring we can be highly employment around the world.
The Group to his fellow Board members over the responsive to our customers aftermarket also devoted approximately 600,000 to past decade and I would like to take this demands for replacement parts and local charitable causes, with a special opportunity to publicly thank him again services.
Chief Executive Keith Cochrane focus on health and education.
for his commitment to the Group and his details the Groups strategy in action from contribution to the success of the business page 10.
During 2014, we continued to strengthen in that period.
many of our sustainability programmes.
The Group has continued to accelerate I was pleased to see a significant increase Rick Menell, who has been a Non-Executive its strategy through carefully targeted in our score under the CDP Climate Change Director since 2009, succeeded Lord acquisitions.
This was the case with programme for the quality, transparency Robertson as Senior Independent Director.
the purchase of Chinese-American and completeness of information: in 2014 I was also delighted to welcome Professor equipment provider Trio Engineered we achieved 90%, compared to 77% in Sir Jim McDonald, Principal and Vice Products.
It is rewarding to receive this external Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde, organic entry into the comminution recognition of our progress, particularly for as a Non-Executive Director.
Sir Jim is segment of the mining mill circuit for the many people who have contributed to one of the UKs leading engineers and crushing, grinding and screening.
Earlier our energy and carbon reduction initiatives.
academics and he brings to the Board in the year, the Board made a merger I recognise the efforts that all of our a wealth of experience in industry and approach to Finnish mining equipment colleagues have made in this area and would developing world class research and maker Metso Corporation.
However, like to thank them for their continuing work.
Metso rejected our proposal and as a consequence, the offer was withdrawn.
We have also reviewed how we identify As we look forward to the rest of 2015, The Boards approach to mergers and assess sustainability business risks our end markets will undoubtedly be and acquisition activity is to focus on at a Group level and are in the process of challenging, but Weir has substantial opportunities that fit our strategy but completing a formal materiality assessment experience of managing changes across also meet our strict financial criteria.
to confirm those sustainability issues most the economic cycle.
The fundamental Indeed, the financial strength of the Group important for our business.
We recognise drivers of our long-term growth remain was emphasised by the award of strong the importance of the wider value chain to intact, our strategy is clear and we have investment grade credit ratings during 2014. our business success and have therefore a team with a strong record of delivery.
considered, not only our own operations This combination gives me great confidence Safety in the assessment, but also those of our in our ability to safely navigate the As a Board, we are proud of the many customers and suppliers.
headwinds we face and continue to achievements in 2014 but the continued provide value for all shareholders.
improvement in the Groups safety The Group was happy to support our home performance is particularly important city of Glasgow as it hosted the successful with the Total Incident Rate falling 20%.
In a historic Keeping our people safe is the first agenda year for Scotland, the Group was pleased item on every Board meeting and we are to make a constructive contribution to determined to achieve our ambition of the constitutional debate which included Charles Berry making Weir a zero-accident workplace.
publishing a report about the potential Chairman implications of independence for the 25 February 2015 A proud partner in our communities business community.
The Group has reinvigorated the culture and values which have defined the business The Board throughout its long history: focusing on As part of the Boards annual programme, our customers needs now and in the we visited the Groups new regional future: innovating and consistently headquarters in Dubai in the United Arab delivering high quality products and Emirates.
The facility builds on the longservices: supporting each other as standing success we have had in the region we work towards a common purpose: since first setting up a business in Dubai and acting with integrity, supported by in 1976 and reflects the opportunities for a refreshed code of conduct.
You can future growth in this strategically important learn more on page 67. part of the world.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 7
