O OV VER ERVI VIEW EW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Jean-Paul Luksic I am especially pleased that when Antucoya Dear shareholders, is commissioned it will be the first major This year was one of consolidation.
copper mine in Chile to be brought into In 2013 we achieved a record year production on budget and on time for five We continued to concentrate of production while focusing on cost years.
This will be a major achievement and control and productivity in a challenging on what we know best reflects all of the hard work that our team macroeconomic environment with declining and our contractors have put into making producing copper, reducing commodityprices.
Those macroeconomic the project a success.
Construction has costs and building a platform challenges continued through 2014 and taken place in a more benign cost and were further complicated by heightened for long-term growth.
working environment than we have seen geopolitical tensions around the world that for many years.
This has also contributed has created an atmosphere of uncertainty to the success of the project and is one of for investors.
As a Group, we continued the reasons we decided to proceed with it to concentrate on what we know best at a time when others were curtailing their producing copper, reducing costs and building own investment programmes.
Antucoya is a platform for long-term growth.
expected to come on-stream following a Our three-pillar strategy remains unchanged.
period when copper prices have declined to We focus first on optimising our existing five-year lows and are expected to recover operations, where investment is generally into the next upturn.
most effective and generates the fastest FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE and highest returns.
Secondly, we look for sustainable, organic growth in the Total revenue for the year was areas around our operations, particularly in $5,290.4 million, 11.4% lower than last the Los Pelambres and Centinela mining year, primarily reflecting the decline in metal districts, where we benefit from our existing prices, but also slightly lower sales volumes.
developed infrastructure and the ability to This decline was reflected in EBITDA, which share common services.
Finally, we look for coupled with increased cash costs, fell by growth further afield where considerable and 17.8% to $2,221.6 million, generating an more diverse opportunities exist, but where EBITDA margin of 42.0%.
we do not have the benefit of any organic Earnings per share for the year were 61.0 synergies.
We have been active in all three cents, excluding the $142.2 million deferred areas during the course of this year.
tax provision and 46.6 cents per share The completion of the concentrator expansion including the provision resulting from the at Centinela in 2015 will increase production changes in the Chilean tax law during 2014. there, and in our two mining districts we are This was 5.9 cents lower than in 2013, advancing our Encuentro Oxides, Pelambres reflecting lower revenue and the $76.3 million Incremental Expansion, and Centinela Second increase in depreciation at Centinela.
As part of the second Cash flow from operations remained healthy pillar, we will bring our new Antucoya mine at $2.5 billion, $151 million lower than last into production during the second quarter of year with the Groups attributable net cash 2015, while further afield we consolidated reducing to $315.4 million by the end of the ownership of the Twin Metals Minnesota the year.
project in the United States.
Together, these projects provide the Group with a strong pipeline for growth over the coming years.
Antofagasta plc | 05 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN BOARD CHANGES The Companys dividend policy is to determine the appropriate dividend each During the year there were a number of year based on consideration of the Groups changes to the Board and I was pleased 21.5cents cash balance, the level of free cash to welcome two new members, Vivianne flow and earnings generated during the Blanlot who joined in March and Jorge Bande, Total dividend for 2014, representing year, and significant known or expected who joined in December.
Both Vivianne and a 35% pay-out ratio.
funding commitments and to pay a total Jorge have extensive experience across annual dividend equal to at least 35% of the energy, mining, and water sectors and net earnings.
Vivianne has also held several senior positions in the public sector, including as Executive In view of the continued uncertainty in the Director of the Chilean Environmental Agency.
copper market at the start this year, as well Both Directors are regarded by the Board as as uncertainties at Los Pelambres arising independent and will bring new ideas and from an adverse court decision and actions by perspectives to our discussions.
some protestors in February and March 2015, the Board decided to recommend a final In September I decided to step back from the dividend of 9.8 cents per share, bringing the position of Executive Chairman to become total dividend for the year to 21.5 cents per Non-Executive Chairman.
At the same time ordinary share.
This represents a total amount Diego Hernndez took on the role of Group of $212.0 million and a pay-out ratio of 35% CEO, having previously been responsible based on earnings excluding the deferred tax for the mining division.
These changes provision resulting from the changes in the reflect the development of the Group and Chilean tax law during 2014. my role is now less focused on the day-today operations and more concerned with This is in line with the Companys policy to the strategic development of the Group and determine the appropriate dividend each leading the Board.
year based on consideration of the Groups cash balance, the level of free cash flow and At the end of August Nelson Pizarro stepped earnings generated during the year and to down as a Director to take up the position pay a total annual dividend equal to at least of CEO of Codelco.
Nelson had been on the 35% of net earnings.
However, given the Board for two years and I thank him for the uncertainties at Los Pelambres, the Company valuable contributions he made while he was will keep its dividend policy, and the amount with us.
of future dividends, under close review until In addition, certain changes were made to it has greater clarity as to the resolution of the composition of the Board Committees.
The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee were extended to include corporate governance matters and the When Antucoya is name of the Committee has been changed commissioned it will be to reflect this.
All of the Committees have the first major copper mine performed well and I thank the members of the Board serving on the Committees for in Chile to be brought into their efforts during the year.
production on budget and on time for five years.
06 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 O OV VER ERVI VIEW EW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION As the listed mining company with the AN EVOLVING MINING ENVIRONMENT largest operations in Chile, Antofagasta holds IN CHILE these principles at the heart of our business The election of President Michelle Bachelet and as a sustainable mining company we We look beyond just the in 2014 has resulted in a period of legislative look beyond just the short term and invest change in Chile.
The President, who with short term and invest in in renewable energy and water, and in her coalition partners enjoys a majority in improving our environmental standards.
renewable energy and both houses of Congress, has placed reform As an inclusive company we also work with at the centre of her legislative programme.
water, and in improving our the local authorities, our peers, employees, This programme has seen Congress approve environmental standards.
and the communities in which we operate a tax reform law in September and an tocreate shared value for all stakeholders.
education reform bill in January 2015 with other reforms in labour and constitutional SAFETY affairs expected in the coming months.
Despite our continued efforts to avoid any Antofagasta, and the private sector as a As part of a series of actions taken by UK fatalities at our operations, five people died whole, will continue to monitor and adapt regulators to strengthen minority shareholder during the course of the year.
This is terrible, to these changes in the years ahead and to protection in controlled companies such as and the Board and I offer our heartfelt participate fully in the consultative processes.
ours, new Listing Rules came into force this sympathy to the families of the deceased.
year that require the Company to enter into The Chile Mining and Development We owe it to their memory, and the memory a relationship agreement with its controlling Commission was established in 2014, of the others lost over the years, to redouble shareholders.
The Company has therefore reflecting not only the critical importance of our efforts to achieve our target of zero replaced the existing relationship agreement mining to the Chilean economy but the need fatalities.
I know that this is much easier to it had with its controlling shareholders, to balance demands for faster socioeconomic say than do, but I want to make sure that the Luksic family, with a new agreement.
development and redistribution with a period each and every employee knows that it is our This reflects the requirements of the new of prolonged uncertainty for the global top priority.
Listing Rules through the inclusion of certain mining industry.
I was honoured to accept an mandatory independence provisions in invitation to serve on this panel of private and OUTLOOK the agreement.
The Company and I, as a public sector industry leaders, co-ordinated Sustainability and the health and safety of our representative of the controlling shareholders, by the National Innovation Council, tasked employees are key to our success.
We are believe that this further level of transparency with identifying strategic priorities for Chiles proud to be in the mining business in Chile, will clarify the relationship and provide mining sector over the next 20 years.
creating shared value for all our stakeholders.
comfort to all shareholders on how the We will continue to invest in our business At Antofagasta we are proud to be part of a Company conducts its business.
The new and in the country to ensure a steady, stable, group of people and companies committed agreement was signed in November.
secure and profitable future for all.
to the future of mining in Chile.
In December last year the Commission presented the 2015 will be an important year for Antofagasta President with a series of proposals to as we complete our current projects, prepare promote the development of sustainable for our next phase of growth and face the mining, putting three principles at the heart challenges that the current macroeconomic of future development: that mining should be environment brings.
sustainable, inclusive and mutually beneficial I would like to thank the senior management for both operators and communities.
team and all of our employees for their valuable contribution over the year and look forward to another productive year ahead.
