Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Chairmans statement To shareholders On behalf of the Board I am pleased Risk management and commitment to report that 2014 saw good progress to ethical behaviour Returns to against the Groups strategy of building The Board aims to assure the integrity a diversied business, delivering more of GSKs business operations through shareholders products of value and simplifying the rigorous processes and systems and operating model.
during the year risk management was once remain a key again a key part of the Boards discussions.
Notwithstanding that, we also recognise the fundamental changes in the trading The Audit & Risk Committee plays a critical priority for the environment in which the Group operates, role in overseeing the issues and challenges particularly in the US, and how that has faced by the management team, including, Board and in 2014 impacted performance in 2014.
However, in 2014, the resolution of the investigation the Board continues to believe the by the Chinese authorities into our business we set a dividend management team have put in place there.
The illegal activities of GSK China the appropriate strategy to respond were a clear breach of GSKs governance to these challenges.
and compliance procedures and are wholly of 80p per share, contrary to the values and standards The Board was particularly pleased expected from GSK employees.
We have an increase of 3% to approve the proposed three-part implemented substantial changes to our transaction with Novartis which will Chinese business as a consequence.
transform the future shape of the Group making it more balanced and providing The Board expects the Group to remain better opportunity for broadly based sales vigilant on compliance issues and fully growth.
I was delighted that shareholders supports managements efforts to overwhelmingly voted in favour of the encourage employees who have concerns transaction in December.
to speak up, to investigate all allegations that are made and to continue to invest Returns to shareholders remain a key in improved procedures.
priority for the Board and management team and despite the challenging trading I have no doubt that commercial success environment, a focus on cost and financial is directly linked to operating in a responsible efficiencies have allowed the Board to way which meets the changing expectations set a dividend of 80p per share for 2014, of society.
In this respect, the Board an increase of 3%.
This year we expect to supports the action management has maintain the dividend at 80p per share and taken to fide-link compensation for sales also return 4 billion of net proceeds from representatives from the number of the proposed Novartis transaction, once prescriptions written.
The Board also appropriate approvals have been gained.
recognises the industry leading work the Group is doing to fundamentally In total, since 2008 34 billion has change the relationship we have with been returned to shareholders through doctors and customers which is removing dividends and share buybacks.
any perception of a conict of interest.
This forward looking approach is exemplied in our work on the worlds first malaria vaccine where we await news from regulators and in our efforts as part of the global response to the Ebola crisis.
Both examples show the dedication, skill and expertise that we have in GSK to make a real difference to peoples lives worldwide.
2 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board diversity 12 11 10 10 10 08 06 5 5 5 04 02 0 2012 2013 2014 Male Female This year, in further efforts to improve our He succeeded me as Nominations Prospects corporate reporting, we have incorporated Committee Chairman during January In closing, on behalf of the Board I would more information about our responsible to lead the refreshment of the Board like to thank Sir Andrew and his executive business approach and performance to reect the requirements of the future team for their continuing commitment within the Annual Report as we move reshaped Group.
I will continue to during a challenging year where they towards aligning with the principles of provide Sir Philip and the Committee have once again demonstrated their ability Integrated Reporting.
In addition, a with support and continuity, until I stand to deliver against the Groups strategy.
Responsible Business Supplement, down from the Board at the 2015 AGM.
This will be my last report as Chairman will be published in March, providing As well as welcoming Sir Philip to the of GSK and I would like to thank further detail on these topics and setting Board, I was also pleased to announce shareholders for their support throughout out progress the Group made during in October that Urs Rohner would join the my tenure.
Through my time as Chairman, 2014 against its responsible business Board as a Non-Executive Director with I have seen many changes and much commitments.
He is already progress, whether that is delivery from Governance and remuneration bringing great value to the Board using his the companys R&D organisation, efforts As Chairman, I am committed to GSK experience as Chairman of Credit Suisse to improve access to our medicines, seeking to operate to the highest standards Group AG and his broad business or the evolution of the commercial model.
This has been coupled with a strong evaluation was undertaken of the Board commitment to shareholder returns.
I would like to thank Sir Deryck Maughan and our Committees in 2014.
Im pleased for agreeing to remain on the Board for As I look forward, with the integration of to say the results were positive and an additional year as Senior Independent new elements following the completion confirmed the Board operates in an Director to assist with transitioning the role of the proposed three-part Novartis effective manner.
of Chairman from myself to Sir Philip, and transaction and further restructuring and The Remuneration Committee has to utilise his considerable experience and innovation still to come in the R&D pipeline, operated in accordance with the binding knowledge of GSKs businesses to provide I remain confident GSK will deliver remuneration policy, which received continuity and balance.
considerable, long-term value and overwhelming shareholder support at returns for shareholders.
My thanks also go to Jing Ulrich for her the 2014 AGM.
Its report can be found dedicated service to the Board.
Jing has on page 96. decided not to seek re-election at our AGM.
Board changes and composition Finally, Tom fide Swaan stands down at There were a number of changes to the our AGM after nine years of valuable and Board during the year.
committed service, which has included his Following an extensive and rigorous search, exemplary chairmanship of the Audit & Risk Sir Philip Hampton was appointed as my and Remuneration Committees.
Sir Philip joined the Board as like to thank Tom for his advice and Sir Christopher Gent a Non-Executive Director at the start of support over the years and wish him Chairman January and will become Deputy Chairman well for the future.
in April and Chairman from the end of the 2015 AGM in May.
Sir Philip brings enormous expertise to the Board, including chairing a number of global companies operating in complex and highly regulated environments.
