Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks LEGOLAND Constant Currency 2014 2013 Growth Growth Parks Visitors m 12.7 11.5 9.8% Revenue m 386 352 9.5% 15.7% 2014 WAS AN EXCEPTIONAL YEAR FOR THE LEGOLAND PARKS OPERATING Underlying EBITDA m 142 127 11.9% 19.2% GROUP.
ALL SIX EXISTING LEGOLAND PARKS DELIVERED YEAR ON YEAR Underlying operating profit m 120 106 13.2% 21.1% REVENUE GROWTH, BENEFITING FROM STRONG CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND Like for like revenue growth 13.2% THE PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF THE LEGO MOVIE.
WITH LEGOLAND DUBAI AND LEGOLAND JAPAN ALREADY UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND LEGOLAND KOREA ALSO ANNOUNCED, WE ARE FIRMLY ON TRACK WITH OUR Tradingperformance visitation to all our LEGOLAND sites.
Guests were able to The LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group had an exceptional visit the actual film set at LEGOLAND California, and across LEGOLAND PARK DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME.
year in 2014, due to a continued successful capital investment all the parks we reaped the rewards of strong marketing and programme and the impact of The LEGO Movie.
growth in visitors converted into revenue growth of 15.7% and underlying operating profit growth of 21.1%, both on a We also benefited from more favourable weather in 2014 in the constant currency basis, with reported numbers adversely European parks, especially at Easter where the 2013 comparative affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The flow period had been extremely challenging.
through of incremental revenues to profit is tempered by the mix of revenues, variable trading and labour costs, as well as Resortpositioning unexpected remedial costs at the LEGOLAND Windsor hotel.
The repositioning of the parks as short break destinations continues to be very popular with guests, driving higher satisfaction scores,  higher spends and an increase in pre-booked business.
In 2014, In 2014, the highlight of the LEGOLAND parks capital we opened the 68 bedroom Kings Castle hotel at LEGOLAND investment cycle was the high-year LEGO CHIMA water park Deutschland Holiday Village which had an average occupancy at LEGOLAND California.
This investment almost doubled the rate of over 95% during the peak summer months.
This augments size of the existing water park and has been extremely popular the smaller Knights Castle hotel that opened the previous year.
These factors, together with the launch of The LEGO Movie at this attraction and generally good weather, Elsewhere we re-themed the Holiday Village at LEGOLAND helped secure the best summer ever at this resort.
Billund, which we took over at the start of 2013, and expanded the LEGOLAND Billund hotel with 24 highly In LEGOLAND Billund, Denmark, we had a medium-year themed new bedrooms.
investment, comprising the GhostThe Haunted House attraction and drop ride experience.
This has performed well in attracting additional visitors to the resort.
All the LEGOLAND Parks, especially the two North American sites, benefited significantly in 2014 from The LEGO Movie.
Launched at LEGOLAND California in February, the film was a major blockbuster hit especially in the USA and the UK.
This drove consumer demand for the LEGO product and The LEGO Movie launched at LEGOLAND California in February The new LEGO CHIMA water park in LEGOLAND California 27 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks Operated and owned This is how the first five LEGOLAND Parks were developed, and we expect to identify more locations where this model can be applied.
Specifically, we are exploring some encouraging The LEGO product opportunities for a third park in North America.
remains hugely popular and Customersatisfaction LEGOLAND CASTLE HOTEL, GERMANY Alongside the commercial performance and resort expansion, our co-operation with the it is particularly pleasing to report that we have increased our LEGO Company is excellent already high customer satisfaction score across the LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group as a whole.
In April we continued our programme of transforming our What did theme parks into destination resorts when we opened our second we do?
Lookingforward LEGOLAND Castle hotel at the LEGOLAND Deutschland Holiday Alongside our longer term LEGOLAND Parks development Village in Bavaria in southern Germany.
The 68 bedroom Kings programme, we continue to invest in capital projects both for Castle hotel is a follow-up to the Knights Castle we opened in 2013. new rides and accommodation offerings.
The hotel represented an investment of approximately 9 million  and has been financed entirely from Merlins cash flow.
2015 will see a high-year capital investment in a brand new We made significant progress in 2014 in our strategy to add at LEGO Friends area at LEGOLAND Windsor along with similar least one new LEGOLAND Park every three years, always with smaller investments in California and Florida.
Cinemas in all our an unerring focus on the returns that can be generated from the Merlins expert hotel team, combined with local architects and the How did LEGOLAND Parks and LEGOLAND Discovery Centres will three different financing and development models that we follow.
local LEGOLAND Deutschland management team, were responsible we do it?
benefit from an exclusive short 4D movie experience based for developing the product on the basis of the very successful smaller on The LEGO Movie and containing exciting new content.
Operated and leased sites Knights Castle launched in 2013.
The development and operational In June 2014 we announced our plans for LEGOLAND Japan in set up worked very well, leveraging the expertise that has been In terms of accommodation, construction is on schedule for the Nagoya, scheduled for opening in 2017.
Nagoya sits in the centre built up across the Group.
opening of our second LEGOLAND hotel in the USA at the park of Japan which is the second largest theme park market in the entrance to LEGOLAND Florida in late spring 2015.
The development of the park will be supported by the combine with marketing opportunities from the opening of our City of Nagoya through the development of the local travel The project was delivered on time and on budget.
Financial What was other Midway attractions in Orlando this year.
Plans are also in infrastructure including a 5,000 space car park.
The site will performance has been stronger than expected, outperforming the the result?
progress for further additions to our existing hotels and have the potential both for future park expansion and on-site, business case for developing the hotel without cannibalising our Holiday Villages for the years to come.
It will be developed under our operated existing offers in the Holiday Village.
Guest satisfaction scores have and leased model, where Merlin has an operating company that been very high and, in line with our experience in other resorts, even The LEGO product remains hugely popular and our contributes a portion of total park investment and leases the higher than for day visitors.
Over 60% of visitors to the Holiday Village co-operation with the LEGO Company and KIRKBI remains balance of the assets from a third party: in this case from a come from outside Germany: a trend that is increasing.
This all excellent, resulting in many initiatives which benefited our company owned by KIRKBI a shareholder in Merlin and a continues to underpin the strategy of repositioning the parks as business in 2014 and will continue to do so in the future.
This major shareholder in the LEGO Company.
collaborative approach covers both tactical and strategic matters, with our teams meeting at least once a year to plan for future In November 2014 we announced LEGOLAND Korea.
This is developments to our mutual benefit.
Tactical collaboration occurs also scheduled for a 2017 opening and is financed under a similar in all markets around events and promotional activities.
On the model to LEGOLAND Japan, in this case funded by a property strategic level we are well integrated into the long term product company owned by a consortium of local public and private programmes of the LEGO Company and are seeing the results investors.
This park will be situated on a picturesque island of this collaboration in such things as our planned new LEGO setting in Chuncheon, located approximately one hour from Friends areas in three LEGOLAND Parks for 2015.
Seoul, South Korea, and within a two hour drive time for nearly 24 million residents.
National and regional governments and Chuncheon City will between them fund transportation Emmet and Wyldstyle from The LEGO Movie and wider infrastructure support.
Management contracts LEGOLAND Malaysia was developed under a management contract model and this has been operating successfully since its opening in September 2012.
We expect, with our local partners, CASE STUDY to open LEGOLAND Dubai as the first LEGOLAND Park in the Middle East in 2016.
Furthermore, we continue to pursue opportunities and may in time see one or more parks under this model in China.
