04 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Chairmans overview Creating the technology that shapes theconnected world ARM is a fast-growing business in a dynamic ARM is the worlds leading semiconductor IP company.
We develop and competitive market.
In 2014 our customers and license technology that is at the heart of many of the digital reported that they had shipped 12 billion ARM-based chips, an increase of 16% on 2013. electronics devices sold each year, from smartphones and tablets to Just under half of those chips were shipped sensors and servers.
ARMs microprocessor technology is helping to into mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, where ARM has a high market shape the world we live in as smart chips connect each of us to our share.
An increasing number of chips were friends, to our communities, to our work, and to our online lives.
shipped into new markets, including enterprise networking infrastructure and embedded We have embraced the rapid pace of change in our digital world intelligent devices such as microcontrollers by developing technology that brings new possibilities to a globally andchips for the Internet of Things.
There have been some challenges in 2014.
In the first half of the year, inventory management in the consumer electronics supply chain led to a slowdown in the Stuart Chambers sale of chips, especially into smartphones.
Chairman As the majority of ARMs royalty revenues are generated from the sales of chips into consumer electronics, we saw slower royalty revenue growth in 2014 than in prior years.
In this context, ARM has performed well.
16% 17% 28% 23% Group dollar revenues increased 16% and Dollar revenue growth Full year dividend growth Normalised diluted EPS growth IFRS diluted EPS growth normalised diluted earnings per share by 17% IFRS: 28%.
The Board has recommended an increase in the full year dividend for 2014 of 23% and, during the year, approved the buyback of 7.9 million shares, demonstrating the Boards confidence in ARMs long-term growth opportunities.
Growth based on 2013 EPS before exceptional items.
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 05 The ARM team over the last 13 years.
Tim joined ARM in 2002, Remuneration Committee, and thank both We have ensured that we have and since the end of that year the company Philip and Eric for their valuable contributions The knowledge and creativity of our people a Board of the right size and has grown normalised earnings per share at a to Board discussions and decisions.
and the ability to deliver customer satisfaction CAGR of about 20%.
On behalf of the Board, composition, and that the team in an increasingly demanding and competitive the management, and the wider ARM team, The above changes are consistent with our environment are key determinants of has the right balance of skills we thank Tim for his passion and service aim of having a Board of the right size and our success.
We hired net 461 additional throughout this period of transformation.
composition, and with the right balance andexpertise.
employees, the majority of whom are of skills and expertise.
Together we have engineers working in processor design and Chris Kennedy has been appointed to succeed continued to rene ARMs strategy for growth: software development.
These new hires were Tim Score as CFO, and will join the Board to develop and deploy energy-efficient a mix of graduates and experienced talent from of ARM Holdings plc as a director once he technology: to enable innovation through a all over the world.
has completed his commitments with his broad ecosystem of partners, building on our current employer.
shared success: and to create superior returns More about people and culture on page 40 for our shareholders by investing in long-term Dr John Liu joined the Board on 1 December growth.
These investments are focused on 2014 as an independent non-executive our opportunities in the continuing growth Board changes director.
John, a Chinese national, has many of mobile devices, as well as networking In January 2014, ARM announced that Sir John years of experience managing technology infrastructure and the Internet of Things.
Buchanan was stepping down from the ARM companies in Asia, particularly Greater China Board due to a medical condition.
The Board, including Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd and An expanding opportunity management and employees of ARM wish Google Inc.
Finally, I would like to thank all of ARMs John well, and thank him for his contribution to employees for their effort and contribution in the business.
As for me, it is a privilege and a Two non-executive directors left the Board 2014.
I look forward to seeing how this exciting pleasure to succeed him as Chairman.
ARM is in 2014: Philip Rowley stepped down from company, the technology it creates, and the an ambitious company with a great opportunity the Board in May 2014 after serving his ninebroad ecosystem of semiconductor companies ahead of it and I am delighted to be part of year term, and Eric Meurice stepped down and supporting Partners, will shape the future the team.
in March 2014 in order to avoid a potential for our increasingly connected world.
We thank Philip for In May 2014, ARM announced that Tim Score, his hard work and diligence as Chair of the ARMs Chief Financial Officer, had decided to retire in May 2015.
In his time as CFO Tim has Read more in Governance, page 46 been a key part of the team transforming ARM 06 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 07 A new angle 3D Robotics develops innovative, exible and reliable personal drones and UAV technology for everyday exploration and business applications.
The Pixhawk autopilot system is a complete solution for multiplatform autonomous vehicles, based on the opensource Pixhawk autopilot.
It is powered by an STMicroelectronics STM32F427 MCU, featuring a ARMCort rtex ex - -M M4 4 mic microc rocont ontr rolle oller r.. Find out m mor ore e: : 3D Robot tics ics drone drones s w we ere re us use ed d in in t th he e lming lming of the adve ven nt tu ur re m e mo ov viie e S Su ug ga ar r Moun Mount ta ain in, , released in November 2014. http: goo.
gl 2ldbYW In this section: CEOs statement 08
