STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Notably, our production performance in all our key Sir John Parker businesses has been ahead of plan.
During October 2014, we were able to ship our first ore from Minas-Rio earlier than expected and within the revised capital budget of $8.8 billion.
This is testimony to the unrelenting endeavours of the team in Brazil.
However, the dramatic drop in the iron ore pricing environment, which has been particularly acute in the near term and has also dragged down long term price expectations, has resulted in a $3.5 billion non-cash 2014 saw a notable divergence in performance post-tax write down in the asset value of Minas-Rio.
Notwithstanding the tough pricing environment, there have between the worlds major economies.
In China, been several encouraging developments.
Our platinum growth dipped slightly below the governments operations in South Africa are recovering strongly from the prolonged strike in the first half of 2014, and we are making 7% target.
Other emerging economies, the headway in restructuring the business, including the eurozone and Japan are in a fragile state, though divestment of operations we no longer consider to be core.
The operational turnaround at our two major copper the US strengthened significantly during the year.
interests in Chile, Los Bronces and Collahuasi, is well under way despite the challenges, at Los Bronces, posed by declining grades and ore hardness.
At Sishen, our flagship These macro-economic conditions and the over-supply iron ore asset in South Africa, we are on track to restore of certain mined commodities drove severe price decreases.
production to a 38 million tonnes per annum level in 2016.
Such developments are posing considerable challenges In Australia, where deteriorating prices for metallurgical coal for the global mining industry.
This is particularly the case are putting great pressure on our coal operations, we have in bulk commodities such as iron ore, where industry managed to dramatically improve productivity, bringing over-expansion created price levels that are more depressed down unit costs substantially at our key longwall operations.
than they might have been.
Given these developments, Anglo American is taking further action to cushion the impact of downward price pressures.
SAFETY I never fail to be impressed by the level of commitment ANGLO AMERICANS ROAD TO RECOVERY shown throughout our Group from Board level to the working face in safety matters.
That is why it is always sad Results and disappointing to report on loss of life in our business.
These challenging conditions are demonstrating the In 2014, despite a steep reduction in fatal incidents after resilience of Anglo Americans strategy, based as it is on a taking the platinum strike into account, and ongoing diversified range of products attuned to different stages of declining trends in injuries, six people lost their lives it is the cycle.
We delivered an underlying EBIT of $4.9 billion incumbent on us all to do whatever it takes to get this figure in 2014 2013: $6.6 billion.
We have also recommended down to zero.
a dividend of 53 cents per share at the final stage, giving a maintained total dividend for the year of 85 cents Under Tony ONeill, our technical director, this is being given per share, and we expect the dividend to be funded renewed direction, particularly with the emphasis being from free cash flow from 2016 onwards.
The Boards placed via our Operating Model on planned work, which is commitment to providing a base dividend, which will be improving performance not only in safety, but in practically maintained or increased through the cycle, is unchanged.
all areas of the business.
Performance Allied to this, we are focusing on the deployment of Under the leadership of Mark Cutifani, considerable new technologies, and particularly those concerning progress is being made, on this, the first year of our mechanisation and automation, in order to make mining less three-year journey towards realising the potential set physically arduous and to eliminate, as far as possible, the out in our Driving Value strategic imperative.
potentially hazardous interface between employees and machinery and the rock face.
This has led to tightening In 2014, we passed a number of important milestones on policy around transportation along with falls of ground, the road to our ambition.
This included making significant the main cause of injuries in our Group, including stricter strides in our operational performance to meet our 2016 regulation around transport hire and the advance target of 15% ROCE at June 2013 prices and exchange monitoring of road conditions.
At that time we plan to deliver an additional $4 billion of incremental EBIT compared to 2012, and are redoubling our efforts to create further improvements, including scaling down our capital expenditure for 2015 and 2016.
02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report I am pleased to report that at year end, we had three DEVELOPING AND DEPLOYING NEW TECHNOLOGIES female directors, constituting 25% of our Board, in line In the past, Anglo American, deservedly, had a reputation with the Davies Report 2015 target.
We have also for being a leader in mining technology, and the Board consciously built up our ethnic diversity.
is giving its full backing to the executive and the Technical team as we endeavour to again lead the industry.
Our OUR PEOPLE intense focus on operational fundamentals doing the basic things better is already delivering substantial benefits.
I am encouraged by the extent to which we are being supported by our employees as we strive to make Today, however, no mining company can be working wholly Anglo American a more efficient and effective organisation.
within its own silo, and that is why AngloAmerican is working Change is never comfortable for employees but, as with a range of global institutions and universities in the Mark Cutifani emphasised at our Investor Day in December, Americas, Australia, South Africa and the UK to support we have to adapt urgently given the pricing pressure on us in our drive to be at the forefront of mining technology.
We now want to move on to the next phase, with It is pleasing to note how far we have come already in developments such as rock cutting lasers, alongside the restructuring the organisation, not least in the alignment deployment of digital engineering that can simulate mine of key people to key roles.
Notably, in our all important and infrastructure conditions prior to the first shovel being Technical and Sustainability area, which is leading the put in the ground.
In turn, the adoption of the latest way on our continuing journey to transform operational construction techniques will greatly reduce the labour performance, we have seen the emergence of a revitalised intensiveness and development risks of projects.
organisation, with three-quarters of its top management recruited from across the global mining industry.
RESETTING THE SOUTH AFRICAN RELATIONSHIP I wish to express my sincere gratitude to everyone who At Anglo American, we attach great importance to our works for Anglo American for their hard work during a year relationships with our host governments.
None is more of great change both internally and externally, and for their important than South Africa, where we have substantial iron ongoing commitment to the Group in what undoubtedly will ore, platinum, thermal coal and diamond interests.
These be a very challenging year ahead.
include projects such as the $2 billion extension into an underground diamond mine at Venetia, already under way, OUTLOOK the potential New Largo coal mine development and the possible expansion of Platinums open pit at Mogalakwena.
Against a background of a world economy that is likely to remain turbulent as the after-effects of the global financial We are also changing the role and composition of the crisis continue to linger, Anglo American is determined to AngloAmerican South Africa Board in order to: reinforce be commercial in its approach, with a disciplined focus on our commitment to, and strengthen our engagement with margins and aligning output to anticipated market demand.
the country: and to co-ordinate our significant social and Given this approach, our Group, with its differentiated range community programmes there through an integrated of early-, mid-, and late-stage products such as platinum project management approach.
and diamonds, is well placed to withstand both the vagaries of the cycle and to take advantage of the eventual upturn.
BOARD DEVELOPMENTS Meanwhile, we are focused on delivering cost effective operational performance.
During my time as your chairman, I have constantly sought to recruit people with the relevant skills sets and breadth of experience to make a real difference to the OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Boards deliberations.
This has brought to the boardroom Our 2014 strategic report, from pages 2 to 64, was reviewed not only mining knowledge, but also experience in and approved by the Board on 12 February 2015. such areas as management of major projects, modern engineering, construction, finance, investment expertise, global business experience, corporate leadership and healthcare.
As a result, I believe that the Board is now not only stronger and more dynamic, but that it has helped to foster a relationship with the executive based on mutual Sir John Parker trust and respect.
This has created a boardroom culture Chairman where robust challenge is respected.
We are fortunate indeed to have Jack Thompson, who brings experience gained at all levels of the mining industry, as the chairman of the Sustainability Committee.
I would also like to thank Byron Grote for the important perspectives he has brought to the Audit Committee in his first year as its chairman, and Sir Philip Hampton who diligently chairs our Remuneration Committee and serves as our senior independent director.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 03
