4 Overview Delivering strong results Chairmans statement Given the strong level of realisations, the emphasis on selective investment in uncertain market conditions, and ourhealthy balance sheet position, we are proposing a total dividend for the financial year to 31 March 2014 of 20.0 pence per share, a yield of 6% on the 316 pence per share price at28 March 2013.
We paid one third of this, 6.7 pence per share, in January 2014 as an interim dividend.
Subject to shareholder approval, we will pay the balance of 13.3 pence per share asafinal dividend in July 2014.
Board changes During the year, Willem Mesdag retired from the Board with effect from 30 November 2013.
Willem had served as a non-executive Director on our Board since 2007, including as Sir Adrian Montague Chair of the Valuations Committee, and I would like to take this Chairman opportunity to thank him for his valuable advice and counsel over that period.
David Hutchison OBE, who is Chief Executive of Social Finance Ltd, joined our Board as a non-executive A strong performance as we Director with effect from 11 November 2013.
David has succeeded Willem as Chair of the Valuations Committee.
continue implementing our strategic plan.
Outlook We remain cautious overall on the economic outlook.
While there appear to be some positive indicators in certain parts ofthe European economy, not least strong equity markets, I am pleased to report a strong overall levels of GDP growth remain low and we believe performance for the financial year to thatany broader based recovery could take time, and the unwinding of recent monetary policy will not be without risk.
Simon Borrows and his executive team have made excellent Despite this uncertain macroeconomic environment and relatively subdued levels of M&A activity in our core markets, headway in accomplishing many of the our Private Equity business completed three new mid-market objectives in the three-year strategic investments and one significant further investment: Basic-Fit, GIF, JMJ Associates and Scandlines, contributing to total cash plan we adopted in June 2012 and investment of 372 million, including third-party funds.
haveachieved both strong levels of Within Infrastructure, the Group completed its acquisition of Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management business, realisations and continued progress adding over 700 million of assets under management and inmatching the level of our operating an experienced investment team based in London and Paris.
Wehave also capitalised on buoyant credit markets in costs with our annual cash income.
Debt Management, with the launch of four new CLO funds with aggregate third-party AUM of 1.2 billion.
The strength of the market for realisations and Simon Borrows success in leading 3i through an intensive restructuring process Dividend have allowed us again to demonstrate the strength of 3is In May 2012, the Board announced a strengthened franchise.
We are confident that we will deliver the remaining distribution policy designed to give shareholders a direct objectives set out in the strategic plan, and we look forward share in the success of the Groups realisations by adopting toimproving further the performance of the business and apolicy ofreturning to shareholders a proportion of gross generating further shareholder value in years to come.
cash proceeds subject to certain conditions.
These conditions have been satisfied, and in November 2013 we announced that we would be initiating additional shareholder distributions above the base dividend.
Sir Adrian Montague Chairman 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 S tra t eg i c re port 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
