Overview Chairmans statement We made good progress in the implementation of our strategy, which is to deliver our return objectives by maintaining and building a portfolio primarily focused on the core infrastructure market, while also increasing in a measured way our exposure to primary PPPand renewable energy projects.
Furthermore, we have agreed anumber of changes to the Investment Advisory Agreement which will benefit shareholders and, importantly, secure the services of3iasInvestment Adviser for the Company.
Peter Sedgwick, Chairman 8 May 2014 The Company generated a steady return this In February 2014, 3i Group announced changes As was the case last year, the European year.
The European portfolio continued to in the leadership of the Investment Adviser, portfolios good returns were offset in part generate good levels of income and capital with the appointment of Ben Loomes and by the poor performance of the investments growth throughout the year.
This was partly Phil White as Managing Partners and Co-heads in the India Fund, which was affected by offset by a decline in the value of its holding in of its Infrastructure business.
The Board was political and market uncertainties, currency the 3i India Infrastructure Fund India Fund consulted on these new arrangements and is devaluation and weaker economic in the first half of the year, however this was highly confident that this strengthened team performance in the first half of the year.
stabilised in the second half.
will be able to drive future performance.
This resulted in the total return for the year In addition, in May 2014 the Company and being below the Companys target return We were pleased to add to both our core theInvestment Adviser agreed, subject to of10% perannum.
infrastructure and PPP portfolios this year.
shareholder approval, a range of amendments InJune 2013, we completed our investment in to the Investment Advisory Agreement, Dividend Cross London Trains XLT, in a consortium delivering benefits to the Companys As a result of the strong levels of income with Siemens and Innisfree.
These amendments include generated this year, the Board proposes a final was recognised in the industry with several areduction in the fee rate applied to new dividend of 3.35 pence per share.
In addition, in November 2013 and primary PPP and certain renewable project to theinterim dividend of 3.35 pence per share March 2014 respectively, we completed our investments, the introduction of a high water paid in January 2014, represents 5.5% of investments in the Dutch National Military mark requirement for the performance fee, opening net asset value, meetingthe dividend Museum NMM and the Mersey Gateway as well as an extension of the agreement and objective for this year.
The dividend is fully Bridge primary PPP projects, leveraging the its exclusivity provisions for a minimum term covered by the portfolio income generated Investment Advisers enhanced investment ofafurther four years.
The amendments are during the year.
platform following 3i Group plcs 3i Group subject to approvals from both the Companys or 3i acquisition of Barclays European Jersey Regulator the Jersey Financial Services infrastructure fund management business.
Investment activity Commission and the Companys shareholders, That team is now integrated intothe As described in more detail in the Investment other than 3i Group.
The renewal of the Investment Advisers Infrastructure business Advisers review on pages 18 and 19, market Investment Advisory Agreement underlines and we are seeing the benefit of this in terms conditions for new investment remained thestrength of the relationship between of accessing further investment opportunities.
There is significant theCompany and the Investment Adviser.
demand for infrastructure investments, drivingup asset prices and putting pressure Performance on projected returns.
This has been the case Looking at the financial performance, particularly inthe core infrastructure and 3iInfrastructure generated a total return secondary PPPmarkets in Europe.
of71 million for the year to 31 March 2014, Against this backdrop, the Company invested or 6.6% on opening net asset value.
and committed a total of 84 million in the This return was driven by the strong yearin XLT, a core infrastructure investment, performance of the Companys European and inthe NMM and Mersey Gateway Bridge portfolio, which continued to generate good primary PPP projects.
levels of income and unrealised capital 3i Infrastructure completed its 62 million appreciation.
The European portfolio return investment in XLT in June 2013, in a consortium was 117.4 million, a gross portfolio return with Siemens and Innisfree.
The investment, of 13.5% which, excluding the impact of the which was immediately accretive to returns, performance of the India Fund, would enable further diversified the Companys core the Company to achieve its 10% annual total portfolio and is expected to contribute to both return objective.
income generation and capital appreciation inthe future.
6 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Overview We remain committed to building a portfolio The Board is very confident in the Investment Investment Adviser and focusing principally on core infrastructure Advisers strengthened leadership team, contractual arrangements investments, which we target to be at least which includes long-standing members of the During the year there were several changes 75% of total portfolio value.
Over time, as the team and provides continuity in strategy and at the Investment Adviser.
In November 2013, investments in the India Fund are realised, execution for the Company.
In addition, three 3iGroup announced that it had acquired weexpect the balance of the portfolio to be Partners joined 3is Infrastructure business Barclays European infrastructure investment allocated to the primary PPP and renewable with Barclays European infrastructure business, significantly enhancing the energy project investments where we see investment business, adding further breadth Investment Advisers project origination attractive risk-adjusted returns.
and depth to the overall senior team.
We are capability and adding specialised skills in confident that this enhanced team will provide The investments in the two primary PPP PPPand renewable energy project investing.
energy and fresh insight in their roles.
projects, NMM and the Mersey Gateway Bridge, This fits well with the Companys strategy On behalf of the Board, I would also like to announced in November 2013 and March 2014 ofinvesting in these sectors.
thank Cressida for her contribution over the respectively, were originated through the years and to wish her well in her newrole.
On 12 February 2014, 3i Group announced Investment Advisers enhanced team.
That changes to the leadership of its Infrastructure team is developing a promising pipeline of On 8 May 2014, the Company entered into an business.
Following Cressida Hoggs investment opportunities.
agreement with 3i to amend the terms of the departure, Ben Loomes and Phil White were existing Investment Advisory Agreement, 3i Infrastructure is a long-term investor in its appointed as Managing Partners and Co-heads conditional on obtaining the approval of both portfolio.
There were no asset sales this year, of 3is Infrastructure business and have overall the Companys shareholders and the Jersey although the Company received proceeds of responsibility for managing the business.
The principal 11 million through loan repayments and the changes include a reduction inthe fee rate for Ben Loomes was previously 3i Groups redemption of preference shares.
future primary PPP and certain renewable nominated Director on the Companys Board project investments and, following feedback and has been closely involved with 3i Groups Cash balances and liquidity received from shareholders, the addition of Infrastructure business since he was appointed At 31 March 2014, 3i Infrastructure had net a high water mark requirement to the as 3is Group Strategy Director in 2012.
He cash balances of 90 million, of which performance fee calculation.
With the existing hasbeen amember of 3i Groups Executive 30 million will be used for the payment of exclusivity arrangements coming close to Committee and Investment Committee since the proposed final dividend.
This amount expiry, the Board also agreed an extension 2012.
His primary responsibilities include the includes unrestricted cash heldin intermediate ofthe fixed term of the Investment Advisory strategic development of 3isInfrastructure subsidiary holdingcompanies, but excludes Agreement byfour years, with one years business.
16 million of undrawn commitments to the rolling notice thereafter.
The term of the NMM and Mersey Gateway Bridge projects.
Phil White joined 3i in 2007 and leads the asset exclusivity provisions with the Investment Inaddition, the Company has commitments management for the Infrastructure business.
Adviser has been extended to match the of23 million for any residual cash calls by He holds board positions at Anglian Water termof the Investment Advisory Agreement, theIndia Fund, although it is unlikely that this Group, Elenia and the Oiltanking companies.
provided that the Company maintains amount will be drawn in full.
Healso has responsibility for the realisation of sufficientliquidity to continue investing the India Funds investments.
He is a member through its cash holdings orundrawn debt The Company also has a 200 million revolving of 3i Groups Executive Committee and facilities.
The Board is encouraged by these credit facility available for new investment.
steps, which demonstrate the strong This facility was undrawn at 31 March 2014 relationship between the Company and its and remains undrawn at the time of reporting.
In addition, Neil King was appointed Senior Investment Adviser.
The Board is also pleased Partner of 3is Infrastructure business and to have achieved improved overall terms for continues to be responsible forinvestment shareholders.
Further details of the terms of origination and execution and will also be the amended Investment Advisory Agreement responsible for fundraising activities.
joined 3i Groups Executive Committee on hisappointment.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 7 Overview Chairmans statement Corporate governance and Board Changes to the presentation Outlook There were a number of changes to the ofresults and reporting Last year, following our strategic update, Boardduring the year.
Florence Pierre and westated that the Company would focus future In line with our policy of maintaining best Paul Waller served on the Board until their investment activity on the core infrastructure practice in reporting and governance, we have respective resignations at the Companys market such that core infrastructure incorporated changes to this years Annual AGM on 9July2013.
Ben Loomes, 3i Groups investments represent at least 75% of report and accounts as described in the UK nominee Director, resigned from the theCompanys portfolio value.
At the same Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Boardon17 February 2014, following his time, the Company proposes to invest the Directors Report Regulation 2013.
We have appointment as ManagingPartner and balance of itsportfolio in primary PPP and presented aStrategic report containing details Co-head of 3i Groups Infrastructure business, renewable energy projects, as the investments of theCompanys strategy, business model, and his resignation took effect on 16 April in the IndiaFund are realised overthe coming performance risks and Key Performance 2014, following receipt of consent from the years.
We have made good progress towards Indicators.
these objectives, with the investments in XLT In addition, the Company has adopted several Iwouldlike to express my gratitude to and the NMM and Mersey Gateway Bridge new accounting standards relating to Florence, Paul and Ben for their valuable projects.
As the portfolio develops and the consolidated financial reporting for the contributions over the years.
investments in theIndia Fund are realised, presentation of its results for this financial we are confident that we can continue to Ian Lobley replaced Ben Loomes as 3i Groups year.
Accordingly, we have restated the deliver attractive returns to our shareholders nominee Director, effective from 6 May 2014. resultsfor the prior year, in line with the with reduced volatility.
In his current role at 3i, Ian is a member of 3is newstandards.
As a result, we will no longer Investment Committee and has responsibility report performance on an Investment basis, for investments in companies across a variety astheadoption of the new standards aligns ofsectors and geographies.
We are delighted the reporting of total return and net asset thatIan has agreed to join our Board.
He value with that Investment basis reporting.
bringsa combination of transaction, portfolio However, as a result of the adoption of the new management and board experience and will consolidation standards, the Board considers bea welcome addition to the Company as that some of the individual line items in the wecontinue to develop the business.
Financial statements are not aligned with the The Board aims to uphold the highest way in which it reviews the performance and standards of corporate governance and, valuation of the portfolio.
Therefore, inorder intheyear under review, complied with all to ensure that the Annual report and accounts applicable provisions of the UK Corporate remain fair and understandable, we have Governance Code.
At the last Annual General expanded the commentary in the Portfolio Meeting, heldon 9 July 2013, shareholders andFinancial review sections to provide approved there-election of all current information on the underlying sources of Directors totheBoard.
income from, and valuation of the portfolio, inline with the measures the Board uses On 1 April 2014, the Company announced toreview the performance of the Company ithadreplaced its corporate administrator, andwhich are consistent with prior years.
State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited, with CapitaFinancial Administrators Jersey Limited, following a competitive tender.
8 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Strategic report 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 9
