Chairmans statement Roger Cornick Chairman The acquisition of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Financial highlights SWIP, which we completed on 31 March 2014, was a Net revenue for the year of 1,117.6 million was 4% higher than in transformational transaction that added scale and diversification 2013: recurring fee income was 7% higher, while performance fees to our product range, and marked the beginning of a long term reduced to 21.7 million 2013: 50.8 million.
A consequence strategic relationship with Lloyds Banking Group.
As a result, the of the composition of the assets introduced by SWIP is that the Groups AuM increased by 62% to 324.4 billion at the year end.
enlarged Groups blended average management fee rate has been However, in general, 2014 was a more challenging year for the rebased to a lower level: while the blended rate for the full year is Group as financial markets, particularly in the emerging markets 41.8 basis points, it is perhaps more meaningful to focus on the and Asian economies, remained volatile.
second half of the year, in which we achieved a blended fee rate of 36.9 basis points, slightly ahead of the pro forma rate we reported The SWIP transaction is a further strategic step in Aberdeens on the announcement of the transaction.
growth and has strengthened existing capabilities as well as providing new investment opportunities for Aberdeens global Operating expenses increased by 6% to 627.2 million.
The acquisition improves the balance of AuM within the legacy Aberdeen business were 4% lower than 2013 as and revenues across asset classes and will reinforce our strong management was mindful of the tougher market conditions.
The integration process began immediately after inclusion of SWIP for the second half year added costs of completion and is progressing in line with our expected timing, 60 million, after some initial benefit from cost synergies which and already delivering cost synergies ahead of expectations.
will be more fully reflected in the new financial year.
We have not been immune to the weak investor sentiment toward Underlying operating profit, which is stated before amortisation emerging markets and the consequential impact of risk aversion to of intangible assets and the one-off acquisition and integration this asset class, and this is reflected in some reversal of the strong costs of the SWIP deal, increased to 490.4 million 2013: 489.2 fund inflows to emerging market equities seen in previous years.
million, while the operating margin fell slightly to 43.9% 2013: Importantly, however, we made progress in improving flows from 45.4%.
After the deduction of acquisition costs and amortisation, the Groups wider capabilities where there are strong track records statutory profit before tax decreased by 9% to 354.6 million and where we have a competitive edge, particularly into emerging 2013: 390.3 million.
market debt notwithstanding weaker sentiment to emerging There has, again, been strong conversion of operating profits markets and property.
Both of these asset classes have recorded to cash, with core operating cash flow of 543.8 million net inflows of over 1 billion during the year and we continue to 2013: 529.1 million.
As a result the balance sheet has been make steady progress towards building a diversified pipeline.
strengthened further with a year end cash position of Despite the challenging environment, revenue and underlying 653.9 million 2013: 426.6 million, and we have generated profit are higher than last year, and we continue to achieve a healthy headroom over our regulatory capital requirement.
The Groups financial strength and strong cash flow generation means that the Board has proposed Dividend a 12.5% increase in the final dividend, making a total dividend for The Board is recommending a final dividend of 11.25p per the year of 18.0p per share.
share, making a total payment for the year of 18.0p per share.
This represents an increase of 12.5% on the total payment for 2013, consistent with the Boards commitment to a progressive Dividend per share dividend policy.
18.0p 12.5% 2013: 16.0p 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview Our priorities are to ensure the efficient integration of SWIP as well as ensuring that we continue to deliver high quality client service.
SWIP Investment performance The SWIP acquisition was completed, adding 134.9 billion of Our equity performance recovered during 2014, as our focus on assets.
The purchase consideration was approximately 606.6 investing for the long term in good quality companies again came million, comprising the issue of 131.8 million shares to Lloyds to the fore, following a difficult period for performance in 2013.
"Banking Group ""Lloyds"" plus a deferred top-up payment of 38.3 However, the fragile state of parts of the global economy means million to be made to LBG after a 12 month period following markets remain very sensitive."
Importantly, our teams have not completion.
Additionally, a performance related earn-out payment deviated from our robust investment process, maintaining our of up to 100 million will be paid dependent on the growth focus on delivering long term performance.
delivered by the strategic relationship with Lloyds over the five Fixed income performance has continued to be good, and the year period from completion.
majority of our strategies are ahead of their benchmarks over one, The integration process has proceeded in accordance with our three and five year periods.
The majority of the investment desks and distribution Performance in the property division has improved during 2014. functions have been fully integrated and the respective teams As the property markets begin to recover and our long term are now working in the same buildings and applying the same approach takes greater control of the investment risk which core approaches to investing.
Progress on the migration of back our portfolios run, we have taken a number of opportunities to office systems and functions is also encouraging and we expect crystalise profits.
This has been in areas which we believe are out of this exercise to be completed in late 2015.
One-off costs of line with the economic fundamentals and the market, whether this 25.5 million were incurred on the integration and migration be prime office stock in gateway cities or weaker, secondary stock and we expect the final total for these one-off costs to be in line which has seen a permanent change in quality.
We continue to with the 50 million previously reported.
focus on investing our clients' capital in good quality assets which are capable of delivering durable income streams and long term income growth.
Highlights 2014 2013 Net revenue 1,117.6m 1,078.5m Underlying results: before amortisation and acquisition-related items Profit before tax 490.3m 482.7m Diluted earnings per share 31.1p 32.5p Statutory results Profit before tax 354.6m 390.3m Diluted earnings per share 22.8p 26.2p Total dividend per share 18.0p 16.0p Gross new business 34.7bn 43.9bn Net new business 20.4bn 2.5bn Assets under management at the year end 324.4bn 200.4bn aberdeen-asset.
com 7 Chairmans statement continued New business The first nine months of the year was a difficult period for new We continue to focus on distribution relationships where our business flows, but we have seen improvement in the final quarter strengths match market demand and develop new channels in and, indeed, in October and November.
The Aberdeen element of order to attract new clients.
Our distribution team has expanded the business experienced net outflows of 16.0 billion for the year which supports further our efforts to market our enhanced product 2013: 2.5 billion.
The increase in net outflows arose entirely suite and service existing clients.
We are working well with Lloyds within the Groups core equity products, as weaker investor Banking Group in regard to the provision and development of sentiment towards emerging markets in the first half of the year, products and solutions to meet the future needs of their clients.
dampened inflows and outflows were adversely impacted by the We are also encouraged that a range of SWIP strategies are withdrawal by a single client of approximately 4 billion of low attracting interest from clients around the world.
The Board The SWIP business contributed net outflows of 4.4 billion for I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow directors the six month period since completion of the acquisition.
We on the Board who have, once again, made invaluable contributions expect some continuing net outflow of low margin business for to its effective operations.
Special thanks must go to Anita Frew, anticipated structural reasons within the SWIP client base, but who, on 30 September, stepped down from the Board after 10 we are encouraged by steady net inflows to the SWIP Property years.
Anita has served as senior independent non-executive Trust now renamed Aberdeen Property Trust and some new fund director and has been of particular support and assistance to launches in infrastructure.
me since I took over as Chairman in 2009.
She has our very best Fixed income net outflows totaled 3.6 billion.
The Aberdeen wishes for every success in her future career.
We are in the process business net outflows of 2.3 billion are considerably lower of recruiting an additional non-executive, and expect to be able to than last year 2013: 5.6 billion.
A major factor has been the make an announcement in this context in the near future.
continued steady growth of our emerging market debt product, On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome all of our new with a further 1.6 billion of net inflows during the year.
colleagues from SWIP and thank all staff for their hard work Our property teams have added over 1 billion of net inflows throughout the year.
We continue to see investor interest in our Outlook property capability, and this has been reflected in a growing At the time of writing, the world is facing a series of political number of mandate wins, some of which had not been funded by and economic uncertainties so that, looking ahead, we expect the clients at the year end and which will therefore be added to economies and markets to remain susceptible to periods of AuM in future periods.
However, we enter the new year in a strong financial The Aberdeen solutions business has benefited from considerable position, with a broadened and enhanced range of products and an increase in scale and breadth of capability as a result of the increasingly diversified global client base.
We remain committed to addition of SWIP investment solutions, quantitative investments our bottom up, fundamental style of investing for the longer term and alternatives strategies.
This element of the Groups business with which we have built our reputation over more than a quarter will be key to the development of our relationship with the Lloyds of a century.
Our priorities remain focused on ensuring the efficient Banking Group and also creates significant wider opportunities for integration of SWIP as well as the continuity of high quality client our global distribution platform.
Our aim is to provide a range of service.
We remain confident that, over the longer term, we will be multi-asset strategies for our target client base, be it institutional, able to deliver attractive returns, both for our investment clients retail, wealth or wholesale investors.
Similarly, increasing interest and our shareholders.
from institutional investors in alternative capabilities has been reflected in flows into both our individual alternative and panalternative strategies.
Roger Cornick Chairman 28 November 2014 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ov Overview erview Corporate advertising at London Heathrow to coincide with the SWIP acquisition in the UK.
