STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BETFAIR HAS ALWAYS BEEN A UNIQUE BETTING COMPANY AND IT REMAINS SO.
Gerald Corbett, Chairman To read more about Governance see page 36 Regulation DEAR SHAREHOLDER As with all businesses in our industry, the constantly evolving This has been an important year for Betfair, with the Company regulatory landscape provides both opportunities and challenges.
showing great momentum and entering a phase of exciting This year, as a result of positive regulatory change, we have been innovation in both its product and brand.
This is the first full able to launch an online casino in New Jersey and an Exchange in year of our new and energetic management team.
There is Italy, the latter the culmination of several years of hard work.
The real purpose in the business and we are executing a strategy industry is likely to see significant disruption in the coming year as that is focused on delivering sustainable growth.
the effect of the incoming Point of Consumption tax in the UK plays It is over a year since discussions with the private equity group out.
We expect operators with scale, like Betfair, to be best placed CVC were terminated and in that time we have been able to see to adapt to this change.
In unregulated markets, visibility remains the value that the new team and strategy will be able to produce.
low, validating our strategy of focusing on regulated jurisdictions.
There is much to be done, and many challenges ahead, but a good Board start has been made.
There have been a number of changes to Betfairs Board over the Strategy year, with the addition of significant experience from major PLC Betfairs strategy has been to refocus the business on regulated and digital consumer businesses.
jurisdictions whilst refreshing our unique product and brand so Mike McTighe, Fru Hazlitt and Josh Hannah have all stepped we have greater appeal to a wider range of customers.
They all served as Non-Executive Directors We have continued to see signs of success on both fronts.
Betfair of Betfair with distinction for a long period of time, and we thank has always been a unique betting company and it remains so.
them again for their invaluable contribution over the years.
We Following recent product innovations, we are now steadily building have welcomed to the Board Zillah Byng-Maddick, CEO of Future a highly exciting sports betting platform and have increased our plc: Leo Quinn, CEO of QinetiQ Group plc: and Peter Rigby, marketing spend to take it to a wider audience.
former CEO of Informa plc as Non-Executive Directors.
All three are already proving to be valuable additions to the Company.
We now concentrate investment in markets with regulatory visibility and have subsequently been able to focus our resources on growing Dividend our active customer base in key territories.
Sustainable revenues The Board targets a progressive and sustainable dividend now make up far more of our total revenue base, lending the andcontinues to consider the appropriate payout ratio to be business stability and significantly improving our quality of earnings.
approximately 40% of profit after tax in the medium term.
Thisdividend policy reflects the strong cash flow characteristics We have started to use our strong cash position to make selected and long-term earnings potential of the Betfair Group, whilst investments in some promising international opportunities, with allowing it to retain sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating exciting developments in New Jersey and Italy coming within the year.
The Board is recommending a final Financial performance dividend of 14.0 pence per share, taking the full year dividend to The financial performance in the year has been encouraging, 20.0 pence per share, a 54% increase on last year.
withdouble-digit growth in sustainable revenues in the last three Finally, the Board and I would like to thank all Betfairs employees for quarters.
Overall revenue was up 2% to 393.6m, with growth their hard work and commitment over the past year.
Betfair is a vibrant diluted by the reduction in revenue from other markets, in line place to work, full of enthusiasm, and I am delighted that their efforts withour strategy.
The cost savings we announced last year have are starting to be recognised in improved business performance.
been delivered and this contributed to underlying EBITDA growth of 24% to 91.1m.
Gerald Corbett Chairman Cash flow remains strong and we ended the year debt free and 11 June 2014 with 209.8m of cash.
4 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
