CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Straightforward and highly focused strategy The Admiral team has set about building private motor businesses in five countries, price comparison businesses in four, anda household insurance business inthe UK.
Alastair Lyons, CBE Chairman Our strategy Notwithstanding this step-by-step approach 2014 in summary In my statement last year I listed what I regarded oftest and learn, whilst each of our overseas to be the top ten attributes that had contributed businesses began life as a business plan @ The UK motor insurance market in great measure to Admirals success over the Admiral now has nearly 600,000 customers was again characterised by last ten years that it has been a listed company.
It will, however, still be some falling prices I spoke of management: our culture: our years before these businesses, all at varying employees: focus: pricing: claims management: stages in their growth and required investment, @ Italy is the Groups largest business controlled test and learn: low cost: low capital make the material contribution to Group outside the UK withalmost half employed: and low risk.
profits of which we believe they are capable.
of our overseas customers As now the second largest insurer of private Admiral has applied these consistently to deliver cars in the UK Admirals fortunes will, therefore, against a straightforward highly focused strategy @ An assessment of the French be driven for the foreseeable future by the to make the most of the market-leading UKmotor insurancecycle.
market suggests the potential positions we have developed in the UK in direct for accelerated growth of direct motor insurance and price comparison and 2014 in overview apply our learning in these sectors in overseas motor insurance, benefiting both We recognise that in a cyclical business markets of appropriate scale, structure and LeLynx and Lolivier Assurances thereare periods for growth, and periods stage of development.
Applying the tenets forconsolidation, seeking purely to maintain ofcontrolled test and learn, low capital @ In the US and Spain, growth ones existing market position and focus on employed and low risk, the Admiral team has came from expanding the building capability to support growth when set about building private motor businesses accessible market conditions render that both profitable and infive countries, price comparison businesses sustainable.
2014 was such a period of in four, and a household insurance business @ Rastreator and LeLynx hold consolidation for three out of our five motor inthe UK.
We have then sought to embed insurance businesses.
leading positions in their inthese new businesses our management respective markets in Spain capability, our culture and the quality of As a consequence our pre-tax profits, before ouremployees.
reflecting our first material investment in our andFrance new US comparison business, were broadly Organic growth, whilst slower, requires much @ Confused.
com faces very flat on the previous year and our overall Group less capital than growth by acquisition and profits were 14 million lower at357million.
strongcompetition that avoids the significant risk associated with hasimpacted conversion buying where one has little or no knowledge.
The UK motor insurance market was again andhence profitability By taking incremental steps one is able to characterised by falling prices, albeit that the construct, in all important respects, the sustained reduction since the market turned in @ Compare.
com is making platform one wants for the future, taking 2010 now appears to be running out of steam.
advantage to the degree relevant to each progress and we are planning specific market of our differentiation in areas amaterial increase next year such as pricing and claims management.
inpromotional support 04 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our aim through this period has been to Our final dividend for 2014 is therefore proposed maximise value rather than volume, maintaining at 49.0 pence per share, resulting in a full year our book at around three million customers dividend of 98.4 pence per share, within 1% of and focusing on a major systems upgrade that the 2013 full year dividend, against a backdrop We believe it is for our is scheduled to complete in 2015.
When delivered, of after-tax profits themselves 2% lower than this will enable us to retain our flexibility and last year.
This comprises a normal dividend of investors rather than responsiveness when it is right to resume the 22.5 pence per share and a special dividend of growth of our UK business.
As we test, we 26.5 pence per share, bringing to 915 million Admiral to determine learn how to improve our effectiveness across the total of special dividends paid to shareholders all aspects ofour operations whether it be how they wish to invest since flotation, in addition to our 839 million marketing: pricing: sales: customer service: normal dividends paid over this period.
funds surplus to the orclaims handling.
Then we institutionalise what we have learned by building this learning Board changes requirements of into thesystems that support the processes With its distinctive culture and focus on making we operate.
Through processes, systems and Admiral a great place to work the Company ourbusiness.
detailed timely management information we enjoys strong levels of retention amongst can be confident that all our people undertake employees, management and Directors alike.
their activities in a controlled, efficient way.
Senior Executives in the Group have either Wecan also assess what it isrelevant to seek to been with Admiral since the Company listed export alongside our culture to other markets.
Whilst early days, it is making encouraging tenyears ago or since their respective overseas progress both with consumers and insurer We have also had major systems development business was formed.
To encourage retention partners and we are planning a material taking place in our operations in Italy and France of our people, and therefore of their skills and increase next year inthe commitment of as these businesses prepare for the next stage experience, we seek to provide management promotional support, following our same in their growth.
Italy is our largest business with development opportunities that allow us to philosophy of test and learn.
outside the UK with almost half of our overseas promote from within.
As in the UK, with growth of the to welcome Geraint Jones to the Board at Our capital structure book unattractive in an environment of falling thetime of ourinterim results, succeeding Our low risk approach to our business with prices, the Italian business has focused on KevinChidwick as CFO, who will now focus significant use of reinsurance has made it possible building its learning into a new operating solely on his role as CEO ofElephant Auto to maintain low levels of capital employed.
platform that we believe will provide competitive inthe US.
Geraint has been with Admirals However in 2014 we recognised that favourable advantage when the market turns.
In France, finance team since 2002, having been our capital markets and very reasonable rates of the youngest of our overseas insurance Deputy CFO since 2012. interest created the opportunity to strengthen operations, we had adopted a different Roger Abravanel will not be seeking re-election and diversify our capital resources as we make outsourced start-up model to get into the at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a prudent transition into Solvency II in 2016, market quickly, cost-effectively and at low risk.
and I would like to thank him for his contribution with the attendant regulatory capital Four years on from launch our initial assessment to the Board, in particular the insight he has requirement and buffers.
Raising 200 million of the French market suggests thepotential provided us into the Italian market.
Balancing of additional capital in the form of ten-year for accelerated growth of direct motor insurance the loss of Roger we are delighted to welcome tiertwo subordinated notes also sets us up supported both by the growth of price Penny James to the Board as a Non-Executive well for the growth we expect from all our comparison, in part reflecting the success Director and member of the Audit Committee.
businesses in the coming years whilst being ofour own market-leading business LeLynx, Penny has been Director of Group Finance at consistent with our existing dividend policy.
and by the recently implemented change Prudential plc since March 2011 and brings a inthe law making it easier for customers to wealth of commercial and financial experience Dividends switch insurance providers.
Hence our move to her role with Admiral.
Our dividend policy has been clear since to bring all our functions in-house onto our flotation we believe it is for our investors own platform now that we understand what Thank you rather than Admiral to determine how they the French market needs.
To our employees for their commitment and wish to invest funds surplus to the requirements enthusiasm: to our management for their In the US and Spain growth came from of our business.
We, therefore, distribute each leadership and inspiration: to our shareholders expanding the accessible market in the year the available surplus over and above what for their support and confidence: but most of caseof Elephant Auto in the US by building we retain to meet regulatory requirements, all to our customers for their business and choice on theentry into Texas in 2013, and for thefuture development of our business and of Admiral in preference to others in the highly Admiral Seguros in Spain through the addition appropriate buffers, in particular, the buffer competitive markets in which we operate.
of a second brand, Qualitas Auto.
required during a period of transition between two different capital regimes.
We also believe In price comparison we have continued to that the year-on-year progression of our dividend achieve strong growth outside the UK, with should largely mirror the movement in after-tax both Rastreator and Le Lynx holding leading profits, subject to any abnormal demands on positions in their respective markets in Spain our capital resources.
By contrast, price comparison in Alastair Lyons, CBE the UK has continued to be challenging, with Chairman Confused.
com facing very strong competition 4 March 2015 that has impacted conversion and hence profitability.
com launched in 2013 as the first truly European-style aggregator asdistinct from lead generators.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 05
