04 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT EARNINGS PER SHARE 2014 was a year of challenge and change for BG Group, After a difficult start to 2014, the performance of our BUSINESS PERFORMANCE during which we had to contend with a significant fall base assets has been steady.
We delivered a number inoil prices, progress a number of major investment of key development milestones during the year, projects and renew the leadership of the Company.
including the start-up of production atour Starfish 118.4 Inaddressing these issues, we laid important field in Trinidad andTobago and at Bongkot South 2014: 8% foundations for the future.
We also began production 2013: 128.6 atour Knarr field in the North Sea inMarch 2015.
As ever, safety and asset integrity remained our Our position in Egypt has improved sinceI wrote highestpriority during the year.
I am pleased to report EARNINGS PER SHARE to shareholders last year.
The business and political that weimproved our safety performance, with our TOTAL RESULTS CONTINUING environment in the country has stabilised, andwe have total recordable case frequency TRCF measure OPERATIONS welcomed the Egyptian governments payment of a reducing to1.38 recorded incidents per million work large part of the receivable owed to BGGroup.
Wewill remain ever vigilant in seeking to ensure the majority ofthe gas we are producing continues to 30.8 that all of our people get home safely at the end be diverted tothe domestic market where the Group ofeach dayat work.
2014: 148% isentitled toalower share of production, and our 2013: 64.8 2014 PERFORMANCE LNGterminal atIdku remainsat minimal volumes.
Overall, BG Group posted a solid year in terms of LNG Shipping & Marketing operating profit decreased operating performance and delivered average production 4%to $2.5 billion, reflecting lower margins from higher of606 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day boed, costs of supply, primarily as a result of the increase which was inthe middleof our forecasted range.
We made strong operational progress during the We continue to realise value for our assets, announcing year, particularly atour key growth assets in Australia the disposal of our interest in two pipelines during andBrazil.
In Australia, we started operations at our theyear: the Central Area Transmission System CATS Queensland Curtis Liquefied Natural Gas QCLNG pipeline in the North Sea for approximately $950 million facility in December.
This was a landmark in our and the QCLNG pipeline for approximately $5 billion.
Despite the challenges and cost overruns weencountered during the construction phase, I am Our financial performance was affected by a post-tax pleased to report that the facility is performing in non-cash impairment charge of $5.9 billion.
There were linewith our expectations.
As at end of February 2015, three reasons behindthis.
The first is that the fall in we had shipped seven commissioning cargoes, adding a the oil price has reduced the recoverable value of the valuable new supply source to our LNG business ingood assets, which requires us to reduce the book value.
proximity to our key Asian customers.
The second was the revision ofthe value of our Australian assets following our agreement to sell the QCLNG Our production in the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil, pipeline.
While we impaired the value of the remaining hasalso ramped up at a solid pace, with two new QCLNG assets, this is expected to be offset by a gain floating production, storage and offloading FPSO ondisposal when the dealcompletes in 2015.
Thethird vessels coming onstream in 2014.
The flow rates reason was a further downgrade of our reserves fromour wells are among the best in the industry.
BGGroups share of production reached more than125000 boed in January 2015.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT: 05 BG-GROUP.
COM STRATEGY BG Group has made important progress in 2014, developing our asset base while managing a sharpfallin global oil prices.
Our colleagues across theworld, including everyone in our assets and jointventures, deserve credit.
In often difficult circumstances, they have shown dedication anddetermination in meeting our objectives.
ANDREW GOULD | CHAIRMAN FULL-YEAR DIVIDEND The impairments impacted our total earnings for theyear, While we will continue to invest in high-value projects, PER SHARE which resulted in a $1.1 billion loss.
However, our underlying we will be much more disciplined with our capital CENTS results, which we refer to as Business Performance, investment: projects that are not economic at current were solid, particularly in light of the oil price decline.
We have the relative Our Business Performance earnings declined byjust advantage of being at the end of a period of heavy 28.75 8%to $4.0 billion, as we benefited from increasing capital investment, following the start-up of QCLNG 2014: 0% production in Brazil and from oil price hedges that we inDecember.
As our development of QCLNGs second 2013: 28.75 hadin place.
Our free cash flow also improved.
LNG train nears completion, and both the Australia andBrazil projects continue to ramp up production Taking account of the current market circumstances, FULL-YEAR DIVIDEND andgenerate stronger cash flows, our capital expenditure andour outlook for 2015, the Board decided to hold the PER SHARE will fall naturally.
We will also remove some discretionary full-year dividend flat at 28.75 cents 17.99 pence per share.
Capital investment Finally, in environmental performance terms, the Group on a cash basis istherefore forecast to fall from $9.4 billion sustained an increase in our greenhouse gas GHG last year to$6-7 billion in 2015 a reduction of around 30%.
The major contributor MANAGEMENT CHANGES DURING THE YEAR was an increase in flared gas due to commissioning 2014: 0% In April 2014, Chris Finlayson resigned as Chief Executive 2013: 18.02p of the QCLNG project.
We remain committed to ofBG Group.
Chris made an important contribution to improving our emissions performance andwill be BGGroup during his four years with the business and, increasing our efforts to meet the five-year emissions onbehalf of the Board, I thank him and wish him well.
intensity reduction targets we set in 2012.
On an equity share basis, the Groups overall emissions intensity The Board was pleased to appoint Helge Lund as our increased by 9% from 22.6 kt CO e per mmboe new Chief Executive in October, following an extensive 2 in 2013 to 24.7 kt CO e per mmboe in 2014. international search.
Hejoins BG Group from Statoil, 2 the Norwegian state-owned oil and gas company, ADAPTING TO A LOWER OIL PRICE ENVIRONMENT wherehe was chief executive officer for 10years.
In the latter part of 2014, the world changed for the Helge led a transformation ofStatoil during his tenure, oiland gas industry.
After nearly four years of oil prices assembling aworld-class exploration and production above $100 bbl, the Brent oil benchmark had fallen in price portfolio, which included turning around its operations to $45 bblin January 2015.
Inmy career, I have seen four in the North Sea and taking the business into new abrupt declines in the oilprice and this one has many international projects.
Under his leadership, Statoil has similarities with the downturn of 1986.
A new source become recognised for its technical expertise, solid ofsupply has come tothe market as demand growth financial performance and strong values-based culture.
In1986, the new source was the new He brings the knowledge, international relationships production fromthe North Sea, Alaska and Mexico.
andstrategic vision that BGGroup needsto move Today, it is USshale and tight oil.
The time necessary to its next phase of development.
tobring supply and demand back into balance will likely depend ontwo things: some resumption of growth While shareholders were very supportive ofHelges in demand anda slowdown in drilling in the USA.
appointment, they had concerns about his proposed remuneration package.
In responding to these concerns, BG Group manages its business to deliver long-term we agreed, with Helges assistance andconsent, to value from our assets across a range of commodity amend the proposed package so thatall components prices.
Our response to the lower oil prices hasbeen fall within BG Groups existing remuneration policy.
tobuild on initiatives taken earlier in 2013 and 2014 to Further details are set out on page 63 of our Corporate reduce operating costs and improve efficiency.
Free cash flow is defined in the Glossary page 143.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED 06 After Chriss resignation and prior to Helge joining, We will also increase our focus on the Groups balance Iacted as interim Executive Chairman, managing sheet and liquidity.
Our reduced capital investment will thebusiness on a day-to-day basis with our executive support our cash flows, while our balance sheet will be leadership team.
Helge started with the Company strengthened by receipt of funds upon the completion on9February 2015 and I have now reverted to my ofthe QCLNG pipeline sale, expected in the first position as Non-Executive Chairman.
OUTLOOK FOR 2015 Helge is now focused on delivering the 2015 business plan With the increased contribution of Brazil and the start and undertaking a review of our longer-term strategy.
ofLNG production in Australia, we expect production CONCLUSION volumes to rise to between 650000 and 690000 boed BG Group has made important progress in 2014, in 2015.
We expect our first LNG train in Queensland to developing our asset base while managing a sharp reach plateau production levels in the second quarter of fallin global oil prices.
Our colleagues across the world, 2015, and our second train, currently under construction, including everyone in our assets and joint ventures, to start up in the third quarter.
InBrazil, we expect deserve credit.
In often difficult circumstances, ourtwo new FPSOs to ramp up production during the theyhave shown dedication and determination in year and a further FPSO to come onstream towards meeting our objectives.
InourLNG business, we will have increased flexibility from the addition of volumes from 2015 poses continuing challenges, particularly from QCLNG.
However, thebusiness will be impacted by weaker oil prices, but we are committed to taking falling prices.
BG Group expects total operating profit thesteps necessary to deliver value for shareholders.
for the LNG Shipping & Marketing business in 2015 ANDREW GOULD to be $0.7$1.0 billion based on forward commodity CHAIRMAN curves as at January 2015.
QUEENSLAND CURTIS LNG, AUSTRALIA Methane Rita Andrea commenced loading first LNG in December 2014 at QCLNG, Australia.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
