1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 1.1.
2 Our structure BHP Billiton operates under a Dual listed Company DlC access to energy underpins economic development.
the most rapid structure, with two parent companies BHP Billiton limited and demand growth comes at the earliest stages when people first gain BHP Billiton Plc operated as a single economic entity, run by access to modern energy supplies.
in the next 20 years, we expect a unified Board and management team.
our headquarters are 1.7 billion people to gain access to electricity for the first time.
reliable and affordable energy supports the development of industry and as incomes rise, more people can buy consumer goods, like BHP Billiton limited has a primary listing on the australian Securities cars and appliances, further increasing the demand for energy.
BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the uK listing authoritys official list and its ordinary shares We are proud that the supply of our products supports global are admitted to trading on the london Stock exchange lSe in economic growth and development, with the associated reduction the united Kingdom and a secondary listing on the Johannesburg in poverty and improvement in living standards.
Continued global Stock exchange JSe in South africa.
in addition, BHP Billiton limited development depends on access to affordable energy and other american Depositary receipts aDrs and BHP Billiton Plc aDrs trade critical resources.
on the new York Stock exchange nYSe in the united States.
Demand for energy is widely expected to increase by more than our operating Model describes the way the Company is organised 30 per cent in the next 20 years, with two thirds of new demand and sets out the relationship between the Businesses, Group originating from asia and half from China and india.
africa is Functions and Marketing.
the operating Model defines how we expected to see the fastest growth, albeit from a lower base.
work, how we are organised and how we measure performance.
the way these regions meet their energy needs will significantly influence commodity demand.
Businesses: our assets, operations and interests are separated into five business units.
these Businesses are: Petroleum and every nation will choose a different mix of energy sources, which Potash: Copper: iron ore: Coal: and aluminium, Manganese and balances affordability and security of supply.
the operating Model has been designed to ensure that Panel on Climate Change iPCC, the international energy agency decision-making remains as close to the Businesses as possible.
and others believe that over the next few decades fossil fuels will remain central to the energy mix as their affordability and the scale Group Functions: Group Functions support the Businesses and of existing infrastructure make them hard to practically replace, operate under a defined set of accountabilities authorised by although their exact percentage varies across a range of scenarios.
the Group Management Committee GMC.
our Group Functions are primarily located in Melbourne, london and Singapore.
our strategy is tied to economic growth in both emerging and Marketing: Marketing is responsible for selling our products developed economies.
Sustainable growth requires an effective and for the purchase of all major raw materials: managing the response to climate change.
BHP Billiton accepts the iPCCs supply chain from assets to markets and raw materials from assessment of climate change science, which has found that suppliers to assets: achieving market clearing prices for the warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human influence Groups products: managing price risk: and developing a single is clear and physical impacts are unavoidable.
We believe that Company view of the markets.
the world must pursue the twin objectives of limiting climate change to the lower end of the iPCC emission scenarios in line the core principles of the operating Model include mandatory with current international agreements, while providing access performance requirements, common organisational design, common to the affordable energy required to continue the economic growth systems and processes, and common planning and reporting.
essential for maintaining living standards and alleviating poverty.
the operating Model is designed to deliver a simple and scalable the global challenge of climate change remains a priority for us.
our organisation to achieve a sustainable improvement in productivity approach to investment decision-making and portfolio management by providing performance transparency, eliminating duplication and the diversity of our overall portfolio positions us not only to of effort and enabling the more rapid identification and deployment manage and respond to changes, but also to capture opportunities of best practice.
to grow shareholder value over time.
We are taking action by focusing on reducing our emissions, increasing our preparedness for physical 1.1.
3 Strategic context climate impacts and working with others, including industry and the mineral and energy commodities we produce are crucial at governments, to support effective responses to climate change.
all stages of economic development.
emerging economies require We support development of a long-term policy framework that construction materials like steel as their populations expand and uses a portfolio of complementary measures, including a price on new cities and heavy industry develop.
as economies grow and carbon that addresses competitiveness concerns, support for energy people become wealthier, a consumer economy emerges and steel efficiency and low emissions technologies, and measures to build intensity slows while demand increases for materials that are used resilience.
a price on carbon is an effective measure to drive in consumer goods, such as copper.
agricultural demand increases greenhouse gas emission reductions and technological innovation.
to effectively address the challenge of climate change, there must be a significant focus on developing and deploying low-emissions technologies.
We will, through material investments in low-emissions technology, contribute to reducing emissions from fossil fuels.
BHP Billit BHP Billiton annu on annual re al reP Por ort 2 t 20 01 14 4 3 3
