Market overview continued Fundamental inefficiencies in distribution are forcing change Increased regulation The global networks of the brokers are a key element in the value chain Regulatory oversight continues to increase in the re insurance for reinsurance and specialty insurance carriers, facilitating access market and whilst there are many benefits, the impact upon resource to clients worldwide and providing a range of administrative services.
requirements and expenses for the industry is significant.
Beyond this, In the current market, brokers strive to improve operational efficiency, the potential effects on corporate structures, the need for economies and therefore placement methods are constantly under review.
With of scale and potential for mergers and acquisitions are yet to be seen accelerating consolidation, greater data analytics, improvements in fully.
The effect of more sophisticated regulation in emerging markets technology and increased bundling of risk placements, the changes may reduce the ability of overseas re insurers to compete.
within brokers and re insurers have never been so acute.
Changing loss patterns Investment in capturing and analysing data has given the major One of the factors contributing to the growth in reinsurer capital brokers far greater understanding of the portfolios that they place in recent years has been the relatively benign catastrophe claims with insurers, and enabled them to identify the mostand leastenvironment as shown below right.
Global insured catastrophe losses 2 profitable business streams.
As a result, the three largest brokers, estimated at $39 billion were 38% below the 10-year average of 2 Aon, Marsh and Willis, have sought to reduce the increasingly $63 billion, and at their lowest level since 2009.
However, as shown onerous costs of providing global distribution.
They have done this below, severe weather events, which accounted for nearly 50% of 2014 by reducing the number of carriers with whom they deal, culminating losses, seem to be increasing in frequency and severity.
For the second in an increasing volume of premium into selected insurers through consecutive year, severe thunderstorms including tornado, hail and wind panel agreements, facilities and schemes.
To access brokers data and were the costliest peril for the re insurance industry.
these panel business streams, brokers are seeking additional revenue streams.
A parallel trend has been the ongoing consolidation among brokers, with the number of independent specialty and reinsurance brokers dwindling as the larger brokers continue to grow by acquisition.
Brokers and insurers recognise that the ability to use data effectively offers competitive advantage.
For insurers, access to better data facilitates client understanding and product development, enables efficient capital allocation and supports risk management.
However, better data may also heighten competition where it reduces barriers to entry as evidenced by the influx of Insurance Linked Securities ILS capital into the reinsurance market.
Swiss Re sigma and Aon Benfield.
Global severe weather losses represent tornado, connective storm, hail and straight-line winds.
Amlin plc 10 Annual Report 2014 4.7 5.1 7.5 3.7 4.4 8.1 5.7 3.4 13.2 12.9 7.4 9.2 8.5 11.6 5.5 5.2 9.8 5.6 16.1 14.3 17.3 30.5 16.7 18.9 17.4 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Reinsurance Global reinsurer capital US$ bn The structure of the catastrophe reinsurance market has changed significantly over the past three years, largely due to the influx of capital 600 from pension funds and other investors seeking the attractive yields available in the ILS market.
As shown on the right, at quarter three 500 2014 ILS capital participating in non-life reinsurance was approximately 3 $62 billion, an increase of approximately 25% over nine months.
400 300 Appetite for reinsurance risk has been driven by the low interest rate environment and supported by the low correlation of catastrophe risk 200 with other asset classes.
While the appetite of some investors may change when interest rates rise, or following an extreme catastrophe event, Amlin 100 believes that ILS capital will remain a permanent and meaningful segment 0 of the reinsurance market in the future.
Most of this capital has been 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Q3 14 deployed against US catastrophe risks, concentrated in Florida, where the risk-reward equation is most attractive, and well-developed Traditional Alternative catastrophe models make transactions easier to price.
Source: Aon Beneld Reinsurance Market Outlook January 2015 As more ILS capital has entered the market, it has also been deployed against other catastrophe exposures such as mortality reinsurance for life insurers and high-level terrorism exposures.
However the limitations Demand for reinsurance has weakened in some developed markets, imposed by the requirement to collateralise, and the reliance on adequate as large insurers benefit from relatively benign claims experience, strong modelling for pricing, have so far restricted the ability of this form of balance sheets and increased modelling capabilities, all of which increase capital to compete significantly beyond the US catastrophe market.
their propensity to retain more risk.
A further trend in the reinsurance market is for major reinsurance buyers and brokers to become more selective in The below-average incidence of US catastrophe losses in 2013 and their choice of reinsurers, focusing on a smaller panel of larger reinsurers 2014, as shown in the chart below, has generated continued growth in which can offer superior financial strength, expertise and service.
This conventional reinsurance capital, and reinsurer capital is at an all-time reflects an increased focus on counterparty risk, as well as the desire of 3 high of $575 billion, an increase of 6% compared to year-end 2013. large insurers to form longer-term partnerships with their selected reinsurers.
This, combined with growth in ILS capital, contributed to a decline of These have created a two-tier market in which those in the top tier, including 4 11% in US catastrophe pricing for the market as a whole during 2014.
Amlin, have greater access to attractive business, in some cases through private placements and layers not available to the wider market.
The demand for greater size and financial strength is one of the drivers of recent consolidation in the reinsurance market.
Aon Benfield Reinsurance Market Outlook, January 2015. weaker reinsurers in the second tier struggling to protect their market 4.
share has been one of the factors driving down catastrophe pricing.
Insured catastrophe losses 1970-2014 US$ bn 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 1970 1972 1974 1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 Earthquake tsunami Weather-related catastrophes Man-made disasters 2014 total estimate Source: Swiss Re sigma, Aon Beneld Note: Adjustment for ination, changes to published data, information sigma converts all losses for the occurrence year not given in US dollars into US dollars using the end-of-year exchange rate.
To adjust for ination, these US dollar values are extrapolated using the US consumer price index to give current 2014 values.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 11 Hurricane Andrew 22 388 410 19 321 340 Winter Storm Lothar 22 378 400 WTC 24 447 470 Hurricanes Ivan, Charley, Frances Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma 28 428 455 Hurricanes Ike, Gustav 39 466 505 Japan, NZ earthquakes, Thailand ood 50 490 540 Hurricane Sandy 62 513 575 39 Market overview continued Global marine insurance premiums 1996-2013 US$ bn 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013e Marine Hull Marine Cargo Marine Liability Marine Energy Marine Unallocated e estimated Sources: IUMI, Ascend Worldwide Limited, Aon Risk Solutions and Swiss Re Economic Research & Consulting calculations Marine & Aviation Emerging markets account for 41% of global The market continues to be characterised by overcapacity and although marine premium there has been growth in developing markets like China, overall global marine premium has shown limited growth in recent years, despite 5 3% growth in tonnage and the recovery in world trade since 2008.
Pricing Europe 3% 6% Asia Pacic is therefore under pressure across most classes, particularly energy, Latin America where rates peaked following the Deepwater Horizon loss in 2010.
10% North America Pricing has been more resilient in classes affected by the Costa Middle East 6 Concordia loss, which is now expected to exceed $2 billion.
Africa 53% The London market remains an important hub for marine re insurance, 7 25% with approximately 33% of global premium.
Rotterdam is also a significant European market for both local and international marine risks.
Growth in demand from emerging markets, together with continued development of local insurance capacity and expertise, Note: Based on premium for 2013 of US$34.2bn.
is reflected in a shift of some marine business from London to local London Market includes Lloyds proportional and facultative reinsurance.
hubs such as Singapore and Dubai.
We expect this trend to accelerate Source: IUMI Global Marine Market Insurance Report 2014. as these markets develop.
Having the ability, therefore, to access marine business in these local hubs is becoming more important.
Demand for marine classes of insurance is increasing in developing Having experienced a consistent downward trend in pricing for more markets, driven by economic growth.
Government infrastructure than 10 years, in 2014 the aviation market suffered its worst year for investment, population growth, new business and wealth creation insurance losses since 2001.
As well as the Malaysian Airlines claims, are driving growth in construction, land development, energy and there were further substantial claims from the destruction of aircraft transportation.
The current overcapacity in the global marine market by terrorists at Karachi and Tripoli airports.
Much of these claims, likely suggests that, in the absence of depletion of capital through major to exceed $600 million, will fall on the aviation war market which has 8 losses this increasing demand can readily be absorbed without any global premiums of approximately $65 million.
The wider aviation market has substantial overcapacity, partly reflecting the ease of entry into this market for new players afforded by the limited number of brokers which control its placement and its unusual vertical pricing structure, in which different carriers can participate on the same risk at different rates, rather than following a lead price as in most subscription market placements.
IUMI Global Marine Insurance Report, 2014.
London Matters The competitive position of the London Insurance Market, November 2014.
Amlin plc 12 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Property & Casualty The global property and casualty insurance market is generally overcapitalised and most developed markets are exhibiting downward pricing pressure, with international and large commercial risks experiencing the most competition.
However, this market has much greater diversity in terms of carriers, risks and buyers than the specialist reinsurance, marine and aviation markets, and consequently there are segments which have more robust pricing, such as motor, where demand is driven by population growth in emerging markets and increasing wealth in developed countries.
Insurance for smalland medium-sized commercial risks is also an area of the market where there are growth opportunities, in both developed and emerging markets.
Increasingly sophisticated use of data and technology is a key trend in this market, with brokers data capture and analysis enabling them to identify and bundle similar risks, rather than placing them in the subscription market or with individual carriers.
Pressure on broker revenues from a generally weak pricing environment, low interest rates and high expenses is a strong incentive for brokers to look to reduce costs through simplifying the distribution chain or placing business in local markets rather than in London.
Binders and other schemes for small risks are long-standing features of the London market, but brokers are increasingly bundling larger property and casualty risks into schemes where underwriting participation is limited to a small number of insurers or just one, and charging carriers more to access the business.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 13 Chairmans statement With our diversified portfolio, strong franchise, a proven ability to perform across the insurance cycle and good strategic positioning, I believe Amlin is well placed to deliver healthy long-term returns to shareholders.
Richard Davey Chairman Amlin plc 14 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Results and dividend We continued to invest in our people, with further development Amlins result for 2014 was satisfactory.
Profit was lower through of our global Talent Management Programme and closer alignment a combination of reduced reserve releases after high levels in 2013, of our remuneration structure with Amlins strategic objectives.
and a fall in investment return reflecting weak economic growth in It was pleasing to see that a number of people from our talent the world economy and low interest rates.
programme were promoted into new roles in our reorganisation.
Markets became more competitive during 2014.
This was particularly Preparation for Solvency II remains a priority.
I believe that the effort true for reinsurance.
The combination of an influx of new capital from and commitment shown by the teams involved over several years has Insurance Linked Securities ILS markets and profitability of traditional positioned Amlin well for the expected finalisation of this regulatory participants led to an inevitable drop in prices.
However, the strength regime in 2016. of the Amlin franchise allowed catastrophe business to be held at stable levels reflecting the belief that rates remained adequate and In October 2014, we agreed to increase our interest in Leadenhall Capital non-catastrophe reinsurance business grew.
This increases our exposure to the growth of ILS and is already increasing the synergies between LCP and Viewed from the perspective of our new global Strategic Business our reinsurance business.
There is no doubt that Amlins reinsurance Units, performance was solid across each segment.
The Reinsurance franchise is benefiting from having a foot in both camps and I believe business benefited from limited major catastrophe losses, although it was prescient of Amlin to have established LCP in 2008. the year was not benign, with activity characterised by a significant number of smaller international and US regional events.
Marine We remain focused on identifying similar opportunities to strengthen continued to trade with good margins and the Lloyds and European our market position and generate long-term returns for shareholders, Property & Casualty operations delivered profitable growth.
The only whether through organic growth, start-ups such as LCP, or selected disappointment was the domestic UK Property & Casualty business acquisitions in our target markets.
which had a combined ratio of 105%, after winter flooding and other large risk losses.
Outlook The pace of change in traditional insurance markets, particularly With competitive markets in many of our core business lines, it is London, combined with weaker pricing in market segments where unlikely that we will see significant growth in the short term.
We aim surplus capacity is driving competition, present a more challenging to provide long-term continuity to our clients and our profit-focused trading environment in 2015.
The changes we made in 2014 have underwriting philosophy may lead to contraction if rating levels do enhanced Amlins ability to meet these challenges and to pursue not provide acceptable returns for the risk that we bear.
In addition, the opportunities for profitable growth that continue to present competitive reinsurance markets have allowed more effective themselves.
Amlins financial strength, established franchise and purchasing for our own risk management.
Consequently, we do not first-rate underwriting and risk management capabilities place see significant capital pressure from organic growth in the short term.
We remain committed to steadily growing our dividend over time and Governance and the Board the Board has declared an increase for the year of 3.8% to 27.0 pence During 2014, Amlin undertook a review of its remuneration per share 2013: 26.0 pence per share.
The final dividend will be paid arrangements which culminated in the adoption of a revised Directors on 28 May 2015 subject to shareholder approval to shareholders on Remuneration Policy and a new five-year, long-term incentive share plan the register on 17 April 2015. being adopted at an EGM in November.
Sir Mark Wrightson oversaw both shareholder consultations and led the discussions concerning the Our confidence in the business has also allowed us to declare a special revised Policy.
The Board would like to extend our thanks to Sir Mark dividend of 75 million, or 15.0 pence per share, which will be paid for his efforts in this area and, as Sir Mark will be retiring at the May on 28 May 2015.
The Groups capital position remains strong.
AGM, for all his sage advice throughout his tenure as a director.
Progress on goals Brian Carpenter retired from the Board in September after 14 years of During 2014 we made good progress in respect of the goals and service.
His extensive market knowledge and underwriting experience objectives that the Board established following the strategic review were instrumental in establishing our UK business as a significant part in 2013. of our underwriting portfolio.
The reorganisation of our underwriting into three global Strategic Oliver Peterken joined us as an independent non-executive director Business Units is described further on pages 48 to 55.
This structure in September, following the retirement of Sir Alan Collins.
He has reflects our determination to enhance further our ability to deliver joined the Risk & Solvency, Nomination and Audit Committees, and superior service.
Our goal is to make client intimacy a key differentiator has been appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from from competitors, and good progress has been made towards 1 March 2015.
Oliver brings with him over 20 years of risk, insurance increasing our understanding of clients needs and enhancing our and reinsurance expertise.
We look forward to his input in this fast client proposition.
We also consolidated our claims and support evolving market.
functions, which will result in increased efficiency and scalability.
A further objective is to increase our access to attractive underwriting opportunities in both established and new markets, whether through organic or acquisition-led growth.
With this in mind, during the year Richard Davey we established an office in Miami to underwrite Latin American Chairman reinsurance, with an office in Dubai scheduled to begin underwriting in the first half of 2015.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 15 Chief Executives strategic review Amlins new structure will enhance organic growth potential, enable greater efficiency and scalability, and move us closer to our Vision, to be the global reference point for quality in each of our markets.
Charles Philipps Chief Executive Amlin plc 16 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Positioning for success in an evolving market Capital markets development As announced in August 2014, following a review of our medium-term The growth of Insurance Linked Securities ILS in reinsurance is strategy, we decided to organise our client-facing operations into having a profound effect on the market.
It is estimated that up to three global Strategic Business Units: Reinsurance, Marine & Aviation 11% of global catastrophe reinsurance capacity is now provided by and Property & Casualty.
This is in line with our goal to make client ILS funding, and that pension and hedge funds and other capital 1 intimacy a key competitive differentiator, and the logical next step market ILS investors have introduced an estimated $62 billion of of the Practice Board strategy which we started to develop in 2012. capacity worldwide.
Five years ago their involvement was minimal.
While we have retained our regulated underwriting entities in Lloyds, Zurich, Bermuda and the Netherlands, the objective is to organise our For these new investors, the ILS market represents a new asset business around clients needs rather than capital structure, thereby class with low correlation to other asset classes, providing a portfolio enabling us to make optimum use of our capacity and expertise diversification that also offers attractive returns in the current interest through a globally coordinated approach.
Much of this capital is directed either at the high layers of reinsurance programmes, where the risk of loss is more This reorganisation will improve our global presence and client focus, remote, and the risk-adjusted returns unattractive for Amlin: or at as well as making more efficient use of the investment required to providing retrocessional reinsurance which allows reinsurers, such drive superior levels of service consistently across Amlin.
Attaining as Amlin, to protect their own catastrophe exposures.
our Vision of being the global reference point for quality in each of our markets requires continued effort to clearly differentiate Amlin However, the risk appetite of capital market investors has increased from our competitors.
Currently, this is being realised most fully in and broadened with the growth in the quantity of capital deployed.
We believe that, having entered the market, most of these investors will be there for the long term, continuing to provide an alternative 2014s financial result, whilst benefiting from a low level of major source of reinsurance capital even when interest rates rise.
catastrophes, was impacted by a higher frequency of smaller catastrophes and large risk losses.
Prior-year reserve releases were Some of this capital is competing with Amlin and other traditional also lower, in part resulting from a material increase in cedents reinsurers.
Yet we believe that the combination of Amlins recognised estimates of claims from the 2010 11 New Zealand earthquakes franchise and our ILS fund manager, Leadenhall Capital Partners to which we have again chosen to add margins of prudence.
The LCP, means we are better placed than many of our competitors to result benefited from the changes made to our outwards reinsurance continue to succeed in the face of continued expansion of ILS capacity.
programme at the beginning of the year and continued improvement in the profitability of Amlin Europe.
Synergies between Amlin and LCP have enabled us to expand our reinsurance client offering in a way which differentiates Amlin from Our achievements are the result of the dedication and hard work most of our competitors.
At the same time Amlin provides LCP with of our people.
Significant demands were made of them during 2014, access to transactions that are not available to other ILS providers.
and huge thanks are due to them.
This has enhanced their business proposition and ability to attract new investments.
Reinsurance 1 Reinsurance capital is at an all-time high at $575 billion, an Seeing good prospects for long-term growth in LCPs funds under increase of 6% compared to year-end 2013.
On top of this, there management and realising further synergies between our two is now significant capital markets capacity which is mainly directed businesses, we increased our ownership of the partnership in at reinsurance.
The inevitable consequence is increased competition October 2014 from 40% to 75%.
To date this has been most evident in reinsurance but it is spreading to other lines of business.
Our position as a preferred partner to many reinsurance clients has meant that in 2014 we have been able to retain and grow our business in areas where technical pricing has remained adequate.
While many insurers are retaining more risk, resulting in reduced demand, they are also directing more of their programmes towards strategic partners such as Amlin.
Amlin has reinsurance expertise across a wide range of products, not just catastrophe reinsurance.
Non-catastrophe classes have grown from 40% of our reinsurance gross written premium in 2009 to 56% in 2014, driven mainly by the growth of our Zurich business.
Our reorganisation provides further scope to offer a wider range of products to clients for whom we have historically provided only catastrophe reinsurance.
This increases our longer-term growth potential.
As well as providing greater balance within Amlins overall reinsurance portfolio, the different risk profile of non-catastrophe reinsurance makes it less vulnerable to direct competition from the capital markets, as demonstrated by the greater stability of rating in these areas of the market.
Aon Benfield Reinsurance Market Outlook, January 2015 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 17 Chief Executives strategic review continued A single brand Following our strategic review, we took the decision that Amlin should operate under a single global brand.
As part of our strategy to increase our global brand recognition, we are sponsoring a team in the inaugural FIA Formula E motor racing championship.
Formula E is for electric vehicles only and they are capable of travelling at over 225kph.
Formula E, like our insurance business, combines innovation, informed risk taking and accurate analysis of data.
Most important, our sponsorship is helping to develop new technology which will advance the capabilities of sustainable electric transport for wider applications.
For more information go to page 43 Amlin plc 18 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Insurance Emerging markets In our London market insurance classes, the major brokers are We expect growth in emerging economies to continue to outpace seeking efficiency gains in the placement of their business.
Increased those of the more mature economies and that, over the next 10 years, use of data and analytics has given them better insight into the the re insurance needs of many emerging economies will become economics of placing risks of differing scale and complexity.
While the London market has maintained or grown its is resulting in an increasing number of broker facilities, which funnel market share in its more established markets, it has weak penetration multiple risks into pre-arranged schemes, particularly for smaller in emerging markets.
Our key trading partners, such as Aon, Marsh, and less complex business.
Willis and JLT, however, are building their networks in these markets and this provides Amlin with the opportunity to leverage our The major brokers are also seeking to reduce the number of carriers relationships internationally.
with whom they deal, with an increasing focus on business with those they consider to be strategic partners.
Brokers, who might once have Our expertise in reinsurance and specialty insurance, such as marine, placed risk with thousands of insurers around the world, are now will become increasingly relevant in Asia, Latin America and the Middle looking to reduce this significantly.
We have been taking steps to position Amlin for the long term through the establishment of local offices in countries in which our We believe business will gravitate to those carriers who are most trading partners are focusing activities, and which we expect to relevant to their brokers and clients and as such are able to write become regional hubs serving these markets.
meaningful lines, are willing and able to participate in broker facilities and have the skills and ability to lead and service business.
In October, we opened an office in Miami to access reinsurance business in Latin America, another developing market with growing demand.
While Amlin already has strong leadership and service capabilities in many lines, we intend to reinforce these and to respond to the Elsewhere, we believe that Dubai will become a hub for the Middle East brokers need to improve their efficiency in placing business.
In 2014, in the way that Singapore has for Asia and we plan to begin operating we increased our participation in broker facilities and, in so doing, have there in the first half of 2015. ensured that our ability to influence the selection and pricing of risk is sufficient to both safeguard Amlin and generate an acceptable return.
We are also reinforcing our position in Asia by participating in the Lloyds platform in Shanghai from the first quarter of 2015, having Furthermore, to enhance our attractiveness to brokers as a strategic made good progress in Singapore since 2008. partner, and thereby help drive long-term growth, we have started to invest more meaningfully in our marketing capability.
This has resulted We recognise that entering new markets carries risk and that it is in increased engagement with brokers, a more informed understanding important to gain a thorough understanding of local dynamics before of how they are planning to change their business models, and new seeking significant growth.
We therefore do not expect significant profit business leads which we may not have previously seen.
contributions from these new offices in the short term, but will seek opportunities to use our skills profitably while laying the foundations In 2015 we plan to invest further in this area by implementing a client for longer term success as these markets needs increase.
relationship management system, and enhance our understanding of our distribution relationships by introducing net promoter scoring.
2014 performance We delivered a satisfactory result in 2014 with a return on equity Reorganisation of 14.1%, close to our cross-cycle target of 15%.
Most parts of the The new structure enables each underwriting unit to formulate and business performed well with the result below 2013 largely due to drive a global strategy specific to its particular lines of business, with lower reserve releases, after a very strong performance in 2013, an increased focus on the needs of its client segments.
It will also and a reduced investment return.
enable each global Strategic Business Unit and the Amlin brand to have greater impact in the market.
Amlin is now one of the worlds The combined ratio was three percentage points higher than it was in 2 top 30 non-life reinsurers, and ranked higher for property lines alone.
There were limited major catastrophe losses in the period It is also a leading global marine insurer.
We believe that we have the but 2014 was similar to last year, characterised by frequency of smallcapability to rise up the global league table in both categories.
to medium-sized catastrophe losses around the world and a number of large risk events, notably in the aviation sector.
Performance of our In addition to the reorganisation of the underwriting businesses into UK Property & Casualty business was disappointing and management the three global Strategic Business Units described above, our claims are actively taking steps to address particular lines where pricing and all support functions are now centrally managed, with resources has proved inadequate.
The performance of Amlin Europe, however, allocated according to the needs of the underwriting units.
was excellent and its new office in Hamburg made a good start.
The reorganisation will make our decision making quicker and better, More detail on the financial results is provided in the Financial review and our operations more scalable.
Increased efficiencies, both through on pages 56 to 61. investing in technology in support of the business, and the streamlining of processes, should improve the expense ratio as we grow.
Standard & Poors Global Reinsurance Highlights 2013, May 2014.
