Chairmans statement Tough market conditions provide opportunities Resilience of assets under management delivered through proven investment processes and long-standing knowledge of Emerging Markets.
Market conditions in the financial year were the reverse of The Board intends to pay a progressive dividend over those experienced in the previous year, in that turbulence time, taking into consideration factors such as prospects prevailed for much of the period before a recovery in for the Groups earnings, demands on the Groups sentiment and asset prices occurred in the second half.
financial resources, and the markets in which the Group Ashmores proven investment processes and deep-rooted operates.
Reflecting the sound operating performance knowledge of Emerging Markets enabled it to take on risk over the year, the Groups strong and liquid balance as opportunities inevitably presented themselves in a sheet, and the Boards confidence in future growth, period of volatile prices.
the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 12.00 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2014.
Assets under management proved robust given the Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will market backdrop, with a 3% decline to US$75.0 billion be paid on 5 December 2014 to those shareholders on attributable in most part to redemptions from the the register on 7 November 2014.
This makes a total lower margin overlay liquidity theme, while the other dividend of 16.45 pence for the year, an increase of investment themes delivered a resilient performance.
2% compared with the prior year 16.10 pence.
While the Groups operational performance was sound, Corporate governance the financial results for the year were affected by the Changes to the UK Listing Rules, effective 1 July 2014, strength of Sterling, particularly against the US dollar.
require a company with a Premium listing and a controlling Profit before tax of 170.3 million is a reduction of 34% shareholder, in this instance one who controls at least or 87.3 million compared with the prior year, of which 30% of the companys voting rights, to enter into a 1 46.0 million is attributable to FX translation effects relationship agreement with the shareholder in relation 1 and 30.1 million to lower performance fees as a to compliance with the companys obligations under consequence of the market sell-off in May and June 2013 the Listing Rules.
The revised rules require the company and continued volatility throughout the first half of the to make an annual statement that it has a relationship financial year.
The remainder is largely explained by a agreement in place and that the company, and, so far as reduction in net management fees, offset by lower it is aware, the controlling shareholder, have complied operating costs, which declined 23%.
This cost reduction with the Listing Rules.
Mark Coombs, Ashmores Chief was achieved through the Groups continual focus on Executive, controls 40.8% of Ashmores voting rights and cost efficiency and its distinctive remuneration philosophy consequently the company has entered into a relationship which together deliver a highly flexible expense base.
agreement with Mr Coombs, effective 1 July 2014.
The new rules also require the election and re-election RECOMMENDED FINAL DIVIDEND of independent directors to be by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders as well as by a majority of votes cast by all shareholders.
These rules will apply to 12.00p per share the Ashmore annual general meeting to be held on 2013: 11.75p per share 30 October 2014.
2 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Melda Donnelly, who has been a member of the Board Governance highlights since July 2009, will retire and not seek re-election at the The Group early-adopted the provisions of the AGM.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Melda revised 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code in for the valuable service and contribution that she has the prior financial year.
During the current year, given to the Group over the past five years.
the Groups corporate governance activities Outlook included the following: Ashmores singular focus on Emerging Markets has enabled it to contend with the volatile market conditions The Group entered into a relationship agreement, evident for most of the past financial year.
Assets under effective 1 July 2014, with Mark Coombs, management were resilient, and the Groups investment Ashmores Chief Executive, in compliance processes identified and acted upon value becoming with its obligations under the Listing Rules.
apparent as non-dedicated investors withdrew from the In accordance with UK Corporate Governance asset class.
The diversity of Emerging Markets requires a Code recommendations, the Board undertook a specialist, active investment approach and Ashmores long formal annual evaluation of its own performance track record positions it well for future profitable growth.
and that of its committees and individual Directors.
After joining the Board as Non-executive Directors Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank in the prior year, Charles Outhwaite was appointed Ashmores employees across the world for the dedication to the Audit and Risk Committee and the and commitment shown once again over the past year.
Remuneration Committee, and Dame Anne Pringle was appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
Michael Benson The Audit and Risk Committee established Chairman an internally resourced internal audit function 10 September 2014 in July 2013, replacing the previous incumbent, Ernst & Y oung.
A more detailed report on corporate governance is provided on pages 42 to 48.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3
