| 04 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chairmans statement only consolidates our leading position in the UK, it offers greater dividend capacity and balance sheet strength than would Dear otherwise have been possible organically.
I believe it offers an attractive outcome to both Aviva and Friends Life shareholders.
Operating performance shareholder Headline operational performance improved in the year, despite having been impacted by a stronger sterling exchange I am enormously pleased that 2014 rate and the decline in the annuities market hasbeen another year of progress for following the Chancellors Budget decision.
Operating profit on an IFRS basis grew Aviva in its transformation to become by 6% during the year to 2,173 million, which included lower operating expenses, one of the best performing financial down 7%.
Value of new business increased by 11% to over 1 billion and institutions in our sector there was a 1.6 percentage point improvement in the combined operating ratio to 95.7%.
Net asset value increased to 340 pence per share and shareholders benefited from a total shareholder return of 11.5%.
Dividend In line with the statement we made in the formal offer for Friends Life, the Board has declared a final dividend of 12.25 pence per share 2013: 9.40 pence representing a 30% increase on the 2013 final dividend Aside from good organic business per share, and a 2014 full year dividend of performance, the year culminated with the 18.1 pence 2013: 15.00 pence, up 21%.
announcement of the proposed acquisition of Friends Life, which will give us a Board and governance considerably stronger underpinning.
It has indeed been an honour to have A strong management team served you as your Chairman, and with Board and management colleagues for John McFarlane Our Chief Executive Officer, Mark Wilson, whom I have the greatest respect.
Chairman has completed his second year with us and However, as was announced in 4 March 2015 the advancement of the group under his September, I shall be standing down from leadership over a relatively short period this position at the Annual General Meeting, has been impressive.
and will be replaced by Sir Adrian Montague, During this time, he has assembled a our Senior Independent Director.
management team that is not only able to The membership of the Board was deliver good business performance, but largely unchanged in the year, with the who have considerable potential for the exception of Tom Stoddard who joined future.
I know you would wish me to us as Chief Financial Officer in April 2014, thank Mark and the team for their following Pat Regans departure, and he contribution.
already has made an important contribution.
A clear strategy Following the completion of the proposed acquisition Sir Malcolm Under Marks leadership, Aviva now has Williamson, Chairman of Friends Life, will a clear purpose, is embracing new cultural join the Board of Aviva plc as Senior values around our people, our customers Independent Director, and Andy Briggs, the our shareholders and the communities Group Chief Executive of Friends Life, will where we do business, and has articulated become Chief Executive Officer of Aviva UK a clear strategy for the future.
and Ireland Life, the merged UK life business of the combined Group and also Proposed acquisition of Friends Life joins the Board.
We look forward to both Sir Malcolm and Andy joining the Board.
While Avivas recent organic growth and Gay Huey Evans has decided to retire return prospects already present a from the Board from the conclusion of the compelling investment proposition, the 2015 AGM and on behalf of the Board I proposed acquisition of Friends Life not Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 05 UN and continue our longstanding work in South East Asia for another two years.
Looking ahead If the proposed acquisition of Friends Life completes, the enlarged Group should bring a stronger business and financial foundation, new commercial opportunities and the prospect of a higher and progressive dividend for shareholders.
The transformation is not yet complete however, I leave knowing the Company is in good hands and has the capacity to become one of the worlds leading institutions.
I wish my successor Sir Adrian every success, and retire knowing that for Aviva, The Company is in the best is yet to come.
good hands and has the capacity to become one of the worlds leading institutions.
would like to take this opportunity to thank her for her contribution to the Board.
John McFarlane Our people Chairman As with last year, 2014 has brought considerable change and challenge for our people, which they have embraced and managed professionally.
Led by Mark Wilson, we are building a high performance and enlightened culture across the Group, and this is demonstrating tangible progress in making Aviva a great place to work and advance.
On behalf of the Board, I would express our gratitude to our people for their dedication and enthusiastic support Strength in our management team 3 4 0p for our customers.
Chairman elect Net asset value per share, Investing in communities a 26% increase Sir Adrian Montague CBE will become As a responsible business, we strive to Non-Executive Chairman on the be a force for good across the markets in retirement of John McFarlane at the Aviva which we operate.
We provide access AGM in April 2015. to a range of insurance products tailored It will be a privilege to chair Aviva.
to the needs of low income groups and, The Company is recovering strongly and through Aviva Investors, we work to delivering against its investment thesis of 1 million integrate environmental, social and cash flow plus growth, under the strong corporate governance issues into our Children helped through our management team ably led by Mark investment decisions and analysis in order Street to School programme Wilson.
John McFarlane has been an to create long-term value.
extraordinary Chairman, and has In addition, our global community madeanimmense contribution to development initiative, Street to School, Avivasrecovery.
has made a major investment in improving the lives of more than one million children and helped the issue of street childrens rights move to the centre 1 8.1 p stage of policy at the United Nations.
Total dividend, a 21% increase Aviva will continue to work with the Consortium for Street Children and the
