2014 Chairmans statement A clear strategic direction for the future In my Chairmans letter to shareholders last year, I focused on the many aspects of progress made by Georgia over the last decade.
I am pleased that this progress has continued throughout 2014, namely with the Government commitment to the continued effective implementation of the Association Agreement with the EU.
The bank has continued to deliver a strong earnings performance this year.
You should also note that we have formalised an inflection of our strategy to capture further growth opportunities within Georgia over the medium term.
At the same time, Georgias regional trading partners have faced significant geopolitical and Neil Janin economic challenges.
Chairman In this letter, I will address the change in the Companys strategy and the geopolitical issues, before concluding on dividend and governance matters.
Strategy issues Over the last decade, Bank of Georgia has evolved to become the market leader in what is a well regulated and competitive banking sector.
In what was a year of substantial challenge, Bank of Georgia has delivered over 11% revenue growth, 15% earnings growth and a 19% return on shareholders equity.
You will find all details on our performance in these assets in this report.
In 2014, we decided to modify the strategy, structure and governance of the institution to profit from attractive investment opportunities in healthcare and beyond.
Why did we choose to follow this strategy when we risked being called by one of the worst epithets possible, that of being a conglomerate?
One way to think about Bank of Georgia is in terms of capabilities.
It has three macro skills: it knows how to execute well: it knows Georgia well: and it is disciplined in thinking in terms of capital allocation and return on capital, as opposed to market share and growth.
Moreover, the institution attracts talent and capital beyond its needs.
Georgia has sectors of the economy which could be developed profitably with an infusion of capital and talent.
The first one that we developed, and the closest one to our business of banking, was real estate.
We noticed that as the economy picked up after the 2008 crisis, our mortgage portfolio did not keep up with this growth.
The reason was that there was no supply of houses as builders promoters had gone bust, and nobody was building housing any more.
The builders had invested their capital in land purchases in a speculative drive, and were totally illiquid when the crisis of 2008 hit.
We decided to enter this market as builders and promoters, and supplied the market with 2 apartments.
The result was the success of our subsidiary, m Real Estate, which provides affordable housing to a growing middle class.
You can read all about its excellent performance in this report.
Healthcare was another such sector where we were present through Aldagi, our insurance subsidiary.
Universal healthcare was being introduced in the country, and the offering by providers was uneven, inefficient and fragmented.
An injection of capital, talent, and best practice could change the industry structure in Georgia, and provide patients with a much higher quality of care.
Good assets could be For more information about our bought relatively cheaply.
This made us invest in hospitals and create governance, see page 64 our wholly-owned subsidiary, GHG, Georgia Healthcare Group.
It now has a 22% market share of hospital beds in the country and is currently planning its international stockmarket listing in the second half of 2015.
6 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Our strategy is one of buying potentially very high-quality, but managed skillfully by the Central Bank, which proved once again its currently underperforming assets, at a cheap price, bringing best independence.
Overall, 2014 saw a particularly robust performance practices to them, professionalising their management, and then against the backdrop of ongoing geopolitical concerns and selling them to the market at a higher price.
Having access to macroeconomic and currency devaluation pressures in many of top-quality management, corporate governance and capital in a Georgias trading partners, and demonstrates the resilience of the fast-developing country like Georgia creates opportunities to achieve Georgian economy.
The section on macroeconomics covers our substantial value creation for shareholders.
Our CEO Irakli Gilauri, prediction on GDP growth next year, in the face of the situation of describes in his letter why we can buy cheaply, what sectors look Georgias trading partners and the countrys attractiveness to foreign attractive to us today, and the discipline we bring to investment.
I hope that you will conclude, as we do, that this country, which has transformed itself into an economically liberal, Let me reiterate that the banking businesses retail, corporate and market-oriented democracy, remains very promising.
investment management will remain our priority and a minimum of 80% of the Groups earnings.
Our goal this year is to prove to the In conclusion, I want to highlight and acknowledge the significant market that this strategy delivers by selling to the market a major efforts of the senior management team and the excellent leadership share of our healthcare subsidiary.
Our shareholders will be free of our Chief Executive Irakli Gilauri.
In addition to their clear delivery to own this business directly and we will attract new investors who against the existing strategy, having nearly tripled earnings and specialise in healthcare.
generated substantial returns for shareholders over the last five years, in December 2014 they worked with the Board to update the strategy for The Banks structure has been modified to adapt to this strategy.
the Group and have established a clear strategic direction for the future.
In 2014, we established an investment arm to manage our nonbanking businesses, which include our Healthcare operations, our Shareholders should take note of 2 key governance features of Real Estate subsidiary and our recent pre-IPO purchase of a 25% the institution: the alignment of interest between management and minority interest in the leading Georgian water utility business.
Irakli shareholders, and the division of roles between the Board and Gilauri goes into much more detail with regard to the implementation management.
I will summarise our philosophy below.
of this strategy later in this Annual Report.
The Board is clear that our ability to continue leveraging our market-leading banking franchise, Our incentive package to top management features a high percentage with an emphasis on the higher return retail business, together with of stock vested over a long period of time.
This scheme creates a a strategy to benefit from other carefully selected investments in the sharply upward sloping wealth curve the more a companys stock development of the Georgian corporate landscape, will provide price improves, the higher the percentage increase to the CEO and clear and sustainable value creation for shareholders.
his top teams total wealth.
It encourages intelligent risk taking, as it heavily rewards the CEO and his top team to create long-term value, There is significant information in the body of this Annual Report and punishes them if they do not deliver returns to shareholders.
In highlighting the Groups strategic priorities for 2015 and beyond.
summary, it discourages short-term thinking and risky behaviour, and This stems from a Board review of the Groups strategy at the end encourages thinking like an owner manager.
of 2014 that aims to ensure that capital continues to be allocated effectively, to ensure the sustainability of the Groups strong returns My role as a Chair is to run the Board, and the role of the CEO is to over the long term.
Now let us turn to the context in which we operate.
One of the Boards main roles is to be involved in setting the strategy and to monitor the operations of the Company Geopolitical issues to ensure that it is being run to the benefit of all stakeholders and as Georgia remains a steadfast Euro-Atlantic partner a stance mandated.
The second important role of the Board is to determine supported by most political parties and a significant majority of the the pay of the CEO and the main executives.
In June 2014, Georgia signed an Association Agreement with the European Union, which included provision for a deep and Finally, the Audit Committee, although composed of independent comprehensive free trade agreement that will underpin increased members, reports to the Chair a further guarantee of independence.
future trade growth for Georgia.
Additionally, in March 2015, China It should be clear that having the CEO be also the Chairman of the and Georgia signed an agreement on co-operation for the Board, opens the door for potential abuse in all three cases above.
development of the New Silk Road Economic Belt, which further All depends on the quality of the Board.
highlights Georgias future economic potential.
Georgia aims to protect itself from Russian regional dominance.
This strategy has The Group now has a first-class Board of Directors.
Their been costly in terms of territory lost about 20%, but successful in combined experience and support is invaluable to the organisation.
terms of economic and standard of living growth GDP per capita The Governance section of this Annual Report highlights, amongst based on PPP more than doubled to $7,700 from 20032014. other things, our Board Diversity Policy.
Within this policy the Board has stated its aim to increase the number of women on the Board The current Government has succeeded in having a more open and to two within the next two years.
To end, I would like to thank the pragmatic approach towards Russia, while moving the country towards members for their ongoing support and the provision of guidance greater integration with the West a balancing act to say the least.
This and mentoring to executive management, at a time of significant is not to say that all is done inside the country: the EU expects and civil economic and geopolitical uncertainty.
society would be better served when the currently ongoing judiciary reform will be completed.
Nevertheless, we should remember that only At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Board intends to 4% of respondents admitted to having paid bribes in Georgia according recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.1 per share payable in to the Berlin-based Transparency Internationals 2013 Global Corruption British Sterling at the prevailing rate.
This represents an increase Barometer, well ahead of many European countries.
In addition, the of 5%, compared to an annual dividend of GEL 2.0 last year.
World Banks latest ranking shows Georgia as 15th in the list of countries where it is easiest to do business, between Germany and Canada.
2014 was clearly a year of demonstrable delivery and progress.
The Board is pleased with this progress and is confident about From a macroeconomic perspective, Georgia delivered strong GDP the Groups prospects for 2015 and beyond.
growth in 2014, at an estimated 4.8%.
The Georgian Lari depreciated 7.3% against the US Dollar, but appreciated by 5.3% against the Euro, the single largest trading partner currency of Georgia.
In early 2015 Neil Janin there has been some further currency weakness, but this now seems Chairman to have stabilised.
This performance was to be expected and was 7 April 2015 Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 7
