The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement The Chairman of the Company, Richard Killingbeck, reports on the year to31 October 2014 the year in the knowledge that if we were to experience more Net asset value increase of 1.5%.
difficult market conditions we would have the ability to pay out of reserves a maintained or increased dividend.
This prudent approach 48th consecutive year of dividend increases.
to dividend policy over the years has created flexibility which, whilst not unique to Bankers, is a key strength of the Company.
Reflecting Forecast increase in 2015 dividend of 4.7%.
this confidence the Board feels able to forecast a dividend per share for the year ahead of not less than 15.5p per share, an increase of Performance 4.7%.
In my report to shareholders last year I suggested that after thestrong year in 2013 it might be sensible to be cautious for the prospects for Share Buy-Back and Management Fee global equity markets inthe year ahead, albeit that many positive Changes factors remained in place.
As the above net asset value return suggests the confidence that Iexpressed has not been demonstrably During the year the shares of the Company have, at times, traded at translated into returns for shareholders despite a strong performance a premium to net asset value.
This has allowed the Board to issue from the North American equity markets.
Elsewhere the majority of new shares when there has been the demand from the market so global equity market returns, when adjusted for currency movements, asto help provide extra liquidity.
The Board recognises that when have been negative for a sterling investor.
theshares trade at an attractive discount we will sanction the manager to repurchase shares at his discretion.
We have not, nor It is against this generally poor set of returns from global equity dowe intend to implement, a formal buy-back policy but I felt it markets that the moderate increase in net asset value must be important to re-iterate our stance on this important aspect of the assessed.
Our net asset value rose by 1.5% compared to a negative Investment Trust structure.
2.3% return for the FTSE All-Share Index.
Our Fund Manager has again been able to navigate the global equity markets successfully to In further discussion with Henderson we have refined our generate not just a positive sterling return but also a further increase management fee arrangements as of 1 November 2014.
The in the income generated from our portfolio.
For this we must thank the revisedarrangements introduce a tiering scale of fees when the fund management team responsible.
Further detail as to individual Company achieves a certain net asset value milestone.
As such geographic market reports can be found later on in the Fund themanagement fee has been agreed as 0.45% of net assets Managers Reports section.
uptoa value of 750m and 0.4% on any net asset value above thisthreshold.
Revenue and Dividends Board Changes The underlying portfolio has continued to demonstrate healthy revenue growth helped by a significant increase in the number of special Richard Burns is approaching his tenth year on the Board having dividends being paid by companies within our UK equity section.
Richard indicated to me in 2014 that, in continuing the policy of paying out to shareholders substantially all deference to best Corporate Governance policy, he wished to step thedistributable income, through the quarterly dividend, the Board is down from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
Richard has served pleased to be able to recommend a final dividend of 3.8p per share.
the Board and shareholders impeccably over the years both as a This increase, if approved by shareholders, will result in thetotal pay-out member of the audit committee and, more recently, as the Senior for the year rising to 14.8p, an increase of 4.7% which compares Independent Director.
Richards knowledge of global equity markets favourably to the RPI increase over the same period of 2.3%.
and his perceptive views of key global issues will be aloss to the Company.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders Iwould like to The strength of our revenue reserve is a key element in the Boards thank Richard for his contribution to the success of the Company approach to dividend policy.
During more 'normal' market conditions during this period.
we are always seeking to distribute substantially all of our income for 5 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement continued When someone of Richards stature and knowledge leaves a Board it Outlook is always difficult to find a worthy successor.
After a thorough review The global economic outlook is more polarised than for some time.
process by the Board, however, I am delighted that Julian Strong growth is being witnessed in both North America and the Chillingworth has decided to join the Board.
Julian is the current United Kingdom whilst Continental Europe and many emerging Chief Investment Officer of Rathbone Brothers PLC, a leading markets continue to suffer downgrades to growth expectations.
Julian has had a long and Japan seems to oscillate on a quarterly basis between growth and successful career in the City, primarily on the investment side of the recession.
The headwinds of deflation are now apparent to all central business, and thus ensures that the professional background of your banks, albeit the policy response is far from uniform if indeed it is in Board remains both diverse and applicable to the underlying evidence at all.
Corporate profit expectations for 2015 are slowly business of the Company.
Julians appointment will be subject to being reined in as these competitive pressures create an unhelpful shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
Valuations, even with flat market levels, are becoming more stretched as corporate profit warnings Audit Tender become more prevalent.
At the last AGM shareholders gave approval for Against this broad macro economic scenario it is difficult for even the  LLP to remain as Auditor until another most optimistic of Chairmen to be more than cautiously optimistic for audit firm could be appointed.
After a review undertaken by the the year ahead.
If policy makers do halt the advance of deflation, AuditCommittee, Grant Thornton UK LLP has been appointed ifthe decline in the oil price does help western economic growth, asournew Auditor.
I would like to place on record my thanks to ifChina is able to maintain its current GDP growth rates and if the  LLP and welcome Grant Thornton as our various elections result in investor friendly governments then we new Auditor.
This is the first time that we have changed Auditor in could witness better markets next year, especially in the second half.
The problem remains that there are a lot of 'ifs'.
Patience and careful stock consideration will again be a key requisite for outperformance Regulatory & Alternative Investment Fund in the year ahead.
Managers Directive 'AIFMD' In accordance with the AIFMD the Company has appointed Richard Killingbeck Henderson Investment Funds Limited to act as its Alternative Chairman Investment Fund Manager.
BNP Paribas Securities Services has 19 January 2015 been appointed as the Companys Custodian and Depositary.
The work associated with the implementation of the AIFMD was completed in due time with the support of Henderson.
Annual General Meeting 'AGM' The AGM will this year be held at Trinity House, London, EC3N 4DH at 12 noon on 25 February 2015.
Full details of the business to be conducted at the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting which has been sent to shareholders with this report.
Directions and a map showing the location of the AGM can also be found in the Notice of Meeting.
The Board and I look forward to seeing many of you at this meeting at which Alex Crooke and his investment team will be making a presentation on their investment views and how these views are reflected in the composition of the Companys portfolio.
Following the formal business of the meeting light refreshments will be served.
